Governance Audit Committee Report Whilst risk management is a Board responsibility, the Committee works closely with the Board and Group management to ensure that all significant risks are considered on an ongoing basis, and that all communications with shareholders are properly considered.
A key responsibility of the Committee is to review the scope, nature and effectiveness of internal and external audits.
Internal audit work is conducted by Deloitte and the scope of their work is agreed with both management and the Audit Committee.
The Committee also monitors and reviews the key aspects of 888's external audit, which is conducted by EY.
EY Limited, Gibraltar is the statutory auditor of the Company including for the purposes of issuing an audit report pursuant to the Gibraltar Companies Act 2014.
Ernst and Young LLP are the auditors for the purposes of the Company preparing financial statements as required pursuant to the UK Listing Rules and the DTRs.
In relation to risks and controls, the Committee ensures that these have been identified and that appropriate responsibilities and accountabilities have been set.
Amongst other things, during the year the Committee considered: The complex legal and regulatory environment in which 888 operates, together with changes in laws and governance regulations which may impact 888's business, sector and market.
888's exposure to corporation tax, VAT and gaming duties in various jurisdictions.
The carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets and related disclosures in the financial statements.
The adequacy of 888s IT systems and controls.
The adequacy of the systems and controls on which management relies.
The Boards assessment of risk, risk appetite and the risk register prepared by management.
Letter to The viability statement and going concern statement prepared by management.
Dear Shareholders, 888s anti-money laundering obligations.
During the year, the Audit Committee has continued to The Groups ongoing engagement with regulatory bodies.
carry out a key role within the Groups governance framework, The accounting treatment of the AAPN acquisition.
supporting the Board in risk Further information on the Committees responsibilities and the manner in which management, internal control they are discharged are set out below and are available on 888's corporate website: and financial reporting.
Committee exercises oversight of 888's financial reporting The Committee continues to acknowledge and embrace its role of protecting the policies, monitors the integrity interests of shareholders as regards the integrity of published financial information and of the financial statements and the effectiveness of audit.
considers the significant financial and accounting estimates and I am available to speak with shareholders at any time and shall also be available at the judgments applied in preparing the Annual General Meeting on 21 May 2019 to answer any questions.
I would like to thank financial statements.
It also ensures my colleagues on the Committee for their help and support.
that disclosures in the financial statements are appropriate and Sincerely, obtains from the external auditors an independent view of the key disclosure issues and risks.
The Committee has reviewed the narrative contained in this Annual Report and considers that sufficient information has been Ron McMillan provided by the Board to give Chairman of the Audit Committee shareholders a fair, balanced and 12 March 2019 understandable account of the Groups business.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 77 Corporate.
888. com Audit Committee Report Continued Legal and regulatory environment Committee composition The Committee comprises three members, Senior Independent Director 888 operates within an increasingly regulated marketplace and is Ron McMillan Chair, Independent Non-Executive Director Zvika Zivlin challenged by regulatory requirements across all areas of its business.
and Independent Non-Executive Director Anne fide Kerckhove.
This creates risk for the Company as non-compliance can lead to financial penalties, reputational damage and the loss of licences to Two members constitute a quorum.
The Committee requires the operate.
As part of this process, the Audit Committee received updates inclusion of at least one financially qualified member with recent and from management and discussed follow-up actions in response to relevant financial experience.
The Committees Chairman fulfils that regulatory matters relating to customer activity in prior periods.
The Committee as a whole has competence relevant to Group manages its regulatory risk with input from its legal advisors in the online gaming sector and all members of the Committee have an order to operate its business in compliance with relevant regulatory understanding of financial reporting, 888's internal control environment, requirements.
The Group works with its lawyers to produce regular relevant corporate legislation, the functions of internal and external updates so that the Board and Audit Committee understand what is audit and the regulatory and compliance framework of the business.
happening in the regulatory landscape.
Mr. Zivlin has extensive business and industry experience through During 2018, the Audit Committee received regulatory briefings from his various roles, Mr. McMillan has served in the past as the auditor of the Companys lawyers and reviewed updates on the management of betting and gaming companies and Ms. fide Kerckhove has extensive regulatory risk from management, as well as reviewing the status of entrepreneurial and business experience as the founder of several litigation involving 888 and the accounting for 888s obligations in the business ventures.
Details of meetings of the Audit Committee are set financial statements.
This notably included examination of the changing out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 50. regulatory landscape in Germany and defence of the Companys The timing of Audit Committee meetings is set to accommodate the position in that market, the Groups Brexit planning and implementation dates of release of financial information at the half year and full year of various compliance and quality assurance controls in various markets ends and the approval of scope and outputs from work programmes as the regulatory regimes evolve.
executed by the internal and external auditors.
In addition to scheduled meetings, the Chairman of the Committee met Taxation with the Chief Financial Officer and the internal and external auditors on The Board oversees and sets the Groups tax strategy and evaluates a number of occasions.
Although not members of the Committee, the tax risk.
In undertaking this task, the Group uses its legal and tax Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer normally advisors.
During the year, the Groups legal advisors have kept the Audit attend meetings together with representatives from the internal and Committee apprised of both existing and emerging tax risks and, where external auditors.
appropriate, these have been elevated to the Board for consideration in conjunction with 888s commercial strategy.
Responsibilities In 2018, the Board and Audit Committee discussed tax related matters The committee is responsible for: including the partial release of the provision for German VAT and the removal of the related contingent liability disclosure previously recorded monitoring the integrity of 888s financial statements and reviewing in the Companys financial statements, in light of the assessments significant financial judgments and estimates in advance of these received by the Company from the German tax authorities for tax being considered by the Board: years 2010-2017.
Furthermore, the Board received detailed updates reviewing internal financial controls and managements response to regarding the progress of the Israeli tax audit of Random Logic Ltd. required corrective actions identified in both internal and external as well as the withholding tax assessments issued by the Israeli tax audit reports: authorities.
The Committee noted that the Group registered for taxes in relevant jurisdictions in order to ensure timely reporting and payment monitoring and reviewing the role and effectiveness of the internal on the correct basis, whilst reserving its position concerning contesting audit function, including activities and resources: possible existence of a liability in appropriate cases.
For further information, see notes 8 and 27 to the financial statements.
overseeing the role and effectiveness of the external auditors, reviewing and monitoring their objectivity and independence and agreeing the scope of work and fees for audit and non-audit services: Goodwill and intangible assets assisting the Board in its consideration of relevant risk factors and As set out in note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, 888 determining appropriate mitigation actions: and has significant goodwill and other intangible assets relating to the acquisitions of businesses and the development of gaming platforms monitoring the enforcement of the Companys Global Code of and software.
Conduct and the adequacy and security of its whistle-blowing procedure.
The Audit Committee reviewed the cash flow forecasts supporting the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets including the key assumptions and estimates as well as the impact of the Activities recent regulatory developments on the business, and satisfied itself The key matters discussed by the Committee during the year included that no impairments were required in relation to carrying values.
the following: In addition, the committee reviewed the board paper in relation to the appropriateness of the capitalisation of costs relating to the development of gaming platforms and software was reviewed in light of reports received from management.
78 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Governance In addition to the matters described above, the work of the Committee AAPN Acquisition during the year included: In December 2018, 888 acquired the remaining 53% interest in AAPN joint venture established in 2013, for US $28 million.
The Group used Reviewing the draft interim and annual reports and considering: the services of an independent valuation expert to assist with the fair 1.
The accounting principles, policies and practices adopted and the valuation and purchase price allocation of AAPN.
The Audit Committee adequacy of related disclosures in the reports: also reviewed the cash flow forecasts supporting the varying book value of AAPN including the key assumptions and estimates and 2.
The significant accounting issues, estimates and judgments of satisfied itself with the resulted goodwill and gain.
management in relation to financial reporting: 3.
Whether any significant adjustments were required arising from Revenue Recognition and Development Costs the audit: Capitalisation 4.
Compliance with statutory tax obligations and the Companys Revenue recognition and the capitalisation of development costs are tax policy: areas of material risk in relation to the preparation of the financial statements.
The Committee has considered the Groups accounting 5.
Whether the information set out in the Strategic Report was policies in these areas and the internal controls which are in place and balanced, comprehensive, clear and concise and covered both has concluded that the Groups recognition of income and capitalisation positive and negative aspects of performance: and of development costs is appropriate.
Whether the use of alternative performance measures obscured IFRS measures.
IT systems Meeting with internal and external auditors, both with and in the 888s IT systems are complex and predominantly developed in-house.
absence of the executive directors.
The success of the business relies on the development of IT platforms Reporting to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
which are innovative and appealing to customers.
In addition, the integrity and security of the IT systems are vital from a commercial Making recommendations to the Board in respect of its findings in standpoint as well as to ensuring a robust control environment.
respect of all of the above matters.
During the year, the Audit Committee has reviewed reports from Reviewing the going concern position of 888 and the viability management on cyber and data security and disaster recovery planning statement set out on page 36. and incident response.
Review of the external audit fee.
Internal controls and risk management The Board considers that the processes undertaken by the Audit Committee continue to be appropriately robust and effective and in The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group compliance with the guidance issued by the FRC.
During the year, the maintains a sound system of internal control.
There are inherent Audit Committee did not advise the Board of, nor identified itself, any limitations in any system of internal control and no system can provide failings, frauds or weaknesses in internal control which it has determined absolute assurance against material misstatements, loss or failure.
to be material in the context of the financial statements.
Equally, no system can guarantee elimination of the risk of failure to meet the objectives of the business.
Against this background, the The Committee received a report from management on the internal Committee has continued to help the Board develop and maintain control environment and on the basis of reviewing and challenging that an approach to risk management which incorporates risk appetite report, the Committee believes that appropriate internal controls are and tolerance, the framework within which risk is managed and the in place through the Group, that 888 has a well-defined organisational responsibility and procedures pertaining to application of the policy.
structure with clear lines of responsibility and a comprehensive financial reporting system.
The Committee also believes that the Company The Group is proactive in ensuring that corporate and operational risks complies with the FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control are identified, assessed and managed by identifying suitable controls.
A and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
corporate risk register is maintained which details: 1.
The risks and impact they may have: Going concern and financial viability 2.
Actions to mitigate risks: The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of adopting the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the full year financial 3.
Risk scores to highlight the likelihood and implications of statements and assessed whether the business was viable in occurrence: accordance with the Code.
The assessment included a review of the 4.
The owners of risks: and principal risks facing the Group, their financial impact, how they are managed, the availability of finance and the appropriate period for 5.
Target dates for actions to mitigate.
The committee challenged the identification of these A description of the principal risks is set out on pages 25 to 31. significant risks and the assumptions comprising the viability analysis carried out by management.
The Groups viability statement is on The Board has confirmed that it has carried out a robust assessment page 36. of the principal risks facing 888, including those which threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 79 Corporate.
888. com Audit Committee Report Continued The Committee has also discussed with EY the results of the latest Fair, balanced and understandable published review of EY as a firm, which was in relation to the period The Committee considered whether the 2018 Annual Report is fair, March 2017 to February 2018, and the findings of that report.
EY has balanced and understandable, and whether it provides the necessary committed to making changes to the way in which it undertakes audits information to shareholders to assess the Groups performance, and the committee will monitor progress against these plans.
In relation business model and strategy.
The Committee considered managements to its work on 888, the Committee is satisfied with the performance of assessment of items included in the financial statements and the EY and recommends its reappointment.
The Committee and subsequently the Board were satisfied that, taken as a whole, the 2018 Annual Report The Committee has also reviewed the performance of EY in relation and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
to the 888 audit, a process which involved all Board members and senior members of 888's finance function.
Notwithstanding the items identified by FRC in their review, the conclusions reached were that Performance of Audit Committee EY continued to perform the external audit in a very professional and The Audit Committee's performance was evaluated as part of the Board efficient manner, and it was therefore the Committee's recommendation evaluation carried out during 2018, as detailed on page 54.
The overall that the reappointment of EY be proposed to shareholders at the conclusion of the review was that the Committee remains effective in Annual General Meeting to be held on 21 May 2019.
If reappointed, EY discharging its functions and reporting to the Board.
will hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting at which accounts are laid.
Given EY's short tenure to date, the Board has no present plans to consider an audit tender process.
In the normal Internal auditors course, Cameron Cartmell will rotate off the 888 audit at the conclusion The Groups internal audit function is outsourced to Deloitte.
of this years audit and the Committee and EY have commenced The Audit Committee reviewed and monitored the internal audit discussions on audit partner succession to ensure there is an orderly plan in accordance with the principal risks to 888's business as set out and timely handover of responsibilities.
The Committee notes and in the Risk Register.
It has also reviewed reports from Deloitte in relation confirms compliance with the other provisions of the Competition & to all internal audit work carried out during the year and monitored Markets Authority Order 2014 in respect of statutory audit services for response and follow up by management to internal audit findings.
In the past three years, the internal auditors have reviewed various The Committee reviewed the reports prepared by the external auditors aspects of 888s customer services and business operations, finance, on key audit findings and any significant deficiencies in the financial B2B and B2C activities, product technologies, human resources and control environment, as well as the recommendations made by EY to regulation.
In 2018, Deloitte issued reports on the Groups billing improve processes and controls together with managements responses processes, cyber security, Gibraltar office processes, self-exclusion and to those recommendations.
EY did not highlight any material internal bonuses processes, implementation of Board decisions, payroll and control weaknesses and management has committed to making procurement fraud, GDPR readiness, accounts receivable and payroll appropriate changes to controls in areas highlighted by EY.
in the Groups Romanian subsidiary office, as well as presenting the internal audit plan.
Whilst no critical issues were identified by Deloitte, a number of matters were identified which required modifications Audit and non-audit work to procedures and improved controls which either have been or are The Audit Committee remains mindful of the attitude investors being implemented by management.
The Committee has evaluated have to the auditors performing non-audit services.
The Committee the performance of Deloitte and has concluded that they provide has clear policies relating to the auditors undertaking non-audit work constructive challenge and consistently demonstrate a realistic and and monitors the appointment of the auditors for any non-audit work commercial view of the business.
involving fees above US$0.1 million, with a view to ensuring that non-audit work does not compromise the Companys auditors External auditors objectiveness and independence.
From 2016, the Committee has committed to ensuring that fees for non-audit services performed EY has been the Companys external auditor since their appointment by the auditors will not exceed 70% of aggregate audit fees measured in 2014.
The partners responsible for the external audit are Angelique over a three year period.
Linares, a partner in EYs Gibraltar office, and Cameron Cartmell, a partner in EYs London office.
Cameron Cartmell is stepping down from Minor non-audit work carried out by the external auditors for the the audit in 2019 due to EU rotation requirements.
Angelique replaced Group in 2018 amounted to 16,000 2017: US$0.1 million.
In 2018, Jose Julio Pisharello for the year ended 31 December 2018, such that the Company paid the external auditors for the statutory audit of the the partner rotation was staggered rather than concurrent.
Cameron consolidated financial statements an amount of US$0.7 million 2017: has been responsible for the audit since EY was appointed.
The FRC conducted a review of EY UKs annual audit of 888 for the year ended 31 December 2017 and made a number of recommendations for improvement in relation to the audit of revenue, segmental reporting and capitalised development costs and supporting evidence concerning legal advice received by the Group.
In each of these areas, EY has committed to making appropriate changes to the way in which their audits of 888 are conducted and the committee will monitor progress in relation to these.
80 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018
