888. com Corporate Governance Statement The Companys Ordinary Shares are admitted to the premium segment Leadership of the UK Official List and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges The Directors consider it essential that the Company should be both main market for listed securities.
As such, despite being incorporated led and controlled by an effective Board.
"in Gibraltar, the UK Corporate Governance Code the ""Code"" or UK Corporate Governance Code applies to the Company pursuant to the UK Listing Rules and is available at www."
The version of the Board responsibilities and procedures Code published in April 2016 applied to the financial year under review, The Board focuses upon the Companys long-term objectives, strategic and the Company is committed to compliance with the version of the and policy issues and formally and transparently considers the Code published in July 2018 with effect from 1 January 2019. management of key risks facing the Group, as well as determining the nature and extent of significant risks it will take in achieving its strategic The Board remains committed to the principles of corporate objectives, maintaining sound risk management and internal control governance in the UK Corporate Governance Code which it considers systems and reviewing annually the effectiveness of the Companys risk to be central to the effective management of the business and to management and internal control systems.
The Board is responsible for maintaining the confidence of investors.
This report explains how acquisitions and divestments, major capital expenditure projects and the Company has applied the main principles of the UK Corporate considering the Companys budgets and dividend policy.
The Board receives regular updates The statement contained in this section explains the key features of on shareholders views.
the Companys governance structure and compliance with the UK Board-level responsibilities of the Chairman are clearly and formally Corporate Governance Code.
Where the Company has not complied defined, with the Chairman being responsible for the effective operation with the UK Corporate Governance Code, explanations are given below.
of the Board as a whole, leadership of the Board in achieving a culture This statement also includes items required by the UK Listing Rules of constructive challenge by Non-Executive Directors including the and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, including how Senior Independent Director, regularly agreeing and reviewing each the Main Principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code have Directors training and development needs, and supporting key external been applied.
relationships: the CEO has the overall executive responsibility for the running of the Companys business: and the Non-Executive Directors The Board remains committed to the principles of corporate including the Senior Independent Director are responsible for governance in the UK Corporate Governance Code which it considers constructively challenging and helping develop proposals on strategy: to be central to the effective and efficient management of 888s no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
business and to maintaining the confidence of investors for its long-term success.
This report explains how the Company has The Board has an established calendar of business.
This covers the applied the main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
financial calendar, strategic planning, annual budgets and performance self-assessments, as well as the conduct of standing business.
The calendar forms the basis for effective integration of business activities Statement of compliance with the UK as between the Board and its principal committees see pages 53 and Corporate Governance Code 57, which individually consider their own operating frameworks against During 2018, the Company was in material compliance with the UK the Boards business programme.
Corporate Governance Code 2014, other than as regards the following: The Directors have wide-ranging business experience, and no individual, The Chairman of the Board, Brian Mattingley, has been a member or group of individuals, dominates the Boards decision making.
of the Board since August 2005.
Board activities During 2018, the Board assessed and monitored 888s culture, including in particular the further implementation of the Groups across-theboard compliance culture in the field of responsible gaming.
Where the Board is not satisfied that policy, practices or behaviour throughout the business are aligned with the Companys purpose, values and strategy, the board seeks assurance that management has taken corrective action.
In 2018, the Board was satisfied in this respect.
The Board assessed the basis on which 888 generates and preserves value over the long-term, including by way of growing and developing the business in regulated markets.
50 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Governance Investing in and rewarding the workforce Reserved powers and delegation The Companys approach to investing in and rewarding its workforce A schedule of matters reserved to the Board has been adopted and its is set out under Corporate Responsibility on pages 38 to 41. content is reviewed to align it with operational needs and the Board's preference to monitor and, where appropriate, approve matters of substance to 888 as a whole.
Senior executives have given written Shareholder engagement undertakings to ensure compliance within their business operations During 2018, 888s Chairman Brian Mattingley met with the Companys with the Board's formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision major shareholders in order to discuss the Companys performance and or approval.
Furthermore, in advance of adoption of the Companys revised Remuneration Policy described on pages 58 to 76, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer the Company presented the proposed Policy to its major investors and proxy voting agencies, and engaged with them accordingly.
The Chairman, Mr Mattingley, and the Chief Executive Officer until January 2019, Mr Frieberger, have had a close working relationship At the 2018 Annual General Meeting, all resolutions were passed to ensure the integrity of the decision-making process of the Board with a high level of shareholder approval and there was no resolution and the successful delivery of 888s strategy.
The new Chief Executive recommended by the Board which garnered 20 per cent or more votes Officer Mr Pazner is similarly committed to working closely with the cast against.
Chairman in order to ensure continuity and stability for the Company: in addition, to ensure a smooth transition, Itai Frieberger will remain as a Director of the Group for a period of up to 12 months.
There is a clear Key stakeholders division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the CEO, which The Companys key stakeholders are its shareholders, employees and the Board considers an important part of its corporate governance.
customers as well as the communities in which it does business.
The Board takes care to engage with its stakeholders, as detailed in the Mr. Mattingley was not independent on his appointment as Executive Corporate Responsibility section on page 38 and the Remuneration Chairman in March 2015 as he had previously held the role of Chief Report on page 60.
The interests of the Companys key stakeholders Executive Officer.
Mr. Mattingleys appointment at the time as Executive are considered in Board discussions and decision-making.
Whilst as a Chairman was approved by the Board in light of the benefits to the Gibraltar company, the UK Companies Act 2006 does not apply to the Company in terms of his experience of the gaming industry, extensive Company, the matters set out in section 172 thereof, which include the knowledge of the business, and in maintaining and developing likely consequences of any decision in the long term, the interests of relationships with regulators.
the company's employees, the need to foster the company's business relationships with suppliers, customers and others, the impact of the Non-Executive Directors independence company's operations on the community and the environment, the desirability of the company maintaining a reputation for high standards Ron McMillan was appointed Senior Independent Director during of business conduct, and the need to act fairly as between members 2016 and the Board is confident that he is and remains independent of the company, are taken into account by the Board in its decisionin character and judgment and that there are no relationships or making to the extent permitted under Gibraltar law.
circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, his judgement.
The same is true of independent Non-Executive Directors The Board continually reviews its engagement mechanisms in order to Zvika Zivlin and Anne fide Kerckhove.
make sure that it is engaging with its stakeholders effectively.
Directors insurance cover Engagement with the workforce The Company has arranged and maintains, at its expense, a directors 888 does not currently formally consult employees on remuneration but and officers liability insurance policy in respect of legal actions against has a timetable and agenda of actions for 2019 to ensure it is compliant its Directors, as recommended by the UK Corporate Governance with the new requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code Code.
To the extent permitted by Gibraltar law, the Company may going forwards.
This will include considering workforce policies and also indemnify the Directors.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity practices and how it can best fulfil its obligations to engage with the provides cover where a Director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
wider workforce to explain the alignment of Executive Director pay to the wider organisation.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 51 Corporate.
888. com Corporate Governance Statement Continued Board diversity policy Effectiveness The Group has adopted a Board Diversity Policy, which sets the Companys aspiration for diversity of its Board without compromising Board composition on the quality or merit of candidates including their aptitude and ability.
During 2018, the Board consisted of six Directors, as follows: a Chairman The policy refers to the diversity criteria of age, gender and educational Brian Mattingley, a Senior Independent Director Ron McMillan, and professional backgrounds.
Whilst the policy seeks to ensure that two independent Non-Executive Directors Zvika Zivlin and Anne fide appointments are based on the candidate's strengths set by objective Kerckhove, and two Executive Directors Itai Frieberger as the Chief criteria including their past contributions and potential, the benefits Executive Officer, and Aviad Kobrine as the Chief Financial Officer.
of diversity are also regarded and decisions are not influenced by In March 2019, the new Chief Executive Officer Itai Pazner also joined certain protected characteristics including gender, sexual orientation, the Board.
marital or civil partnership status, gender reassignment, pregnancy, The biographical details of all of the Directors, setting out their relevant the undergoing of fertility or in vitro fertility treatment, parenthood, skills and experience and their professional commitments, are given part-time or fixed-term status, age, race, religion or belief, nationality, on pages 42 to 43. ethnicity, country of origin, place of residence, views, disability, trade union membership and political affiliation.
Where appropriate, steps are taken to identify and remove unnecessary or unjustifiable barriers.
Independent Directors The standards set out in the policy apply to the Board and its Currently, half of the Directors, excluding the Chairman, are committees, which are the Companys administrative, management Non-Executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent and supervisory bodies.
for the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In 2018, at least The Board was satisfied that during 2018, steps were taken to promote half of the Directors, excluding the Chairman, were independent Nonthe diversity objectives of the policy.
The Groups activities detailed in Executive Directors as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
the Corporate Responsibility section on page 41 support the Groups The role of the Senior Independent Director Ron McMillan is to diversity objectives.
provide a sounding board for the Chairman, to evaluate the Chairmans Details of the Companys diversity position and involvement of women performance and lead the Boards succession planning, and to serve as in management of the Group are set out in the Corporate Responsibility an intermediary for the other Directors where necessary.
section of the Strategic Report on pages 38 to 41.
Nominations Committee The Board considers succession planning matters on an ongoing basis, with particular focus on succession planning for the CEO role as well as for senior management.
The Nominations Committee had a central role in succession planning for the CEO role.
Over the course of 2018, the alternatives were carefully considered and the Board ultimately decided to appoint Itai Pazner as CEO in January 2019.
Itai Pazner has been with 888 for 18 years and previously served as its Chief Operating Officer.
Furthermore, in order to ensure a smooth transition, it was decided that Itai Frieberger would remain as a Director of 888 for a period of up to 12 months.
The Board has established a nomination committee to lead the process for Board appointments and to make recommendations to the Board the Nominations Committee.
During the year, the Nominations Committee comprised Chairman of the Board Brian Mattingley Chairman, Senior Independent Director Ron McMillan, Independent Non-Executive Director Zvika Zivlin and Independent Non-Executive Director Anne fide Kerckhove.
The Nominations Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities relating to the composition of the Board.
The Nominations Committee is responsible for reviewing, from time to time, the structure of the Board, determining succession plans for the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and identifying and recommending suitable candidates for appointment as Directors.
In accordance with the Nominations Committees terms of reference, the Chairman does not chair the Nomination Committee when it is dealing with the appointment of a successor to the chairmanship, and the Nomination Committee is tasked with preparing a description of the role and the capabilities required for particular roles.
52 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Governance The Nominations Committee's terms of reference are available on the Commitment Company's website, corporate.
The opportunity to hold office as Non-Executive Directors of other The Nominations Committee is also responsible for pursuing diversity companies enables the Directors of 888 to broaden their experience within the scope of its mandate, including setting measurable and knowledge, which benefits the Company.
Executive Directors may objectives and monitoring progress on achieving such objectives.
be allowed to accept non-executive appointments with the Board's In considering new Board appointments, diversity including of gender, prior permission, so long as these are not likely to lead to any conflict age and professional and educational background is one of the criteria of interest.
Executive Directors may be required to account for fees considered by the Nominations Committee in accordance with the received from such other companies.
Non-Executive Directors are Boards Diversity Policy.
The Companys statement regarding diversity required to allocate sufficient time to perform all applicable roles and to is set out in the Corporate Responsibility section of the Strategic Report both disclose any external appointments and consult with the Company on page 41. prior to accepting any new major external appointments.
During 2018, the Nominations Committees work included the following: The Chairman has disclosed details of his other significant commitments to the Board during 2018 and these are detailed in his Succession planning for the CEO role: In the present case, the biography on page 42.
Nominations Committee considered that an internal appointment was most appropriate.
In general, the Nominations Committee The Board considers that Brian Mattingleys other commitments do not acknowledges its role in supporting the development of a diverse interfere with the discharge of his responsibilities to the Group and is pipeline of candidates for senior management satisfied that he makes sufficient time available to serve 888 effectively.
Monitoring the board evaluation process which is described on The terms of appointment for each Non-Executive Director, page 54. including expected time commitment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours Implementing the Boards diversity policy which is described on and at the AGM.
page 41 including considering the gender balance of senior management and their direct reports.
Meetings and attendance The Board plans to meet six times a year.
When urgent decision-making Re-election and appointment of Directors is required between meetings on matters reserved for the Board, there All Directors are subject to reappointment by shareholders on an is a process in place to facilitate discussion and decision making.
The annual basis in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Directors regularly communicate and exchange information irrespective Governance Code.
of the timing of meetings.
When proposing Directors for re-election, the Board rigorously reviews During 2018, the Board met seven times.
Set out below are details the performance of each Director and assesses whether the individuals of the Directors attendance record at Board and Committee meetings performance continues to be effective and that he or she continues to in 2018. demonstrate commitment to the role, taking into account the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
The Chairman has responsibility for ensuring that agendas for Board meetings are set in advance.
Board papers are issued to Directors The Board may appoint any person to be a Director of the Company sufficiently in advance of meetings to facilitate both informed debate and such Director shall hold office only until the next AGM, when he and timely decisions.
If a Director is unable to attend a meeting, he or or she shall be eligible for election or re-election by the shareholders.
she is given the opportunity to raise any issues and give any comments to the Chairman in advance.
None of the Directors have raised any concerns about the running of the Company or a proposed action which needed to be recorded in the Board minutes of the Company or in a statement to the Chairman for circulation to the Board.
Total number of meetings held during the year ended 31 December 2018 and the number of meetings attended by each Director Gaming Audit Remuneration Nominations Compliance Board committee committee committee committee Total held in year 7 3 2 1 5 Brian Mattingley 7 N A N A 1 N A Itai Frieberger 7 N A N A N A N A Aviad Kobrine 7 N A N A N A N A Ron McMillan 7 3 2 1 5 Zvika Zivlin 7 3 2 1 5 Anne fide Kerckhove 7 3 2 1 N A Includes one meeting attended as an observer.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 53 Corporate.
888. com Corporate Governance Statement Continued Meetings with Non-Executive Directors Development and advice The Chairman holds meetings at least once per year with the NonThe Board understands that there should be a formal, rigorous and Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
transparent procedure for the induction of new Directors, which has been formulated with the guidance of the Nominations Committee.
The Non-Executive Directors meet once per year without the Chairman present in order to appraise the performance of the Chairman and All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company 1 take into account the views of the Executive Directors.
Under the Secretary and the Company's nominated advisers, who are responsible UK Corporate Governance Code, it is part of the role of the Senior for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
Directors are able to Independent Director to lead this process.
seek independent professional advice, if required, at the Company's expense provided that they have first notified the Company of their intention to do so.
Board evaluation No new Directors were appointed during 2018.
Itai Pazner was The Board has established a formal process for the annual evaluation appointed as Chief Executive Officer in January 2019 and as a Director of its performance, and the performance of its committees and in March 2019. individual Directors.
The evaluation process covers a range of issues such as Board processes, Board roles and responsibilities, Board As noted above, the Chairman regularly agrees and reviews each agendas and committee processes.
Directors training and development needs.
Members of the Board committees receive specific updates on matters that are relevant to An externally facilitated in-depth evaluation of the Board and its their role.
Members of the senior management team with responsibility Committees relating to performance in 2018 was carried out in for the Groups business make periodic presentations at Board December 2018.
This included evaluation of the performance of meetings about their functions, performance, markets and strategy.
the Board and each Committee as a whole as well as evaluation of individual Directors and the Chairman against criteria and minimum requirements set by the Board.
The evaluation was carried out by Information and support Mr Raymond Dinkin of Consilium Board and Leadership Development, Each of the Directors has access to the advice and services of the a London based management consulting firm to Boards and executives Company Secretary.
Under the direction of the Chairman, the Company which has no other connection with 888.
The evaluation included Secretarys responsibilities include ensuring information flows within questionnaires and face to face meetings with Board members, and between the Board, its Committees and senior management, as senior management and 888s external legal advisers.
The next well as facilitating induction, evaluation and professional development Board evaluation is scheduled for the end of 2019. activities, and advising the Board on corporate governance, legal and The evaluation culminated in a number of recommendations, including procedural matters.
as regards succession planning, the structure of and preparation for The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary is a matter Board meetings, tracking of Board decisions, development of Company for the Board as a whole.
strategy, addition of Non-Executive Directors and additional exposure of the Non-Executive Directors to the Companys business.
The Board adopted all recommendations which arose from the evaluation.
The Conflicts of interest evaluation concluded that the Board and its Committees are wellConflicts of interest of the Directors are dealt with in accordance balanced and effective, and are a forum for meaningful deliberation with the procedures set out in the Articles and are monitored by the and constructive challenge with regard to the matters of strategic Chairman.
Specifically, a Director does not vote on Board or Committee importance to the Company.
resolutions in which he or persons connected with him have an interest other than by virtue of a shareholding in the Company which is to his Following the evaluation, the Board was satisfied that each of the knowledge material, except in specific limited circumstances.
Non-Executive Directors continues to be effective and to demonstrate Such procedures operated effectively during the year.
commitment to their respective roles, and proposes them for re-election or election at the 2019 Annual General Meeting.
1 References in this Annual Report to Company Secretary refer to Herzog Fox & Neeman.
The Company secretary for Gibraltar corporate purposes is Straits Secretaries Gibraltar Limited.
54 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Governance Audit Committee and auditors Accountability The Board has established an Audit Committee.
Details of the Audit Risk management and internal control Committees functions, together with its specific activities in 2018, are set out in the Audit Committee Report on pages 77 to 80.
The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the Companys system of internal control, for setting policy on internal control and risk During the year the Company's Audit Committee comprised Senior management, and for reviewing the effectiveness of internal control and Independent Director Ron McMillan Chair and Independent Nonrisk management.
Executive Directors Zvika Zivlin and Anne fide Kerckhove.
The Directors monitor the Companys systems of internal control During 2018, Deloitte carried out the Companys internal audit function, and risk management on an ongoing basis, including identifying, reporting to the Audit Committee: during 2018, the internal auditor evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
provided twelve reports to the Audit Committee and discussed the The Board believes that its risk management process accords with internal audit working plan for 2019. the FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting and carries out an annual review 888's payment risk management team, based in Gibraltar, has of its effectiveness covering all material controls, including financial, developed stringent payment risk management and fraud control operational and compliance controls.
The team makes use of external and internal systems to manage the payment risks.
Detailed procedures exist throughout the The annual review considers individual risk control responsibilities, Company's operations and compliance is monitored by operational reporting lines and qualitative assessments of residual risks.
Such a management and the internal audit function.
review was carried out in respect of the processes that were in place throughout 2018 up until the date of approval of the Annual Report Details of the Companys risk management strategy and the Boards and Accounts.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified assessment of the Companys viability in light of its risks are set out on in the review.
It is management's role to implement Board policies on risk and Remuneration Committee control, including reporting.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business The Board has overall responsibility for determining the framework of objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, executive remuneration and its cost.
It is required to take account of any assurance against material misstatement or loss.
recommendation made by the Remuneration Committee in determining the remuneration, benefits and employment packages of the Executive The Audit Committee also reviews the appropriateness and adequacy Directors and senior management and the fees of the Chairman.
of systems of internal control and risk management in relation to the financial reporting process on an ongoing basis and makes During the year the Company's Remuneration Committee comprised recommendations to the Board based on its findings.
Independent Non-Executive Director Zvika Zivlin Chair, Senior Independent Director Ron McMillan and Independent Non-Executive 888s internal control and risk management systems in relation to the Director Anne fide Kerckhove.
process of preparing consolidated accounts include the following: The Remuneration Committee determines the Chairman's and identification of significant risk and control areas of relevance Executive Directors' fees, whilst the Chairman and the Executive to Group-wide accounting processes: Directors determine the fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors.
controls to monitor the consolidated accounting process and its Further details are provided on page 70. results at the level of the Board and at the level of the companies The Remuneration Committee was advised during part of 2018 by New included in the consolidated financial statements: Bridge Street, a trading name of Aon Hewitt, being a subsidiary of Aon preventative control measures in the finance and accounting systems plc, and the remainder of 2018 by Korn Ferry.
Neither remuneration of the Company and of the companies included in the consolidated consultant has any other connection with 888 or any of the Directors.
financial statements and in the operative, performance-oriented Further details are provided on page 76. processes that generate significant information for the preparation All new long-term incentive schemes and significant changes to of the consolidated financial statements including the Strategic existing long-term incentive schemes are put to the shareholders of Report, including a separation of functions and pre-defined approval the Company for approval before they are adopted save for certain processes in relevant areas: circumstances as set out in the Listing Rules.
measures that safeguard proper IT-based processing of matters and The Directors Remuneration Report, which outlines the Remuneration data relevant to accounting: and Committee's work and details of Directors' remuneration, is on reporting information of companies around the Group which enable pages 60 to 76.
The Remuneration Committee's terms of reference the Company to prepare consolidated financial statements including are available on the Company's website, corporate.
The reporting structure relating to all the companies included in the consolidated financial statements requires that significant risks are to be reported immediately to the Board on identification.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 55 Corporate.
888. com Corporate Governance Statement Continued Gaming Compliance Committee Relations with shareholders and key In accordance with Nevada Gaming Control Board requirements, the financial audiences Board has appointed a Gaming Compliance Committee.
Its current The Company maintains an active and regular dialogue with principal members are Michael Alonso an external consultant to the Company, and institutional shareholders and sell-side analysts through a planned Ron McMillan and Zvika Zivlin.
programme of investor relations and financial PR activity.
The Board also keeps up to date with the views of major shareholders through The Gaming Compliance Committee is entrusted with making sure that meetings and discussions with shareholder representatives throughout the Group's licensed gaming activity is carried out with honesty and the year.
integrity, in accordance with high moral, legal and ethical standards, and free from criminal and corruptive elements.
As such, the committee is The outcome of this dialogue and these meetings is reported to the responsible and has the power to identify and evaluate situations arising Board.
The programme includes formal presentations of full year and in the course of the Companys and its Affiliates business that may interim results, analysts' conference calls and periodic roadshows adversely affect the objectives of gaming control.
and discussion of the Companys strategy and governance.
Details of engagement with shareholders during 2018 are set out on page 76.
The Committee is not intended to displace the Board or the Companys executive officers with decision-making authority but is intended The Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive Director are to serve as an advisory body to better ensure achievement of the available to talk to shareholders if they have any issues or concerns Companys goals of avoiding unsuitable situations and in entering into or if there are any matters where contact with the Chairman, relationships exclusively with suitable persons.
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer is inappropriate or where such contact has failed to resolve the issue.
The Committee's work is being done independently and impartially.
To this end, its members are appointed by and report directly to the All shareholders are welcome to attend the 2019 Annual General Board of Directors.
Meeting scheduled to be held on 21 May 2019 and private investors are encouraged to take advantage of the opportunity given to ask questions.
All Board members including the Chairs of the Audit, Whistle-blowing policy Remuneration and Nominations Committees will attend the meeting The Companys whistle-blowing policy sets out the overall responsibility and be available to answer questions.
of the Board for implementation of the policy, but notes that the Board has delegated day-to-day responsibility for overseeing and implementing it to the designated whistle-blowing officer.
The Compliance with statutory provisions policy provides that where an employee is not comfortable making As the Company is registered in Gibraltar, it is subject to compliance with a disclosure to his her respective direct line manager, disclosure can Gibraltar statutory requirements.
The main corporate legislation relevant be made to the designated whistle-blowing officer whose details to the Company in Gibraltar is the Gibraltar Companies Act 2014.
If the subject of the disclosure in any way involves the Company is in full compliance with the Gibraltar Companies Act.
designated whistle-blowing officer, the disclosure may be made directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee or to another member of Principal risks and uncertainties the Groups senior management.
Whilst employees are permitted to make disclosures anonymously, disclosing employees are encouraged The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group are disclosed to reveal their identity to the designated whistle-blowing officer in in the Risk Management Strategy report on page 24. order to allow a full and proper investigation to take place: measures can be taken to preserve the confidentiality of the disclosure where appropriate.
The Board commits to investigating all disclosures fully, fairly, quickly and, where circumstances permit, confidentially.
Undertakings are made to employees who raise genuinely held concerns in good faith under the procedure that they will not be dismissed or subjected to any detriment as a result of his her action.
Employees of the Group are regularly sent reminders regarding the whistle-blowing policy as part of general refreshers of various Group policies.
No whistle-blowing incidents were internally reported by the Companys employees during 2018 and up to the date of this annual report.
56 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Governance Corporate Social Responsibility Statement The CEO is the Director responsible for monitoring corporate social responsibility within 888.
The Board receives periodic reports on the Group's activities in this area from the Chief Executive Officer.
Further details are set out in the Corporate Responsibility section on pages 38 to 41.
Other disclosures The following matters can be found in this report on the following pages: Disclosure Applicable sub-paragraph within LR 9.8.
4 provided 1 Interest capitalised by the Group N A 2 Publication of unaudited financial information N A 3 Details of long-term incentive schemes only involving a Director N A 4 Waiver of emoluments by a Director N A 5 Waiver of future emoluments by a Director N A 6 Non pro-rata allotments for cash issuer N A 7 Non pro-rata allotments for cash by major subsidiaries N A 8 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary N A 9 Contracts of significance N A 10 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder N A 11 Shareholder waivers of dividends N A 12 Shareholder waivers of future dividends N A 13 Agreements with controlling shareholders N A On behalf of the Board: Brian Mattingley Chairman 12 March 2019 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 57
