169157 ASCOT AR18 Txt PRINT 169157 ASCOT AR18 Txt V7 25 01 2019 14:19 Page 23 Corporate Governance Report Introduction The Board is committed to maintaining and demonstrating high standards of corporate governance.
The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the 2016 Association of Investment Companies Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code as set out in the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code addresses all the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code which applies for the year ended 31 December 2018, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to investment trusts.
The Board considers that reporting in accordance with the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code provides more relevant and comprehensive information to shareholders.
Both the AIC Code and the AIC Guide are available on the AIC website at www.
During 2018, the Financial Reporting Council issued an updated version of its UKCorporate Governance Code, which is applicable for the year ended 31 December 2019.
This report forms part of the Directors Report on pages 19 to 22.
Compliance Throughout the year ended 31 December 2018 the Company complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code except, as explained below, where the Company does not believe it appropriate to comply.
The Board, being small in size and composed entirely of independent non-executive Directors, has not appointed a Remuneration or a Nomination Committee.
Directors fees and the appointment of new Directors are considered by the Board as a whole.
The Board has also decided not to nominate a Deputy Chairman or a Senior Independent Director, although the Chair of the Audit Committee fulfils this role when necessary, for example in taking the lead in the annual evaluation of the Chairman.
The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions relating to the role of the chief executive, executive Directors remuneration and the need for an internal audit function.
For reasons set out in the AIC Guide, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the Company as it is an externally managed investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys day-to-day management and administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no executive Directors, employees or internal operations.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
The Board The Board is responsible for the effective stewardship of the Companys affairs.
Strategic issues and all operational matters of a material nature are considered at its meetings.
At 31 December 2018, the Board comprised five nonexecutive Directors, of whom Mr Trickett is Chairman.
A formal schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board has been adopted.
The Board has engaged external firms to provide investment management, secretarial, depositary and custodial services.
Contractual arrangements are in place between the Company and these firms.
The Board carefully considers the various guidelines for determining the independence of non-executive Directors, placing particular weight on the view that independence is evidenced by an individual being independent of mind, character and judgement.
All Directors are presently considered to be independent.
All Directors retire at the AGM each year and, if appropriate, seek re-election.
Each Director has signed a letter of appointment to formalise the terms of their engagement as a non-executive Director, copies of which are available on request and at the AGM.
Meetings The Board meets at least quarterly to review the overall business of the Company and to consider the matters specifically reserved for it.
Detailed information is provided by the Managers and Secretaries for these meetings and additionally at regular intervals to enable the Directors to monitor compliance with the investment objective and the Companys investment performance compared with its benchmark index.
The Directors also review several important areas including: the stockmarket environment: the Companys investment activity over the quarter relative to its investment policy: performance in relation to comparable investment and unit trusts: the revenue account, balance sheet and gearing position: share price discount both absolute levels and volatility : shareholder register including significant changes : regulatory matters: and relevant industry issues.
The Board also holds an annual strategy session to consider, amongst other matters, the Companys objective and investment strategy.
Governance Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 23 169157 ASCOT AR18 Txt PRINT 169157 ASCOT AR18 Txt V7 25 01 2019 14:19 Page 24 Corporate Governance Report Annual Plan The following highlights various additional matters considered by the Board during the past year: January April July October Consider Final Approval of the Shareholder Consider Interim Internal Control Corporate Approval of Half Dividend Annual Report Communication Dividend Review Governance Review Yearly Report including the Managers policy on stewardship Review of Review of Annual Strategy Gearing significant Review Review Managers Board & interests continued Committee appointment and Evaluation remuneration Detailed review of Investment Board Review of Trust Peer Group Composition Directors Fees The following table sets out the Directors of the Company during the financial year, together with the number of Board and Committee meetings held and the number of meetings attended by each Director whilst a Director or Committee member.
Audit The Board Committee Director Eligible to attend Attended Eligible to attend Attended SPTrickett, Chairman 6 6 PMHay-Plumb 6 6 2 2 DJ Jeffcoat retired 1 March 2018 1 1 1 1 J Le Blan 6 6 3 3 R A Rae 6 6 3 3 MRWarner appointed 1 March 2018 4 4 Appointments to the Board The Board regularly reviews its composition, having regard to the Boards structure and to the present and future needs of the Company.
The Board takes into account its diversity, the balance of expertise and skills brought by individual Directors, and length of service, where continuity and experience can add significantly to the strength of the Board.
The Board has not yet set diversity targets or a formal policy but it does recognise diversity as described on page 17.
Martin Warner was appointed on 1 March 2018 and Richard Davidson was appointed with effect from 26 January 2019.
Both will stand for election by shareholders at the AGM and their biographies are on page 18.
It is intended that Richard Davidson will be appointed as Chairman at the close of the AGM on 28 February 2019, following the retiral of Paul Trickett from the Board.
David Jeffcoat retired at the conclusion of the AGM on 1 March 2018.
The Board established a Committee in 2017, chaired by Paul Trickett, for the purpose of appointing a new director in 2018.
External search consultants, Forster Chase, were appointed to conduct a full search.
The Committee held meetings with a shortlist of candidates and the process concluded with Martin Warner being appointed a Director.
In the final quarter of 2018, a Committee, chaired by Richard Rae, was established to appoint a new director.
Trust Associates were appointed as external search consultants to conduct a full search.
The Committee held meetings with a shortlist of candidates and, as referred to in the Chairmans Statement, Richard Davidson was appointed a Director.
Board performance and re-appointment of Directors The Board undertakes a formal annual assessment of its collective performance on a range of issues including the Boards role, processes and interaction with the Managers.
The Board conducted this review of the Board and the Audit Committee by way of an evaluation questionnaire, providing valuable feedback for improving Board effectiveness and highlighting areas for further development.
The appraisal of the Chairman was led by the Chair of the Audit Committee.
In 2016, the Board appointed Lintstock Limited to facilitate an external review and it was agreed to utilise external facilitators every three years.
In line with the Boards policy, all continuing Directors offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
The Board believes that each Director continues to be effective, bringing a wealth of knowledge and experience to the Board, and the Chairman recommends their re-election to Shareholders.
24 Governance Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 169157 ASCOT AR18 Txt PRINT 169157 ASCOT AR18 Txt V7 25 01 2019 14:19 Page 25 Corporate Governance Report Directors and Officers Liability Insurance The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against its Directors.
The Company has also entered into qualifying third party deeds of indemnity with each Director to cover any liabilities that may arise to a third party, other than the Company, for negligence, default or breach of trust or duty.
The deeds were in force during the year to 31 December 2018 and up to the date of approval of this report.
The Directors are not indemnified in respect of liabilities to the Company or costs incurred in connection with criminal proceedings in which the Director is convicted or required to pay any regulatory or criminal fines.
Training and Advice New Directors are provided with an induction programme that is tailored to the particular requirements of the appointee.
Thereafter regular briefings are provided on changes in regulatory requirements that affect the Company.
Directors are also encouraged to attend industry and other seminars.
Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, may also seek independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
No Director took such advice during the financial year under review.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Companys Secretaries, Aberforth Partners LLP, who are responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretaries are also responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
Conflicts of Interest Company directors have a statutory obligation to avoid a situation in which they and connected persons have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company.
The Board has in place procedures for managing any actual or potential conflicts of interest.
No conflicts of interest arose during the year under review.
Risk Management and Internal Control The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys risk management and internal control systems and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The Company applies the guidance published by the Financial Reporting Council on internal controls.
Internal control systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the business objective and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
These controls aim to ensure that the assets of the Company are safeguarded, that proper accounting records are maintained and that the Companys financial information is reliable.
The Directors have a robust process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company, which are recorded in a risk matrix.
The Board considers each risk as well as reviewing the mitigating controls in place.
Each risk is rated for its likelihood and impact and the resultant numerical rating determines its ranking into High, Medium or Low Risk.
This process was in operation during the year and continues in place up to the date of this report.
It principally involves the Audit Committee receiving and examining regular reports from the main service providers.
The Board then receives a detailed report from the AuditCommittee on its findings.
As a consequence the Directors have not identified any significant failures or weaknesses in respect of the Companys internal control systems.
Relations with Shareholders The Board places great importance on communication with Shareholders.
Directors of the Company are available to meet with any Shareholder on request.
The Managers meet the larger Shareholders twice a year to provide them with a detailed report on the progress of the Company and to receive feedback.
The Board receives reports from the Managers of these Shareholder meetings.
Furthermore, following publication of the Annual Report, the Chairman emails the largest Shareholders inviting questions on all aspects concerning the Company.
The Directors may be contacted via the Secretaries whose details are shown on the back cover or through the Chairmans email address, paul.
During the year, the Chairman was in contact with some large Shareholders to discuss a range of topics and provided feedback to the Board.
All Shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote at the AGM where the Directors and Managers are available to discuss important issues affecting the Company.
Proxy voting figures are announced at the AGM and are available via the Managers website shortly thereafter.
In addition to the annual and half yearly reports, the Companys performance, daily Net Asset Values, monthly factsheets and other relevant information is published at www.
Governance Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 25 169157 ASCOT AR18 Txt PRINT 169157 ASCOT AR18 Txt V7 25 01 2019 14:19 Page 26 Corporate Governance Report Socially Responsible Investment The Directors, through the Managers, encourage investee companies to adhere to best practice in the area of Corporate Governance and Socially Responsible Investment SRI.
The Managers believe that sound social, environmental and ethical policies make good business sense and take these issues into account when investment decisions are taken.
However, the Managers do not exclude companies from their investment universe purely on grounds of social, environmental and ethical concerns.
Instead, the Managers adopt a positive approach whereby such matters are discussed with management with the aim of improving procedures and attitudes.
UKStewardship Code The Board and the Managers support the UK Stewardship Code, issued by the FRC, which sets out the principles of effective stewardship by institutional investors.
The Companys investment portfolio is managed by Aberforth Partners LLP who invest exclusively in small UK quoted companies and, as a significant investor within this asset class, the Managers have a strong commitment to effective stewardship.
The Board has reviewed, and endorses, the Managers Stewardship Policy, which is available within the literature library section of the Managers website, at www.
Voting Policy The Board has given discretionary voting powers to the Managers to exercise the voting rights on every resolution that is put to shareholders of the companies in which the Company is invested.
The Managers vote against resolutions that they believe may damage shareholders rights or economic interests and under normal circumstances these concerns would have been raised with directors of the company concerned.
The Board receives quarterly reports from the Managers on governance issues including voting pertaining to investee companies.
By Order of the Board Paul Trickett Chairman 25 January 2019 26 Governance Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc
