GOVERNANCE REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board composition Delegation of authority As at 31 December 2018, the Board comprised a Non-Executive Chair, The Board has delegated responsibility for certain matters to five who was independent upon appointment, one Executive Director and four committees: the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee, the Non-Executive Directors, of whom three were independent.
EHS&S Committee, the Nomination & Governance Committee and the Independent Committee.
The membership, chairship and activities of Board changes during 2018 each of these Committees during 2018 are set out in each Committee There were no new Board appointments during the reporting period.
Kelvin Dushnisky resigned from the Board with effect from 31 August 2018 following the announcement of his departure from Barrick.
Board effectiveness Board meetings and attendance Retirement and re-election Board decisions are predominantly made by achieving a consensus at Given ongoing succession planning activities, full details on Directors' Board meetings.
In exceptional circumstances, decisions may be taken intentions, with respect to potential retirement from and nominations by the majority of Board members.
Questions arising at any meeting are for re-elections to the Board, will be provided prior to the 2019 AGM determined by a majority of votes.
In the case of an equality of votes, the as part of the AGM materials.
Companys Articles of Association do not provide the Chair with a second Board leadership or casting vote.
All Directors are required to take decisions objectively Chair and Chief Executive Officer and in the best interests of the Company.
As part of their duties as In line with best practice, the roles of Chief Executive Officer and Directors, Non-Executive Directors are expected to apply independent Chair, and their related responsibilities, are separated.
The divisions judgement to contribute to issues of strategy and performance and to of responsibility and the specifications of each role are set out in scrutinise the performance of management.
writing and reviewed periodically as part of annual corporate governance The Board is scheduled to meet at least four times a year, and at reviews.
Responsibilities are divided so as to ensure that the Chair such other times as are necessary to discharge its duties.
The Board remains principally responsible for the leadership of the Board and met a total of six times in 2018.
Meetings occurred in person and by ensuring that the Board plays a full and constructive part in the teleconference.
Details of individual attendance are provided in the development and determination of the Companys strategy and overall table overleaf.
The Chief Executive Officer is primarily responsible for all executive management matters affecting Acacia and is Board briefings and development principally responsible for running the Companys business.
All members The Board receives monthly management reports and quarterly reports of the Executive Leadership Team report directly to him.
outlining all material operational, financial and strategic developments.
These ensure that Board members remain properly briefed on the Senior Independent Director performance and financial position of the Group on a continuous basis.
Michael Kenyon is currently Acacias Senior Independent Director SID.
Board and Committee papers are circulated prior to all meetings to allow The responsibilities and duties of the SID are determined in accordance Directors to be briefed in advance of discussions.
Board meetings with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In include quarterly operational, financial and exploration project particular, the SID is required to: performance reviews to ensure that, in addition to specific scheduled act as a sounding board for the Chair: matters and any other business, core business performance is act as an intermediary for other Directors, when necessary: monitored and assessed on a continuous basis.
In addition to scheduled ensure that an annual appraisal of the Chair is conducted by the Board meetings, all Directors have access to members of the Executive Non-Executive Directors, without the Chair present: and Leadership Team and to whatever further information they need to be available to shareholders for discussion purposes, in cases perform their duties and to satisfy their responsibilities.
Acacias where contact between such shareholders and the Chair and or independent Non-Executive Directors and Committee Chairs meet with CEO has been ineffective or is otherwise inappropriate.
members of the Executive Leadership Team to receive more in-depth briefings on Board and Committee matters whenever required or Succession planning for the SID position is under consideration as requested.
In addition, all Directors continue to have free access to visit part of overall Board succession planning and composition activities.
operations outside scheduled Board arrangements.
Board training and Matters reserved development needs are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Directors may There is a schedule of matters that the Board has specifically reserved take independent professional advice, as necessary, at the Companys for its decision.
This schedule was reviewed during the year and includes expense in the furtherance of their duties.
In addition to this, each Board matters such as setting the Groups strategic aims and objectives, Committee is entitled to seek independent professional advice at the approving significant contractual commitments including merger and Companys expense, where necessary, to assist or guide the Committee acquisition activity, approving capital-raising, approving changes to the in the performance of its functions.
Groups share capital and corporate structure, approving financial reports and ensuring maintenance of a sound system of internal control and risk management.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 75 Internal control In compliance with its obligations, the Board conducted a review of the The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal control risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In line with this systems for the reporting period.
The review also covered a review of responsibility, the Board has established ongoing processes and all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance systems for identifying, evaluating and managing principal risks that the controls and considered all significant aspects of internal control for the Group faces, which have been in place throughout the year and up to reporting period.
During the course of the review the Board did not the date of approval of the Annual Report.
identify or hear of any failings or weaknesses that it determined to be material.
Therefore a confirmation of any necessary actions undertaken The Board principally bases its monitoring and review of the is not required.
effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems on its review of management reports and assessments, and on the quarterly Additional information regarding the internal control and risk reports it receives on the status of the Groups risk management and management process specifically in relation to the financial reporting internal control environment.
This is supported by the risk profile reviews process and the preparation of the consolidated financial statements is that our internal audit function carries out to help the Board identify and provided as part of the Audit Committee report and the notes to the manage the most significant risks and events that could affect the consolidated financial statements.
Companys operations, financials and performance on an ongoing basis.
Further detail as regards the governance structure used for Acacias Where necessary, the Board is assisted by its Committees in reviewing approach to risk management and the processes and procedures used internal systems and controls, particularly the Audit Committee, which is in the context of risk management is provided on pages 30 to 36 of this responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control Annual Report.
The Companys viability statement is also provided and risk management framework systems, as components of the in this context on page 31.
Nomination & Audit Compensation Governance EHS&S Independent Board meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum attended possible attended possible attended possible attended possible attended possible attended possible Current Directors 1 Rachel English 6 6 5 5 4 4 2 2 4 4 17 18 1 Kelvin Dushnisky 1 4 1 1 Peter Geleta 6 6 4 4 Andre Falzon 6 6 5 5 4 4 18 18 Michael Kenyon 6 6 4 4 3 3 18 18 Steve Lucas 6 6 4 5 3 4 2 3 15 18 Stephen Galbraith 6 6 1 K elvin Dushnisky stepped down from the Board with effect from 31 August 2018.
With effect from 1 September 2018, Rachel English, who was already an independent NonExecutive Director, assumed the role of Interim Chair and also became chair of the Nomination & Governance Committee.
76 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 GOVERNANCE REPORT Majority shareholder Acacia entered into the Relationship Agreement at the time of its Barrick is the Group majority shareholder, holding approximately 64% of initial public offering in 2010.
It was amended in 2014 to ensure full Acacias issued shares as at the date of this report.
Acacias relationship compliance with the independence requirements introduced to the with Barrick is governed by the terms of a Relationship Agreement, the Listing Rules, which took effect in November 2014.
Following these principal purpose of which is to ensure that the Acacia Group is capable amendments the Relationship Agreement expressly provides that: of carrying on its business independently of the Barrick Group and that i any and all transactions with Barrick or its associates shall be any transactions and relationships with the Barrick Group are conducted conducted at arms length and on normal commercial terms: at arms length and on normal commercial terms.
The Relationship Agreement will continue for so long as Acacia is listed on the London ii neither Barrick, nor any of its associates, will take any action that Stock Exchange and Barrick owns or controls at least 15% of Acacias will prevent Acacia from complying with its obligations under the Listing issued share capital or voting rights.
Rules: and The Relationship Agreement provides Barrick with certain Director iii neither Barrick, nor any of its associates, will propose or procure the appointment rights in line with a sliding scale, structured as follows: proposal of a shareholder resolution which is intended or appears to be intended to circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
In addition, the Listing Rules require premium listed companies with Barrick percentage shareholding Barrick Director appointment rights controlling shareholders to provide a confirmation in their annual reports 40% or more The higher of three Non-Executive that all of the independence provisions contained in their relationship Directors and the maximum that may agreements have been complied with.
In line with this requirement, the be appointed under the UK Corporate Board has assessed Barrick and Acacias compliance with the Governance Code Relationship Agreements independence requirements as amended, and 25% up to 40% The higher of two Non-Executive has sought advice where appropriate from its professional advisers.
In Directors and one less than the this regard, responsibility for monitoring the Companys ongoing maximum number of Non-Executive compliance with relevant independence requirements in connection with Directors that may be appointed under the discussions between Barrick and the GoT has been delegated to the the UK Corporate Governance Code Independent Committee.
As such, the Board can confirm that Acacia has 15% up to 25% The higher of one Non-Executive complied with the independence requirements stated above since their Director and two less than the adoption and, so far as the Board is aware, Barrick and its associates maximum number of Non-Executive have also complied with these requirements.
In this regard, all members Directors that may be appointed under of the Board support the giving of this statement and no independent the UK Corporate Governance Code Non-Executive Director has raised any objections in this regard.
Dialogue with the investment community Kelvin Dushnisky, a Director nominated by Barrick, stepped down from Acacia has a designated investor relations team which acts as the the Board on 31 August 2018 following his resignation as President of primary point of contact with the investment community and is the Barrick Group.
As a result, the sole Director on the Board appointed responsible for maintaining Acacias ongoing relations with investors and by Barrick at the current time is Stephen Galbraith.
Acacia conducts regular investor meetings and telephone In addition to Director appointment rights, and subject to certain calls with the investment community to discuss results, and participates exceptions, as part of the terms of the Relationship Agreement, Barrick in mining conferences to meet with current and prospective investors.
In has undertaken that members of the Barrick Group will not carry on addition to its annual and half-year reports, Acacia publishes quarterly exploration for gold or silver in Africa, or acquire, whether through an asset reports to the market, which provide further information on production purchase or the purchase of securities, a gold or silver mining business in and financial results, and updates on its business and operations.
Africa without giving Acacia the opportunity to exercise certain rights of Acacias investor relations team also arranges operational site tours for first refusal for so long as Barrick holds 30% or more of the issued share members of the analyst community, as and when appropriate.
capital or voting rights of Acacia the Pre-emption Right.
Acacia has given AGM a reciprocal non-compete commitment to Barrick in this regard.
Acacias 2019 AGM will be held on 23 May 2019 at 13.00 BST.
The On 24 September 2018, Barrick and Randgold Resources Limited business of the meeting will be conducted in accordance with Companies Randgold announced that they intended to merge.
At the time, Randgold Act 2006 requirements and standards promoted by the UK Corporate had a portfolio of gold mines and exploration programmes in West and Governance Code.
The Chair of the Board and the Chairs of the Audit, Central Africa.
Accordingly, the transaction triggered the Pre-emption Compensation, EHS&S, Nomination & Governance and Independent Right in favour of Acacia under the Relationship Agreement.
After Committees will be available to answer questions put to them by consideration by the Independent Committee and consultation with its shareholders at the meeting.
The AGM Notice will, in accordance with advisers, Acacia concluded that it would not exercise its Pre-emption best practice, be sent to shareholders at least 20 business days prior to Right with respect to Randgold.
The merger between Barrick and the date of the meeting.
It will also be made available on the Company's Randgold became effective on 2 January 2019 and the merged entity is website.
Acacia has reserved its position regarding the exercise of the Pre-emption Right with respect to any future proposals by Barrick to acquire or to increase any African gold or silver mining or exploration rights, irrespective of scale, that Barrick might consider in the future and in respect of which Acacia's Pre-emption Right applies.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 77 Conflicts of interest In early 2019, Lintstock produced a report addressing the following areas Mr Galbraith is a nominee Director appointed by Barrick, and, during his of Board performance: tenure on the Board, Kelvin Dushnisky was also a nominee Director The appropriateness of the Boards composition and the attributes appointed by Barrick.
Mr Galbraith holds and Mr Dushnisky previously that ought to be prioritised in any new Non-Executive Director held a number of cross directorships with members of the Barrick Group appointments, including in light of the potential retirement from the which give rise to situations in which these Directors could have a direct Board of Michael Kenyon and Andre Falzon during 2019. or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with those of The Boards understanding of the operating and political environment Acacia.
In addition, as a result of their employment within the Barrick in the countries in which the Company is active.
Group, these individuals also hold interests under Barricks restricted The relationships between Board members and management, and stock unit plan and other employee incentive plans.
The Companies Act 2006 requires directors to avoid situations where The Boards oversight of the Companys strategy and its they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or may implementation.
possibly conflict, with company interests.
However, the Act does allow The Boards focus on risk and the effectiveness with which the Board directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential oversees culture and behaviours throughout Acacia.
conflicts of interest where a companys articles of association contain a The Boards oversight of succession plans for members of senior provision to that effect.
Acacias Articles of Association contain such management.
provision and a procedure for this.
In accordance with this procedure, the In addition, Directors were asked to provide their views as to the conflicts outlined above were declared and authorised by the Board.
The top strategic issues facing the company and those matters to monitoring and, if appropriate, authorisation of any actual or potential prioritise in 2019. conflict of interest is an ongoing process.
Directors are required to notify While the Board had continued to operate effectively throughout the Company of any material changes in positions or situations that have 2018, some opportunities for improvement and specific priorities were already been considered and any new situations.
identified of which the top priorities for 2019 were: i continuing to In addition, Directors are required to declare interests in potential or review all options available to achieve a resolution to ongoing challenges actual transactions and are required to abstain from voting on such and disputes affecting the operating environment in Tanzania: ii transactions, subject to permitted exceptions.
If a question arises as to continuing the appropriate management of the Companys relationship whether any interest of a Director prevents him or her from voting or with Barrick, particularly in the context of Barricks discussions with the being counted in a quorum in the context of a potential or actual GoT: iii continuing to attract and retain key employees: and iv Board transaction, the matter is referred to the Chair, whose findings are final succession planning.
In the context of questions relating to any such conflict of In the context of succession planning, in order to determine the overall the Chair, the question may ultimately be decided by a resolution of the requirements for composition of the Board, we conducted a Board skills other Directors.
The Board reviews conflicts of interest on a periodic assessment, based on the Companys strategic priorities.
This resulted basis and maintains a record of all declared conflicts.
in the production of a skills matrix which assessed the Board's skills Specifically as regards nominee Directors appointed by Barrick, the across six categories, being: Relationship Agreement provides that if any transaction or arrangement The Group's people arises directly between a member of the Barrick Group and a member The Group's relationships of the Acacia Group and does or could, in the opinion of a majority of Technical expertise relating to the Group's business Directors excluding any Director s appointed by Barrick, give rise to a Non-technical expertise relating to the Group's business conflict of interest between Acacia and any Director appointed by Barrick, Financial expertise relating to the Group's business any such matter must be approved and authorised at a duly convened Governance Executive experience.
Board meeting or in writing by a majority of Directors excluding any Director s appointed by Barrick prior to the Company taking further The analysis took into account the potential retirement from the Board action in relation to such matter.
Save for the matters set out on the during 2019 of Michael Kenyon and Andre Falzon.
The principal finding previous page, no other conflicts of interest were disclosed to the Board was that an additional appointment should be made to enhance the during the reporting period.
technical mining expertise available to the Board.
It was also recognised that an appointee with a strong financial background and audit Performance evaluation and succession committee experience should be identified to replace Andre Falzon as The Board believes that annual evaluations are helpful and provide a chair of the Audit Committee.
In addition, one of the criteria on which the valuable opportunity for continuous improvement.
selection of the successful candidate will be based is the extent to which In 2018, with the assistance of Lintstock, we developed tailored surveys the candidate will enhance the diversity of the Board.
As noted above, that reflected the Companys specific circumstances in 2018 and built the process for the selection of additional non-executive directors upon themes and outputs from the review conducted in 2017.
All Board remains ongoing and we will provide a further update prior to the AGM.
members were requested to complete online surveys addressing the performance of the Board and its Committees.
The anonymity of all respondents was ensured throughout the process in order to promote the open and frank exchange of views.
78 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 GOVERNANCE REPORT In addition, following the resignation of Kelvin Dushnisky from the Rachel English, who became Interim Chair on 1 September 2018, Board and the appointment of Rachel English as Interim Chair, work has remained as a member of the Audit Committee.
This reflects was undertaken by Lintstock to support the Board in assessing skills the need to maintain appropriate depth of expertise on the Audit required for any potential permanent appointees to the position as Chair.
Committee for the time being, as well as Rachel's appointment to As part of this process, each member of the Board was interviewed to the Chair being on an interim basis.
The composition of the Audit obtain their views on the skills and attributes that should be prioritised in Committee will be reassessed following conclusion of the current making this appointment, as well as their views on the top priorities for Board succession planning activities.
Provision C. 3.1 the Chair upon taking on the position, as well as any other The UK Corporate Governance Code requires that the Board provides recommendations for ensuring an effective appointment.
In terms of the a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of Acacias position attributes to be prioritised, proficiency in the following areas was and prospects in its external reporting.
Accordingly, the Directors were highlighted: i dealing with complexity and building consensus, responsible for the preparation and approval of this Annual Report and recognising the operational challenges currently faced by Acacia, and the consider the Annual Report and Accounts for 2018, taken as a whole, related geopolitical issues: ii negotiation and communication skills, in to be fair, balanced and understandable and believe that it provides the the context of the discussions with the GoT: and iii management of the information necessary for shareholders to assess Acacias position and Companys relationship with Barrick.
performance, business model and strategy.
Corporate governance compliance In addition to compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, For the year under review, as a UK company with a premium listing on the as part of commitments given in connection with Acacias secondary Main Market of the London Stock Exchange, Acacia is required to make listing on the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange, the Board has undertaken certain statements regarding the way it is governed, as required by the to comply with the Corporate Governance Guidelines issued by the 2016 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code, which is available at Tanzanian Capital Markets and Securities Authority to the extent that www.
Accordingly, this report explains how Acacia has applied these requirements are equivalent to applicable UK corporate the Main Principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code during 2018. governance standards.
In the case of any conflict between the two, Generally, Acacia seeks to comply with all relevant provisions of the UK the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code prevail.
Corporate Governance Code wherever possible and for the reporting year Acacias external auditors have reviewed those parts of this statement it is the Boards view that Acacia has complied with all such provisions, which they are required to review under the UK Listing Rules.
save for the following: Mr Dushnisky, who was Chair of the Board until 31 August 2018, was not independent on appointment as Chair and an external search consultancy was not used in connection with his appointment.
Given Mr Dushniskys experience within the mining sector, his skill set and his familiarity with the operating and geographical environment in which the Companys assets are located, the Board believed his appointment to be in the best interests of the Company irrespective of this Provisions A.
The Interim Chair of the Company, Rachel English, is independent.
Accordingly, from 1 October 2018, Acacia complied with this provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Company has not adopted a formal diversity policy.
As a Group we remain committed to diversity.
In particular, we are committed to increasing Tanzanian representation in senior positions within the Group.
However, given the current climate in Tanzania, and in particular following the arrest in October 2018 of a senior manager of Acacia's Tanzanian businesses who was a Tanzanian national, we are highly conscious of the increased risk to which senior managers in Tanzania are currently exposed.
Accordingly, the Board's view is that adoption of the policy should be deferred pending resolution of the issues with the GoT.
That will also enable the policy to be aligned with the Group's growth strategy following that resolution.
As a Company we will continue to base all recruitment on the premise that we strive to attract a broad mix of individuals from both the traditional and non-traditional mining labour markets in order to create a diverse workgroup and maintain a unique company culture.
2.4 In connection with our current process for identifying and appointing new non-executive directors as part of our sucession planning activities as discussed in more detail on page 70, one of the criteria on which the selection of the successful candidates will be based is the extent to which the candidate will enhance the diversity of the Board.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 79
