CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM In addition to Peter Geleta, Interim Chief Executive Officer, the Executive Leadership Team, includes: Jaco Maritz 43 Charlie Ritchie 49 Chief Financial Officer Head of Legal & Compliance Year appointed: 2018 Year appointed: 2017 Skills and experience Skills and experience Jaco Maritz was appointed as Chief Financial Officer on 1 January 2018.
Charlie Ritchie joined Acacia as Head of Legal & Compliance in January 2017.
Jaco has been with Acacia and its predecessor companies since 2001 in a Charlie came to Acacia after more than 20 years in corporate and private range of increasingly senior finance roles covering all aspects of the finance legal practice across Australia, the UK and the USA.
His legal career includes function.
He was initially employed by Placer Dome, which was acquired by 13 years at the Rio Tinto Group, including considerable experience in the Barrick in 2006, and was part of Acacia at its inception.
Jaco is a member of African mining sector.
the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Until the end of 2016, he served as Rio Tintos General Counsel Diamonds & Minerals and United States, based initially in London and then Salt Lake City.
Prior to this, he was Legal Counsel and Company Secretary for the ASX-listed Energy Resources of Australia Limited Rio Tinto: 68% between 2007 and 2010, and he first joined Rio Tinto in 2004 to manage significant disputes and litigation in the Australia-Pacific region.
Before joining Rio Tinto, Charlie worked at private law firms in London and Melbourne, specialising in international commercial litigation and dispute resolution.
Professionally qualified in both the United Kingdom and Australia, Charlie holds Bachelor of Laws Hons.
and Bachelor of Arts degrees from the University of Melbourne.
Hannes Henckel 68 Head of Discovery Year appointed: 2018 Skills and experience Hannes Henckel has been with Acacia and its predecessor companies since 2002 and prior to becoming Head of Discovery was involved in Africa wide target generation, project evaluation and exploration as Chief Geologist Discovery.
He has extensive experience in the field of exploration, covering various commodities.
After a short stint at the University of Munich he worked at the Chamber of Mines Research Organisation of South Africa doing research on Witwatersrand gold deposits.
He then joined Goldfields working on exploration projects in southern Africa.
He was seconded for several years to South America as Chief Geologist for Goldfields' Latin American Operations.
From 2002 he was part of Placer Domes Platinum Division which was acquired by Barrick in 2006.
Hannes holds an MSc and PhD in geology from Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich.
He is a fellow of the GSSA and SEG.
74 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
