CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS Our Directors have a broad range of relevant skills and experience to assist Acacia in achieving its strategic goals.
1 2 3 4 5 6 Michael Kenyon Peter Geleta Rachel English Stephen Galbraith Andr Falzon Steve Lucas 1 2 3 Michael Kenyon 69 Peter Geleta 55 Rachel English 55 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Interim Chief Executive Officer Interim Chair of the Board Year appointed: 2010 Year appointed: 2018 Year appointed: 2013 2018 Committee membership 2018 Committee membership 2018 Committee membership Compensation Committee EHS&S Committee Audit Committee Independent Committee Compensation Committee Nomination & Governance Committee EHS&S Committee Independent Committee Nomination & Governance Committee Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Mr Kenyon has more than 40 years of experience in the Mr Geleta was appointed as Acacias Interim Chief Ms English was appointed as the Interim Chair of the mining and mineral exploration industry and is a geologist Executive Officer on 1 January 2018, having previously Board on 1 September 2018 following the resignation by training.
He was previously Chairman of the Board of been Head of People.
Mr Geleta joined Acacia in May of Kelvin Dushnisky from the Board.
Directors of Detour Gold Corporation for nine years to 2012.
He has 36 years of mining industry experience Ms English has held a number of non-executive mid-2018 and then Interim CEO of Detour Gold in both operational and corporate leadership positions, positions over the past 10 years.
Previously, she held Corporation for the last six months of 2018.
He was also and has extensive experience on the African continent.
senior positions in BG Group and Royal Dutch Shell, with previously Chairman of the Board of Directors of Troon During his time with Acacia he has served as General responsibilities spanning finance, corporate strategy, Ventures Ltd, President and Chief Executive Officer at Manager of the Bulyanhulu mine and helped lead the mergers and acquisitions, and business development.
both Canico Resource Corp and Sutton Resources Ltd, successful restructuring of the business.
She began her career at  and and a Director of Cumberland Resources Ltd until their Prior to joining Acacia Mr Geleta held a number of roles subsequently worked for the World Bank Group and respective acquisition by third parties.
at Barrick, including Organisational Effectiveness Director European Bank for Reconstruction and Development Mr Kenyon holds an MSc degree in Economic Geology for Barrick Africa, Human Resources Director for the EBRD, where she was involved in policy development from the University of Alberta in Canada.
He was also the Australia Pacific Region and General Manager for Barricks and lending operations.
Currently, Ms English is a Director recipient of the 2005 Developer of the Year award from Cowal Gold Mine in New South Wales.
Before joining of Helios Social Enterprise, which she founded to develop the Prospector and Developers Association of Canada in Barrick, he worked for AngloGold Ashanti for 25 years, renewable energy access projects in rural sub-Saharan recognition of his mining development accomplishments.
where he held a number of roles including Head of Human Africa and the Private Infrastructure Development Group, Resources and Sustainability for AngloGold Ashantis a multi-lateral development and finance organisation Africa Operations and General Manager of the Navachab delivering infrastructure in Africa and Asia.
Mr Geleta holds an Executive MBA Ms English holds an MA Hons in Politics, Philosophy qualification from the University of Cape Town.
& Economics from Oxford University and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Board meetings attended Board meetings attended Board meetings attended 6 6 6 Independent Independent Independent Yes Not applicable Yes 72 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 GOVERNANCE REPORT Board skills Board independence Board diversity 1 1 1 2 5 4 4 Geology Independent Male Financial Non-independent Female African & regional affairs Peter Geleta 4 5 6 Stephen Galbraith 47 Andr Falzon 64 Steve Lucas 64 Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Year appointed: 2010 Year appointed: 2010 Year appointed: 2013 2018 Committee membership 2018 Committee membership 2018 Committee membership None Audit Committee Audit Committee EHS&S Committee Compensation Committee Independent Committee Independent Committee Nomination & Governance Committee Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Mr Galbraith has been employed by Barrick since Mr Falzon is a senior finance executive with more than Mr Lucas is a Chartered Accountant with long and August 2000 in treasury and finance functions, and is 30 years of international financial and management wide-ranging financial experience as an executive and currently Managing Director of Barrick International experience in the mining industry.
He brings extensive non-executive director in the energy and extractive Barbados Corporation.
Mr Galbraith previously held financial, compliance, and internal audit expertise along industries.
He was finance director at National Grid plc the role of Audit Manager for .
with a wealth of experience in business acquisitions, and from 2002 to 2010 and previously worked for 11 years corporate governance that was built over a more than at Shell and for six years at BG Group, latterly as group Mr Galbraith holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in 23-year career with Barrick Gold Corporation, one of the treasurer.
He is currently Non-Executive Chairman of Accountancy from Strathclyde University, is a member largest gold mining companies in the world.
During his Ferrexpo plc and a Non-Executive Director of Tullow Oil plc.
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland long career at Barrick Gold, Mr Falzon held increasingly and is a Chartered Financial Analyst Charterholder.
Mr Lucas holds a BA in Geology from Oxford University.
senior positions, including Vice President and Controller.
Mr Falzon is also a Director of Detour Gold Corporation and was previously a Director and Audit Committee chair of a number of publicly listed gold mining companies.
Mr Falzon was an active member of the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum CIM production cost reporting committee.
He has been an active participant in a number of important industry working groups: advisory panel member for extractive activities of the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, and member of the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC mineral reserves and mining industry working groups.
Mr Falzon is a Chartered Professional Accountant CPA, CA, and CGA Canada with a Bachelor of Commerce from the University of Toronto.
Board meetings attended Board meetings attended Board meetings attended 6 6 6 Independent Independent Independent No Yes Yes ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 73
