Corporate Governance Governance Report COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE During the year under review, the Group complied with all the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code other than the exception noted below that we reported in the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts and is applicable for the period between 1 January 2018 and 27 February 2018.
Provision C. 3.1 regarding having at least three independent non-executive directors serving on the Audit Committee Penny James, who served as an independent non-executive member of the Audit Committee, stepped down as a Nonexecutive director on 8 September 2017, following a change in her Executive role.
From this date up to the appointment of Andy Crossley as an independent non-executive member of the Board and Audit Committee on 27 February 2018, following regulatory approval, the Audit Committee only had two independent non-executive members and did not meet the Code requirements to have at least three independent non-executive members.
The Group fully complied with this requirement apart from this period from 8 September 2017 to 27 February 2018 and held four meetings during the period, three of which Andy Crossley attended in 2018.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule LEADERSHIP BOARD ACTIVITY DURING 2018 of matters reserved for the Boards The Role of the Board The Board met on seven occasions in 2018 consideration.
This is monitored by the The Board is the principal decisionwith all these meetings being held over Company Secretary and reviewed by making forum for the Group providing two days and one of the meetings being a the Board on an annual basis.
Specific entrepreneurial leadership, both directly separate strategy meeting held offsite.
matters reserved to the Board include the and through its Committees, and approval of: In addition to standing items considered delegating authority to the Executive at each Board meeting, such as updates team.
The Board is responsible for The Groups long-term objectives and on the Groups preparations for Brexit, organising and directing the affairs of corporate strategy: the main items considered by the Board the Group in a manner that is most likely Operating and capital budgets, during the year included: ongoing to promote its success for the benefit financial results, and any significant reviews of the Groups UK car insurance of its members as a whole.
The Board is changes to accounting practices or business, presentations from the Groups accountable to stakeholders for setting policies: overseas insurance and price comparison and achieving the Groups strategic The Groups capital structure: businesses, presentations from the objectives: for the creation and delivery Groups loans and household business, Results and financial reporting: of strong sustainable financial and updates on succession planning and the operational performance: for ensuring The system of internal control and review of governance arrangements.
that in carrying out its duties the Groups risk management: The Board also received updates on data legal and regulatory obligations are being The Groups overall risk appetite: and analytics, information security, met: and for ensuring that it operates Changes to the structure, size and diversity and understanding the views within appropriately established risk composition of the Board, including of customers.
new appointments: On the agenda for 2019 The Groups UK regulated entities are Succession plans for the Board and responsible to the Financial Conduct senior management: Further consideration of customer Authority FCA and the Prudential insight and customer journey: Dividend policy and proposals for Regulatory Authority PRA for dividend payments: Implementation of the ensuring compliance with the Groups recommendations of the external Major acquisitions, disposals, and other UK regulatory obligations and that governance review at Group and transactions outside delegated limits: dealings with the FCA and PRA are subsidiary level and requirements of handled in a constructive, co-operative The annual review of its own the new Corporate Governance Code: and transparent manner.
Similar performance and that of its Board provisions apply in respect of the Groups Focus on the next generation of Committees: international businesses with regard to talent across the Group to ensure Annual review of the Groups Board the relevant regulatory authorities in there is a diverse pipeline of talent policies: and those overseas jurisdictions in which the available for succession planning for The review of the Groups overall Group also operates.
senior roles: corporate governance arrangements.
66 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Ensure that the Groups technology and digital capabilities are In addition to her visits to the Groups UK operations, the Chairman appropriate as the Group looks to explore opportunities beyond has sought to visit each of the Groups overseas operations this year car insurance: and Non-Executive Directors are invited to join either her or the Chief Executive on one or more of their overseas visits each year.
The NonFocus on enhancing the Groups Cyber and Information Security Executive Directors and the Chairman met during the year without procedures: and the Executive Directors being present.
Non-Executive Directors also Continue to devote Board time to consideration of the views attended briefing sessions in Cardiff on different aspects of the of the Groups key stakeholders in implementing the Groups Groups UK business.
In order to increase their understanding of the strategy and ensure there is regular engagement through depth and breadth of management across the Group below Board appropriate channels.
level, the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman also attended a dinner with members of the Groups senior management team At each scheduled meeting the Board receives updates from the without the Executive Directors being present.
When management Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer as to the financial teams present to the Board on their operations they are also invited and operational performance of the Group and any specific to join the Board for dinner which gives the opportunity for informal developments in the areas of the business for which they are directly interaction between Directors and management.
responsible and of which the Board should be aware.
In addition, there is an update provided at each Board on the matters discussed MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE and considered at each of the Groups principal subsidiary Board Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Board and the meetings.
An annual schedule of agenda items is reviewed and Committees on which they serve and to devote sufficient time to updated at each meeting to ensure that items are considered at the the Group to perform their duties.
Where Directors are unable to appropriate point in the financial and regulatory cycle.
Meetings are attend meetings they receive papers for that meeting giving them structured so as to allow for consideration and debate of all matters.
the opportunity to raise any issues with the Chairman in advance The head of the Groups European insurance businesses and the CEO of the meeting.
The number of scheduled Board meetings and of UK Insurance respectively Milena Mondini fide Focatiis and Cristina Committee meetings, of which they are a member, attended by Nestares together with the Chief Risk Officer James Armstrong each Director during 2018 is provided in the table below.
In addition are invited to attend every Board meeting and regular Board dinners.
to the seven scheduled Board meetings held during the year, there This has proved an effective means of ensuring that senior managers was an additional Board meeting held in June 2018 that was called at below Board level have exposure to and gain experience of the short notice and was attended by all Board members.
Similarly, the operation of the Board.
nine Audit Committee meetings, set out in the table below, includes In addition to the regular consideration of financial and operating two additional Audit Committee meetings that were called at short performance and risk management and compliance, the Board notice and held in February and August 2018. received presentations on a variety of topics including updates from the management teams of each of the Groups businesses and regular reviews of Solvency II related activities such as progress of the Internal Model Application Process IMAP.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 67 Corporate Governance Governance Report continued MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE CONTINUED Nomination and Audit Group Risk Governance Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Committee 6 meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings Total meetings held 8 9 5 5 8 1 Annette Court Chair 8 5 5 4 4 2 David Stevens Chief Executive Officer 8 1 2 Geraint Jones Chief Financial Officer 8 Owen Clarke 8 9 5 8 Colin Holmes 8 9 5 Jean Park 8 5 8 3 Manning Rountree 8 4 5 Justine Roberts 8 8 4 Andrew Crossley 6 6 6 6 5 Michael Brierley 1 1 2 2 1.
Annette Court stepped down as a member of the Remuneration Committee when Owen Clarke became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 14 May 2018.
2 David Stevens was unable to attend the Group Risk Committee meeting on 16 January 2018 due to his attendance as Group CEO at an internal meeting that could not be rescheduled, David Stevens stepped down as a member of the Group Risk Committee with effect from 29 March 2018 but continues to attend periodically and did so for one of the three remaining meetings in 2018.
3 Manning Rountree was unable to attend the Group Risk Committee meeting on 15 November 2018 due to a pre-existing business commitment that unfortunately could not be rescheduled to accommodate this Group Risk Committee meeting.
4 Andy Crossley joined the Group Board and the Audit Committee on 27 February 2018.
5 Michael Brierley joined the Audit Committee and the Group Board on 5 October 2018.
6 Karen Green was appointed on 14 December 2018 and did not formally attend any meetings prior to this.
Agendas and papers are circulated to the Board electronically duties and obligations.
The appointment and removal of the in a timely and secure manner in preparation for Board and Company Secretary is one of the matters reserved for the Board.
The Board agenda is structured by the BOARD EFFECTIVENESS Chairman in consultation with the Company Secretary and This year the Board evaluation consisted of the Chairman, Chief Executive.
Routine Board papers are supplemented supported by the Company Secretary, compiling a by information specifically requested by the directors from comprehensive questionnaire that was circulated by the time to time.
All Board and Committee meetings during the Company Secretary for completion by all directors and year were held in an open atmosphere conducive to robust Board attendees.
The focus of the evaluation was on: and constructive challenge and debate.
All Directors have, the performance of the Board and its effectiveness in therefore, been able to bring independent judgement to bear managing Board time to ensure there was sufficient time on issues such as strategy, risk management, performance, to provide strategic and operational oversight of the Group and resources.
Additional meetings are called when required in the context of the various markets in which it operates: and there is contact between meetings, where necessary, to succession planning and consideration of the priorities for maintain continuity of the Groups business plan.
change as identified by Board members and attendees.
THE COMPANY SECRETARY The questionnaire considered: All the Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
He has responsibility for ensuring that Board composition and utilisation of the experience and Board procedures are followed and for advising the Board, expertise of board members: through the Chairman, on governance matters.
The Company The Boards understanding of the views and requirements Secretary provides updates to the Board on regulatory and of customers, employees, shareholders, and regulators: corporate governance issues, new legislation, and Directors 68 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Board dynamics and the interaction between the Chairman, considered and discussed with the Chairman the comments and Non-Executive Directors and management: feedback that had been received from the Directors as part of the Chairmans evaluation questionnaire and was able to confirm Time management of Board meetings: that the performance of the Chairman is effective and that she The effectiveness of the Board in considering the Groups risk demonstrates appropriate commitment to her role.
management framework and internal controls: THE ROLES OF THE CHAIRMAN, SENIOR INDEPENDENT The Boards strategic and operational oversight: DIRECTOR AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE Succession planning including the oversight of the Groups The Chairman is primarily responsible for leading the Board, setting processes for managing, developing and retaining talent: its agenda and monitoring its effectiveness.
She is supported by Management of Group subsidiaries: the Senior Independent Director, who acts as a sounding board Focus of Board meetings: and and serves as an intermediary for the other Directors.
Neither are Priorities for change that would improve Board performance.
involved in the day-to-day management of the Group.
The results of the review were discussed by the Board in January Save for the matters reserved for the Board, the Chief Executive 2019.
It was agreed that good progress had been made in Officer with the support of the Executive Directors and the Senior implementing the recommendations identified in the evaluation Executives is responsible for proposing the strategy to be adopted carried out in 2017, particularly around succession planning and by the Group, running the business in accordance with the strategy talent development and improvement in the content and quality of agreed by the Board and implementing Board decisions.
The Board has approved a statement that sets out the clear division Key recommendations identified in the review to enhance the of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive Boards effectiveness included: Officer.
This and matters reserved for decision by the Board are reviewed annually.
Having more regular sessions for the Board to consider and review customer insight and customer experience: The Chairman Ensuring that there was appropriate time on the Board agenda Runs the Board and sets its agenda, with an emphasis on to understand the views and requirements of key stakeholders, strategic issues.
including: major investors, employees and customers: Ensures the Board has effective decision-making processes and Focusing on the technological issues facing the company: applies sufficient challenge to proposals.
Continuing to ensure that Board papers are succinct and of the Ensures the Board has an appropriate balance of skills, appropriate length so that Board time is focused on effectively knowledge, experience and diversity.
challenging and debating the key issues for discussion and Leads the induction and development plans for new and existing approval: and Board members.
Continued oversight of the implementation of the Communicates with major shareholders and ensures the Board recommendations in the governance review and changes understands their views.
required under the new Code.
Ensures the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information.
Overall the review found that the Board continued to work Leads the annual Board evaluation.
effectively and that each Director demonstrates full commitment Senior Independent Director to his her duties and contributes in an open and transparent way, enabling a detailed level of debate and discussion around material Supports the Chairman in the delivery of their objectives.
Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for the other Directors.
The performance of the Chief Financial Officer is appraised annually by the Chief Executive Officer, to whom he reports.
The Available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be Chairman, taking into account the views of the other Directors, resolved through the normal channels.
reviews the performance of the Chief Executive.
The performance Works with the Chairman and other Directors shareholders to of the Chairman is reviewed by the Board led by the Senior resolve significant issues where necessary.
Following the latest review, the SID Leads the annual performance evaluation of the Chairman.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 69 Corporate Governance Governance Report continued The Chief Executive Officer Runs the Groups business and delivers its commercial objectives.
Proposes and develops the Groups strategy, in close consultation with the Chairman and the Board.
Implements the decisions of the Board and its Committees.
Ensures operational policies and practices drive appropriate behaviour, in line with the Groups culture.
Leads the communication programme with shareholders and other key stakeholders, including staff.
Ensures management provides the Board with appropriate information and necessary resources.
BOARD BALANCE AND INDEPENDENCE In the context of recent and forthcoming Board changes, careful consideration continues to be given to the composition and balance of the Board.
As a result, the Group continues to monitor the need to refresh Board and Committee membership in an orderly manner so as to maintain the continuity of Board process and the strength of personal interaction which underlies the effectiveness of the Board as a team.
Following recent appointments, the Board remains satisfied that it has the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Group to enable it and its Committees to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively, as required by the Code.
In addition, the Directors are aware of their legal duties to act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the success of the Company for its shareholders, as well as considering the interests of other stakeholders.
The table below details the length of service of the Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors and illustrates the balance of experience and fresh perspectives.
Current length of service as a Non-Executive Director at Director Date of appointment 31 December 2018 Annette Court 21 March 2012 6 years 9 months Jean Park 17 January 2014 4 years 11 months Manning Rountree 16 June 2015 3 year 6 months Owen Clarke 19 August 2015 3 year 4 months Justine Roberts 17 June 2016 2 year 6 months Andy Crossley 27 February 2018 10 months Mike Brierley 5 October 2018 3 months Karen Green 14 December 2018 - The Board currently comprises ten Directors, the Chairman who was independent on appointment, two Executive Directors, and seven independent Non-Executive Directors.
As can be seen from the Directors biographies on pages 64 to 65, the Directors have a broad range of skills and experience and can bring independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance, risk management, resources and standards of conduct which are integral to the success of the Group.
70 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Appointments to the Board are the responsibility of the Board Colin Holmes was the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director as a whole, acting on the advice and recommendations of the SID for the year under review.
Owen Clarke was appointed as SID, Nomination and Governance Committee.
The Nomination and subject to regulatory approval, when Colin Holmes stepped down Governance Committee seeks to balance the retirement and as a Non-Executive Director of the Board with effect from 31 recruitment of Non-Executive Directors ahead of their replacement December 2018.
The Board is satisfied that Owen has the requisite so as to avoid dislocation of Board process by losing experience knowledge and experience gained through his Board position, his and skills.
Appointments are made on merit and against objective Chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee, his membership criteria, having due regard to the benefits of diversity, including of the Audit and Nomination and Governance Committees.
In gender, with a view to ensuring the Board has the appropriate addition, Owen has financial services experience, gained through mix of personality, skills, and experience.
During the year under his appointment as Chief Investment Officer of Equistone Partners review, following a formal, rigorous and transparent process led Europe.
Owen is available to shareholders if they have concerns by the Nomination and Governance Committee and supported by that contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief external search consultants, the Board was pleased to appoint as Executive, or Chief Financial Officer have failed to resolve or for independent Non-Executive Directors: Andy Crossley with effect which such contact is inappropriate.
As Chair of the Remuneration from 27 February 2018: Mike Brierley with effect from 5 October Committee, Owen is also available to discuss remuneration matters 2018 and Karen Green with effect from 14 December 2018 both with shareholders.
He is also responsible for leading the Boards having attended relevant meetings as guests during the year.
discussion on the Chairmans performance and the appointment of All of them will be subject to election by shareholders at the a new Chairman, as and when appropriate.
forthcoming AGM in accordance with the Groups Articles.
At the Groups AGM on 26 April 2018, new Articles of Association were approved by shareholders which provide that all directors Manning Rountree is the Chief Executive Officer for White will retire and offer themselves for re-election at each AGM, in Mountains Insurance Group Limited White Mountains and acts as accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Board Observer for White Mountains on the Board of the Groups Companys current practice.
Therefore, all Directors will be US price comparison subsidiary, in which White Mountains has submitting themselves for re-election by shareholders at the a minority shareholding.
Given the relatively small size of White forthcoming AGM.
The Board is satisfied that all are properly Mountains shareholding in an overseas Group subsidiary company, qualified for their reappointment by virtue of their skills and the Board has determined that Manning Rountree remains experience and their contribution to the Board and its Committees.
independent in character and judgement and that his attendance at Inspop USA LLC Board meetings does not affect his ability to The Directors are given access to independent professional advice present an objective, rigorous and constructive challenge to the at the Groups expense, should they deem it necessary to carry out assumptions and viewpoints presented by Management and the their responsibilities.
A process for managing any potential conflicts has been agreed by the Board such that Manning Rountree will recuse PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT himself from any Group Board discussions where a potential conflict On appointment, Directors take part in a comprehensive of interest with his role with White Mountains has been identified.
induction programme whereby they receive financial and operational information about the Group: details concerning their The Board, having given thorough consideration to the matter, responsibilities and duties: as well as an introduction to the Groups considers the seven Non-Executive Directors to be independent governance, regulatory and control environment.
and is not aware of any relationships or circumstances, other than the above, which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, This induction is supplemented by visits to the Groups head the judgement of any of them.
It is the view of the Board that the office in Cardiff and certain overseas offices, and meetings with independent Non-Executive Directors have sufficient time available members of the senior management team and their departments.
to perform their duties and are of sufficient calibre and number that Development and training of Directors is an ongoing process.
their views carry significant weight in the Boards decision making.
Throughout their period in office the Directors are regularly updated on the Groups business: legal matters concerning their Independent Non-Executive Directors are currently appointed for role and duties: the competitive environments in which the Group fixed periods of three years, subject to election by shareholders.
The operates: and any other significant changes affecting the Group initial three-year period may be extended for two further threeand the industry of which it is a part.
year periods subject to re-election by shareholders.
Their letters of appointment may be inspected at the Companys registered office The Board receives presentations from senior managers within or can be obtained on request from the Company Secretary.
the Group on a regular basis and Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to make informal visits to different parts of the Group to meet with local management.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 71 Corporate Governance Governance Report continued All shareholders are invited to attend the Companys ENGAGEMENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS Annual General Meeting AGM.
The Chairs of the Audit, The Company attaches considerable importance to Remuneration, Nomination and Governance and Group Risk communications with shareholders and engages with them Committees attend the AGM along with the other Directors regularly.
Open and frequent dialogue with investors enables and are available to answer shareholders questions on the them to understand fully the Groups strategy, objectives activities of the Committees they chair.
The Investor Relations team has day-toalso invited to ask questions during the meeting and have an day primary responsibility for managing communications opportunity to meet with Directors after the formal business with institutional shareholders through a combination of of the meeting has been concluded.
Details of proxy voting by briefings to analysts and institutional shareholders, both at shareholders, including votes withheld, are made available on the half-year and full-year results.
A number of analysts and request and are placed on the Companys website following investors visited the Groups Cardiff office during the year to the meeting.
meet with the Executive Directors and senior management in order to get a better understanding of how the Group The Group maintains a corporate website www.
operates and how it intends to achieve its strategic and co. uk containing a wide range of information of interest to operational objectives.
Senior executives from the Groups institutional and private investors.
The major shareholders of overseas businesses also visit the UK in order to present the Company are listed on page 110. to, and meet with, analysts and investors.
Site visits and individual discussions with the Executive Directors are also ENGAGEMENT WITH OTHER STAKEHOLDERS arranged throughout the year with individual shareholders.
The regular channels of communication with both the FCA In September 2018, the Group held an EU Investor Day at its and PRA that existed throughout the year were supplemented offices in Rome which was attended by almost 40 analysts and by the FCA and PRA being invited to attend Board meetings investors.
The purpose of the event was to provide addition in 2018.
The FCA attended the Board in January 2018 and the information on the Groups strategic objectives of the PRA the Board in August 2018.
Both sessions were valuable European insurance businesses.
The event was a success with in giving the Board an opportunity to hear directly the views positive feedback received from investors that attended.
of both regulators and to understand, and challenge them on, the rationale for their decisions to the extent that they In addition, the Chairman had individual meetings during the impact the Group.
year with major shareholders and reported to the Board on issues raised with her.
Understanding the views of customers also remained a key area of focus for the Board.
A specific session at the Board in This is supplemented by feedback to the Board on meetings April 2018 considered feedback from customers on the Admiral between Management and investors.
In addition, the Investor brand, the customer journey experience and how this could be Relations team presented an update to the Board in June developed to enhance the experience for the customer.
2018 which considered the Groups share price performance in the context of the market in which the Group operates, Mindful of the changes required under the new Code for including regulatory changes, and provided further analysis increased engagement with the workforce, the Group has on particular areas where communication to investors relaunched its existing Staff Forum which will be called the could perhaps be enhanced.
The Investor Relations team Employee Consultation Group ECG.
The ECG will consist of also regularly produces an Investor Relations Report that elected representatives from across the Group.
The Chair is is circulated to the Board for their consideration which an employee and a staff representative and will attend two provides an update on Investor Relations activity in the Group Board meetings per year.
Non-Executive Directors will previous quarter.
The Report contains an analysis of share also be invited to attend each ECG meeting.
The purpose of the price performance: a summary of analyst reports received ECG will be as a forum for staff consultation, gathering staff during the month and of meetings that have been held opinion and fostering a safe environment in which to generate with investors and analysts: together with details of any and explore ideas.
It is intended that the ECG will be an informal significant changes to the shareholders register.
channel that will enable staff to share ideas and concerns with senior management and the Board on a regular basis.
The Senior Independent Director has specific responsibility to be available to investors who have any issues or concerns, and in cases where contact with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer has either failed to resolve their concerns, or where such contact is inappropriate.
No such concerns have been raised in the year under review.
72 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information CONFLICTS OF INTEREST BOARD COMMITTEES In compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 The Board has delegated authority to a number of permanent regarding Directors duties in relation to conflicts of interest, the Committees to deal with matters in accordance with written Groups Articles of Association allow the Board to authorise potential Terms of Reference.
The principal Committees of the Board - Audit, conflicts of interest that may arise and to impose such limits as Remuneration, Group Risk and Nomination and Governance.
The Company has put in place a Conflicts of Interest to the exception listed above, on page 66, all comply fully with the Policy to deal with conflicts of interest and this was reviewed and requirements of the Code.
approved by the Board in June 2018.
The Policy sets out the process All Committees are chaired by an independent Non-Executive and procedure by which the Board manages potential conflicts of Director, except the Nomination and Governance Committee which interest that may arise at Board level and within Board Committees, is chaired by the Chairman of the Board and comprise a majority and within the Groups Subsidiary Boards.
Following this review, the of independent Non-Executive Directors.
Appointments to the Board concluded that the process continued to operate effectively.
Committees are made on the recommendation of the Nomination In addition, each Board member is asked to complete, annually, a and Governance Committee and are for a period of up to three years, conflicts of interest questionnaire that sets out any situation in which may be extended for two further three year periods, provided which they, or their connected persons have, or could have, a direct the Director remains independent.
The Committees are constituted or indirect interest that could conflict with the interests of the with written Terms of Reference that are reviewed annually to Company.
Any current directorships that they, or their connected ensure that they remain appropriate and reflect any changes in good persons hold, any advisory roles or trusteeships held, together with practice and governance.
These Terms of Reference are available any companies in which they hold more than 1% of the issued share on request from the Company Secretary and can also be found on capital are also disclosed.
Directors are fully informed of all Committee matters by the Committee Chairmen reporting on the proceedings of their Committee at the subsequent Board meeting.
Copies of Committee minutes are also distributed to the Board.
Committees are authorised to obtain outside legal or other independent professional advice if they consider it necessary.
The Chairman of each Committee attends the Annual General Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised on the Committees activities.
An evaluation of the performance of each Committee against the duties set out in each terms of reference is carried out annually.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 73
