Corporate Governance The Group Risk Committee Statement from Jean Park, Chair of the Group Risk Committee The Committee oversaw the successful implementation of the Group conduct risk framework with positive results.
DEAR SHAREHOLDER, Partial Internal Model.
The Committee monitored by the Committee, with continues to engage with the relevant a focus on the strategic options to During the year the Committee regulators as a key demonstration of fund the growing business in 2018 reviewed the Boards risk strategy the Groups ongoing use of the model and beyond.
and risk appetite across the Group.
and in preparation for the formal IMAP This included updates on the UK and The Committee oversaw the successful application.
international businesses as a key implementation of the Group conduct part of the Groups Enterprise Risk The Group continues to maintain a risk framework with positive results.
A regulatory capital add-on to cover The ongoing focus on monitoring and further refresh to the suite of Key Risk risks not captured within the standard reporting customer outcome risks Indicators with associated triggers and formula.
The Group also continues has included enhanced reporting to limits was completed.
These updates to make use of Undertaking Specific demonstrate compliance against have improved the effectiveness of the Parameters USPs and the Volatility the Group minimum standards.
This Committee by placing greater focus on Adjustment VA across its entities, builds on the levels of compliance the main risks affecting the business.
The Committee has resources and monitoring that all Group also reviewed the Groups proposed firms must apply to their respective The Group implemented the enhanced dividend level, capital plan and capital regulatory obligations.
project governance framework, buffer in line with the capital policy.
enabling the Committee to focus on I look forward to continuing the good The review considered a number the projects which are material to the work this year.
of scenarios including the ongoing Group.
The Committee oversaw the key uncertainty associated with the developments to major projects, with Ogden rate.
regular updates provided throughout the year.
Several reviews were actioned Jean Park The Committee challenged and as requested by the Committee.
In Chair of the reviewed the setting of and outputs particular, the Group IT strategy and Group Risk from the regular stress and scenario IT security programmes have been Committee testing and reverse stress testing.
The regularly reviewed and challenged 6 March output was incorporated into the Own throughout 2018, as well as the work 2019 Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA to ensure the Group was compliant report for 2018, which the Committee for the GDPR go-live date in May.
The also reviewed and recommended to the Committee also devoted time to the Board for approval.
work on Brexit which resulted in the successful establishment of two new The Committee continues to focus on legal entities, ensuring the European key operational risks that affect the business continues to be written within Group.
The governance of the risk event the Group.
process has been enhanced, providing greater assurance to the Committee A significant amount of time has regarding the management of major risk continued to be dedicated to events.
The Committee has continued developing the Groups Partial Internal to spend time reviewing any major risk Model for quantifying the Groups risk events reported during the year as per exposure.
Having approved a change the Group Risk Management Policy.
to the model scope in late 2017, much of 2018 focussed on reviewing and The development and growth of challenging the new components of the the Loans business continues to be 80 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Recieved an additional, out of Summary of Key Activities in 2018 cuycle, short ORSA report as part of a review into the risks associated with Loans business Reviewed the Groups updated risk strategy, risk appetite and associated triggers and limits in the Received regular monitoring reports context of the Groups agreed on customer outcome risk and strategic objectives complaint handling and reviewed D updates to the Group Minimum U R Standards and Policy Framework I N G Reviewed the Groups proposed dividend level, capital plan and capital Reviewed the Groups regulatory T buffer in line with the capital policy capital add-on application as part of H Solvency II capital requirements E Y E Reviewed the updated USP application Through stress and scenario testing A submitted to the Gibraltar regulator and reverse stress testing, considered R in-depth analysis of a number of the Groups most significant risk areas, T including the potential risks arising H E from Brexit Considered the adequacy of risk mitigation measures and contingency C plans including a review of the Groups O reinsurance provisions Recommend to the Board approval M of the 2018 ORSA Report prior to M submission to the regulator and I approved the ORSA policy T T Received regular risk monitoring E reports on performance of Key Risk E Indicators within the overall risk Received updates on the impact management framework of a number of notifiable risk events throughout 2018 Received regular updates in relation to Received regular updates in relation to key programmes of work including IT ongoing and potential legal and Strategy, IT Security, GDPR and Brexit regulatory changes, including the Civil as part of the Groups enhanced project Liability Bill and the potential change governance framework to the Ogden discount rate Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 81 Corporate Governance The Group Risk Committee continued COMPOSITION OF THE Reviewing compliance with Group Committees receive regular information GROUP RISK COMMITTEE policies: on Conduct Risk, such as complaint handling reports and other related Membership at the end of the year Considering and recommending to management information.
The Group was: Annette Court, Jean Park Chair the Board for approval the Groups Risk Management function reviews and and Manning Rountree.
The Company risk appetite, including any changes collates information from across the Secretary acts as Secretary to the to the appetite for each material type group for consideration by the GRC.
of risk faced by the Group: Approving the annual plans for the INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK The Committee met 5 times during Group Risk and Compliance functions MANAGEMENT STATEMENT the year.
which include reviewing regulatory The Board is ultimately responsible for developments and regular meetings DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF the Groups system of risk management with the PRA and FCA: THE GROUP RISK COMMITTEE and internal control and, through the Review the ORSA report each year with The duties and responsibilities of the Audit Committee, has reviewed the recommendations being provided to Committee are set out in Terms of effectiveness of this system.
the Group Board for approval: Reference that were reviewed during The system of risk management the year and approved by the Board in Review and approve the Solvency and internal control over insurance, September 2018.
II Actuarial Function Reports on operational, market, credit and group Reinsurance and Underwriting The responsibilities of the Committee risks is designed to manage rather than each year: and can be summarised as: eliminate the risk of failure to achieve Review and approve the business objectives and breaches of Oversee the development, Remuneration report from the CRO risk appetites and can only provide implementation and maintenance to the Remuneration Committee.
reasonable and not absolute assurance of the Groups overall Risk against material misstatement or loss.
The Committee Chairperson reports Management Framework and ensure formally to the Board on its proceedings that it is in line with emerging The Board is of the view that there is after each meeting on all matters within regulatory, corporate governance and an ongoing process for identifying, its duties and responsibilities, as set best practice guidelines: evaluating and managing the Groups out in previously circulated minutes to risks and internal controls: that it has Monitoring the Groups prudential risk the Board.
The Committee Chairperson been in place for the year ended 31 exposure, which includes ensuring also reports on the activities of the December 2018: and that, up to the that the Groups capital resources Committee in a formal written report date of approval of the Annual Report and liquidity profile are appropriate that is submitted to and discussed by and Accounts, it is regularly reviewed by to its needs whilst meeting minimum the Board annually.
the Board and accords with the internal regulatory requirements, including control guidance for Directors provided overseeing and challenging the The work of the Committee is supported in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
design and execution of the Groups by more detailed work undertaken stress and scenario testing: by executive Risk Management The Board confirms that it has Committees in each of the Groups Monitoring the Groups current and performed a robust assessment of the operational entities.
At each meeting, future conduct risk exposure: Groups principal risks.
These risks, along the Risk Management Committees with explanations of how they are being Ensuring the adequacy and consider significant movements in the managed and mitigated, are included in effectiveness of the Groups data operations risk profile, any risks that the strategic report on page 52. protection systems and controls: have arisen and any emerging risks.
Monitoring the adequacy and The Board is responsible for determining Risk Management Committees also effectiveness of the Groups the nature and extent of the principal assess and monitor any regulatory Compliance functions: risks it is willing to take in achieving issues, ensuring that their resolution Reviewing the Groups compliance its strategic objectives.
The Board and the action taken are appropriately with Solvency II: meets at least seven times a year to recorded.
The Risk Management 82 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information discuss the direction of the company The second line of defence describes Internal Audit function that reports and provide oversight of the Groups the Committees and functions that are to that Committee.
Internal Audit risk management and internal control in place to provide an oversight of the undertakes a programme of risk-based systems.
The role and responsibilities effective operation of the internal control audits covering all aspects of both the of the Board are documented within framework.
The Group Risk Department first and second lines of defence.
The their Terms of Reference and these are and the Compliance functions are part of findings from these audits are reported reviewed annually.
the second line of defence.
to all three lines, i. e. Management, the executive and oversight Committees, A key element of the control system is The Group Risk Department defines and and the Audit Committee.
that the Board meets regularly with a prescribes the insurance, operational, formal schedule of matters reserved market, credit and group risk The subsidiary boards, Group Risk to it for decision and has put in place assessment processes for the business.
Committee, UK Risk Management an organisational structure with clearly It performs second line reviews, Committee and other UK and overseas defined lines of responsibility including including of the capital modelling Risk Committees receive reports setting those matters reserved for its and business planning processes, and out key performance and risk indicators subsidiary boards.
undertakes regular reviews of all risks in and consider possible control issues conjunction with Management, with the brought to their attention by early As described above, in order to ensure results of these reviews recorded in risk warning mechanisms that are these responsibilities are properly registers collated centrally on the Group embedded within the operational units.
discharged, the Board has delegated risk management system.
Furthermore, They, together with the Audit to the Audit Committee to keep under Group Risk records any actual losses or Committee, also receive regular reports review the adequacy and effectiveness near misses that occur as a consequence from the Internal Audit function, which of the Companys internal financial of the crystallisation of risk and analyses include recommendations for controls, internal control and risk the sufficiency of the action taken to improvement of the control and management systems.
The Chair of the Group Risk Committee provides a The Board has delegated the The Chief Risk Officer has responsibility comprehensive written report to the development, implementation and for ensuring that managers are aware Board of the activities carried out by the maintenance of the Groups overall of their risk management obligations, Committee on an annual basis.
In risk management framework to the providing them with support and advice, addition, the Board receives reports Group Risk Committee GRC.
The GRC and ensuring that risk management from the Chair of the Audit Committee reports on its activities to the Board strategies are properly communicated.
as to its activities, together with copies and the Audit Committee, supporting Reports are produced showing the of the minutes from the subsidiary the overall assurance provided by the most significant risks identified and the board meetings and the GRC and Audit Committee that the Groups controls in place.
Internal Audit uses the Audit Committee.
internal control, risk management risk registers to plan and inform their and compliance systems continue to programme of audits around the most The Audit Committees ability to operate effectively.
significant risks to the Group to ensure provide the appropriate assurance to that the prescribed controls are in place the Board depends on the provision of The Group has a three lines of defence and are operating effectively.
periodic and independent confirmation, approach to Internal Control, including primarily by Internal Audit, that the those controls that relate to the financial The Group Compliance function provide controls established by Management reporting process.
The Board recognises oversight and review of the first line of are operating effectively and where that the day-today responsibility for defences compliance with designated necessary provides a high-level implementing policies lies with the senior control activities, providing regular challenge to the steps being taken management, the first line of defence, reports to the Group Risk Committee.
by the GRC to implement the risk whose operational decisions must take management strategy.
into account risk and how this can be The third line of defence describes controlled effectively.
the independent assurance provided by the Audit Committee and the Group Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 83 Corporate Governance The Group Risk Committee continued VIABILITY Quantitative and qualitative assessments The threat of Brexit to the viability of of risks are performed as part of the ORSA the insurance and price comparison In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the process.
The quantitative assessment in businesses in Europe has been mitigated 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, the line with the Groups capital and solvency through the restructuring of those Directors have assessed the prospect of projections considers how the regulatory businesses and the establishment of new the Company over a longer period than capital requirements, economic capital insurance and intermediary companies the 12 months required by the Going needs, own funds and the solvency in Spain.
Portfolio transfers have been Concern provision.
The Board reviews five position of the Company is projected implemented to ensure ongoing services year financial projections twice each year to change over the three year time for existing and future customers in and approves a one year financial budget horizon.
It also includes a series of stress Europe.
In the UK, preparations are well for the forthcoming twelve months.
They tests which assess the Groups principal advanced for the provision of Green Cards conducted this review for a period of risks and uncertainties, identifying and to customers for travel in Europe, supply three years to July 2021.
An Own Risk and quantifying the operational, financial chain changes and communications Solvency Assessment ORSA process and solvency impacts of these stresses to customers.
We remain reliant is undertaken annually, which sets out a alongside potential mitigating factors on the regulatory assurances given detailed consideration of the main risks and management actions.
Reverse stress regarding the timely conclusion of facing the Group over a three-year time tests are also considered as part of the Brexit negotiations and associated UK horizon and also considers current and ORSA process to assess the potential risks law changes by government in order to projected levels of solvency and liquidity to Admirals viability.
continue business in the UK and Gibraltar, over the period.
The ORSA is the main without the need to implement planned source of evidence used by the Board The results of the stress tests form mitigating actions.
to assess viability, given the additional part of the process to set the Groups uncertainty inherent in projecting capital risk appetite, which ensures that Based on the results of this analysis, the beyond a three year period, and as such a buffer on top of the Groups regulatory Directors have a reasonable expectation the assessment of viability has been capital requirement is held to protect that the Company will be able to continue performed over a three year period.
its capital position against shocks and in operation and meet its liabilities as stresses.
As part of the ORSA process, key they fall due over this three year period.
The principal risks and uncertainties strategic decisions including the setting faced by the Group are set out on pages of dividend payments considers the 52 to 57 and note 7h to the financial solvency impact against the capital risk statements sets out the Groups appetite.
Refer to the Strategic report objectives, policies and procedures for for information on sensitivities to the managing financial assets and liabilities.
84 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
