Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Nomination and Governance Committee Statement from Annette Court, Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee Implementation of the recommendations contained in the external review of the Groups governance arrangements remained a key area of focus for the Committee during the year.
Dear Shareholder, appointment of both Mike and Karen further enhances the range of skills, breadth The Committee received regular updates of experience and diversity around the from management on the implementation Board table.
The Committee will keep under of the recommendations and considered review whether it is appropriate in the next and approved, in November 2018, the 12 to 24 months to begin the search for closure of the internal project that had been another Director with digital expertise.
formed to implement the actions that had come out of the external review and which Following the issue of the revised were designed to strengthen the Groups Corporate Governance Code in July 2018, existing governance arrangements.
This the Committee spent time considering will be followed up by a review of how this is the enhanced reporting requirements that operating in practice in 2019. will be applicable for the Committee next year, when reporting on the Committees In keeping with its remit to review regularly activities in 2019, particularly as regards the composition and experience of the the Groups policy on diversity and inclusion, Board, succession planning at Group and gender balance of the Groups senior subsidiary level occupied most of the management and their direct reports and Committees time during the year.
Following the approach to succession planning.
a robust and transparent recruitment process led by the Committee, Mike Brierley In line with the requirements of Solvency II, joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director the Senior Insurance Manager Regime, and and member of Audit Committee in October in accordance with the Groups Fit and 2018.
Mike was also appointed Chairman Proper Policy, I also carried out the process of the Groups subsidiary, Admiral Financial of assessment for every person who Services Limited AFSL, which is the performs a key function to ensure company through which the Groups loans they meet the requirements in terms business is written.
of qualifications, capability, honesty and integrity.
With Colin Holmes stepping down from the Board and as Audit Committee Chair in December 2018, the process of recruiting a replacement began earlier in the year.
The Committee carried out an assessment of the requirements for the role and initiated Annette Court a comprehensive recruitment process Chairman of the Nomination and to identify the person with the requisite Governance Committee skill set and experience to fulfil the role.
6 March 2019 Following completion of this process, Karen Green was appointed as Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committee with effect from December 2018.
The Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 85 Corporate Governance The Nomination and Governance Committee continued recruitment consultants, Russell Each Committee member met MEMBERSHIP Reynolds Associates RRA, to lead the separately with Mike and Karen The membership of the Committee recruitment process for Karen and Mike.
and agreed that they would bring at the year-end was Annette Court RRA has no connection to the Group.
invaluable experience to the Board.
Chair, Owen Clarke and Justine The Board approved the Committees Roberts, who was appointed following Following this process, the Committee recommendations and following Colin Holmes stepping down from the identified Mike Brierley as best placed regulatory approval Mike was formally Committee in December 2018.
The to fill the role of Non-Executive Director appointed to the Board with effect from Company Secretary acts as Secretary and Chairman of AFSL and Karen Green 5 October 2018 and Karen with effect to the Committee.
The Committee as Non-Executive Director and Audit from 14 December 2018. invites the Chief Executive and or Committee Chair.
the Chief Financial Officer to attend SUCCESSION PLANNING AND meetings when it deems appropriate.
Mike Brierley has 35 years experience in TALENT MANAGEMENT The Committee met formally on five Chief Financial Officer CFO roles within Talent management continues to be a occasions in 2018.
In addition, members the financial services industry.
Most key area of focus and the Board, at its of the Committee corresponded and recently Mike was CFO of Metro Bank meeting in June 2018, considered talent met informally on a number of occasions plc between 2009 and 2018, helping management within the Group and to consider and meet with individuals lead the business from start-up to a identified where there were individuals that the Committee had identified as profitable FTSE 250 bank.
He has been who, with further experience and possible candidates to join the Board.
a director of Barclaycard responsible guidance, might be capable of moving for business risk and, between 1999 into particular senior management BOARD COMPOSITION AND and 2006, held a variety of roles with roles.
There have also been several CHANGES Capital One Bank Europe plc including  sessions The Committee leads the process for CFO Europe, CFO UK and Managing Vice during which the Groups internal making appointments to the Board or President and Chief Enterprise Risk talent management capabilities have where the appointee is likely to become Officer Europe.
Mike is a Fellow of The been discussed and considered.
The Committee Institute of Chartered Accountants in Committee remains satisfied that ensures there is a formal, rigorous England and Wales FCA.
succession plans for Directors and and transparent process for the senior management are in place to Karen Green has substantial financial appointment of new Directors to the ensure the continued ability of the services experience including Board embracing a full evaluation of Group to implement strategy and investment banking, private equity and the skills, knowledge and experience compete effectively in the markets in insurance, most recently as the Chief required of Directors.
The Committee which it operates.
Executive of Aspen UK, which comprised also ensures plans are in place for the UK insurance and reinsurance orderly succession for appointments to GENDER AND DIVERSITY companies of Aspen Insurance Holdings the Board and reviews the succession Given women constitute 40% of our plc for over 6 years.
She also held a number plans for other senior management Board, the Group has already exceeded of other senior positions at Aspen positions.
Responsibility for making the target set by both Lord Davies including Group Head of Strategy, senior management appointments rests in his report: Women on Boards, and Corporate Development and Office of with the Chief Executive.
the Hampton Alexander Review that the Group CEO.
Prior to that, she held builds on the Davies Review, which Following the appointment of Andy various senior corporate finance, M&A encourages FTSE 350 companies to Crossley in February 2018 and in line and private equity roles at GE Capital achieve at least 33% women on Boards with the Groups policy of recruiting Europe and then MMC Capital now by 2020.
The Group is close 29% to well ahead of impending retirements to Stonepoint Capital having started meeting the Hampton Alexander Review maintain consistency of Board dynamics, her career as an investment banker at target of 33% womens representation the Committee developed appropriate Baring Brothers and then Schroders.
She across Executive Committees below specifications for two new Nonis currently a Non-Executive Director of Board level and direct reports to Executive Director roles and identified Phoenix Holdings Group plc, the Council those Committees, as shown by the the required skills and experience of Lloyds of London and Deputy Chair gender diversity table on page 108. required.
The Board initiated a search and Acting Chair of Aspen Managing In June 2018 the Board reviewed the for two new Non-Executive Directors Agency Ltd. requirements of the Parker Reviews in 2018.
The firm engaged external 86 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information final report on ethnic diversity.
The Board In addition, in 2018 the Group signed up The Group remains committed to considered the composition of its Group to the Women in Finance Charter which providing equal opportunities, eliminating and subsidiary Boards, the initiatives that is a government initiative to see gender discrimination, and encouraging diversity are being implemented to increase diversity balance at all levels across financial services amongst its workforce both in the UK and and discussed how measures to develop a firms and encourages participating firms overseas.
A breakdown of the gender of diverse pipeline of talent as regards Board to support the progression of women into Directors and senior employees at the end appointments could be developed and senior roles in the sector by focusing on the of the financial year together with details of monitored.
However, the Group remains executive pipeline and the mid-tier level of the Groups Equality, Diversity and Dignity strongly supportive of the principle of management.
The Group is committed to at Work Policy are set out in the Directors boardroom diversity, of which gender and meeting the target of 40% women in the Report on page 108. ethnicity are important, but not the only, Senior Executive team by December 2023.
The Groups gender pay gap is already aspects.
What is important is diversity of In 2018 the Chairman and CEO also signed materially lower than the UK average and thought, experience and approach and up to the 30% Club, which aims to develop the industry average for the financial each new appointment must complement a diverse pool of talent for all businesses services sector, however, the Group what already exists at the Board table.
through the efforts of its Chair and CEO remains committed to reducing it further Accordingly, appointments will always be members who are committed to better through a number of initiatives that are made on merit against objective criteria, gender balance at all levels of their being introduced to address the current including diversity and gender, and not just organisations with a minimum target of 30% imbalance of men and women at differing to achieve an externally prescribed number.
women at senior management level by 2020. levels of the business.
Pride Our continued sponsorship of Pride staff to take pride in diversity.
In 2018 I loved walking with my friends from my Cymru, South Wales biggest celebration over 30 staff, plus families and friends, Admiral family and I was very proud to of LGBT equality and diversity, represented Admiral in the parade carry the Admiral banner.
It was good to illustrates our celebration of the LGBT before the event and our choir and an support such a fantastic cause.
community and our recognition of the Admiral staff members band performed Staff were inspired to form a contribution they have made to Admiral.
LGBT network off the back of our We have sponsored Pride Cymru in some Rhys, from our training department participation in the parade when last way since 2004 and we have participated regularly attends the event.
Here is year, those representing Admiral in the in the annual Pride march for the last what he had to say, I love that the parade decided to keep in touch and three years.
company I work for sponsors Pride they regularly organise meet ups and Many of our staff attend this event and Cymru and Im really proud that we events together.
memories and photos from the event celebrate sexual diversity.
And a are shared in Column, our monthly member of staff who represented newsletter and on Atlas, inspiring our Admiral at this years parade said, Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 87
