Corporate Governance The Audit Committee Statement from Karen Green, Chair of the Audit Committee I am pleased to set out in this report an update on the main activities of the Audit Committee in 2018.
DEAR SHAREHOLDER, the potential impact of legislative The Committee also considered and changes to the way in which the rate reviewed the Groups whistleblowing This is my first report as Chair of the is set in the future: the Committee policy and the instances of Audit Committee having taken over received regular updates on the whistleblowing that had been raised from Colin Holmes, who stepped down progression of the Civil Liability Bill across the Group during the year.
in December 2018 after serving for and the likely timing of any subsequent eight years on the Board, including In addition, the Committee continued change to the Ogden discount rate.
seven years as Audit Chair.
I would to monitor the appropriateness like to thank Colin for his support and The Committee undertook an of the Groups system of risk commitment to ensuring an efficient evaluation of the performance of management and internal control, handover process and transition of the the external auditor and concluded including the implementation of the Chair position to me.
To facilitate this, that Deloitte was working effectively Groups Minimum Control Standards I attended the meetings of the Board as external auditor.
This was introduced in 2017 and the Audit Committee as a guest spent time considering the audit fee to provide for a consistent approach from June 2018 and also undertook a proposed for 2018 and discussed with to the control frameworks deployed programme of visits and meetings at Deloitte on the rationale for the year on across the Group as its non-UK motor the Company prior to being appointed year increase in the fee.
The Committee operations have continued to develop.
to the Board and assuming the Chair of also discussed the position in relation The Committee maintained a close the Committee in December 2018. to its external audit services contract focus on the UK Motor business and and considered the timing of tendering also reviewed overseas subsidiaries and I am pleased to set out in this report for the external audit.
an update on the main activities of the Audit Committee in 2018, which were The Committee also spent I hope you find the above summary, and conducted under the Chairmanship of time considering the results of the more detailed report, both useful my predecessor until mid-December, Managements impairment testing and informative.
and hence for the majority of the of the Groups investment in its period under review.
US subsidiaries, in particular the appropriateness of the underlying During the year the key areas of focus assumptions and forecasts used, and of the Committee have been to provide Karen Green the stresses applied to the forecasts.
support to the Board in its oversight Chair of the Audit Committee of financial reporting and the control The Committee had regular updates, 6 March 2019 environment across the Group.
The including a separate session, on the setting of insurance claims reserves to impact of the introduction of the new ensure consistency with the Groups IFRS 17: Insurance Contracts accounting agreed reserving methodology is standard to ensure that the Group a key accounting judgement in the was well prepared and understood Groups financial statements, and the implications for the Group of its the Committee continues to place introduction in January 2019.
The considerable focus on this subject.
introduction of IFRS 17 has since The analysis of outstanding claims by been deferred to January 2022.
The Management was reviewed alongside Committee also spent time considering that of the Groups independent the impact of IFRS 16 leases and the actuaries and external auditor.
The changes to the new UK Corporate continued uncertainty around the Governance Code as they applied to the Ogden discount rate was kept under activities of the Committee.
review by the Committee, along with 74 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information MEMBERSHIP Other individuals such as the Chairman of Review the external auditors the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Chief independence and objectivity and the Membership of the Committee at the end Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Heads effectiveness of the audit process: and of the year was: Karen Green Chair, Owen of Compliance and Internal Audit, and Clarke, Andy Crossley and Mike Brierley, who Review the policy on the engagement of representatives of different parts of the joined the Committee with effect from 5th the external auditor to provide nonGroup may be invited to attend all or part October 2018 having attended meetings audit services, considering the relevant of any meeting as and when appropriate.
of the Committee and the Board as a guest regulatory guidance regarding the The Chair of the Audit Committee meets from August 2018.
Two of the committees provision of non-audit services by the privately with the Head of Internal Audit members are Fellows of the Institute of external auditor.
The external auditor was Chartered Accountants in England and SUMMARY OF KEY ACTIVITIES invited to attend all of the Committees Wales.
Given the insurance and financial DURING 2018 meetings held in 2018, excepting those services experience of the members of the agenda items when its own performance The agenda for the meetings taking Committee, the Board considers that they appointment was to be reviewed and place during the year are agreed by the have a broad range of skills, experience and provision of non-audit services discussed.
Committee Chair and detail the matters knowledge of the insurance sector, which In addition, a private meeting was held to be discussed and considered at each represents the principal market in which between members of the Committee and meeting.
The agenda are updated regularly the Group operates, and also the areas the auditor.
The Chair also had several to allow for new items to be included.
of consumer lending in which the Group private meetings with the auditor during has a small but emerging business, such During the year the Committee reviewed the year.
that they are able to effectively analyse, the following: challenge and debate the issues that fall The Audit Committees primary within the Committees remit.
The Board is The Annual Report and interim results, responsibilities are to: satisfied that the Committee as a whole has including key accounting judgements competence relevant to the sector in which Monitor the integrity of the Groups and disclosures: the Group operates and further considers financial statements and any formal The Group Solvency and Financial that a number of members have recent announcement relating to the Groups Condition Report: and relevant financial experience.
The financial performance, reviewing any Reports from the Internal Audit Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the significant financial reporting judgements departments within the Group on Committee.
The Committee meets which they contain: the effectiveness of the Groups risk at least four times per year and has an Keep under review the effectiveness of management and internal control agenda linked to events in the Companys the Companys internal financial controls, procedures, approval of the 2019 Audit financial calendar and other important internal control and risk management Plans, details of key audit findings, and issues that arise throughout the year, which systems: actions taken by Management to manage fall for consideration by the Committee Review the Groups procedures for and reduce the impact of the risks under its remit.
handling allegations from whistleblowers identified: and for detecting fraud: The Committee is kept up to date with Reports from the external auditor on changes to Accounting Standards and Monitor and assess the role and the principal findings from their review relevant developments in financial effectiveness of the Groups Internal of the Groups systems and controls, and reporting, company law, and the Audit functions in the context of the on their key accounting and audit issues various regulatory frameworks through Groups overall internal control and risk and conclusions on the half and full year presentations from the Groups external management systems: reporting: auditor, Chief Financial Officer and Company Consider and make recommendations to A report from the Chair of the Group Risk Secretary.
In addition, members attend the Board, to be put to shareholders for Committee on the principal risks faced relevant seminars and conferences provided their approval at the AGM, in relation to by the Group and the work undertaken by by external bodies.
The Terms of Reference the appointment, reappointment and the Group Risk Committee to ensure risk of the Audit Committee include all the removal of the Groups external auditor: is appropriately managed: matters required under the Code and are reviewed annually by the Committee.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 75 Corporate Governance The Audit Committee continued Continued updates on the impact The timing and process for tendering Management provided further of the Ogden rate change and the for the external audit: information on the reserving levels potential legislative changes to the proposed and were challenged by the Its own Terms of Reference: method of setting the rate in the Committee as to their adequacy and Its own effectiveness: and future: level of inherent prudence.
Meetings held with the External Presentations from independent Given the continued uncertainty around Auditors without Management being actuaries to assist the Committee in changes to the Ogden discount rate, the present.
concluding on the adequacy of the Committee kept developments in this Groups reserves: SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED area under review to ensure that it was BY THE COMMITTEE IN RELATION Initial impact assessment of IFRS 17, well prepared to manage any impact on TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the updated standard on insurance its reserves.
The Committee received contract accounting: After discussion with both Management regular updates on the progression of and the external auditor, the Audit the Civil Liability Bill intended to reform Reports from Deloitte, the external Committee determined that the key whiplash claims and the calculation of auditor, on their proposed audit risks of misstatement of the Groups the Ogden discount rate through the scope, plan and findings: financial statements related to insurance various Parliamentary stages and the Proposed external audit fee and the liabilities and profit commissions.
associated timing considerations for drivers of the year on year increase: any future changes to the Ogden rate.
Confirmation of the external auditors These issues were discussed with The Civil Liability Bill was passed on 21 independence: Management during the year and with November 2018 and received Royal the external auditor at the time the Performance and effectiveness of the Assent on 20 December 2018.
The Committee reviewed and agreed the Internal Audit department: latest date for the new Ogden discount external auditors Group audit plan: rate to be announced is 6 August 2019.
Significant findings from reports from when the external auditor reviewed The Committee has considered and is Internal Audit including Management the interim financial statements in satisfied that, despite the considerable responses to the conclusions set out August 2018 and also at the conclusion uncertainty that remains in relation to in the reports: of the external audit of these full year the new rate, a 0% Ogden rate reflects an The effectiveness of the Groups financial statements.
appropriate best estimate assumption Whistleblowing Policy which sets for the 2018 financial statements.
VALUATION OF INSURANCE out the arrangements for raising and CLAIMS RESERVES handling allegations from whistle Whilst acknowledging that the setting blowers and receiving regular reports Given the important judgements of reserves for claims which will settle in on instances of whistleblowing that involved in estimating outstanding the future, is a complex and judgmental have been raised: claims, the Committee continued area and having had the opportunity to spend significant time reviewing Reports on the controls in place at the separate meetings referred and challenging the approach and in respect of the Groups overseas to above to consider and question methodology adopted by Management subsidiaries and in relation to cyber the recommended best estimates, in setting reserves for insurance security: the Committee is satisfied that an liabilities in the financial statements to appropriate process has been followed The Committee also had presentations ensure that it remained consistent with and that there has been sufficient and discussions on a range of other the Groups stated reserving approach scrutiny, challenge and debate to give important issues including: the impact to set claims reserves at a prudent level.
confidence that the reserving levels set of implementing IFRS 9 and IFRS 15, provide an appropriate margin above the expected impact of accounting The Committee held separate meetings best estimates, noting the continued changes due to IFRS 16, an update on with the Groups external actuaries, high level of prudence that remains the embedding of the Group Minimum Lane Clarke and Peacock LCP at which within the reserves.
Control Standards Framework and there was challenge and debate on Solvency II Technical Provisions and the best estimates developed by the other Solvency II reporting: external actuaries.
At these meetings 76 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Committee also received an update The Committee was comfortable that The Committee is also satisfied that the from the auditor regarding the procedures Management performed a thorough and significant assumptions used for determining it had used to test Managements robust process in line with the relevant the value of assets and liabilities have been methodology in setting the reserves and accounting standard and agreed with the appropriately scrutinised, challenged and considered the auditors assertion that it proposed reduction in carrying value of are sufficiently robust.
had challenged the reserving approach the investment.
NON-AUDIT FEES taken by Management and was satisfied PROFIT COMMISSION The Committee reviewed and approved its with Managements assumptions and The Committee considered the impact on policy on non-audit services in February that the Groups approach to setting profit commission income of future changes 2018 and was satisfied that it was aligned reserves was in compliance with current in claims reserves as the recognition of with current regulatory guidance.
this income is dependent on the loss ratio policy, the Groups statutory auditor would IMPAIRMENT TESTING ON booked in the financial statements and only be engaged to carry out non-audit work THE GROUPS INVESTMENT IN cash receivable is dependent on actuarial in exceptional circumstances or where there SUBSIDIARIES projections of ultimate loss ratios.
The was a regulatory or tax authority request The Committee reviewed and challenged Committee remained satisfied that profit and where agreed by the Committee.
the results of Managements impairment commission was correctly accounted for by Unless required by law, regulatory or testing of the Groups investment in the Group and was in accordance with the tax authority non-audit services will: a subsidiaries, performed where indicators of contractual arrangements that were in place.
be subject to prior approval from the impairment were present.
An impairment The Audit Committee considered the Committee and b in aggregate, shall of 32.9 million has been recognised in auditors overall findings on this area which not cost more than 70% of the average relation to the Groups investment in its US indicated that it considered the profit statutory audit fee for the past three price comparison business, Compare.
commission recognised was appropriate in financial years.
In considering whether The impairment reflected the reduction the context of the financial statements as to approve such non-audit services, the of the previous carrying amount of 66 a whole.
Committee shall ensure that: million of the Groups investment to its MISSTATEMENTS There is no direct effect, or in the view recoverable amount, being its value in use.
of an objective, reasonable and informed No material unadjusted audit differences The Committee reviewed and challenged third party, would have an inconsequential were reported by the external auditor.
The the cash-flows supporting the value in effect, on the audit services on the Committee confirms that it is satisfied that use calculations, including the underlying Groups financial statements: the auditor has fulfilled its responsibilities financial forecasts supporting the cashwith diligence and professional scepticism.
The estimation of the effect on the flows and the stresses applied to Compare.
financial statements is comprehensively coms long term plan, which were revised After reviewing the presentations and reports documented and explained in a report to following a review in the second half of from Management and consulting where the Committee: 2018.
Key assumptions within the financial necessary with the auditor, the Committee forecasts and cash-flows were challenged, The non-audit services provided comply is satisfied that the financial statements including the discount rate and currency with the principle of independence: and appropriately address the critical judgements rates applied to the cash-flows.
The audit firm must not place significant and key estimates both in respect to the The Committee also heard from its auditor reliance on the output of the non-audit amounts reported and the disclosures.
on the results of its audit tests performed services for the audit work.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 77 Corporate Governance The Audit Committee continued The Committee will continue to monitor AUDIT TENDER The Committee confirms it is in regulatory developments in this area compliance with the provisions of the The Group last completed an audit to ensure that its policy on non-audit Statutory Audit Services for Large tender in 2016 when, following the fees adheres to current guidance and Companies Market Investigation Order completion of a transparent and best practice.
2014 with regard to the requirement for independent audit tender process, formal tendering every ten years and Deloitte LLP were recommended to EFFECTIVENESS OF THE EXTERNAL partner rotation every five years.
shareholders as the Groups auditor at AUDIT PROCESS the AGM in April 2016 and a resolution INTERNAL AUDIT The Committee undertakes an annual passed to that effect.
review to assess the independence Except for two additional Audit and objectivity of the external auditor During the year, the Committee Committee meetings that were called and the effectiveness of the audit reviewed the arrangements with at short notice and held in February process, taking into consideration the current external auditor and and August 2018, the Group Head relevant professional and regulatory considered whether it was appropriate of Internal Audit attended all Audit requirements, the progress achieved to initiate a tender process in order Committee meetings and provided a against the agreed audit plan, and the that the current arrangements could range of presentations and papers to competence with which the auditor be reviewed against those offered by the Committee, through which the handled the key accounting and audit other audit firms in the market.
The Committee monitors the effectiveness judgments.
Following this review the Committee concluded that it would of the Groups internal controls.
The Committee concluded that the auditor, initiate a tender process in 2020 for an Committee reviewed and approved the Deloitte LLP, remained independent and appointment or reappointment to be Group Internal Audit Terms of Reference provided a service that was robust and made with effect from 2021, coinciding which set out the role: objectives: fit for purpose.
with the rotation of the current audit reporting lines and accountability: partner.
However, the Committee will authority: independence: and AUDIT FEE keep under review the results of the objectivity of the Internal Audit During 2018, the Committee reviewed various reviews and consultations on function.
The role and competence of and approved the audit fee proposal the audit services market and may each Internal Audit function across the for the 2018 year-end Group audit.
reconsider the tender timetable Group was also assessed and considered The agreed fee for the audit and other and process if appropriate.
The Group Head assurance-related services for 2018 is Committee has primary responsibility of Internal Audit continues to have 869,000.
This compares to a fee agreed for conducting the tender process responsibility to ensure the quality for 2017 of 490,000. and making recommendations to the of the Internal Audit activities in the Board, regarding the appointment, Groups overseas locations.
The Committee approved the fee reappointment and removal of the increase having discussed the rationale Following the external quality external auditor, the Committee will for the costs proposed given the growth assessment of Internal Audit carried lead the proposed tender process.
The in and changes to the Group, and also out last year, the recommendations Committee intends to engage with the any potential inefficiencies within the to enhance further the efficiency and Groups major shareholders to get their audit process.
effectiveness of the internal audit views on the firms that will be invited function that came out of that review to participate in the tender and the were considered and implemented.
timetable that has been agreed for the tender process.
78 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Members of the Committee also receive COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS REVIEW all issued audit reports, enabling them As part of the Committees detailed annual to challenge the reports content and review of its performance and processes, related recommendations.
The Committee each Committee member completed a approves the Internal Audit programmes comprehensive questionnaire designed at the start of each calendar year whilst to provide objective assessment of the the effectiveness and workload of the Committees performance, including its Internal Audit functions and the adequacy effectiveness in monitoring internal and of available resources are monitored external audit.
The Committee discussed throughout the year.
The former Chair of the results of the review at the meeting in the Committee also regularly met with the December and it was concluded that, overall, Group Head of Internal Audit during the Committee and the audit process were the year.
effective: that the Committee had full access to all the information it required: In accordance with agreed parameters, the that the Committee had appropriate Terms overseas operations in Spain, Italy and the of Reference: and that it was adequately US have their own locally-based internal discharging its responsibilities.
auditors, who report to their respective country heads.
All reports are evaluated by the Group Head of Internal Audit to ensure the quality and effectiveness of the reported findings.
In addition, the UK Internal Audit department carries out high level governance reviews of all foreign operations, assessing the internal control frameworks and system of risk management.
The overseas internal auditors attend Committee meetings periodically and the Committee received an update from the internal auditor of the Groups insurance business in Italy on the activities of the audit function and the audit reports and recommendations that had been issued.
The CEO from the Groups loans business also attended a Committee meeting to provide an update on the interaction with Group Internal Audit and the key findings and recommendations from audits completed on the loans business.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 79
