Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS How we divide up our responsibilities Board and Committee structure Chairman Responsible for leading the Board, its effectiveness and governance.
Setting Board the agenda to take full account of the issues and concerns of the Directors and ensuring the links between shareholders, Board and management Nomination Audit Ethics & Remuneration are strong.
Committee Committee Corporate Committee Chief Executive Of cer Responsibility Responsible for the day-to-day Committee Committee Committee Committee leadership, management and Committee report page report page report page HSE activities of the Group, for report page page 54 page 56 page 62 page 60 recommending Group strategy to the Board and ensuring that the strategy and decisions of the Board CEO are implemented via the Executive Committee.
Chief Financial Of cer Responsible for the day-to-day Disclosure Finance Allotment Executive Group Risk management of the financial risks Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee of the Group and providing general support to the Chief Executive Of cer, including the operational performance of the business and chairing the Group Risk Committee.
Key to Committees: Board Non-Board Senior Independent Director Provides a sounding board for the Chairman, acts as an intermediary for Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Role of the Board and the other Directors when necessary and Committee Committees is available to meet with shareholders.
Monitors compliance with, and oversees The Board is responsible for the the effectiveness of our ethical policies Independent Non-executive Directors long-term success of the Group.
and procedures to ensure that Aggreko Constructively challenge the Executive It sets our strategy and oversees its conducts its business with integrity and Directors and monitor the delivery of implementation, ensuring decisions honesty and in accordance with the law.
Group strategy within the risk and made re ect our risk appetite.
It provides Responsible for workforce engagement control environment set by the Board.
leadership and direction and has from January 2019.
Company Secretary responsibility for corporate governance Committee report page 60 Supports the Chairman and Chief and the overall financial performance Executive Of cer and is available to of the Group.
The Board is supported Disclosure Committee all Directors for advice and support.
in this role by its principal Committees, Oversees compliance with Market Informs the Board and Committees outlined below and depicted in the Abuse Regulation and supports the on governance matters and is table above.
Board in approving the final form responsible for the development of any announcement or statement of corporate governance policies.
relating to the performance of the Board Committees Group, or any other potentially price Nomination Committee sensitive information.
Independence of Directors Monitors and reviews the composition Finance Committee The Board reviews the independence and balance of the Board and its Responsible for approving financial of its Non-executive Directors as part Committees to ensure Aggreko has facilities, bonds and guarantees.
of its annual Board effectiveness review.
the right structure, skills and experience The Chairman is committed to ensuring in place for the effective management Allotment Committee the Board comprises a majority of of the Group.
Responsible for the allotment of shares.
independent Non-executive Directors Committee report page 54 who objectively challenge management, Non-Board Committees balanced against the need for continuity Audit Committee Executive Committee on the Board.
The Board considers that Ensures the integrity of Aggrekos Operates under the direction and all of the Non-executive Directors bring financial statements, the relationship authority of the CEO and is responsible strong independent oversight and with the external auditor, internal auditor for supporting the CEO in all aspects continue to demonstrate independence.
and provides oversight of our systems for of his role.
internal control and risk management.
Terms of Reference Group Risk Committee Committee report page 56 To retain control of key decisions, Responsible for the implementation the Board has a schedule of matters Remuneration Committee of our risk framework, and processes reserved for the Board with other Determines the remuneration for the for risk reporting.
Reports into the matters, responsibilities and authorities Chairman, Executive Directors and the Executive Committee.
Executive Committee members and oversees Aggrekos overall remuneration Read our schedule of matters reserved policy, strategy and implementation.
com Committee report page 62 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51 LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED Board meetings in 2018 In 2018, the Board held six scheduled Key priorities in 2018 were: meetings.
At each scheduled meeting Track progress against the actions agreed the Board received reports from: on following the strategy review discussions in Q4 2017 and ensure good governance The CEO on strategic, operational and around this.
business developments, people and health and safety.
This report is a particularly Ensure a thorough induction programme to important tool, focusing on the key issues Aggreko for Heath Drewett, so that he is able affecting the business, so that the Board to perform effectively in his new role as CFO.
really understands the current status.
Continue to closely monitor the integration The CFO on the performance of the of Younicos into Aggreko.
business, capital structure, eet, budget, Plan a Board visit to Germany to learn treasury and investor relations.
more about the recently acquired business The Chair of each of the Board and engage with local employees.
Jan Feb Mar Apr Committees on matters discussed Carry out an externally facilitated at their respective meetings.
Monitor the work of the team established May Jun Jul Aug to look at diversity on a Group-wide basis.
Continue to monitor developments in corporate governance reform, amending our processes and procedures Sep Oct Nov Dec where necessary.
In addition to the regular items, the key areas of focus were: Topic Activity Discussion Actions arising Progress Strategy Monitor progress Approved the re nancing of the Groups committed bank facilities maturing against our strategic in 2018 and 2019. priorities of technology Received an update presentation on Manufacturing & Technology, including investment, customer a refocus on growth areas, such as temperature control, renewables, hybrids, focus, capital ef ciency energy storage and software, and progress in driving ef ciency in HFO, gas, and expert people large diesel, and emissions compliance.
Reviewed and agreed the Groups Five-Year Plan.
Instigated a strategic review of growth potential for Aggreko, focusing on two issues: whether the existing business and strategy deliver enough sustained, pro table growth to meet our aspirations: and what new growth opportunities are available to Aggreko.
Reviewed proposals for a potential supply chain finance framework.
Received a half year update on working capital and agreed improvement measures.
Approved the Group budget for 2019.
Reviewed the management of Aggrekos Power Solutions project sales pipeline.
Monitor opportunities Reviewed proposals for investment in Origami Energy Limited, a business for acquisitions developing a software platform that optimises the revenue earning capability of grid connected assets.
Read more about our Business Priorities page 10 Governance, Regulatory environment Reviewed our best practice against the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code risk and internal governance and agreed actions for 2019. management processes and internal Board evaluation Assessed the outcome of the 2018 externally facilitated Board evaluation control and approved the action plan for 2019.
Half year and annual Received regular reports from the Group Risk Committee.
review of Group risk Reviewed the Group Risk Register, risk appetite and effectiveness of the risk pro le management process to ensure we have a robust risk management framework which delivers an effective and ef cient approach to risk management and positively contributes to effective decision making.
Approved the Group Risk Register.
Approved updates to the risk management methodology.
Read more about our Risks page 38 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 52 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Topic Activity Discussion Actions arising Progress People, culture Succession planning Discussed succession and talent development for CEO and CEO-1.
and values Received an update on the Executive Committee work on succession planning for roles at CEO-2 and CEO-3.
Reviewed talent movements for the Senior Leadership Team.
Employee engagement Approved Board diversity policy and established a working group to look at and culture diversity and inclusion across the Group and identify actions to close gaps.
Monitored the launch of the refreshed culture, including regular updates on employee engagement scores.
Approved the all employee sharesave offer.
Safety In addition to regular HSE updates in the CEOs report, received biannual updates on HSE and approved HSE priorities for 2018.
Ongoing training, Board visit to Germany in 2018 to learn more about the recently acquired development business and promote interaction between the Board and employees.
and stakeholder Chairman attendance at Senior Leadership Team event in April.
engagement for Completed induction programme for Heath Drewett.
Board members Shareholders Strong engagement Received regular investor relations reports on all shareholder contact.
with stakeholders and investors Read more about our Stakeholder and Shareholder Engagement Programme page 34 The Chairman then prepared a list Agree approach to strategy This years Board evaluation of recommendations and actions for discussions for 2019. excercise discussion by the Board at its meeting Continue to review the competitor In line with the UK Corporate in February 2019. and supplier landscape in strategy Governance Code, we undertake a Outcome, recommendations and discussions.
formal and rigorous annual evaluation proposed actions of our own performance and that of our Expand scope of Nomination Overall, the report re ected feedback Committees and individual Directors.
Committee to cover executive that the Board is functioning well.
The We operate a three-year cycle of succession, talent management and boardroom is collegiate, with high Chairmans review, Company Secretarys diversity pipeline as envisaged by the levels of candour, thanks to a good review and externally facilitated review.
mix of experience, seniority, skills and Aggrekos last externally facilitated personality types, which contribute to Review Board composition to evaluation took place in 2015, and for engaged discussions.
Board members enhance the international pro le 2018 we appointed Lisa Thomas at report that contributions are incisive of the Board.
Independent Board Evaluation to and constructive and that management facilitate our evaluation.
Increase the amount of contact is transparent.
The Board has moved between Board members and the Process through its agenda ef ciently and, on senior team, one level below the In outline, the process for the 2018 the whole, the view is that it has been Executive Committee.
evaluation was as follows: appropriately active and engaged on the right topics over the last year.
Ensure succession discussions take The Chairman and the Company place twice a year at the main Board, Secretary first gave Lisa Board members sense of their in tandem with the expanded scope comprehensive brie ngs and accountability to shareholders and of the Nomination Committee: support materials.
the Boards relationship and interface annual review in December followed with them, relationships with other Lisa attended the July Board and by mid-year update.
stakeholders, governance and Audit Committee meetings as compliance, Board focus, risk Increase visibility of Non-executive an observer.
management, Board composition Directors in the organisation.
Lisa interviewed each Board member, and decision making came out very together with members of senior well in Board feedback.
Equally did management and our audit partner induction of new Board members, from KPMG.
Key Board priorities for 2019 Board meetings and Board resources.
Track progress against the actions The areas where there was some Lisa completed a report, which she agreed upon following the strategy desire for improvement included: discussed in draft with the Chairman, review discussions in Q2 2018 and Non-executive Director involvement in and which she then presented to the ensure good governance.
strategy: succession planning: parts of Board for discussion at its meeting Continue to monitor corporate the selection process for new Board in December.
governance reform, amending our members: and Non-executive Directors processes and procedure particularly Separately, the Senior Independent spending more time visiting locations in line with the 2018 UK Corporate Director received a summary of and improving their knowledge of Governance Code.
feedback on the Chairman: the the Group.
Plan a Board visit to Dubai to learn more Chairman received feedback on Against this background, a number about the Asia & Middle East business individual Board members and and engage with local employees and of recommendations were made reports on each Committee were other stakeholders this was rescheduled and the Board has resolved to discussed with the Chairman and from 2018 due to the Board visit to prioritise the following actions for each Committee Chair.
Berlin, Germany following the acquistion the forthcoming year: of Younicos.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 53
