Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts Audit Committee Report Composition During the year the Audit Committee comprised four non-executive directors: M. A. Griffiths, W. R. G. Barr, P. Powell and D. J. Ritchie.
S. V. Barratt was appointed to the Audit Committee with effect from 28 January 2018.
The Audit Committee is chaired by M. A. Griffiths.
The Board is satisfied that M. A. Griffiths has recent and relevant financial experience as required by provision C. 3.1 of the Code.
The Board has determined that the current composition of the Audit Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the sector in which the Company operates, to enable it to deal effectively with the matters it is required to address and to challenge management when necessary.
Biographical details relating to each of the Committee members are shown on page 39.
Meetings The Audit Committee met four times during the year.
The meetings are attended by the Committee members and, by invitation, the Finance Director, the Central Financial Controller, the Company Secretary and representatives from the external and internal auditors.
The Audit Committee regularly meets with executive directors and management, as well as privately with the external and internal auditors.
Role and responsibilities The primary role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities.
This includes: monitoring the integrity of the annual and interim financial statements and formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and reviewing any significant financial reporting judgements and disclosures which they contain: if requested by the Board, providing advice on whether the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable: reporting to the Board on the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies and practices: reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems: reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the internal audit function and managements responsiveness to any findings and recommendations: approving the appointment and removal of the internal auditor: reviewing and monitoring the Groups tax risk management policy: reviewing and monitoring the appropriateness of the Groups whistle-blowing and anti-bribery procedures: making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment and removal of the external auditor and approving its remuneration and terms of engagement: reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process: reviewing the policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services: and reporting to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
Activities of the Audit Committee During the year the Audit Committee has: reviewed and discussed with the external auditor the key accounting considerations and judgements reflected in the Groups results for the six month period ended 29 July 2017: reviewed and agreed the external auditors audit strategy memorandum in advance of its audit for the year ended 27 January 2018: discussed the report received from the external auditor regarding its audit in respect of the year ended 27 January 2018, which included comments on its findings on internal control and on the disclosure of risks and a statement on its independence and objectivity: received and reviewed reports from management regarding their approach to key accounting considerations and judgements in the half year and full year financial statements: reviewed the half year and full year financial statements: received reports on the operation of the Groups Risk Committee: reviewed the Groups risk register and the Groups principal risks, together with the systems and processes for mitigating those risks: discussed and agreed the nature and scope of the work to be performed by the external and internal auditors: reviewed the results of this audit work and the response of management to matters raised: reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems including financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls : reviewed and approved the Companys viability statement: reviewed and recommended the Groups tax risk management policy to the Board: reviewed the appropriateness of the Groups whistle-blowing procedures: reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups anti-bribery systems and controls: received reports from internal audit covering various aspects of the Groups operations, controls and processes: reviewed the Groups delegated authority limits: conducted a competitive tender process for the provision of internal audit services to the Group for 2018 19 onwards and approved the appointment of the internal auditor: made recommendations to the Board on the appointment and remuneration of the external auditor and monitored the performance of the auditor: monitored and reviewed the performance of the incumbent internal auditor and the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit activities: A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 45 Audit Committee Report continued Activities of the Audit Committee continued reviewed its policies on the supply of non-audit services by the external auditor and on the employment of former employees of the Groups external auditor: reviewed the non-audit services provided to the Group by the external auditor and monitored and assessed the independence of both the external and internal auditors: and reviewed the performance of the Audit Committee and its terms of reference.
At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee also considered whether the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 27 January 2018, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Following review of managements processes in this regard and consideration of the draft Annual Report and Accounts, the Audit Committee recommended to the Board that it could make the required disclosure as set out in the Directors Responsibilities Statement on page 77.
Significant areas The significant matters and key accounting judgements considered by the Audit Committee during the year were: Revenue recognition brand support accruals: judgement is required by management when determining the level of brand support discounts and cost accruals at the year end.
During the year the Audit Committee received and considered reports from management on the commercial investment process and on the level of accruals at the half year and at the year end.
It also received and considered reports from the external auditor following their review of net revenue, brand support discounts and cost accruals during the period.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the estimates and judgements made by management are appropriate.
Assumptions used in the Companys defined benefit pension scheme: the Company operates the A. G. BARR p. l. c. 2008 Pension and Life Assurance Scheme, which comprises a defined contribution section and a defined benefit section.
The Company engages a third party, Hymans Robertson, to assist in the valuation of the defined benefit pension scheme liability.
There is a risk related to judgements made by management in valuing the defined benefit pension scheme liability, including the appropriateness of the discount rate and inflation rate assumptions.
These variables can have a material impact in calculating the quantum of the defined benefit liability.
During the year the Audit Committee received and considered a report from the external auditor which stated that it had carried out a review and benchmarking exercise of the assumptions used by Hymans Robertson and concluded that they were more prudent than the external auditors benchmarks, however they were within an acceptable range.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that the assumptions used were reasonable.
Management override of controls: there is a risk of fraud associated with the potential override of internal controls by management.
During the year, the Audit Committee received and considered a report from the external auditor which stated that its procedures, which included the use of data analytics, did not identify any errors or significant deficiencies in internal controls.
The Audit Committee was content that there were no issues arising.
Other areas Other matters considered by the Audit Committee during the year were: Exceptional items: the Audit Committee considered reports received from management and the external auditor in relation to the classification and presentation of certain items as exceptional and was satisfied with the treatment and presentation of various items which arose during the year as exceptional, the largest of which related to the exceptional gain on the sale of the Walthamstow site.
In addition there were exceptional costs associated with the Groups reformulation programme and the Company-wide reorganisation.
The presentation of adjusted performance measures.
The Audit Committee receives regular presentations from members of the senior management team.
During the year, the Audit Committee has considered presentations from representatives of the management team on the Companys media investment and innovation processes and controls, tax strategy, product quality, pension schemes and channel performance in the multiples.
External audit The Groups external auditor is Deloitte LLP.
The current audit partner is David Sweeney, who has held the role since May 2017.
The Audit Committee reviews the external auditors performance, independence and objectivity annually.
The Audit Committee ensures that procedures are in place to safeguard the external auditors independence and objectivity.
The external auditor reports regularly to the Audit Committee on the actions that it has taken to comply with professional and regulatory requirements and current best practice in order to maintain its independence and objectivity.
The Group has a policy in place which ensures that the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor does not impair the auditors independence or objectivity.
This policy states that the external auditor should not be engaged in respect of services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard 2016.
Any material permitted non-audit services provided must be pre-approved by the Audit Committee, unless the engagement is urgent, in which case the Finance Director can agree the work with the Chairman of the Audit Committee and report thereon to the next Audit Committee meeting.
For this purpose, materiality is set at a cost greater than 30,000 before VAT and expenses.
This materiality level applies whether a discrete project or linked series of assignments is undertaken.
Any non-material permitted non-audit services provided are deemed to have been pre-approved by the Audit Committee.
This policy was complied with during the year.
46 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor during the year for audit and non-audit services are set out in Note 3 to the financial statements.
The ratio of fees for non-audit services to those for audit services for the year was 0.55:1, within the 70% cap in the FRCs guidance which will be required from 2019.
The Audit Committee considered the nature and level of non-audit services provided and was satisfied that the objectivity and independence of the external auditor were not affected by the non-audit work undertaken.
The non-audit fees during the year related to half year assurance services, remuneration advisory services, and IT and system support services relating to non-financial information technology systems.
The level of fees for non-audit services was considered by Deloitte who concluded that they did not present a threat to Deloittes independence.
Deloitte LLP was appointed as the Groups external auditor in May 2017 following a competitive tender process.
There are no contractual obligations which restrict the Audit Committees choice of external auditor.
The senior statutory auditor rotates every five years to ensure independence.
The Audit Committee acknowledges the requirement under the Code to tender the external audit contract at least every ten years.
Due to the recent external audit tender and change of external auditor, the Company confirms that it has complied with the provisions of the Competition and Markets Authoritys Statutory Audit Services Order in respect of the financial year.
During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed and monitored the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the external audit process.
The Audit Committee reviewed and approved the external auditors plan for undertaking the half year review and the year end audit, including the scope of their work and their proposed approach to the key risk areas identified.
The Committee also reviewed the detailed reports prepared by the external auditor setting out their findings from the half year review and the year end audit, with a particular focus on the areas of audit risk identified.
The Audit Committee also received comprehensive papers from management in relation to the half year review and the year end audit.
The Audit Committee held meetings with the external auditor in the absence of management to discuss the interim review and the year end audit findings and processes.
The Audit Committee was satisfied with the internal processes run by management and their response to challenge by the external auditor.
During the year, the Audit Committee also carried out a detailed and comprehensive evaluation of the external auditor and the effectiveness of the external audit process by means of a written survey questionnaire completed by Audit Committee members.
The results of the evaluation were shared with the external auditor.
Following these reviews and meetings, the Audit Committee was satisfied with Deloitte LLPs performance during the year, that it was objective and independent, and that the external audit process was effective.
The Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that a resolution proposing the appointment of Deloitte LLP be put to shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
Internal audit At the beginning of each year, an internal audit plan is developed by the internal auditor following meetings with directors and senior managers within the business and with reference to the significant risks contained within the Groups risk register and identified controls.
The Audit Committee receives updates on progress against the internal audit plan throughout the year.
During the year, the Audit Committee conducted a competitive tender process for the provision of internal audit services to the Group and approved the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP EY as the Groups internal auditor for 2018 19 onwards.
The Audit Committee looks forward to working with EY to continue to improve the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
Martin A. Griffiths Chairman of the Audit Committee 27 March 2018 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 47
