LEADERSHIP Our Board Ken Hanna Chris Weston Heath Drewett Chairman Chief Executive Of cer Chief Financial Of cer Appointed: Non-executive Director in Appointed: January 2015.
October 2010 and Chairman in April 2012.
Experience: Chris has experience at a senior Experience: Heath is an experienced CFO Experience: Ken brings international level in the energy industry, proven leadership and proven leader with experience in the financial and leadership expertise to Aggreko.
skills in a large international business and engineering, leisure, transportation and He possesses knowledge of many different has consistently succeeded in driving industrial sectors.
He has 30 years of business sectors and is an experienced performance and growth in his career.
experience within various finance, corporate senior executive and leader, promoting finance, business performance, financial and Prior to his appointment as CEO in January robust debate and a culture of openness strategic planning roles.
He has extensive 2015, Chris was Managing Director, in the boardroom.
international experience in both M&A and International Downstream at Centrica plc, corporate development activities.
Ken is also currently Chairman of Arena where he was the Executive Director Events Group Plc, an AIM-listed company, and responsible for the Groups largest division.
Prior to his appointment at Aggreko, Heath Chairman of Shooting Star CHASE Charity.
In this role, Chris was operationally responsible was Group Finance Director for eight years Until 2009, Ken spent five years as Chief for both British Gas in the UK and Direct at WS Atkins plc where, following the Financial Of cer of Cadbury Plc.
He has also Energy in the USA.
He joined Centrica in acquisition of WS Atkins by SNC Lavalin, he held positions as Chairman of Inchcape Plc, 2001 after a successful career in the telecoms was appointed President, with responsibility Operating Partner for Compass Partners, industry, working for both Cable & Wireless for its global engineering, design, project Group Chief Executive at Dalgety Plc, Group and One.
Before that, Chris served in and programme management business.
Finance Director of United Distillers Plc and the Royal Artillery.
He has a BSc in Applied Before that, Heath worked at British Group Finance Director of Avis Europe Plc.
Science, as well as an MBA and PhD from Airways plc within corporate strategy, He is also a fellow of the Institute of Imperial College London.
Chris was also business planning and finance.
appointed as a Non-executive Director of a chartered accountant, having trained at the Royal Navy in January 2017.
PwC, with an MA in Mathematics from Cambridge University.
Dame Nicola Brewer Barbara Jeremiah Uwe Krueger Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Senior Independent Director Appointed: Non-executive Director in Appointed: Non-executive Director in Appointed: Non-executive Director in February 2016 and Chair of the Ethics & March 2017 and Chair of the Remuneration February 2015 and Senior Independent Corporate Responsibility Committee in Committee in April 2018.
Experience: Barbara brings extensive Experience: Uwe brings expertise of the Experience: Nicola Brewer brings extensive international non-executive experience, engineering, services and renewable energy geo-political and diplomatic experience to largely in the USA and Australia, together sectors.
He is a physicist with a PhD and an Aggreko, having worked in many of the with an executive career in the mining, honorary professorship from the University developing regions in which we operate.
of Frankfurt and an honorary PhD from Heriot-Watt University.
Most of his career Nicola is currently Vice Provost at University An experienced Non-executive Director, has been spent leading engineering and College London, responsible for international Barbara currently sits on the boards of the consulting organisations.
She is also a Non-executive Director Weir Group, Russel Metals and Allegheny of Scottish Power and a trustee of Prince Technologies having recently retired as Uwe is currently Senior Managing Director, Harrys southern African charity, Sentebale.
Chairwoman of Boart Longyear, a US-based Head of Industrials Business Services Energy In her previous diplomatic career, she worked company in the minerals drilling sector.
Until & Resources and Joint Head of Portfolio in Mexico, India and France, was a member her retirement in 2009, Barbara spent over Management Group for Temasek.
He also sits of the Foreign and Commonwealth Of ce 30years in a number of roles in Alcoa Inc. on the boards of SUSI Partners AG and Ontex Board from 2004 to 2007, and was High now demerged into Alcoa and Arconic Inc., S. A. and lectures at the University of Frankfurt Commissioner to South Africa, Lesotho and the world leader in the production of on renewable energy.
Before joining Temasek, Swaziland from 2009 to 2013.
As a member of aluminium and related products.
Her roles Uwe was Chief Executive Of cer of WS Atkins the board of the Department for International in Alcoa included Assistant General Counsel, plc and his past roles include Chief Executive Development, she supervised all UK bilateral VP Corporate Development and Executive VP Of cer of Oerlikon, Senior Advisor at Texas aid programmes in Africa, Asia, Eastern in charge of strategy and M&A.
Barbara is an Paci c Group, President of Cleantech Europe, the Middle East and Latin America.
American citizen with a BA in political science Switzerland, and various senior leadership and is a quali ed lawyer.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 48 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Key to committee membership Audit Remuneration Nomination Diana Lay eld Ian Marchant Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Committee Chair Appointed: May 2012.
Appointed: Non-executive Director in November 2013 and Chair of the Audit Experience: Diana brings extensive Committee in April 2016. international experience and detailed understanding of how to operate successfully Experience: Ian brings knowledge of the Peter Kennerley across emerging markets, particularly in domestic and international energy markets, Company Secretary Asia and Africa.
She also brings experience along with a substantial understanding of in technology, finance, sales and strategy.
associated strategic, financial and regulatory Appointed: October 2008. issues.
Until his retirement in June 2013, Diana is Vice President, Next Billion Users Experience: Peter is our Group Ian spent 21 years at SSE Plc, most recently at Google Inc, developing products and Legal Director & Company Secretary.
as Chief Executive, and prior to that as services for users in emerging markets, and Finance Director.
Further details appear on page 50. in Fintech.
Before joining Google, she was Chief Executive, Africa Region for Standard Ian is an experienced Non-executive Director, Chartered Plc and held a number of senior currently serving as Chairman of John Wood Other Directors who leadership roles over 11 years at Standard Group Plc and Chairman of Thames Water served during 2018 Chartered.
Prior to Standard Chartered, Utilities.
He is also a Member of the Princes Diana was Chief Executive Of cer of Finexia Council of the Duchy of Cornwall, Honorary Russell King Ltd, a technology rm, and a consultant with President of RZSS, Chairman of the advisory Non-executive Director and McKinsey & Co, an international strategy board of the Centre of Energy Policy at Senior Independent Director consulting rm.
Diana has a BA from the Strathclyde University and former Chairman Until April 2018 University of Oxford and a Masters degree of Scotlands 2020 Climate Group.
in International Economics and Public Administration from Harvard University.
Diversity metrics Board attendance in 2018 Board Executive Independent meetings Non-executive composition Name of Director AB % attended of Board Ken Hanna 6 6 100 No.
% Chris Weston 6 6 100 Executive 2 25 Heath Drewett 6 6 100 Non-executive 6 75 Nicola Brewer 6 6 100 Miles Roberts As required by Code provision B.
1.2, this calculation excludes the Chairman when Barbara Non-executive Director looking at the Independent Non-executive Jeremiah 6 6 100 composition of the Board.
1 Russell King 2 2 100 Experience: Miles brings extensive Gender of Board Uwe Krueger 6 6 100 international business experience both as No.
% a Chief Executive and Finance Director.
Diana Lay eld 6 6 100 Male 6 67 Miles is currently Chief Executive Of cer Ian Marchant 6 6 100 of DS Smith Plc, a FTSE 100 international Female 3 33 Miles Roberts 6 6 100 packaging group with operations in nearly 40 countries.
Prior to joining DS Smith Plc A Maximum number of meetings Director could Tenure of Non-executive Directors in 2010, Miles was Group Chief Executive of have attended.
% McBride plc having previously been Group B Actual number of meetings Director attended.
Prior to this, Miles worked 0-3 years 4 57 for Costain Group plc and Vivendi UK.
He also 1 Russell King retired from the Board in 3-6 years 1 14 April 2018. has non-executive experience, having served on the boards of Poundland Group plc as 6-9 years 2 29 Senior Independent Director and Care UK plc as a Non-executive Director.
Miles has a Sector experience of the Board degree in Engineering and is also a chartered % accountant.
Customer 89 Finance 56 Energy 44 Geo-politics diplomacy 11 Operational 78 Technology 22 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 49 LEADERSHIP CONTINUED Our Executive Committee The Executive Committee meets every month and operates under the direction and authority of the Chief Executive Of cer: it is responsible for supporting him in all aspects of his role.
Each of the principal risks and uncertainties outlined in the Strategic Report has been individually assigned to a member of the Executive Committee.
At least twice a year, the Executive Committee members meet as the Group Risk Committee to review the Groups risks: this helps to embed our risk management processes within our management teams.
Grant Nairn Chief Executive Of cer President, Rental Solutions Group Chief Information Of cer Appointed: January 2015.
Full biography appears Bruce has responsibility for the leadership Grant has responsibility for developing and on page 48 of the Rental Solutions business, overseeing implementing Aggrekos digital platform with the delivery of our strategic priorities within the goal of improving customer service and Rental Solutions.
He is also responsible for building 2.
Heath Drewett our advanced analytics capability and for Chief Financial Of cer cyber security.
Peter Kennerley Tenure with Aggreko: 1 year.
& Technology Group Legal Director & Full biography appears Appointed: October 2016.
Company Secretary on page 48 Tenure with Aggreko: 11 years.
Dan has responsibility for the leadership of Tenure with Aggreko: 10 years.
Stephen Beynon our Global Products & Technology division.
Managing Director, Power Solutions This includes ensuring we have the right Peter has overall responsibility for the portfolio of products to deliver solutions to our management of legal and ethical Appointed: May 2017. customers, engineering and manufacturing risk and for supporting the Board in Tenure with Aggreko: 1 year.
excellence, future technology and having setting and maintaining standards responsibility for our global events business.
Stephen has responsibility for the leadership of the Power Solutions business and overseeing the delivery of our strategic 6.
Anna Filipopoulos priorities within Power Solutions.
Group Human Resources Director Appointed: April 2016.
Anna has responsibility for human resources and internal communications, focusing on talent and leadership development, employee engagement and culture.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 50
