Corporate Governance Report Chairmans Introduction Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to present our Corporate Governance Report, which describes how the main principles of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code have been applied during the year.
Information about the Board, its members and committees, and an overview of the Companys system of internal controls are also included.
There were no changes to the Board during the financial year.
Susan Barratt, our new independent non-executive director, was appointed to the Board with effect from 28 January 2018.
Susan brings a wealth of valuable experience in the UK customer space and will support the continued development of our Board capabilities.
Further details of the Boards composition are given on pages 38 and 39.
John R. Nicolson Chairman 27 March 2018 The Board The Company is led by a strong and experienced board of directors the Board which brings a depth and diversity of expertise to the leadership of the Company.
The Board has an appropriate balance of skills, experience and knowledge of the Group to enable it to discharge its responsibilities effectively.
The Board currently has ten members, comprising four executive directors, the non-executive Chairman, four independent non-executive directors and one non-independent non-executive director.
Biographical details of the directors are set out on pages 38 and 39.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and there is a clear division of responsibilities between those roles.
The Chairman leads the Board and ensures the effective engagement and contribution of all non-executive and executive directors.
The Chairman also ensures that Board meetings are underpinned by a culture of openness and challenge, with sufficient time made available to debate issues arising.
The Chief Executive has responsibility for all Group businesses and acts in accordance with the authority delegated from the Board.
The senior independent non-executive director, M. A. Griffiths, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which have not been resolved via the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive, or the other executive directors, or where communication through such channels would be inappropriate.
The Board considers that S. V. Barratt, M. A. Griffiths, P. Powell and D. J. Ritchie are independent for the purposes of provision B.
1.1 of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, issued by the Financial Reporting Council in April 2016 the Code, and that the relationships and circumstances set out in that provision which may appear relevant to the determination of independence do not apply.
The Board considers that, on appointment, the Chairman was independent for the purposes of provision A.
In addition to his role as Chairman of the Company, J. R. Nicolson is a director of Stocks Spirits Group plc, director of North American Breweries Inc and director of PZ Cussons plc.
The Board does not consider that J. R. Nicolsons other commitments have any impact on his ability to discharge his duties as Chairman of the Company effectively.
M. A. Griffiths fulfilled the role of senior independent director during the year to 27 January 2018.
The Articles require directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the first annual general meeting following appointment and to retire no later than the third annual general meeting after the annual general meeting at which they were last elected or re-elected.
However, in order to comply with the Code, all directors will submit themselves for re-election at the AGM.
Details of directors remuneration and interests in shares of the Company are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 71.
40 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts Role of the Board The Board is responsible for the long term success of the Group, determines the strategic direction of the Group and reviews operating, financial and risk performance.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board, including approval of the Groups annual business plan, the Groups strategy, acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure projects above certain thresholds, the financial statements, the Companys dividend policy, transactions involving the issue or purchase of Company shares, borrowing powers, appointments to the Board, alterations to the memorandum and articles of association, legal actions brought by or against the Group above certain thresholds, and the scope of delegations to Board committees, subsidiary boards and the Management Committee.
Responsibility for the development of policy and strategy and operational management is delegated to the executive directors and a Management Committee, which as at the date of this report includes the executive directors and ten senior managers.
Board performance evaluation Every year the performance and effectiveness of the Board, its committees and individual directors is evaluated.
This year the evaluation was carried out internally, having been externally facilitated during the year to January 2017.
The process was led by the Chairman, who conducted a detailed and comprehensive evaluation process using written survey questionnaires.
The results of the evaluation were shared with all members of the Board.
Overall, the review found that the Board and its committees were functioning in an effective manner and performing satisfactorily, with no major issues identified.
The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, carried out a performance evaluation of the Chairman without the Chairman present, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
It was concluded that J. R. Nicolsons performance continues to be strong and that he demonstrates effective leadership.
The Chairman is pleased to confirm that, following performance evaluation of the directors, all of the directors performances continue to be effective and all of the directors continue to demonstrate commitment to the role of director, including commitment of time for Board meetings and committee meetings and any other relevant duties.
Independent professional advice Directors can obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the performance of their duties as directors.
None of the directors obtained independent professional advice in the period under review.
All directors have access to the advice and the services of the Company Secretary.
The non-executive directors have access to senior management of the business.
Training and development On appointment to the Board, directors are provided with a full, formal and tailored programme of induction, to familiarise them with the Groups businesses, the risks and strategic challenges the Group faces, and the economic, competitive, legal and regulatory environment in which the Group operates.
A programme of strategic and other reviews, together with the other training provided during the year, ensures that directors continually update their skills, their knowledge and familiarity with the Groups businesses, and their awareness of sector, risk, regulatory, legal, financial and other developments to enable them to fulfil effectively their role on the Board and committees of the Board.
Meetings and attendance Board meetings are scheduled to be held seven times each year.
Between these meetings, as required, additional Board meetings and or Board committee meetings may be held to progress the Companys business.
A part of each Board meeting is dedicated to the discussion of specific strategy matters.
In advance of all Board meetings the directors are supplied with detailed and comprehensive papers covering the Groups operating functions.
Members of the management team attend and make presentations as appropriate at meetings of the Board.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for the timeliness and quality of information provided to it.
The Chairman holds meetings with the non-executive directors during the year without the executive directors being present.
The attendance of directors at scheduled Board and committee meetings in the year to 27 January 2018 is set out below.
During the year, the Board also convened two additional Board meetings in relation to the Companys reformulation programme and one additional Board meeting in relation to a corporate transaction.
All of the directors who were entitled to attend those Board meetings attended each Board meeting, with the exception of M. A. Griffiths and P. Powell, who attended two of those three meetings.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 41 Corporate Governance Report continued Meetings and attendance continued Remuneration Nomination Board Audit Committee Committee Committee Maximum 10 Maximum 4 Maximum 7 Maximum 4 Executive R. A.
White attended Board committee meetings during the year by invitation.
S. Lorimer attended Audit Committee meetings during the year by invitation.
Conflicts of interest The Articles allow the Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise from time to time, subject to certain conditions.
The Company has established appropriate conflicts authorisation procedures, whereby actual or potential conflicts are regularly reviewed and authorisations sought as appropriate.
During the year, no such conflicts arose and no such authorisations were sought.
Committees of the Board The terms of reference of the principal committees of the Board Audit, Remuneration and Nomination have been approved by the Board and are available on the Companys website, www.
Those terms of reference have been reviewed in the current year and are reviewed at least annually.
The work carried out by the Nomination Committee in discharging its responsibilities is summarised below.
The work carried out by the Audit Committee is described within the Audit Committees Report on pages 45 to 47.
The work carried out by the Remuneration Committee is described within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 71.
The Board also has a Market Disclosure Committee which comprises R. A.
White, S. Lorimer and the Company Secretary.
The Market Disclosure Committee meets only when required and is responsible for overseeing the disclosure of information by the Company to meet its obligations under the Market Abuse Regulation and the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules and Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises J. R. Nicolson, W. R. G. Barr, S. V. Barratt, M. A. Griffiths, P. Powell and D. J. Ritchie.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by J. R. Nicolson.
The Nomination Committee leads the process for making appointments to the Board and ensures that there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the Board.
The remit of the Nomination Committee also includes reviewing the composition of the Board through a full evaluation of the skills, knowledge and experience of directors and ensuring plans are in place for orderly succession for appointments to the Board.
The Nomination Committee also makes recommendations to the Board on the membership of its committees.
The Nomination Committee is required, in accordance with its terms of reference, to meet at least once per year.
The Nomination Committee met four times during the year and, amongst other matters, considered the recruitment of an additional non-executive director.
The Board believes that building a diverse and inclusive culture is integral to the success of the Company.
Diversity includes aspects such as diversity of skills, perspectives, industry experience, educational and professional background, gender, ethnicity and age.
The Companys Board and Management Committee Diversity Policy Diversity Policy provides that these aspects will be considered in determining the optimum composition of the Board and Management Committee, with the aim of achieving an appropriate balance.
All appointments to the Board and Management Committee are made on merit, against objective criteria, and with due regard for the benefits of diversity.
Whilst no formal measurable objectives have been set for female representation at Board or Management Committee level, the Company remains committed 42 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts to the principles of gender diversity and intends to move towards one third female representation on the Board and Management Committee within a reasonable timeframe.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for overseeing the implementation of the Diversity Policy.
The Nomination Committee reviews the Diversity Policy at least annually to ensure its effectiveness, with any amendments recommended to the Board for approval.
During the year, 11% of the Board were female and 14% of the Management Committee were female.
Following S. V. Barratts appointment to the Board as a non-executive director on 28 January 2018, 20% of the Board are female.
The disclosure relating to gender diversity within the Company is included in the Strategic Report on page 27.
Treasury Committee The Treasury Committee consists of R. A.
White, S. Lorimer and senior members of the finance, legal and procurement departments.
The Treasury Committee reviews purchase requirements in foreign currencies and implements strategies, including the use of foreign exchange hedges, in order to reduce the risk of foreign exchange exposure and provide certainty over the value of non-domestic purchases in the short to medium term.
The Treasury Committees remit also includes the ability to utilise certain financial instruments in order to hedge the Groups exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control systems and annually reviews their effectiveness, including a review of financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls.
The implementation and maintenance of the risk management and internal control systems are the responsibility of the executive directors and other senior management.
The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems, including financial, operational and compliance controls, in accordance with the Code for the period from 29 January 2017 to the date of approval of this annual report.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified from this review during the year.
Had any failings or weaknesses been identified then the Board would have taken the action required to remedy them.
At the Audit Committee meeting on 17 January 2018, following a review and evaluation of the Groups risk management and internal control systems in place, the Audit Committee concluded that the Group has a sound system of risk management and internal controls in place.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process, embedded in the Groups integrated internal control systems, allowing for the identification, evaluation and management of significant risks, as well as a reporting process to the Board.
This risk management process has been in place throughout the year ended 27 January 2018 and up to the date of the approval of this annual report.
The Board has carried out a robust, systematic assessment of the principal risks facing the Group during the period, including those which would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Information on the Groups risk management framework is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 34 to 37.
The three main elements of the Groups internal control system are as follows: The Board The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control systems and exercises this through an organisational structure with clearly defined levels of responsibility and authority as well as appropriate reporting procedures.
The Board has a schedule of matters that are brought to it, or its duly authorised committees, for decision, aimed at maintaining effective control over strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
This structure includes the Audit Committee which, with the Finance Director, reviews the effectiveness of the internal financial and operating control environment.
Financial reporting There is a comprehensive strategic planning, budgeting and forecasting system with an annual operating plan approved by the Board.
Monthly financial information, including trading results, cash flow statement, statement of financial position and indebtedness, is reported.
The Board and the Management Committee review their business and financial performance against the prior year and against annual plans approved by the Board.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 43 Corporate Governance Report continued Audits and reviews The key internal risks identified in the Group are subject to regular audits or reviews by the internal auditors.
This role is fulfilled by an external professional services firm which is independent from the Board and the Company.
The review of the internal auditors work by the Audit Committee and monitoring procedures in place ensure that the findings of the audits are acted upon and subsequent reviews confirm compliance with any agreed action plans.
The Board confirms that there has been an independent internal audit function in place for the year.
Share capital structure The share capital structure of the Company is set out in the Directors Report.
UK Corporate Governance Code compliance The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Code.
A copy of the Code is available on the Financial Reporting Councils website, www.
Each of the provisions of the Code has been reviewed and, where necessary, steps have been taken to ensure that the Company is in compliance with all of those provisions as at the date of this report.
The directors consider that the Company has complied throughout the year ended 27 January 2018 with the provisions of the Code, except as set out below.
During the year the Board comprised four executive directors, the non-executive Chairman and three independent non-executive directors.
In addition, W. R. G. Barr was a non-executive director during the year although he is not considered by the Board to be independent.
Accordingly, during the year to 27 January 2018 the composition of the Board did not, at any time, comply with provision B.
The Board considers that, despite this non-compliance, the Board has an appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and experience to enable it to discharge its duties and responsibilities effectively.
No concerns regarding the Boards non-independent majority were raised as part of the Board performance evaluation carried out during the year and referred to above.
In addition, S. V. Barratt, an independent non-executive director, was appointed to the Board with effect from 28 January 2018.
Therefore, following S. V. Barratts appointment, the Board composition is the same with the exception that there are now four independent non-executive directors.
Provision D. 1.5 of the Code recommends that executive directors contracts contain a maximum notice period of one year.
As disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report, the service contracts with R. A.
White, J. D. Kemp and A. L. Memmott provide for a notice period of 12 months except during the six months following either a takeover of or by the Company or a Company reconstruction.
Under these conditions and certain circumstances the directors are entitled to a liquidated damages payment equal to the directors basic salary at termination plus the value of all contractual benefits for a two year period.
Given the size of the Company and the sector dynamics at the time these directors were recruited, the Remuneration Committee considered this provision appropriate in order to attract and retain high calibre executive directors.
As disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report, this provision will continue to be honoured as a contractual commitment made to these directors: however this provision was not included in S. Lorimers service contract and will not be included in service contracts with other new executive directors appointed in future.
A copy of the financial statements has been placed on the Companys website, www.
The maintenance and integrity of this website is the responsibility of the directors.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
A. Barr Company Secretary 27 March 2018 44 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018
