OTHER GOVERNANCE RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS USE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Details of the current Directors can be found on pages 38 and Information on the use of financial instruments can be found 39.
Although the Articles of the Trust provide for re-election in Note 22 on pages 85 to 91 of the Accounts.
every three years the Board has decided that all the Directors DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS INDEMNIFICATION will be subject to re-election every year.
The Trust provides insurance for legal action brought against The individual performance of each Director and their ongoing its Directors as a consequence of their position.
In addition suitability for election or re-election was considered and separate deeds of indemnity have been agreed with each endorsed by the Chairman and the Board.
All are recommended Director indemnifying them as permitted by company law.
for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Each of the Trusts The indemnity and insurance do not extend to cover claims Directors has confirmed that they remain committed to brought by the Trust itself which are upheld by the Courts, their role and have sufficient time available to meet what nor to criminal fines or penalties.
CHARITABLE DONATIONS DIRECTORS IN 2018 The Trust paid 50,000 to support the V&A Design Museum Name Designation Appointed in Dundee.
A further 200 was provided to fund prizes for Lord Smith Chairman 3 2 2016 students at Dundee university.
Anthony Brooke Non-Executive Director 24 6 2015 ACCESS TO ADVICE Clare Dobie Non-Executive Director 26 5 2016 All Directors have access to independent professional advice Chris Samuel Non-Executive Director 23 9 2015 if necessary.
Karl Sternberg Non-Executive Director 23 9 2015 RELATIONSHIP WITH SHAREHOLDERS Gregor Stewart Non-Executive Director 1 12 2014 All Directors normally attend the AGM where they have All the Directors served the full financial year and remained in the opportunity to meet shareholders.
Meetings also take office at the date of signing these Accounts.
place throughout the year with major and institutional shareholders and investment forums may be held where MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS other shareholders may attend.
As at 28 February 2019 the Trust had received the following INVESTMENT TRUST AND COMPANY STATUS notification from shareholders holding an interest in more than 3% of the voting rights of the ordinary shares in issue of Alliance Trust PLC is a public limited company limited by the Trust: shares.
HM Revenue & Customs has confirmed that Alliance Trust PLC has investment trust status for all Shareholder Nature of interest Number of shares financial periods from 1 January 2012.
DC Thomson & Shares 10,180,000 3.1% ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUND MANAGERS Company Limited DIRECTIVE THE DIRECTIVE The largest shareholder in the Trust is the nominee company On 1 April 2017 the Trust appointed Towers Watson Investment for Alliance Trust Savings which holds its shares on behalf of Management Ireland Limited as its alternative investment around 18,500 customers.
fund manager AIFM and Towers Watson Investment Fund Management Limited as its investment manager.
Shareholder Nature of interest Number of shares The Trust has appointed NatWest Trustee & Depositary Alliance Trust Savings Services Limited formerly National Westminster Bank plc Shares 113,982,435 34.2% Nominees Limited as its Depositary under the Directive for the purpose of strengthening the arrangements for the safe custody of assets.
Regulatory disclosures, including the Trusts Investor DIVIDENDS Disclosure Document, are provided on the Trusts website The dividend payable to shareholders on 1 April 2019 is at www.
Disclosures on Remuneration as disclosed on page 30. required under the Directive can also be found on our website.
| 56 Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018 I II DIRECTORS REPORT III IV INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT AGREEMENT IN RESPECT OF VOTING RIGHTS Under the terms of the Management Agreement with Towers There are no agreements in respect of voting rights.
Watson Investment Management Ireland Limited the AIFM, SHARE BUYBACK AUTHORITY the AIFM will be entitled to a management fee together with reimbursement of reasonable expenses incurred.
At the last AGM the shareholders renewed the authority for the repurchase of up to 14.99% of the issued shares and also The management fee of 10.9m 2017 10.1m equates to the authorised that shares repurchased may be held in Treasury.
sum of: These authorities fall to be renewed at the next AGM.
i 1.5m per annum increasing in line with UK Consumer The Trust made use of this provision during the course of Prices Index CPI each year plus 0.055% per annum of the year as detailed above.
The Trust will seek the renewal the market capitalisation of the Trust after deduction of of these authorities at the AGM.
a the value of non-core assets, b the value of the Trusts subsidiaries: and CONFLICTS OF INTEREST ii Such fees as are agreed from time to time by the Trust in The Directors have previously provided details of all interests respect of third-party managers.
Each of the third-party which potentially could cause a conflict of interest to arise.
managers is entitled to a base management fee rate, The unconflicted Directors in each case noted the declarations generally based on the value of assets under management.
by the Directors of their other interests and confirmed that No performance fees are payable.
at that time none of the interests disclosed was reasonably The AIFM is also entitled to receive the following payments: likely to give rise to a conflict.
An annual review of all interests was undertaken as part of the year-end process and this was i A fixed administration fee in respect of the provision of considered by the Board in February 2019.
Procedures are certain underlying administration services which is capped in place to allow Directors to request authority should it be at 0.92m per annum increasing each year in line with the required outwith the normal Board meeting schedule.
In 2018 this fee was 0.93m: and ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING ii Fees paid to the managers administrators of non-core assets of 0.4m 2017: 0.4m these have been paid In addition to formal business, there will be the opportunity directly by the Trust to the third parties.
for questions to be put to the Directors.
This year, in addition to the normal business there will be proposals to: The Management Agreement may be terminated by either party on not less than six months notice or, if terminated Approval of amended Directors Remuneration policy by the Trust earlier, upon the payment of compensation.
details on page 52 : The Management Agreement may also be terminated Approval of Investment Objective and Policy details on earlier by either party with immediate effect and without page 6 : compensation on the occurrence of certain events.
On termination the AIFM is entitled to receive its fees Renew the share buyback authority and requesting the pro rata to the date of termination.
power to hold shares purchased under that authority to be held in Treasury or cancelled with power to reintroduce any DIRECTOR DEVELOPMENT shares held in Treasury to the market but not at a discount Every Director on appointment receives an individually to Net Asset Value: and tailored induction.
The Board as a whole received updates Confirm the notice period for convening general meetings on relevant topics.
other than Annual General Meetings.
SHARE CAPITAL AND WAIVER OF DIVIDENDS After the formal meeting we expect to have presentations from two of our stock pickers, Andrew Wellington of The Trusts issued share capital as at 31 December 2018 Lyrical Asset Management and Rob Rohn of Sustainable comprised 333,626,020 Ordinary 2.5p shares of which Growth Advisers.
407,316 have been acquired by the Trustee of an Employee Benefit Trust the Trustee with funds provided by the Trust in connection with former employee share plans.
The Trustee has elected to waive all dividends payable in respect of those shares.
The Trustee holds a further 98,002 shares deposited by recipients of awards under the LTIP.
Each Ordinary share of the Trust is entitled to one vote but the Trustee does not vote in respect of the shares held by it on behalf of the Trust.
In the course of the year the Trust acquired and cancelled 13,966,136 shares at a cost of 101.8m.
There are no preference shares or shares held in Treasury.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018 57 OTHER GOVERNANCE CONTINUED TOTAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS DATA The Trusts operational environmental impact relates to reporting emissions.
The Trusts carbon footprint has been offices occupied by the Trust and Alliance Trust Savings and calculated based on the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting to travel undertaken by employees.
Although Alliance Trust and Reporting Standard.
An operational control approach Savings does not fall to be consolidated in the financial has been adopted.
The emissions reported below have been statements it is wholly owned by the Trust and is therefore verified by Carbon Footprint Limited.
Details of our verification regarded as under the Trusts control for the purposes of statements are available on the Trusts website.
Year to Year to Year to Year to % Change Tonnes CO2e 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 year-on-year Natural gas Refrigerant loss 163 131 136 126 -7 Scope 1 Company cars Scope 2 Location based 422 379 326 257 -21 Purchased electricity Scope 2 Market based 54 37 207 144 -31 Downstream leased assets Scope 3 247 205 171 112 -35 Business travel Total all Scopes 832 715 633 495 -22 Total Scope 1 2 location based 585 510 462 381 -18 Total Scope 1 2 per full employee equivalent FTE 2.4 2.0 1.4 1.2 -14 All figures in the above table have been restated to reflect the sale of Alliance Trust Investments in 2017.
REPORT OF DIRECTORS AND RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT The Report of the Directors, including the Directors responsibility statement on pages 40 to 49, the going concern statement on page 50, the indications of future developments contained on pages 6 to 8 of the Strategic Report and pages 56 to 58 of the Annual Report and Accounts, has been approved by the Board.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company: the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman 28 February 2019 | 58 Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018
