CORPORATE GOVERNANCE We report here on how the Board runs your Trust.
In addition to the investment management and operational arrangements of the Trust, the Board and the Audit and Risk Committee also have oversight of the performance of the operating subsidiary Alliance Trust Savings.
The terms of reference of the two standing Committees Remuneration and Audit and Risk can be found on our website www.
co. uk The Trust has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance issued in July 2016 except that due to the outsourced investment and administration model and appropriate reporting from WTWs Risk and Compliance functions the Board feels that there is no requirement for an internal audit function.
We report on pages 45 to 49 the checks and controls that we have in place and on pages 56 to 58 the disclosures required under Rule 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
This report will describe how the Board applies the 21 principles of the AIC Code in practice.
Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman Principle 1.
The chairman should be independent.
Lord Smith was appointed in February 2016.
He had no previous involvement with the Trust and the Board considers that Lord Smith is, and has been since his appointment, an independent Non-Executive Director.
A majority of the Board should be As at 31 December 2018 the Board comprised six independent Non-Executive independent of the manager.
All of the Board are independent of executive management and are wholly independent of the Trusts investment manager and of the underlying stock pickers.
WTW has appointed Jupiter Asset Management as one of the underlying stock pickers.
Karl Sternberg is a director of Jupiter Fund Management PLC.
However, the engagement and removal of the stock pickers is discretionary on the part of WTW and the Board considers that this does not impact on Karl Sternbergs independence.
Directors should be submitted for Each Director is subject to annual re-election by shareholders at the Trusts re-election at regular intervals.
Directors are submitted for re-election only if the Board considers that for re-election should not be assumed but they continue to be independent, contribute effectively to the work of the be based on disclosed procedures and Board and have confirmed that they have sufficient time to devote to the continued satisfactory performance.
When coming to this conclusion, the Board considered the nature and scope of the Directors appointments e. g. the complexity of the business concerns and the appointment.
The Board should have a policy on tenure, New Directors are appointed with an expectation that the Directors term which is disclosed in the annual report.
of appointment shall normally be for the period commencing with his or her appointment to the Board and ending on the seventh AGM of the Trust following appointment.
Following that term the Director may be appointed for a further term of between one and three years.
Each Director is however required to stand for re-election each year and their appointment will terminate should they not be re-elected by the shareholders.
There should be full disclosure of Details of the Directors are set out on pages 38 and 39.
The Directors have information about the Board.
a broad range of investment, professional and commercial expertise and experience, gained overseas as well as in the United Kingdom.
| 42 Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018 I II DIRECTORS REPORT III IV Principle 6.
The Board should aim to have a balance The Board considers that it has achieved this aim.
Brief biographical details of skills, experience, length of service and of each Director are set out on pages 38 and 39 and the Boards policy on knowledge of the Company.
diversity can be found on page 40.
The longest serving Director was appointed in December 2014 with the other Directors having been appointed between June 2015 and May 2016.
The Board will take this into consideration in its succession planning and when taking steps to address the gender balance on the Board.
The Board should undertake a formal The external review of the Board and its Committees effectiveness is and rigorous annual evaluation of its own reported on in more detail on page 41. performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
Director remuneration should reflect their The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 55 details the process duties, responsibilities and the value of their for determining the Directors remuneration and sets out the amounts time spent.
After the year end the Remuneration Committee agreed to reduce the fees paid to the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee reflecting the ongoing simplification of the Trust.
The independent directors should take the The Board, which is wholly independent, oversees any recruitment process lead in the appointment of new directors and this will normally include the use of a firm of recruitment consultants.
All and the process should be disclosed in the of the Directors will have the opportunity to input into the process.
Independent Director will lead the process of selecting a new Chairman.
Directors should be offered relevant training Directors newly appointed to the Board are provided with an introductory and induction.
programme covering the Trusts strategy, policies and operations, including those outsourced to third parties.
Thereafter, Directors are given, on an ongoing basis, key information on the Trusts investment portfolio, financial position, internal controls and details of the Trusts regulatory and statutory obligations and changes thereto.
The Chairman and the Board should be This principle does not apply to the Trust, being a long-established investment brought into the process of structuring a trust.
new launch at an early stage.
Boards and managers should operate The Board is scheduled to meet on four occasions during the year with in a supportive, co-operative and open representatives from WTW present for each meeting.
All the Directors have environment.
made themselves available throughout the year for additional meetings both as a Board or Committee but also with members of the Executive function, WTW, the managers and other service providers.
Gregor Stewart has been appointed the Director responsible for engaging with the Executive function on behalf of the Board.
The primary focus at regular Board WTW monitors investment performance and all associated matters on an meetings should be a review of investment ongoing basis and presents regular reports to the Board both at formal performance and associated matters such meetings and during the interval between meetings.
At each meeting presentations are given and reports made covering investment performance, as gearing, asset allocation, marketing investor relations, peer group information asset allocation and gearing.
The Executive function supports the Board in relation to marketing and investor relations which are also considered at and industry issues.
Boards should give sufficient attention to The Board undertook a significant review of the Trusts operations and strategy overall strategy.
in 2016 and implemented major changes in 2017 and 2018.
The Board agreed the sale, subject to regulatory approval, of Alliance Trust Savings and sold a number of its remaining non-core investments in 2018.
The Board continues to keep its strategy under review and, where appropriate, will make changes where this serves to simplify the operation of the Trust or reduce cost without impacting on investment performance or the focus on global equities.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018 43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Principle 15.
The Board should regularly review both The Board reviews the performance of the investment manager in terms of the performance of, and contractual both investment performance and cost on a regular basis against agreed arrangements with, the manager or service levels.
In 2018, the externally facilitated Board evaluation process executives of a self-managed company.
also included a review of WTW.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the performance and the contractual arrangements of the Executive function.
The Board should agree policies with the The Board has set out in its agreement with WTW certain key operational manager covering key operational issues.
controls through a Service Level Agreement and Key Performance Indicators.
WTW in turn sets out how the managers may make their investments as set out on page 9.
Boards should monitor the level of the share The Board uses its corporate broker to monitor the share price and the price discount or premium if any and, if discount to Net Asset Value NAV on a daily basis.
The Board makes use desirable, take action to reduce it.
where appropriate of its share buyback authority to purchase shares at a discount in order to add to the NAV per share and to support management of the discount to NAV.
The Board should monitor and evaluate The Executive function supports the Board in their monitoring and other service providers.
evaluation of the performance of the Trusts various service providers.
The Board receives reports on the performance of significant service providers from the Executive function and WTW together with internal control assurance reports from material suppliers including WTW.
Regular review meetings are held with significant suppliers.
The Board should regularly monitor the The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that there is effective communication shareholder profile of the Company and put with the Trusts shareholders.
The shareholder register is monitored and in place a system for canvassing shareholder analysed and there is a programme for meeting or speaking to significant views and for communicating the Boards investors and private client stockbrokers, wealth managers and advisers.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee is available to discuss remuneration matters.
The Trust encourages attendance at its AGM as a forum for communication with individual shareholders and this year also held investor forums to supplement the information and videos available on the Trusts website www.
co. uk The Directors may be contacted through the Company Secretary at the address shown on page 99.
The Board should normally take responsibility The Board has a process under which all material corporate communications for, and have a direct involvement in, the and significant changes to the Trusts website are approved by at least one content of communications regarding major Director and a member of the Executive function.
Such communications corporate issues even if the manager is would normally be made by the Trust and not the investment manager.
asked to act as spokesman.
The Board should ensure that shareholders The Board seeks to communicate effectively with its shareholders.
are provided with sufficient information The Annual Report and Accounts, Interim Report, quarterly newsletters for them to understand the risk: reward and monthly factsheets are issued to all shareholders who request a copy.
balance to which they are exposed by The Investor Disclosure Document is also available on our website holding the shares.
co. uk Through its subsidiary Alliance Trust Savings, the Board affords each of Alliance Trust Savings customers who holds shares in the Trust the opportunity to attend and vote at the AGM and to be treated, so far as possible, as shareholders in their own name.
It has been agreed that Interactive Investor will continue to facilitate the attendance and voting of Trusts shareholders after the completion of the sale of Alliance Trust Savings.
All this information is readily accessible on the Trusts website.
| 44 Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018
