I II DIRECTORS REPORT III IV AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE In this section we provide information on the main areas focused on by the Audit and Risk Committee over the year.
The Committee plays a significant role in ensuring that the Trusts financial statements are properly prepared and that the systems of internal controls in place are effective and appropriate.
The Committee monitors how effectively risk is managed and reviews and challenges the appropriateness of the Trusts Risk Appetite, its application and the investment managers assessment of the risk outlook for the portfolio.
We provide more detail on these matters on the next pages.
The key areas of focus and the decisions taken during the year are summarised in the table below.
Gregor Stewart Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee Areas of focus in 2018 Risk Appetite The Committee considered and updated its risk appetite and this is reported on in more detail on pages 32 to 34.
Investment Risk The Committee reviewed the level of risk being run by the investment manager including breakdowns by region, industry and style.
It also considered the level of active risk being adopted across the portfolio and the source of that risk.
The impact on the risk performance of the individual stock pickers was considered as well as the risk performance of the portfolio as a whole.
Regulatory The Committee reviewed a number of items required to ensure the Trusts regulatory compliance.
Compliance These included the consolidated Group Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP and the consolidated Group Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process ILAAP which involved analysing the risks to the business and the level of capital required to reflect those risks and the way in which any liquidity concerns would be addressed.
The Committee also reviewed the steps taken to ensure compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation and the impact of MiFID II on the Trust, WTW and its managers.
Internal and The Committee considered both its internal and external audit requirements.
Due to the Trusts External Auditors outsourcing its investment and administrative arrangements, the Committee concluded that there was no need for an internal audit function.
The Committee evaluated, and was satisfied with, the performance of the external auditor.
Audit Tender As reported in last years Annual Report, a decision had been taken to conduct a tender for the role of External Auditor with a view to a recommendation being made to the AGM to be held in April 2019.
Due to the scope of future audit work being uncertain, due to the sale of Alliance Trust Savings, it was agreed that the audit tender would be deferred and that any recommendation to shareholders for appointment would be made to the AGM in 2020 in respect of the financial year ending 31 December 2020.
The current external auditors, Deloitte, would be invited to participate and it is intended that the tender process will include firms outwith the Big 4 accountancy practices.
Valuation The valuation methodology used to value the investments in the subsidiaries, mineral rights and of Unlisted private equity investments can be found in Note 22.9 on pages 89 to 91.
Alliance Trust Savings and Investments the Trusts office building at 8 West Marketgait, Dundee were valued by the Directors at the prices which had been agreed with Interactive Investor adjusted for transaction costs and an assessment of indemnity provisions.
Review of Annual The Committee considered the content of the Interim Accounts and the Annual Report and Accounts and Interim of the Trust before recommending approval to the Board.
The Committee concluded that the Trusts Accounts accounts were fair, balanced and understandable.
Alliance Trust The Committee received quarterly reports from the Chief Risk Officer of Alliance Trust Savings on its risk Savings and compliance environment and, in particular, on regulatory compliance and customer service issues.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018 45 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE CONTINUED Areas of focus in 2018 continued Outsourcing The Committee considered at each meeting papers setting out how financial controls and risk were managed by WTW and the other outsourced providers.
Brexit The Committee considered reports from WTW on the impact of the UK leaving the EU on the Trust, WTW and the managers.
This included considering a contingency plan in the event that the Trust is not able to retain the services of its Irish Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM following Brexit.
Towers Watson Investment Management Ireland Limited TWIMI has approval from the Financial Conduct Authority FCA to continue to act as the AIFM for the Trust under FCAs Temporary Permissions Regime TPR.
We are also in discussion with Towers Watson Investment Management Limited TWIM, the Trusts Investment Manager with a view to TWIM becoming the AIFM for the Trust before the TPR comes to an end.
TWIM has confirmed that it has submitted an application to the FCA to vary its permissions to enable it to act as AIFM.
TWIM is expecting a decision from the FCA in March.
INTERNAL CONTROLS The Board has an ongoing process for the identification, evaluation and During 2018, the Audit and Risk Committee management of the significant risks faced by the Group.
It helps the Board challenged the risk appetite postures to carry out a robust assessment of the principal risks to the Trust, and and internal controls put in place by the assist its review of the internal controls that are in place to ensure they Trust and its various service providers.
are designed effectively to facilitate operations as well as ensure: This included consideration of whether any risk appetite levels approved by the Board The assets of the Group are safeguarded: had been breached.
Proper financial and accounting records are maintained: and After the year end the Committee received The financial information used for reporting to stakeholders is reliable.
WTWs report on the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems: The Committee receives regular reports from the Chief Risk Officer of Alliance including an Independent Service Auditors Trust Savings, so that the impact of risks affecting that business can be taken Assurance Report ISAE 3402 Type 2 on into consideration when managing the risks affecting the Trust.
The Board Internal Controls prepared by KPMG LLP.
separately receives regular reports from the Chief Executive Officer of Alliance The Committee also received reports from Trust Savings.
The performance of the Committee was considered as part of WTW in relation to administration services the Board evaluation which is reported on page 41. provided by WTW and by its delegate, the Administrator.
BOARD Responsible for determining the risk appetite level the Group is willing to take to meet its strategic objectives.
Oversight of the Groups risk management framework and internal control systems.
AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE Regular review of all material financial, operational and compliance controls, including their effectiveness.
| 46 Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018 I II DIRECTORS REPORT III IV INTERNAL CONTROLS GOVERNANCE The Chairman of the Committee is the Trusts designated by stress-testing analysis on the Trusts risk parameters and financial expert on the Committee.
The Trust appointed WTW on 1 April 2017 and since that date WTWs Compliance team also reports on a quarterly basis to has relied on the internal controls systems put in place by WTW.
the Audit and Risk Committee on compliance issues affecting WTW and the Trust.
The Audit and Risk Committee reviews reports on a regular basis from WTWs risk management and compliance In addition to the reports from WTW, the Audit and Risk functions which set out its risk management responsibilities Committee receives and considers a quarterly Risk and under the Three Lines of Defence model, as follows: Compliance report from the Trusts Executive function which highlights any breaches of the Trusts risk appetite measures.
Line management and staff in business units maintain effective controls on a day-to-day process: Alliance Trust Savings continues to operate a three lines of defence model.
The Internal Audit function, which is 2.
Risk team in the risk management function facilitates and outsourced, provides independent assurance arrangements, monitors the implementation of risk management policies including execution of responsibilities to ensure an effective and processes and monitors adherence to regulation: and risk and control environment.
This is executed through the 3.
Other independent assurance functions Depositary Internal Audit programme which adopts a risk-based audit functions which provide external and or independent approach to provide a regular review of key processes and challenge.
The Alliance Trust Savings Chief Risk Officer reports to the Audit and Risk Committee on a quarterly basis.
The WTW performs operational due diligence on the managers Chief Executive Officer of Alliance Trust Savings also reports to and reports to the Audit and Risk Committee on a quarterly the Board on a quarterly basis.
basis on a Risk Profile Snapshot of the portfolio supported Depositary Agreement Depositary Alliance Trust PLC NatWest Trustee & Depositary Services Limited AIFM Agreement Manager Towers Watson Investment Management Custodian Ireland Limited The Bank of New York Mellon, London branch Discretionary IMA Investment Manager Administration Towers Watson Investment Management Limited Administrator Agreement The Bank of New York Mellon International Ltd Alliance Trust Portfolio Managers Black Creek, FPA, GQG, Jupiter, Lyrical, River and Mercantile, Sustainable Growth Advisers, Veritas Assets | Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018 47 Sub-IMAs AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE CONTINUED DEPOSITARY INTERNAL CONTROLS OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING Until 29 October 2018, the Trust had appointed National One of the risks to the Group is Financial and Prudential Westminster Bank plc as its Depositary.
With effect from Reporting the risk of misstatement of the accounts or the 29 October 2018, NatWest Trustee & Depositary Services accounting policies and ineffective controls over financial and Limited replaced the National Westminster Bank plc as regulatory reporting.
The Depositary is responsible for: As part of the outsourcing arrangements with WTW, the The safekeeping of all custodial assets of the Trust: financial reporting process is managed by WTW, which has delegated certain accounting responsibilities to The Bank Ensuring its cash flows are properly monitored: of New York Mellon.
WTW performs full oversight over the Verifying and maintaining a record of all other assets of activities of The Bank of New York Mellon and reports to the the Trust: and Trust on a quarterly basis.
The collection of income that arises from the Trusts assets.
This risk and the mitigating controls are assessed regularly by the Executive function.
Controls over the preparation of the It is the duty of the Depositary to take reasonable care to financial statements include, but are not limited to: ensure that the Trust is managed in accordance with the FCA A formal review and sign-off of the annual accounts by FUND Sourcebook, the Trusts Articles of Association and the WTW including verification of any statements made: AIFM Directive.
The change in Depositary made during the year resulted from Adoption and review of appropriate accounting policies by changes being made within the Royal Bank of Scotland plc the Board: and group as a result of ring-fencing legislation, which required Review and approval of accounting estimates by the Board.
UK banks to separate banking services from investment banking from 1 January 2019.
The Custodian appointed by the The Audit and Risk Committee also considered whether Depositary also changed with effect from 29 October 2018 the Annual Report, taken as a whole, was fair, balanced and from The Bank of New York Mellon, SA NV, London branch to understandable, and provides the information necessary for The Bank of New York Mellon, London branch.
This change shareholders to assess the Trusts performance, business was made as a result of a global re-organisation within the model and strategy.
In arriving at its conclusion that the Custodians group.
Annual Report satisfied this standard the Committee took into account the process adopted in the preparation of the ANNUAL REVIEW OF INTERNAL CONTROLS AND document which included: FINDINGS The establishment of a working group of the Board and Any system of risk management and internal control is members of the Executive function and WTW to review designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of drafts prior to consideration by the Committee: failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only Verification of all factual statements contained within reasonable and not absolute assurance against regulatory the narrative section of the Annual Report, with evidence breaches, material misstatement or loss.
required from the author: The Audit and Risk Committee conducts an annual review Statements which cannot be verified typically opinions on the effectiveness of the risk management framework and or forward-looking statements specifically brought to the internal control systems in place to mitigate any significant Committees attention: and risks.
The findings of this review are communicated to the Board and actions proposed for the future are approved.
The Board recognises that the environment in which the The Committee considered the steps outlined above and the Trust operates is complex and constantly evolving.
The Board content of the document.
The Committee was satisfied, taking supports the ongoing development of the risk management care to ensure that the narrative parts of the Annual Report tools which are in place to enhance the control environment were consistent with the numerical disclosures in the audited of the business and to ensure the business continues to accounts, that the Annual Report satisfied the required standard, be well positioned to comply with operational and regulatory and recommended approval to the Board.
The Board of Alliance Trust Savings carries out the INDEPENDENCE OF AUDITOR same function in relation to Alliance Trust Savings.
The Committees policy is to allow the audit firm to be The 2018 assessment and internal controls assurance reports instructed to undertake non-audit work only where there did not highlight any significant weaknesses or failings in the is no threat to independence.
Any assignment must be risk management framework and internal control systems.
approved on behalf of the Committee by its Chairman.
In 2018 the only non-audit work carried out by the Auditor was in relation to the Interim Report for which a fee of 5,445 was paid.
| 48 Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018 I II DIRECTORS REPORT III IV Each year the Committee considers the independence DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITOR of the Auditor.
It has done so this year and confirms the The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Auditors independence.
Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, During the year the Committee had a private meeting with there is no relevant audit information of which the Auditor is the Auditor.
unaware: and each Director has taken all steps they ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any EFFECTIVENESS OF AUDIT PROCESS relevant audit information and to establish that the Auditor is aware of that information.
During the course of the year the audit engagement partner and other members of the engagement team met DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT the Committee Chairman and members of the Executive function.
These meetings provide an opportunity for The Directors are responsible for preparing the financial matters relating to the conduct of the audit, including statements in accordance with applicable law and the performance of the External Auditor, to be raised and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare addressed at the time.
financial statements for each financial period.
By law, the Directors are required to prepare the group financial Following completion of the external audit of the financial statements in accordance with International Financial statements for the period ended 31 December 2017, Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European an evaluation of the External Auditors effectiveness was Union EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have undertaken.
The Committee concluded that it was generally elected to prepare the parent company financial statements satisfied with the performance of the External Auditor.
under IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
APPOINTMENT OF AUDITOR The financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position Following a tender, Deloitte LLP was appointed after approval of the Trust and the performance for that period: the of the members at the 2011 AGM.
Deloitte LLP has been Companies Act 2006 provides, in relation to such financial reappointed at subsequent AGMs and is proposed for statements, that references in the relevant part of that Act to reappointment at our AGM in April 2019.
The recommendation financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to reappoint Deloitte LLP is not automatic and this year is to their achieving a fair presentation.
as a result of the deferral of the audit tender approach.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are In our Annual Report last year we indicated that we would be required to: undertaking an audit tender with approval for the appointment of the preferred firm being sought from shareholders at the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them AGM to be held in 2019.
As the Board took a decision to sell consistently: Alliance Trust Savings part of the way through the year the present information, including accounting policies, in a Board agreed to halt the process and defer consideration for a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and further 12 months.
In taking this decision the Board considered understandable information: that the role of External Auditor would change significantly not just through the sale of Alliance Trust Savings, although provide additional disclosures when compliance with the that was the main factor, but through the other actions being specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable taken to further simplify the Trust and dispose of its non-core users to understand the impact of particular transactions, unlisted assets.
The intention is that a recommendation will other events and conditions on the entitys financial position be made to the shareholders at the AGM to be convened in and financial performance: and 2020 for the audit of the financial year ending 31 December make an assessment of the Trusts ability to continue as a 2020.
It is intended that audit firms outside the Big 4 audit going concern.
firms will be invited to participate in the process.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting In the course of the year the Chairman of the Committee has records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any met the Auditor outwith the formal structure of Committee time the financial position of the Trust and to enable them meetings.
The Committee has considered the performance to ensure that its financial statements comply with the of the Auditor and is satisfied with the rigour that it applies to Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility the audit process and has recommended the reappointment for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to of Deloitte LLP for a further year.
The current audit partner is safeguard the assets of the Trust and to prevent and detect Andrew Partridge who has been our audit partner since April 2016. fraud and other irregularities.
The Trust confirms its compliance with the provisions of Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market responsible for preparing a Directors Report and a Strategic Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes Report that complies with that law and those regulations.
and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 for the year to 31 December 2018.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018 49
