GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS DIRECTORS Appointed to the Board on 1 September 2017 and as Chairman on 1 November 2017 SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE parent company Nippon Sheet Glass until 2010, in Stuart contributes to Anglo American significant anumber of executive roles and ultimately as chief executive of both companies.
Prior to that, Stuart globalexecutive and boardroom experience across theindustrial, logistics and consumer sectors.
gained 10 years of sales and marketing experience atMars Corporation, following 10 years at Shell.
Stuart previously served as chairman of ARM Holdings plc and Rexam plc until 2016: and as a non-executive CURRENT EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS Chairman and a non-executive director at Travis director on the boards of Tesco plc 2010-2015, Manchester Airport Group plc 2010-2013, Smiths Perkins PLC, and a member of the UK Takeover Panel.
Group plc 2006-2012 and Associated British Ports N S Stuart Chambers 62 Holdings plc 2002-2006.
His executive career Chairman included 13 years at Pilkington plc and its subsequent BSc Appointed to the Board as Chief Executive on 3 April 2013 SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE Before joining AngloGold Ashanti, Mark was COO at Mark contributes to Anglo American over 40 years Vale Inco, where he was responsible for Vales global experience of the mining industry across a wide nickel business.
Prior to this he held senior executive rangeof geographies and commodities.
positions with the Normandy Group, Sons of Gwalia, Western Mining Corporation, Kalgoorlie Consolidated Mark is chairman of the Group Management Gold Mines and CRA Rio Tinto.
Committee GMC, and a member of the Corporate CURRENT EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS and Operational committees.
He is a non-executive director of Anglo American Platinum, chairman of Independent director of Total S. A. and a member Anglo American South Africa and chairman of oftheboard of trustees of The Power of Nutrition.
Mark was previously CEO of AngloGold Chief Executive Ashanti Limited, a position he held from 2007-2013.
BE Mining-Hons, FAusIMM, CEngFIMMM, DBA Hon, DoL Hon Appointed to the Board as Finance Director on 24 April 2017 SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE an executive director of Fortescue Metals Group Stephen contributes to Anglo American more than from 2010-2016.
Prior to that, he held the positions 16years of public company director experience and of managing director and CEO of Southern Cross over 30years of financial and commercial experience Electrical Engineering Ltd and was CFO of Alinta Ltd. inthemining, oil and gas, and utilities industries.
He is a former non-executive director of Cedar Woods Properties Ltd. Stephen joined Anglo American in January 2017.
He is a member of the GMC, and chairman of the Corporate CURRENT EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS and Investment committees.
He is also a non-executive None director of Kumba Iron Ore, Anglo American Platinum, Stephen Pearce 54 Anglo American South Africa and fide Beers.
Before Finance Director joining Anglo American, Stephen served as CFO and BBus Acc, FCA, GIA, MAICD 74 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Governance COMMITTEE MEMBER KEY Audit Committee Sustainability Committee Nomination Committee Chair of Committee Remuneration Committee Member of Committee Appointed to the Board as Technical Director on 22 July 2015 SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE Platinum and fide Beers.
Tony was previously EVP Tony contributes to Anglo American 38 years Business and Technical Development at AngloGold Ashanti from 2008, where he served as joint acting experience in the mining industry across numerous geographies, and commodities spanning iron ore, CEO during 2013. copper, nickel and gold.
His extensive career in the mining industry Tony joined Anglo American in 2013 and has includesroles as Operations Executive at Newcrest Mining andHead of the Gold business at Western responsibility for the Groups Technical and Sustainability function.
He is a member of the GMC, Mining Corporation.
chairman of the Operational Committee, and a S CURRENT EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS Tony ONeill 61 member of the Corporate and Investment committees.
None Technical Director He is also a non-executive director of Anglo American MBA, BASc Eng Appointed to the Board on 19 April 2013 and as Senior Independent Director on 1 January 2019.
SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE CURRENT EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS Byron contributes to Anglo American broad business, Vice chairman of the supervisory board of Akzo financial and board experience in numerous NobelNV and a non-executive director of Standard geographies.
Chartered PLC and Tesco PLC.
A member of the European Audit Committee Leadership Network and Byron has extensive management experience across an emeritus member of the Cornell University Johnson the oil and gas industry.
He served on the BP plc Advisory Council.
boardfrom 2000 until 2013 and was BPs chief financial officer during much of that period.
He was previously a non-executive director of Unilever NV A N R Byron Grote 70 andUnilever PLC.
Senior Independent Director PhD Quantitative Analysis Appointed to the Board on 25 July 2017 SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE He began his 38-year mining career as an underground Ian contributes to Anglo American substantial miner at the Mount Isa Mines base metals operations in knowledge ofthe minerals industry across a wide Queensland, Australia.
Ian has previously served as range of commodities, combined with global operating, chairman of Petropavlovsk PLC, as a non-executive major projects and capital development experience.
director of Alderon Iron Ore Corp, Nevsun Resources He will succeed Jack Thompson as chairman of the Ltd. New World Resources PLC and Genco Shipping & Sustainability Committee on 30 April 2019.
Trading, and in an advisory capacity with Apollo Global Management and Temasek.
Ian served as president of Iron Ore for BHP Billiton between 2006 and 2012, when he retired from the CURRENT EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS N R Ian Ashby 61 S company.
During his 25-year tenure with BHP Billiton, None Non-executive director Ian held numerous roles in its iron ore, base metals and gold businesses in Australia, the US and Chile, as well B Eng Mining as project roles in the corporate office.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 75 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS DIRECTORS CONTINUED Appointed to the Board on 24 April 2017 SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE Nolitha has previously served as deputy chair Nolitha contributes to Anglo American significant ofSouthAfrican Airways, deputy chair and lead management experience in various functional independent director of Datacentrix Holdings Limited, and as a non-executive director of Harmony Gold and leadership roles across the oil and energy, chemicals, financial services and retail industries.
Until 2016, Nolitha served as an executive director at CURRENT EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS Sasol Limited and as EVP of strategy and sustainability, Non-executive director of the JSE Limited and following an 11-year career with the company where AfricanOxygen Limited AFROX, and a Patron she held executive roles in human resources and ofGuild Cottage home for girls.
Prior to that she held senior Non-executive director management positions in corporate affairs, strategy and operations in the retail and financial sectors.
BA Hons Appointed to the Board on 8 July 2013 SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE CURRENT EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS Mphu is a highly experienced leader who contributes Executive vice president of HIV AIDS and toAnglo American a broad range of global health  for the Clinton Health expertise at board level across both the public Access Initiative, and a member of the board of andprivate sectors.
directors of Living Goods, a non-profit organisation.
Mphu served as Minister of Health and Social Welfare of Lesotho between 2007 and 2012.
In this role, she championed Lesothos significant achievements in reducing the transmission of HIV from mother to child.
S Dr Mphu Ramatlapeng 66 Across her career, she has been a leading advocate Non-executive director forwomen in business, including serving as founding board member of Women in Business in Lesotho.
MD, MHSc Appointed to the Board on 4 November 2013 SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE responsibility for investments in the mining and Jim has over 25 years experience in investment metalsindustry.
Prior to joining Capital Group, Jim was banking and investment management.
He has an investment analyst covering the South American extensive international experience, and contributes mining and metals industry for HSBC James Capel in to theBoard considerable financial insight from New York.
theperspective of the capital markets and a deep CURRENT EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS understanding of the mining industry.
Independent director of the Tantallon India Fund.
Until September 2018, Jim served as chairman of Dalradian Resources Inc.
Between 1997 and 2013, A R S Jim Rutherford 59 hewas a senior vice president of Capital International Non-executive director Investors, a division of Capital Group, and had BSc Econ, MA Econ 76 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Governance COMMITTEE MEMBER KEY Audit Committee Sustainability Committee Nomination Committee Chair of Committee Remuneration Committee Member of Committee Appointed to the Board on 14 May 2012 SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE Americas at Ford Motor Company until 2006, the Anne contributes to the Board a wealth of experience culmination of her 16-year career with the company.
and wide-ranging commercial acumen from a Her early career was spent at Exxon Corporation, where she held roles in engineering, product numberof global industries in North, Centraland SouthAmerica.
development, and sales and marketing.
Anne is a former non-executive director of Lockheed Martin Anne served as chief executive of GKN plc from Corporation, GKN plc and XL Catlin.
She was formerly chairman and CEO of SA IT Services from 2011 until CURRENT EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS her retirement in December 2014.
From 2006 to 2009, None A N R Anne Stevens 70 Anne was chairman and CEO of Carpenter Technology Non-executive director Corporation.
Prior to this, she was COO for the BSc, PhD Appointed to the Board on 16 November 2009 SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE TidewaterInc.
Molycorp Inc. Centerra Gold Inc. Jack contributes to Anglo American a wealth of Century Aluminum Co. Phelps Dodge Corp. experience gained at all levels of the mining industry RinkerGroup Ltd and Stillwater Mining.
and extensive boardroom experience in both executive CURRENT EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS and non-executive roles.
He will step down from the A member of the board of directors of the non-profit Board at the AGM on 30 April 2019.
Jack has received wide recognition as a mining executive during a long and distinguished career in theindustry.
He was previously chairman and CEO N R S Jack Thompson 68 ofHomestake Mining Co. vice chairman of Barrick Non-executive director Gold Corp. and has served on the boards of BSc, PhD In addition, Sir Philip Hampton served as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, before stepping down from the Board on 31 December 2018 Sir Philip was appointed to the Board on 9 November finance director of Lloyds TSB Group plc, BT Group 2009 and as the Senior Independent Director on plc, BG Group plc, British Gas plc and British Steel plc, 24April 2014.
He brought to Anglo American an executive director of Lazards and a non-executive significant financial, strategic and boardroom director of RMC Group plc and Belgacom SA.
experience across a number of industries.
He is currently chairman of GlaxoSmithKline GSK plc and his previous appointments include being chairman of The Royal Bank of Scotland and J Sainsbury plc, Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 77
