Governance GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE DISCUSSIONS AND FOCUS AREAS IN 2018 Stuart Chambers Chairman The committee met three times during 2018.
Discussions Nomination Committee atthe meetings covered the responsibilities outlined above, with a particular focus on non-executive succession planning and committee membership.
The following matters were considered during 2018: The composition, structure and size of the Board and its committees, and the leadership needs of the organisation Refreshing the skills, diversity and experience matrix, incorporating geographic experience in the regions in which the Group operates and has major markets in, andthe future needs of the Board Recommending that the Board support the election or re-election of each of the directors standing at the AGM in COMMITTEE MEMBERS 2018.
The length of tenure of non-executive directors was Stuart Chambers Chairman taken into account when considering supporting their Byron Grote re-election, to ensure they remain independent and recognising the need to progressively refresh the Board Sir Philip Hampton resigned 31 December 2018 Anne Stevens The time commitment expected from each of the non-executive directors to meet the expectations of Jack Thompson theirrole Ian Ashby appointed on 1 January 2019 Committee membership changes for recommending Nolitha Fakude appointed on 1 January 2019 tothe Board in light of two longstanding non-executive For more on biographies and Board experience details directors, Sir Philip Hampton and Jack Thompson, See pages 74-77 stepping down from the Board The chief executive and the Group head of people and Successor chairs for the Remuneration and organisation also attend meetings of the committee.
 The appointment of Byron Grote as Sir Philip Hamptons ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES successor to the role of senior independent director Agreeing a skills, diversity and experience matrix for all The results of the 2017 and 2018 Board and committee directors with the approval of the Board to identify and evaluations and progress of action plans address any skills gaps when recruiting new directors.
Reviewing the committees terms of reference.
Making recommendations as to the composition of the Board and its committees and the balance between the The process used for Board recruitment is described on executive directors and non-executive directors in order to page 86 of this Report and the results of the externally maintain a diverse Board with the appropriate mix of skills, facilitated evaluation of the committee in 2018 are on experience, independence and knowledge.
With the assistance of external search consultants, identifying and reviewing, in detail, potential candidates available in the market and agreeing a longlist of candidates for each directorship.
Following further discussion and research, deciding upon a shortlist of candidates for interview.
Committee members interview the shortlisted candidates and make a recommendation to the Board.
Ensuring that the human resources function of the Group regularly reviews and updates the succession plans for the directors and senior managers.
These are presented to the Board by the chief executive in the absence of other executive directors and discussed.
The Committees terms of reference are available to view online.
For more information, visit www.
com about-us governance Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 91
