GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE Byron Grote A key requirement of our financial statements is for the Chairman report to be fair, balanced, understandable and provides the Audit Committee information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position, performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit Committee and the Board are satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts meet this requirement, as appropriate weight has been given to both positive and negative developments in the year.
In justifying this statement, the Audit Committee has considered the robust process which operates in creating the Annual Report and Accounts, including: Clear guidance and instruction is provided to allcontributors Revisions to regulatory reporting requirements are COMMITTEE MEMBERS provided to contributors and monitored on an ongoingbasis Byron Grote Chairman Nolitha Fakude Early-warning meetings are conducted between business unit management and the auditor in advance of the Sir Philip Hampton resigned 31 December 2018 year-end reporting process Jim Rutherford A thorough process of review, evaluation and verification Anne Stevens ofthe inputs from business units is undertaken to ensure Audit committee members deemed to have recent and accuracy and consistency relevant financial experience in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
External advisers provide advice to management and the Audit Committee on best practice with regard to creation The chairman, the chief executive, the finance director, the of the Annual Report and Accounts Groupfinancial controller, the head of financial reporting, the Group head of risk management and business A meeting of the Audit Committee was held in February assurance and the Group general counsel and company 2019 to review and approve the draft 2018 Annual Report secretary also participate in meetingsof the committee.
and Accounts in advance of the final sign-off by the Board.
This review included the significant accounting matters For more on biographies and Board experience details See pages 74-77 explained in the notes to the consolidated financial statements ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES The Audit Committee considered the conclusions of the external auditor over the key audit matters that contributed Monitoring the integrity of the annual and interim to their audit opinion, specifically impairments, taxation, financialstatements.
Making recommendations to the Board concerning the adoption of the annual and interim financial statements.
COMMITTEE DISCUSSIONS IN 2018 Overseeing the Groups relations with the external Throughout the course of 2018, the Audit Committee paid auditorand commencing the tender process of the particular attention to the valuation of assets, tax matters, external audit services.
the Groups liquidity position and payment of dividends.
The Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups committee monitored progress with the implementation of risk management and internal control mechanisms.
the Code of Conduct and reviewed the system of internal control and risk management.
Approving the terms of reference of the internal audit function and assessing its effectiveness.
An external evaluation of the committee was undertaken, the results of which are described on page 88.
Approving the internal audit plan and reviewing regular reports from the head of internal audit on effectiveness of The Audit Committee held four meetings in 2018, covering the internal control system.
the key topics set out on the following pages.
Receiving reports from management on the principal risksof the Group.
Details of the principal risks are contained on pages 44-47.
Overseeing completion of theViability Statement.
Overseeing work associated with embedding the Groups Code of Conduct.
The committees terms of reference are available to view online.
For more information, visit www.
com about-us governance 92 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Governance SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE AUDIT COMMITTEE IN RELATION TO THE GROUPS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RESPONSE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Impairment and impairment reversals of assets The committee exercises oversight over the impairment review process, The value of mining operations is sensitive to a range of characteristics including the identification of impairment and impairment reversal unique to each asset.
Management is required to apply judgement in the indicators, the review of changes in the valuation of cash-generating units estimation of Ore Reserves, and price and production forecasts which and associated sensitivity analysis.
During 2018, the most significant drive cash flow projections.
assets considered were the following: Minas-Rio The valuation of Minas-Rio continues to be in line with the carrying value, but is subject to uncertainty in relation to licensing, as well as being highly sensitive to changes in pricing assumptions.
The committee considered the impact of the pipeline leak, the status of the licensing process and various valuation scenarios presented by management.
It was concluded that no adjustment was required to the carrying value at this time.
Moranbah-Grosvenor Moranbah-Grosvenor was impaired by $1.25 billion in 2016, because of areduction in the Groups expected long-term metallurgical coal prices.
During 2018, the Grosvenor operation achieved improved operational results and, combined with an improved long-term outlook for metallurgical coal, there was sufficient evidence to support an impairment reversal.
After considering the sensitivity analysis presented by management, the committee concluded that a full reversal of the prior impairment should be recognised at the December 2018 year-end.
Capcoal Capcoal was impaired by $0.6 billion during 2015 because of a reduction in the Groups expected long-term metallurgical coal prices.
During 2018, the decision was taken to extend the life of the Grasstree underground operation by three years to the end of 2021 and, when combined with an improved long-term outlook for metallurgical coal, provides sufficient evidence to support an impairment reversal.
Other In addition to the assets noted above, an impairment charge of $0.1 billion was recorded following the decision to close the Voorspoed mine and, after careful consideration of the valuation drivers of Barro Alto, Dawson, El Soldado and Samancor, no other impairments or impairment reversals were recorded.
OTHER ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE AUDIT COMMITTEE IN RELATION TO THE GROUPS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RESPONSE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Payment of the dividend The committee reviewed the proposal for payment of the dividend, in Reviewing managements recommendation to the Board that the level accordance with the payout-ratio-driven dividend policy based on 40% ofdividend to be paid for the 2018 interim results announcement, based ofunderlying earnings.
on the payout-ratio-driven dividend policy.
Following discussion, the committee endorsed the proposal to pay an interim dividend for 2018, for final approval by the Board.
Legal matters The committee considered the status of these legal matters and A provision is recognised where, based on the Groups legal views and, concluded that various adjustments to write-off certain assets that had been previously considered recoverable and adjust certain provisions to insome cases, independent advice, it is considered probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle a present obligation that represent the best estimate of likely outcomes.
This requires the exercise of judgement.
These adjustments are not material and have been reported within The committee was updated by the Groups general counsel and company operating special items where they meet the relevant criteria.
secretary on the statusof legal matters over the course of the year.
Special items and remeasurements The committee reviewed each of the items classified as special items or The Groups criteria for recognising a special item or remeasurement remeasurements in the financial statements, and the related disclosures, involves the application of judgement in determining whether an item, to ensure that the separate disclosure of these items was appropriate.
owing to its size or nature, should be separately disclosed in the income statement.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 93 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE OTHER ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE AUDIT COMMITTEE IN RELATION TO THE GROUPS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RESPONSE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE New accounting standards The committee reviewed managements impact assessment of the The impact of new accounting standards, and any elections made in adoption of IFRS 16 Leases which will become effective in 2019.
The theirapplication, involves judgement to ensure their adoption is committee considered the disclosures in the notes to the financial managedappropriately.
statements prepared by management to explain the transition impact andconcluded that these were appropriate.
Going concern basis of accounting in preparing the The committee assessed the forecast levels of net debt, headroom on financial statements existing borrowing facilities and compliance with debt covenants.
This The ability of the Group to continue as a going concern depends upon analysis covered the period to 31 December 2020 and considered a continued access to sufficient financing facilities.
Judgement is required range of downside sensitivities, including the impact of lower commodity in the estimation of future cash flows and compliance with debt covenants prices and higher costs.
The committee concluded it was appropriate to in future years.
Retirement benefits The committee reviewed the changes in assumptions behind the The ability of the Group to recover surpluses within pension schemes calculations of the asset and liability positions of the Groups pension involves judgement.
The estimation of retirement benefits requires andmedical plans and concluded that the amounts recorded as at judgement over the estimation of scheme assets and liabilities.
Areas of 31December 2018 appropriately reflected these updates.
judgement include assumptions for discount and inflation rates, returns In addition, the committee reviewed the adequacy of the level of funding on assets and life expectancy.
Changes in the assumptions used would provided to the plans and the overall expense recognised for the year.
affect the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Thecommittee assessed the appropriateness of the Groups overall risk management approach to retirement benefits, and the Groups ability to recover surpluses within schemes in the UK and South Africa.
Provision for restoration, rehabilitation and The committee reviewed the update provided by management on environmental costs estimates of environmental and decommissioning liabilities, which are The estimation of environmental restoration and decommissioning based on the work of external consultants and internal experts.
The liabilities is inherently uncertain, given the long time periods over which committee considered the changes in assumptions and other drivers of these expenditures will be incurred, and the potential for changes in movements in the amounts provided on the balance sheet and concluded regulatory frameworks and industry practices over time.
that the provisions recorded as at 31 December 2018 appropriately reflected these updates.
Taxation The Group head of tax provided the committee with updates throughout The Groups tax affairs are governed by complex domestic tax the year on various tax matters, including the status of tax audits, tax legislations, international tax treaties between countries and the reporting, the current global tax environment and the ongoing entityinterpretation of both by tax authorities and courts.
Given the many simplification programme.
uncertainties that could arise from these factors, judgement is often In addition, the committee discussed the recoverability of the Groups required in determining the tax that is due.
deferred tax assets, in particular with respect to Minas-Rio, as well as the status of uncertain tax provisions.
While these matters are inherently judgemental, no significant issues arose during 2018.
OTHER ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE AUDIT COMMITTEE RESPONSE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Viability Statement The committee reviewed the time period over which the assessment is The Viability Statement, and the underlying process to analyse various made, along with the scenarios that are analysed, the potential financial scenarios that support the development of the Viability Statement, are consequences and assumptions made in the preparation of the found on pages 42-47. statement.
The committee concluded that the scenarios analysed were sufficiently severe but plausible and the time period of the Viability Statement was appropriate, given the alignment with the budgeting and strategy process.
Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves statements The committee reviewed the significant year-on-year changes, satisfying The year-on-year changes to Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves for itself that appropriate explanations existed.
The committee also operations and projects across the Group.
discussed issues and improvements in the process to estimate and report Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves including adoption of a new software platform and updated guidelines.
94 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Governance OTHER ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE AUDIT COMMITTEE RESPONSE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Internal audit work The committee received reports on the results of internal audit work, Reviewing the results of internal audit work and the 2019 plan.
satisfying itself that the 2018 plan was on track, and discussed areas where control improvement opportunities were identified.
The committee reviewed the progress in completion of agreed management actions.
The committee reviewed the proposed 2019 internal audit plan, assessing whether the plan addressed the key areas of risk for the business units and Group.
The committee approved the plan, having discussed the scope of work and its relationship to the Groups risks.
Risk management The committee assessed the Groups risk profile, in particular the The Groups risk profile and the process by which risks are identified and principal risks see pages 42-47.
The committee discussed the keyrisks, assessed.
the mitigation plans in place and the appropriate executive management responsibilities.
The committee also considered the process by which the risk profile is generated, the changes in risk definitions and how the risks aligned with the Groups risk appetite.
Following discussion and challenge, the risk profile was approved.
Code of Conduct The committee reviewed progress with the implementation of the Code The implementation of the Code of Conduct and specific actions to ofConduct that was rolled out across the Group in 2017.
The committee mitigate risk of bribery and corruption.
received updates on governance of the Code, ethical risk assessments performed and training provided.
The committee, along with all other Board members, participated in training provided to senior management.
The committee also assessed the work being conducted to mitigate the risk of bribery and corruption.
Specifically, the committee reviewed work toassess risk from use of intermediaries, approving plans to strengthen risk mitigation in this area.
The committee approved work plans associated with the Groups anti-bribery and corruption programme for 2019.
The committee received a report from an external law firm which had reviewed the Groups policy and programme to manage bribery risk.
The committee discussed the conclusions, recommendations and approved managements response to the recommendations intended to further strengthen the programme.
Various risk matters During the course of 2018, the committee reviewed work to mitigate The committee oversees the implementation of work to mitigate a variety cyber risk, data-protection risk, risks associated with the Quellaveco of key risks.
project, plus marketing and trading risks.
The committee evaluated the work being performed, progress made and provided challenge to satisfy itself that these risks were being adequately managed.
External audit The committee reviewed the preliminary planning report from Deloitte in Reviewing the results of extended audit work, evaluating the quality ofthe July 2018 and the final audit plan and fee were approved at the December external audit and consideration of management letter recomendations.
meeting, having given due consideration to the audit approach, materiality level and audit risks.
The committee received updates during the year on the audit process, including how the auditor had challenged the Groups assumptions on the issues noted in this report.
In February 2019, the committee reviewed the output of the external audit work that contributed to the auditors opinion.
The effectiveness, performance and integrity of the external audit process was evaluated through separate surveys for committee members and management impacted by the audit, including business unit chief financial officers and heads of functions.
The evaluation of the 2017 external audit concluded that the external auditor was independent, objective and effective in the delivery of the audit.
Service levels had remained largely constant in key areas compared with the previous year.
Results of the annual assessment were discussed with the external auditor who considered the themes for the 2018 audit approach, in particular with respect to greater focus on working with management through the audit planning process and in providing further insights to theAudit Committee during the year as the audit progresses.
The next evaluation of the quality of external audit will be performed in April 2019 with key themes incorporated into the 2019 audit planning cycle.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 95 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT ENSURING INDEPENDENCE OTHER SAFEGUARDS OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR The external auditor is required to adhere to a rotation Anglo Americans policy on auditors independence is policy based on best practice and professional standards consistent with the ethical standards published by the in the UK.
The standard period for rotation of the audit AuditPractices Board.
engagement partner is five years and, for any key audit partner, seven years.
The audit engagement partner, A key factor that may impair an auditors independence is a KariHale, was appointed in 2015, and will rotate off at the lack of control over non-audit services provided by the end of the 2019 audit in accordance with this requirement.
The external auditors independence is deemed to be impaired if the auditor provides a service that: Any partner designated as a key audit partner of AngloAmerican shall not be employed by Anglo American Results in the auditor acting as a manager or employee of in a key management position unless a period of at least the Group two years has elapsed since the conclusion of the last Puts the auditor in the role of advocate for the Group relevant audit.
Creates a mutuality of interest between the auditor and The external auditor is required to assess periodically theGroup.
whether, in their professional judgement, they are independent of the Group.
Anglo American addresses this issue through three primary measures, namely: The Audit Committee ensures that the scope of the auditors work is sufficient and that the auditor is Disclosure of the extent and nature of non-audit services fairlyremunerated.
The prohibition of selected services this includes the The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for undertaking of internal audit services making recommendations to the Board on the Prior approval by the Audit Committee chairman of appointment, re-appointment and removal of the non-audit services where the cost of the proposed service externalauditor.
The Audit Committee has the authority to engage Anglo Americans policy on the provision of non-audit independent counsel and other advisers as they services is regularly reviewed.
determinenecessary to resolve issues on the auditors independence.
The definition of prohibited non-audit services corresponds with the European Commissions recommendations on the An annual assessment is undertaken of the auditors auditors independence and with the Ethical Standards effectiveness through a structured questionnaire and issued by the Audit Practices Board in the UK.
input from all business units and Group functions covering all aspects of the audit process.
The Audit Committee Non-audit work is only undertaken where there is members also participate in this assessment, which commercial sense in using the auditor without jeopardising evaluates audit planning, execution, communications and auditor independence: for example, where the service is reporting.
The assessment identifies strengths and areas related to the assurance provided by the auditor or benefits for improvement, which are discussed with the auditor and from the knowledge the auditor has of the business.
The assessment conducted in 2018 Non-audit fees represented 27% of the 2018 audit fee for the 2017 audit showed continued improvement from of $9.3million.
A more detailed analysis is provided on the previous assessment ongoing to actions taken.
96 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Governance Audit tender RISK MANAGEMENT As indicated in the 2017 Annual Report, Anglo American Risk management is the responsibility of the Board and is hascommenced a formal tender process for the integral to the achievement of our objectives.
The Board appointment of a new external auditor for the 2020 financial establishes the system of risk management, setting risk year onwards.
appetite and maintaining the system of internal control to During 2018, we have completed several planning manage risk within the Group.
The Groups system of risk steps, including: management and internal control is monitored by the AuditCommittee under delegation from the Board.
Inviting a number of audit firms to submit pre-qualification questionnaires to confirm their willingness to participate in The system of risk management is designed to ensure the audit tender, their global capabilities and their awareness of risks that threaten the achievement of assessment of independence objectives.
The controls that mitigate those risks are identified so that assurance can be provided on the Agreeing detailed selection criteria for the evaluation of effectiveness of those controls and a determination can the audit firms and a tender timetable to enable a smooth bemade as to whether the risk is operating within the transition from our current auditors Groups risk appetite.
We seek to embed a culture of risk Interviewing and selecting potential lead audit partners awareness into the development of our strategic and operational objectives.
Approving the Request for Proposal RFP that was issued in December 2018 to a shortlist of audit firms that met the The process for identification and assessment of the pre-qualification criteria.
principal risks combines a top-down and bottom-up approach.
At the operations level, a process to identify The tender process will culminate in a written submission allrisks that prevent the achievement of objectives is and oral presentation to the committee in April 2019 and the undertaken.
Detailed analysis of the material risks at committee expects to be able to recommend a new external eachlocation is performed to ensure management auditor to the Board shortly afterwards.
understanding of the risk and controls that reduce Anglo American confirms compliance during the year with likelihoodof occurrence and impact should the risk the provisions of the UK Competition and Markets materialise.
These operational-risk profiles contribute to AuthorityOrder.
theassessment of risks at the business unit level.
Executive management at each business unit assesses risks that Conclusions of the Audit Committee for 2018 threaten achievement of the business unit objectives and The Audit Committee has satisfied itself that the external the status of controls, or actions, that mitigate those risks.
auditors independence was not impaired.
Atthe Group level, risks are identified through assessment The Audit Committee held meetings with the external of global factors affecting the industry and the Group auditor, without the presence of management, on two specifically, as well as the risks arising from the business occasions, and the chairman of the Audit Committee held unitassessments.
Materiality of risk is determined through regular meetings with the lead audit engagement partner assessment of the various impacts that may arise and during the year.
An exception relates to those risksdeemed catastrophic in nature, where the focus of Consideration given to the appointment of the assessment is on impact and status of internal controls, external auditor given the very low likelihood of occurrence.
When The Audit Committees assessment of the external considering the impact of any risk, we assess financial, auditorsperformance and independence underpins its safety, environmental, legal or regulatory, social and recommendation to the Board to propose to shareholders reputational consequences.
the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditor until the conclusion of the AGM in 2019.
Resolutions to authorise the Board to re-appoint and determine the remuneration of Deloitte LLP will be proposed at the AGM on 30 April 2019.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 97 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE The robust process of identifying and evaluating the The scope of internal audit work covers the broad principal risks was in place during 2018 and is ongoing.
spectrumof risk to which the Group is exposed.
The audit Regular reports on the status of risks and controls are ofcontrols associated with major operating technical risks presented to executive management teams throughout the is undertaken in conjunction with relevant experts from year.
The Audit Committee reviews reports on the overall theTechnical and Sustainability function, the results of Anglo American risk profile on two occasions during the which were shared with the Sustainability Committee and year and conducts in-depth reviews of specific risks during Audit Committee.
its meetings over the course of the year.
Each principal risk In determining its opinion that the internal control isassigned to either the Board or the relevant Board environment was effective during 2018, the Audit committees to oversee executive management actions in Committee considered the following factors: response to that risk.
The Audit Committee reviews that oversight process on an annual basis.
The results of internal audit work, including the response ofmanagement to completion of actions arising from Details of the principal risks are provided on pages 44-47. auditwork Risk appetite The output of risk management work We define risk appetite as the nature and extent of risk that Anglo American is willing to accept in relation to the pursuit The output of external audit work and other of its objectives.
Each principal risk is assessed as to assuranceproviders whether it is operating within the limit of appetite for the Issues identified by management or reported through Group, based on review of the external factors influencing whistleblowing arrangements, and the results of that risk, the status of management actions to mitigate or investigations into allegations of breaches of our values control the risk and the potential impact should the risk and business principles.
For risks operating beyond the limit of appetite, a change in strategy may be required.
For risks operating Reviewing the effectiveness of the system within, but approaching the limit of, appetite, specific of risk management and internal control management actions may be required to ensure the risk The Board, through the Audit Committee, fulfils its remains within the limit of appetite.
responsibility in reviewing the effectiveness of the system ofrisk management and internal control through review of Risk management and the system reports submitted over the course of the year covering the of internal control risk management process, adequacy of the internal Controls either reduce the likelihood or impact of any risk controlenvironment, consideration of risk appetite, in-depth once it has occurred, while the identification of material reviews of specific risks and the results of external audit controls i. e. those controls that have the most influence in work.
The Sustainability Committee also reviews technical mitigating a risk is an important input for audit planning.
and safety risks in detail and reports its findings to the Board.
The system of internal control operates on a traditional Reviewing the effectiveness of internal audit three lines of defence approach, with operating The committee assesses the work of internal audit on a management implementing and monitoring controls regular basis through the receipt of reports on the progress onaday-to-day basis, and business unit or functional of the internal audit plan and issues arising and through its management providing a second line of defence through annual committee evaluation.
The committee met with the regular and frequent oversight of operating managements head of internal audit, in the absence of management on two implementation of controls.
A centrally managed internal occasions during 2018, which enables further evaluation of audit department provides the third line of defence by the work performed.
reviewing the design and operating effectiveness of the internal control environment, which includes the work performed by the first and second lines of defence management teams.
Internal audit operated in all of the Groups managed businesses in 2018, reporting its work toexecutive management and the Audit Committee on a regular basis.
The internal audit departments mandate andannual audit coverage plans were approved by the AuditCommittee.
98 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Governance Whistleblowing programme The Group has an independently managed whistleblowing facility operating in all its managed operations, as well as a Group-wide stakeholder complaints and grievance procedure see the 2018 Sustainability Report for more details.
The whistleblowing programme, which is monitored by the Audit Committee, isdesigned to enable employees, customers, suppliers, managers or other stakeholders to raise concerns on a confidential basis where conduct is deemed to be contrary to our values.
During 2018, 325 2017: 272 reports were received via theglobal Speak Up facility, covering a broad spectrum ofconcerns, including: Ethical Criminal Supplier relationships Health and safety HR issues.
The majority of reports were received on an anonymous basis.
Of the cases closed in 2018, 28% were proven to support the allegations received and resulted in some form of management action.
In addition, almost 700 alerts were received in respect of anattempted purchasing fraud committed by third parties against other companies in South Africa using email domain addresses similar to Anglo American Platinum.
These alerts are being used as evidence by authorities in an ongoing criminal investigation.
During 2018 we undertook a review of our whistleblowing programme and as a result of a competitive tender process we are moving the service to a new external provider.
This will be supported with a comprehensive communications campaign to remind employees and others of the service including the guaranteed anonymity they can expect when they submit a report.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 99
