GOVERNANCE THE BOARD IN 2018 THE BOARD IN 2018 THE ROLE OF THE BOARD chief executive, business unit CEOs, Group directors of corporate functions and the Group general counsel and The Board provides leadership to the Group and is company secretary.
The names of the GMC members, their collectively responsible for promoting and safeguarding roles and biographical details appear on pages 78-79. the long term success of the business.
The Board is supported by a number of committees, to which it has delegated certain powers.
The role of these committees is BOARD COMPOSITION summarised below, and their membership, responsibilities The Board currently comprises the chairman, chief and activities during the year are detailed on pages 90-124. executive, two further executive directors and seven Some decisions are sufficiently material that they can only independent non-executive directors.
The broad range of be made by the Board as a whole.
The schedule of Matters skills and experience our Board members contribute to the Reserved for the AngloAmerican plc Board, and the long-term sustainable success of AngloAmerican are set committees terms of reference, explain which matters out on pages 74-77 and illustrated in the table on page 82. are delegated and which are retained for Board approval, The Board is supported by the Group general counsel and and these documents can be found online.
There is a clear separation of responsibilities at the head EXECUTIVE STRUCTURE of the Company between the running of the Board one of the chairmans key responsibilities and the executive The Board delegates executive responsibilities to the responsibility for the running of the Companys business chief executive, who is advised and supported by the Group the responsibility of the chief executive.
The GMC comprises the THE BOARD Chairman Stuart Chambers leads the Board, ensuring it works constructively as a team.
His main responsibilities include: chairing the Board and the Nomination Committee and setting their agendas: Board composition and succession planning: providing support and counsel to the chief executive and his team: promoting the highest standards of integrity and governance: facilitating effective communication between directors: effective dialogue with shareholders and other stakeholders: and acting as ambassador for the Group.
Senior Independent Director SID Independent Non-Executive Directors NEDs The SID is available to shareholders on matters The role of the NEDs is to constructively where the usual channels of communication are challenge and provide advice to executive deemed inappropriate.
He acts as an management: effectively contribute to the intermediary between the other directors and development of the Groups strategy: scrutinise as a sounding board for the chairman.
Sir Philip the performance of management in meeting Hampton served as SID during 2018 and was agreed goals and monitor the delivery of succeeded by Byron Grote on 1 January 2019.
Chief Executive Remuneration Committee Mark Cutifani manages the Group.
His main Audit Committee responsibilities include: executive leadership: Determines the remuneration Oversight of financial formulation and implementation of Group strategy as of executive directors, the chairman reporting, audit, internal agreed by the Board: approval and monitoring of and senior management and oversees control and risk management.
business plans: organisational structure and senior remuneration policy for all employees.
For more details appointments: business development: and See page 92 For more details stakeholder relations.
See page 100 Nomination Committee Sustainability Committee Responsible for Board composition, appointment Oversees management of sustainability issues, including of directors and senior management and safety, health, environment, social and government relations.
For more details For more details See page 90 See page 91 CHIEF EXECUTIVE Group Management Corporate Operational Investment Committee GMC Committee CorpCo Committee OpCo Committee InvestCo Reviews corporate and ethical Responsible for driving Responsible for making Principal executive committee.
policies and processes, operational best practices across recommendations on capital Responsible for formulating strategy, and financial performance and the Group and the setting of investment proposals.
setting targets budgets and budgets at business unit level.
80 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Governance NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FOCUS There are many challenges facing businesses across all sectors today, but there are also significant opportunities for those firms who choose to not just produce a product or deliver a service, but to do so while contributing to the betterment of society more generally.
We face demands from many stakeholder groups and, in order to thrive over the long term, a company must endeavour to change itself as the world about it changes Companies must contribute to the at an ever increasing pace.
Anglo American is focused on communities in which they operate long term sustainability.
Being a successful business over the long term requires the agility to respond to changing and be a force for good for all expectations of our customers and other stakeholders.
stakeholders, whether they be At Anglo American we aim to have a clear and positive national or local government, purpose in the eyes of the communities and governments where we operate, a responsible approach to our impact people living in the community, on the environment, and be the employer of choice for our colleagues, all while making a an enduring economic employees, suppliers or the contribution for our investors and greater society.
Byron Grote, Senior Independent Director SERVING AS A NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AT ANGLO AMERICAN I joined the Board as a non-executive director inNovember 2009 and joined the Sustainability Committee formerly the Safety & Sustainable Development Committee in December of that year.
I have served as chairman of our Sustainability Committee since 2013, as a member of the Remuneration Committee since 2010 and the Nomination Committee since 2017.
I was originally attracted to Anglo American because of itsvariety of operations, countries that it operates in, and its diversity of people.
In 2009, Anglo American needed additional mining experience on its Board.
At the time Id had nearly 35 years of mining experience in a variety of operations and different commodities and I wanted to be able to pass on my mining experience and knowledge of safety and sustainability issues to the company.
During my tenure, I have visited the majority of the Anglo American was one of the companies that was a Groups operations.
I like to get out to site and kick the leader in the environmental movement and, at the time, tyres, to increase my knowledge of our operations and, there werent too many others.
For me, its about leaving more importantly, to engage with our people.
In 2011, aproper legacy and making sure that we always do the Iattended one my first presentations on the Quellaveco right thing.
The qualities that have enabled the Group to copper project in Peru.
I returned in 2014, and then again thrive into its second century are high-quality assets, in 2017 to check on progress.
It was gratifying to see the world-class people, innovative technologies and its core project through to Board approval in 2018.
And just as important is the ability to evolve.
visited operations in Canada and Australia.
I took over as chairman of the Sustainability Committee I feel very fortunate to have been able to keep learning in 2013.
A lot of things were new then:the level of throughout my career and, as a non-executive director reporting the committee was receiving, the engagement ofAnglo American, being able to use my knowledge and with NGOs, communities and environmental groups, experience to provide leadership, to have overseen the the site visits.
All the work the committee had already development of our ambitious sustainability goals and to started, I aimed to build on.
If the committee hears an have been part of our Purpose to re-imagine mining to investigation into a significant incident, we want to know improve peoples lives.
not just what happened, but why, what lessons have been Jack Thompson learned and what changes have been implemented to Non-executive Director and prevent it happening again.
I strongly believe, too, that our Sustainability Committee Chairman vision of zero harm is attainable.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 81 GOVERNANCE THE BOARD IN 2018 BOARD ACTIVITY The Board is responsible for the overall conduct BOARD EXPERIENCE AND DIVERSITY ofthe Groups business.
It is scheduled to meet at The broad range of skills and experience and the diversity least six times a year, but meets more often when of our Board members are illustrated below.
In addition, a full day strategy session is held, during which long-term strategy formulated by management is debated, Professional experience stress-tested, modified if necessary, and finally 1 Percentage of Board members approved by the Board.
Annually, each of the Groups business unit heads presents to the Board in some Mining 50 depth on key aspects of their business.
Engineering 50 Large project management 83 50 Construction in extractive industries BOARD DISCUSSIONS ON Finance 58 Marketing downstream or commodity trading 58 QUELLAVECO IN 2018 92 Safety, health, environment In July 2018, after several years of extensive Digital technology 17 preparatory work, the Board approved the External quoted boardroom experience 75 development of the Quellaveco project in Peru, one 50 Previous chief executive of the worlds largest, low cost, greenfield copper Experience as an investor 8 deposits.
Project execution began in August 2018 and first production of copper is planned for 2022.
In approving Quellaveco, the Board considered the 2 Regional experience 1 business case for the project at length, including the Percentage of Board members key risks, significant opportunities and the long-term sustainable benefits to our employees, local Southern Africa 50 communities, our business partners, the surrounding 50 South America region and Peru as a whole.
41 Australia China 42 In February and May 2018, the Board assessed options for syndication, and delegated authority to a 16 India committee of the Board to provide guidance on the North America 91 proposed way forward.
The equity syndication was 1 subsequently approved at a special purpose meeting Includes professional and geographical experience of all directors who served on the Board during 2018. of the Board in June 2018, with our existing partner 2 In the regions in which the Group operates or has major markets in.
Mitsubishi increasing its interest in Quellaveco from 18.1% to 40%.
In February and May, management also updated the Gender diversity Board nationalities Board on the readiness of the project.
The updates included a discussion of the business case, the 1 advancement of significant early works and the 27% 1 readiness for full construction, stakeholder support, forecast cash costs and capital expenditure, upside 4 1 potential, the project delivery model, risks and overall governance.
In May, the project feasibility study, which was subject to an independent investment assurance review, was presented to the Board by management, 2 together with the independent assessors.
73% 2 For more information on Quellaveco, and the benefits this world-class asset will bring to the Groups portfolio and a wide range of stakeholders Male Australia South Africa See page 19 For more information on our Copper portfolio Female UK Lesotho See pages 57-59 USA USA UK 82 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Governance BOARD DISCUSSIONS The agenda of matters discussed by the Board in 2018 isdescribed and explained below.
TOPIC AND LINK TO PILLARS OF VALUE AREAS COVERED COMMENTS Fatal incidents, Total Safety is the most critical area of focus for the Board and is always the first item to be discussed at Safety and health Recordable Case Board meetings.
The causes of fatal incidents and those causing injury are examined in detail by Frequency Rate, health the Sustainability Committee and the findings discussed by the Board as a whole.
Management andmedical incidents performance in reducing such incidents, including operational interventions to manage activity risk to end fatal incidents, and to improve occupational health, is reviewed.
Furthermore, the Board continues to monitor the operational and technical innovation initiatives that have the potential to positively affect the Groups safety performance.
Environmental incidents, The Board is focused on becoming a global leader in sustainable mining and, as such, approved a Environment energy and climate new, ambitious approach to sustainability, integral to the Groups FutureSmart Mining change, water availability programme.
The Board continues to review material environmental incidents and steps taken by and rehabilitation management to reduce energy and natural resource consumption, and to generally reduce the impact of the Groups operations on the environment.
Social incidents and The Board is committed to ensuring collaboration and partnering with a broad range of Socio-political performance, government, stakeholders.
It reviews local community dialogue regarding environmental matters, and any media, investor and health and safety issues.
Investor and media updates are given.
Feedback from external stakeholder relations stakeholders such as customers, suppliers, global influencers and governments on their expectations of the Group are presented and discussed.
Diversity and inclusion, People are a pillar of the Groups strategy and the Board is focused on creating an inclusive and People talent and performance diverse culture.
The talent and succession among senior management was reviewed, with plans management, gender pay and targets produced that seek to address the gender pay gap while delivering sustainable talent gap, business integrity and pipelines that ensure the right talent is in the right place at the right time.
The Board approved Code of Conduct changes to the performance management of its employees which are designed to further develop a high-performance team culture.
The Board is also updated on compliance with our Code ofConduct and the business integrity policy.
Operational performance The Board received detailed updates on each business units performance, operations, strategy, Operations by each business unit and safety and sustainability performance, technological innovation and key risks.
progress of key projects Key financial measures, The Board monitored and discussed progress against the annual budget and three-year plan.
Financial liquidity and balance Liquidity, balance sheet strength and debt are reviewed and, if any corrective actions are sheetstrength, cost necessary, these are agreed.
The Board considered the Groups dividend policy and approved improvements, dividend thefinal and interim dividend.
Macro-economic The Board received briefings from internal teams and external advisers on trends in relevant Economic outlook environment and areas and likely scenarios for global economic growth.
Commodity prices, and the effect of these and commodity prices commodity price on the Group, are noted and taken into account for strategic and planning purposes.
outlook Portfolio changes, The Board reviewed the progress towards the agreed strategy.
It approved the new articulation Strategy three-year plan, progress of the Groups Purpose to re-imagine mining to improve peoples lives which refined the on critical tasks strategic direction agreed by the Board at its annual dedicated strategy meeting, taking into account identified risks and opportunities.
The Board also approved the development of the Quellaveco copper project in Peru see case study on page 82.
Reports from committees, Each of the committee chairs reported on their respective meetings and on any developments Board governance legislative and regulatory which required the attention of the Board.
Reports were received on the Groups compliance compliance with relevant legislation and regulation for example, the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code and the General Data Protection Regulations, and any actions needed to respond to recent developments.
The Board received biannual updates on material litigation across the Group.
An external evaluation of the performance of the Board and that of its committees was undertaken to ensure their effective functioning.
Matters arising from the evaluation were considered and actions agreed see page 89.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 83 GOVERNANCE THE BOARD IN 2018 Chairman and Non-executive directors visits BOARD VISITS TO GROUP In May 2018, directors and non-executive members of OPERATIONS IN 2018 theSustainability Committee visited the Gahcho Ku diamond mine in the Northwest Territories, Canada, Undertaking regular site visits allows the directors to accompanied by Bruce Cleaver, CEO of fide Beers Group.
gain a better understanding of the Groups operations The group received briefings from fide Beers Canada and affords Board members the opportunity to meet management on site operations, sustainability issues and and engage with a diverse cross-section of employees.
community relations, and toured the open pit, site facilities, During 2018, the Board met outside the UK on one process plant and sorthouse.
occasion in Queensland, Australia, and non-executive directors and members of the Sustainability Committee In September 2018, senior management from our Platinum visited Group operations in Canada and South Africa, Group Metals PGMs business hostednon-executive as described below.
directors, Ian Ashby and Nolitha Fakude on visits to the Mototolo, Twickenham, Mogalakwena and Amandelbult Board visit to Australia operations in South Africa.
In October 2018, the Anglo American plc Board and Sustainability Committee met at the Groups Metallurgical During 2018, the chairman travelled to Singapore to spend Coal business headquartered in Brisbane and at the time in the Groups Marketing business.
On two occasions, Companys operations in Moranbah, Queensland.
During he travelled to Botswana where he visited fide Beers the course of the visit, Board members participated in Jwaneng mine, Debswana corporate centre and Global the following: Sightholder Sales operations.
In July, the chairman spent time meeting leaders and employees from the Groups On-site activities with employees and contractors across PGMs, Coal and Kumba Iron Ore businesses in South Africa.
Metallurgical Coal operations organised as part of the Groups annual Global Safety Day campaign Visiting operations is a vital part Joined a dinner with Metallurgical Coal site and business leadership teams, and recipients of employee awards offulfilling your duties as a celebrating individuals and teams who went above and beyond in living Anglo Americans values director.
They are essential in Undertook operational site visits to the Moranbah North enabling me, as a non-executive and Grosvenor underground mines, incorporating longwall director, to develop a much mining and development panels, and demonstrations of leading-edge automation technology greaterunderstanding of the Received detailed presentations from Metallurgical Coal issues affecting the business.
management on their strategy and operations, safety andsustainability performance, asset base and outlook Being able to engage with site Participated in an employee town hall and informal lunch general managers and employees with staff at the Brisbane corporate office on a one-to-one basis at our Held discussions with senior members of the University operations is invaluable and, in ofQueenslands Sustainable Minerals Institute on global sustainability trends in the mining sector.
turn, helps inform discussions Below: Directors andexecutives from around the board table.
AngloAmerican with DeBeers Canadas senior leadership and Ian Ashby, Non-executive director sitemanagement at Gahcho Ku mine.
84 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Governance Left: left to right Grosvenor operations manager Rob Nowell, Anglo American non-executive director NED Jack Thompson and Grosvenors development operations co-ordinator Michael Webber returning from their underground tour.
Right: NEDs Ian Ashby, Mphu Ramatlapeng, JackThompson and Nolitha Fakude during a presentation to members of the Board by site management at Moranbah North and Grosvenor operations.
Above left: Above right: NED ByronGrote AngloAmerican chairman wearing emergency Stuart Chambers and breathing apparatus DeBeers Canada head with Grosvenor general of technical LeoFusciardi manager Marc Kirsten, at GahchoKu mine.
before the start of their underground tour.
Below left: left to right Right: Marketings sales At Gahcho Ku mine with manager, China, left to right fide Beers YunluGao with NEDs Group CEO Bruce Cleaver, Mphu Ramatlapeng Leo Fusciardi, former andAnne Stevens engineering and site duringan informal services manager lunchwith employees CraigWessner, DeBeers atthe Brisbane Canada CEO Kim Truter corporateoffice.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 85 GOVERNANCE THE BOARD IN 2018 BOARD INFORMATION AND SUPPORT PROCESS USED IN RELATION TO BOARD APPOINTMENTS All directors have full and timely access to the information required to discharge their responsibilities fully and The Board is committed to ensuring that it has the right effectively.
They have access to the advice and services of balance of skills, experience and diversity, taking into theGroup general counsel and company secretary, other account the targets of the Davies and Parker Reports.
At members of the Groups management and staff, and external thedate of this report, the Board comprises 11 directors, advisers.
Directors may take independent professional advice ofwhom 27% are female and two of whom are people of in the furtherance of their duties, at the Companys expense.
Interms of nationality, nine members of the Board have a nationality other than British, with two of them being Where a director is unable to attend a Board or committee from southern Africa.
meeting, he or she is provided with all relevant papers and information relating to that meeting and encouraged to During 2018, the Nomination Committee commenced a discuss issues arising with the respective chairs and other search process to recruit a new non-executive director.
Spencer Stuart was retained by the committee to assist withthe search process.
Spencer Stuart was chosen as they All non-executive directors are provided with access to had previously worked for the Group in recruiting for senior papers for each of the Boards committees.
appointments and accordingly have a good understanding of the Boards requirements, given the markets in which the BOARD INDUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT most suitable candidate are likely to be found.
They are also accredited under The Enhanced Code of Conduct for Following appointment and as required, directors receive Executive Search Firms.
training appropriate to their level of experience and knowledge.
This includes the provision of a comprehensive, Prior to the search commencing, the Nomination tailored induction programme and individual briefings with Committee agreed the skills and experience they GMC members and their teams so as to provide newly considered necessary for the role and provided this to appointed directors with information about the Groups Spencer Stuart.
A list of potential candidates was then businesses and other relevant information to assist them in identified by Spencer Stuart and discussed with the effectively performing their duties.
In addition to scheduled committee members to agree a shorter list to be Board operational site visits, non-executive directors are interviewed.
The initial list of potential prospects included expected to spend time at the Groups operations to meet ethnically and gender-diverse candidates.
Shortlisted management and members of the workforce.
candidates were interviewed by members of the committee and, where practical, other directors.
Highlights In May 2018, directors and non-executive members of theSustainability Committee visited the Gahcho Ku diamond mine in Canada As part of their continuing development, in September 2018, Ian Ashby and Nolitha Fakude visited PGMs operations in South Africa, incorporating Mototolo, Twickenham, Mogalakwena and Amandelbult.
Further information about the Boards visits to operations in 2018 can be found on pages 84-85.
Board and committee meetings 2018 frequency and attendance of members The table below shows the attendance of directors at meetings of the Board and committees during the year.
Attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the number eligible to be attended.
3 Independent Board Board Strategy Audit Sustainability Remuneration Nomination Stuart Chambers n a 7 7 1 1 4 4 3 3 Mark Cutifani No 7 7 1 1 4 4 Stephen Pearce No 7 7 1 1 Tony ONeill No 7 7 1 1 4 4 Ian Ashby Yes 7 7 1 1 4 4 Nolitha Fakude Yes 7 7 1 1 4 4 4 4 Byron Grote Yes 7 7 1 1 4 4 3 3 3 3 1 Sir Philip Hampton Yes 7 7 1 1 4 4 3 3 3 3 Mphu Ramatlapeng Yes 7 7 1 1 4 4 Jim Rutherford Yes 7 7 1 1 4 4 4 4 3 3 2 Anne Stevens Yes 7 7 1 1 4 4 2 3 3 3 Jack Thompson Yes 7 7 1 1 4 4 3 3 3 3 1 Resigned 31 December 2018.
2 Anne Stevens was unable to attend the February 2018 Remuneration Committee meeting due to an unavoidable diary conflict.
3 The number of Board meetings included six scheduled meetings, and one special purpose meeting to consider the Quellaveco equity syndication process.
86 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Governance INVESTOR RELATIONS The Company has an active engagement programme Private shareholders are encouraged to attend the with its key financial audiences, including institutional Companys general meetings or to submit questions to the shareholders and buy-and sell-side analysts, as well Company via the Groups website.
The website also provides aspotential shareholders.
the latest news and historical financial information, details about forthcoming events for shareholders and analysts, The Groups investor relations department manages and other information regarding Anglo American.
theinteractions with these audiences and regular presentationstake place at the time of the interim and final Voting levels at the 2018 AGM were, for all but one results, as well as during the rest of the year.
An active resolution, around 72%, with no more than 1.05% of programme of communication with potential shareholders thattotal being votes withheld.
Voting levels for the is also maintained.
Any significant concerns raised by a re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditor shareholder in relation to the Company and its affairs are were 61.73%, with 10.9% of that total being votes withheld.
All resolutions submitted to the meeting in 2018 were passed with more than 90% of the shareholders voting The Board receives a briefing at each meeting from the in favour, with the exception of the resolution giving the investor relations department and analysts reports are directors the authority to allot shares in the Company, which circulated to the directors when available.
Feedback was passed with 78% of the votes cast.
The votes cast frommeetings held between executive management, against this resolution were overwhelmingly received from ortheinvestor relations department, and institutional our South African investors.
As a result, the Company has shareholders, is also communicated to the Board.
proactively engaged with these shareholders to better During the year there were regular presentations to, and understand their position.
The engagement has been meetings with, institutional investors in the UK, South Africa, positive and, having listened to the views of our concerned North America, Continental Europe and Australia to shareholders, the Company will be seeking an authority at communicate the strategy and performance of Anglo the 2019 AGM to allot shares up to 5% of the issued share American.
Executive directors and key executives, including capital, rather than 10% as it has done previously.
business unit heads, host such presentations, which include seminars for investors and analysts and one-to-one meetings.
The investor relations department, along with business unit management, also hosted a visit by a group ofinstitutional investors and analysts to the Groups Copper operations in Chile and the Quellaveco copper project in Peru.
The visit, which included a series of presentations by management, provided investorsand analysts with the opportunity to add to theirunderstanding of the business in a key growth area.
Throughout the year, executive management also present atindustry conferences that are organised mainly by investment banks for their institutional investor base.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 87 GOVERNANCE THE BOARD IN 2018 BOARD EVALUATION BOARD, COMMITTEE AND INDIVIDUAL years, the evaluations explored similar areas on each DIRECTORS EVALUATION occasion.
The results were collated, summarised and considered by the Nomination Committee before being Each year, the Board undertakes a rigorous evaluation submitted to the relevant committee and the Board.
of its own effectiveness and performance, and that of its committees and individual directors.
At least every three Action plans were developed based on the results and years, the evaluation is externally facilitated.
In 2018, an progress against these measured throughout the year.
external evaluation exercise was undertaken.
The process The results of the findings and the actions taken in response for how the review was conducted and its findings are to the 2016 and 2017 evaluations are summarised below.
reported on the facing page.
The previous externally Action plans based on the 2017 evaluations were approved facilitated Board review was carried out in 2015, the in February 2018 and were progressed throughout the year.
results of which were reported in the 2016 Annual Report.
The questionnaires completed by the individual directors were used as part of their performance evaluation by the In 2016 and 2017, the directors completed online, chairman, with the chairmans performance evaluation questionnaire-based, internal evaluations.
To allow the being led by the senior independent director.
Board and its committees to judge progress over the two 2016 2017 From the 2016 internal exercise, the following The 2017 internal evaluation identified the following focus areas for the Board in 2017 were identified priorities for 2018.
Action plans were monitored by and changes were made to address these priorities, the Nomination Committee during 2018. including to the Boards agendas and the information Driving demonstrable and sustainable safety it received: and operating improvements Making Board member appointments to replace the Execution against the asset-led strategy skills and experience lost towards the end of 2016 Identifying additional growth opportunities while Focusing on strategy and growth options targeting credit strength, debt reduction and refinancing Succession planning Ensuring the Group has a suitably diverse workforce with Progressing the implementation of the capability and skills to drive continuous improvement new technology.
Deploying winning technologies particularly in the areas of water reduction and safety improvements.
COMMITTEE EVALUATIONS IN 2018 Remuneration Committee The review highlighted the progress the committee The committee evaluations looked at ways in which the had made in listening and responding to the views of committees could improve their overall efficiency, their shareholders in ensuring remuneration targets are performance in the current year and the areas they aligned to the Groups strategic goals and performance needed to address in the coming year.
All the committees and create stakeholder value in a sustainable way.
were believed to be performing effectively and were Information flows between the committee and the appropriately constituted.
Board could be improved and greater use of the private Audit Committee non-executive directors sessions held after each Board The results confirmed that the committee chair is high meeting will be used to share confidential information performing and well regarded by the Board and senior about the work of the committee.
The review suggested that meeting agendas Sustainability Committee could be streamlined to allow more time to focus on the The review acknowledged that rigorous oversight of safety committees priorities, including a greater emphasis on issues remains the key priority for the committee, in pursuit risk management.
of Anglo Americans zero harm target.
During 2019 the Nomination Committee committee will continue to scrutinise progress of the The results confirmed that the chairman is a highly focused Groups Elimination of Fatalities Taskforce.
The committees and inclusive chair in his approach to the nominations forward-looking calendar cycle has been extended to process.
Communication between the committee and the reduce pressure on meeting agendas and its remit will be Board could be further improved so that directors who do reviewed during 2019 to ensure that only the most not serve on the committee receive more information on its important items are put before the committee.
Greater oversight of executive succession planning is being incorporated into the committees agenda in 2019.
88 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Governance 2018 The 2018 Board evaluation was externally facilitated A report on the chairman was presented to the senior by Independent Board Evaluation IBE, a consultancy independent director and the results discussed at a with no other connection to the Company, and meeting of the non-executive directors without the conducted in accordance with guidance contained chairman present.
In addition, the chairman received a in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
report with feedback on individual directors performance.
The chairman held one-to-one meetings with each of the directors following the evaluation.
PROCESS In June 2018, the evaluation team initially met with the KEY HIGHLIGHTS chairman, chief executive and Group general counsel and company secretary to agree a comprehensive brief and The review confirmed that the Board is believed to be agenda for the review.
Detailed interviews were held with effective and well-functioning, and has adjusted to its new each director, according to a set agenda tailored to the leadership under the chairmanship of Stuart Chambers in Company.
In addition, the evaluation team interviewed a positive way.
10 members of senior management, including the Group The most positive feedback was about the following general counsel and company secretary, the deputy aspects of Board performance: company secretaries and members of the GMC, as well as the lead external audit and remuneration partners, to gain The Boards culture a broad perspective of the Boards work.
Governance and compliance: and In July, the evaluation team observed Board and Board support and resources.
Supporting materials for briefing purposes were provided by the Company.
Following Some scope for improvement was identified in the areas of completion of the exercise, the evaluation team collated Board composition, Board oversight of risk-management the results and draft conclusions were discussed with the and director development.
chairman and the committee chairs, prior to presenting the results at a meeting of the full Board in September.
An action plan addressing the findings was developed and discussed by the Board in December.
Following the 2018 evaluation, the Board identified the effectiveness priority areas below for 2019: AREAS IDENTIFIED TOPIC FOR ACTION PLANNED ACTIONS IN 2019 More time to be dedicated Continue to build on the successful format of the 2018 Board Strategy to strategy discussions strategy meeting.
throughout the year The Boards forward-looking agenda is being revised to allow more time for strategic discussions leading up to the 2019 Board strategy meeting and a dedicated strategy input session has been scheduled ahead of the Boards strategy meeting.
Improve Board level visibility Board visibility on safety, diversity and talent will be enhanced People and focus on safety, talent by allocating greater Board time to these topics and improving and diversity committee reporting to the Board in these areas.
The Board will continue to monitor progress of the Elimination of Fatalities Taskforce.
The Nomination Committee will provide greater oversight of talent and diversity.
More frequent Board discussion The Board will continue to review succession plans for the Succession planning of succession planning and GMC annually, and the Nomination Committee will review review the geographic spread senior management succession annually.
of the Board The Boards skills and capabilities matrix has been updated to better align with the Groups longer-term strategy see table on page 82 Enhance the director The chairman and Group general counsel and company secretary Director development induction and ongoing will work together to prioritise and strengthen the director development programmes onboarding and development programme, to better align with the Groups strategic objectives Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 89
