GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE Strong corporate governance underpins our ability to deliver long-term sustainable success, generate value for our shareholders and contribute to wider society.
The Anglo American Board is committed to ensuring that we continue to adhere to high standards of corporate governance.
Stuart Chambers, Chairman This section of the Annual Report provides an overview Remuneration Committee.
In addition, we announced of the means by which the Company is directed and thatJack Thompson, our chair of the Sustainability controlled.
The Board of directors is there to support Committee, will step down from the Board at the end of our and challenge management and to ensure that we 2019 Annual General Meeting AGM after nine years of operate in a manner that promotes the long-term service on the Board.
IanAshby will take over the role of sustainable success of the Company.
Over the next chair of the Sustainability Committee.
On behalf of the fewpages we describe the ways in which we seek to Board, I thank Jack for the wealth of mining industry achieve this.
experience that he hasbrought to Board discussions and most particularly thededication he has brought to his role aschair of the Sustainability Committee.
Annes global BOARD COMPOSITION executive and board experience and Ians extensive mining As described in my statement on pages 4-5, we career will further enhance our committee deliberations announceda number of changes to the Board in 2018. under their leadership.
SirPhilip Hampton, our senior independent director and The Nomination Committee has considered the chair of the Remuneration Committee, stepped down at the composition, structure and size of the Board and believes end of December after nine years of service.
On behalf of the number of non-executive directors can be reduced by the Board, I would like to thank Sir Philip for his dedication one whilst maintaining the requisite mix of skills, experience and professionalism during his nine years on the Board, the and diversity on the Board.
The Committee is at an last four being in the particularly demanding role of senior advanced stage intheprocess of recruiting a non-executive independent director.
On 1 January 2019, Byron Grote took director withsubstantial mining experience and experience up the role of senior independent director.
We are fortunate in SouthAmerica to fill the vacancies on the Board.
The to have Byrons more than 35 years of experience across Committees process to recruit the non-executive director thenatural resource sector and are delighted that he has isdescribed on page 86. agreed to serve as senior independent director in addition tohis continued stewardship of the Audit Committee.
AnneStevens has taken up the role of chair of the 72 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018
