SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ESTABLISHING GOOD SUSTAINABILITY PRACTICES Antofagasta believes in developing effective, accountable and transparent institutions.
To this end, it has established guidelines and internal regulations that set out the Groups commitment to conduct its business responsibly.
DETECT promptly infringements of ethics guidelines.
For BOARD INVOLVEMENT thispurpose, there is a consultation and complaint reporting The Board is responsible for leading and monitoring sustainable mechanism.
Complaints that affect the Group are resolved by practices.
The Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee theCorporate Ethics Committee.
Committees have also been assists the Board in the stewardship of the Groups sustainability established at each operation to deal with local issues.
In addition, programmes and makes recommendations to ensure that ethical, assessments and analysis are conducted on the most sensitive safety and health, environmental, social and community considerations concerns and complaints.
are taken into account in the Boards deliberations.
ACT when identifying possible infringements.
To this end, The Committee reviews and updates the Groups strategy and policy investigations are conducted to take the necessary measures to framework, including safety and health, environment, climate change, protect the Company, as well as to strengthen internal controls, human rights, community and other stakeholder issues.
It also the effective functioning of the Compliance Model and establishes targets and monitors the Groups performance in communication with key stakeholders.
MODERN SLAVERY ACT Sustainability and performance goals: by incorporating sustainability In compliance with the UKs Modern Slavery Act 2015 the Group has targets in annual performance bonus agreements, the Company published a statement setting out the steps taken to ensure that slavery mobilises and aligns the whole organisation behind strong and human trafficking are not occurring in its supply chain or in any part sustainability practices and gives a clear signal of the Boards of its business.
This statement is available at www.
commitment to create value in a sustainable manner.
Targets associated with safety, people, environment and social performance CODE OF ETHICS account for 20% of these targets.
The Code stresses the commitment of the Board, employees and BUSINESS INTEGRITY AND COMPLIANCE contractors to conduct business in a responsible and transparent manner.
It includes the values that guide the Companys actions, In 2018 Antofagasta implemented a new Compliance Model structured guidelines to identify and manage potential conflicts of interest around three pillars Prevent, Detect and Act that were based on and for the handling of privileged, confidential and financial compliance risk management and the Code of Ethics.
information, and it also sets out the role of the Ethics Committee.
PREVENT situations and behaviours that are at odds with ethical At the same time, it provides guidelines on a number of issues behaviour and compliance.
For this purpose, the Company has including respect for human rights, local culture and values and various guidelines and tools, including: the rights of neighbouring communities.
Crime Prevention Manual which describes the Groups TRAINING Anti-Corruption Model to ensure compliance with regulations under the UK Bribery Act and Law 20,393 in Chile.
There is a Antofagasta ensures its Crime Prevention Model and its policies person in charge of Crime Prevention at each of Antofagastas and procedures are implemented and understood across the entire operations.
All of them are certified by the risk classification organisation.
This is achieved through induction training for all new system Feller Rate until March 2019 in line with Law 20,393 workers, extensive e-learning every two years, special training for the most exposed areas and a training plan that is updated annually.
Policies and procedures which determine how the Group engages with stakeholders and provides guidelines that all MANAGEMENT OF COMPLIANCE RISKS workers must follow.
These include the Antitrust Protocol, andguidelines on business relations with companies linked The Compliance Risks Department keeps a record and monitors the toPolitically Exposed Person and on modern slavery evolution of the main compliance risks, but daily risk management is everyones responsibility.
Compliance risks and existing controls are Conflict of interest declarations which must be completed by regularly highlighted and assessed and action plans are defined all employees and updated regularly toreduce risk exposure.
As part of this process, changes in the Due diligence is conducted on suppliers and contractors to operating environment that require controls to be strengthened review company ownership, involvement in corruption cases, or additional measures are also highlighted, and this helps to commercial behaviour, legal and labour cases, conflicts of continuously improve the Compliance Model.
interest and contract risks Training to provide employees with the knowledge and skills HUMAN RIGHTS todeal with any problem that might arise Antofagasta respects and supports human rights by: providing high safety and health standards, fair wages and good labour relations preventing discrimination, harassment and bullying complying with the UK Modern Slavery Act 82 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT The table below sets out where stakeholders can find informationinthe strategic report that relates to non-financial matters, asrequired under the new Non-financial Reporting Directive requirements.
Reporting Requirement Relevant Policies and Standards Content Page Sustainability Value Chart Letter from the Chairman 6 Sustainability Policy Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee Chairmansletter 114 ICMM Guidelines Value creation 50 How we engage with our stakeholders 34, 35 Safety and health Safety and Occupational Health Strategy Safety and Occupational Health Strategy 44, 45 Special Corporate Safety and Health Regulation for Contractors and Safety risk management Subcontractors RECCS Health risk management Transversal Fatality Risk Standard ERFT Safety and Health reporting Occupational Health Standard ESO Visible leadership Awareness and commitment Performance Safe transport Environmental Environmental Management Model Environmental management 46, 47, matters Integral closure of mining operations Standard Environmental compliance 48, 49 Climate change Standard Water and mining Water management Standard Mining waste Biodiversity Standard Climate change Energy management Biodiversity Air Mine closure Employees and People Strategy Inclusive culture 36, 37 contractors Diversity and Inclusion Strategy Diverse and global talents Labour relations and engagement Aligning contractors Social matters Social Management Model Social Management Model 38, 39 Engagement Standard Social projects and programmes Management of initiatives Standard From competition to coexistence Open innovation Addressing social concerns Suppliers Code of Ethics Responsible supply 40,41 Purchase and contracts guideline Local suppliers Direct award procedure Material management policy Human Rights Code of Ethics Respectful, diverse and inclusive work culture 50 Human Rights 82-83 Modern Slavery Act 82 Anti-corruption Code of Ethics Business integrity and compliance 82 and anti-bribery Compliance Model Code of Ethics Anti-Corruption Model Management of Compliance Risks Antitrust Protocol Description of principal risks and impact of business activity Principal Risks 24 Key Risks 25 Risk Management Framework 25 Description of the business model The Mining Lifecycle 54 Non-financial Key Performance Indicators Key Performance Indicators 20 Antofagasta during 2018 33 Total economic contribution 51 providing good-quality accommodation, services and facilities and PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENTS opportunities for training and development Antofagasta makes payments to governments relating to activities preventing corruption and malpractice involving the exploration, discovery, development and extraction of minerals.
In June 2018, the Group published its third report detailing preventing or mitigating adverse environmental and social impacts its mining divisions payments to governments for the year ended respecting communities rights, culture and heritage 31December 2017.
These payments were primarily taxes paid to the engaging in dialogue throughout the mining lifecycle from Chilean government, and mineral licence fees.
exploration to closure In 2017 these payments totalled $317 million, of which 99.9% were responding to grievances paid in Chile.
The full report is available on the Companys website supporting community development atwww.
Chilean law allows political donations subject to certain requirements, Of the Groups operations only Zaldvar needs to engage with an but Antofagasta made no political donations in 2018.
However, it often indigenous community and they live in Peine, 100 km away from the contributes financing for projects benefiting local communities in mine.
Relations with the community are good and are conducted in alliance with the local municipalities and the government.
These accordance with the provisions of ILO Convention 169, ICMM contributions are regulated by specific laws and are reviewed by Guidelines and Antofagastas Sustainability Policy.
Corporate due diligence of suppliers legal compliance includes key human rights issues such as general working conditions, preventing The Strategic Report has been approved by the Board and signed child labour, discrimination, harassment and other abuses.
These are on its behalf by: regularly audited by each operation and also by the corporate centre.
Jean-Paul Luksic Ollie Oliveira Chairman Senior Independent Director 18 March 2019 antofagasta.
co. uk 83 A BETTER FUTURE IS BUILT ON STRONG AND EFFECTIVE GOVERNANCE The Board of Antofagasta plc is responsible for the long-term, sustainable success of the Group, generating value for shareholders and contributing to wider society.
The Board has established strong and effective governance structures that clearlydefine roles and responsibilities and promote constructive challenge.
These structures reflect the Boards commitment to international best practice and continuing success as an international mining company based in Chile.
84 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE Applying the Code in 2018 86 Audit, Risk and Internal Control Board Leadership and Audit and Risk Committee report 108 Company Purpose Sustainability and Stakeholder 114 Management Committee report Chairmans introduction 88 Projects Committee report 116 Senior Independent Directors 90 introduction Remuneration Group governance overview 92 Remuneration and Talent 118 Management Committee report Board activities 94 Committee Chairmans introduction 119 Stakeholder engagement 96 Remuneration at a glance 121 Shareholder engagement 97 2018 Directors Remuneration 122 Division of Responsibilities Report Directors biographies 98 2018 Executive Remuneration 125 Board balance and skills 100 Report Roles in the Boardroom 101 Summary of 2017 Directors 134 Executive Committee members 102 Remuneration Policy biographies Directors Report 137 Introduction to the Committees 104 139 Statement of Directors Composition, Succession and Responsibilities Evaluation Nomination and Governance 105 Committee report Board effectiveness 107 antofagasta.
co. uk 85 APPLYING THE CODE IN 2018 FOCUSING ON THE PRINCIPLES We continuously monitor and carefully consider how best to apply the principles of the Code to our specific circumstances as an international mining company based in Chile.
Jean-Paul Luksic, Chairman Chairman, Jean-Paul Luksic meeting with management at Zaldvar during a site visit in 2018 UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE COMPLIANCE STATEMENT The UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial ReportingCouncil in April 2016 sets out the governance principles and provisions that applied to the Company during the 2018 financial year.
The Code is not a rigid set of rules.
It consists of main and supporting principles and provisions.
The Listing Rules require companies to apply the main principles and report to shareholders onhow they have done so.
The Corporate Governance Report that follows has been prepared for this purpose and demonstrates how these principles have been considered and applied to the Companys specific circumstances.
The Company complied with all of the detailed provisions of the Codein 2018.
At the time of Jean-Paul Luksics appointment as Chairman in 2004, he was not considered independent, as he had previously been CEO of Antofagasta Minerals SA.
The Companys non-compliance with the relevant provisions of the July 2003 Combined Code which was the forerunner of the Corporate Governance Code was explained in the Statement of Compliance inthe Companys 2004 Annual Report.
The UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2018 will be applied by the Company during the 2019 financial year.
The UK Corporate Governance Code is available on the Financial Reporting 86 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 Council website at www.
uk GOVERNANCE HOW THE CODE PRINCIPLES WERE APPLIED IN 2018 DEVELOPMENT LEADERSHIP New Directors receive a thorough induction on joining the Board page 100.
THE ROLE OF THE BOARD Directors are regularly updated with information and training and, as a The Company is headed by an effective Board which is collectively minimum, receive an annual briefing on legal, regulatory, market and other responsible for the Companys long-term sustainable success, generating developments that are relevant to directors of UK-listed companies value for shareholders and contributing to wider society as shown page100.
throughout this Corporate Governance Report.
The Board settled the Groups purpose statement, reaffirmed the Groups INFORMATION AND SUPPORT vision and values and adopted behavioural guidelines in respect of these The Board is provided with information in a form and of a quality appropriate values during the year as explained in the Chairmans introduction page 88. to discharge its duties page 92.
An overview of how the Board ensures that its obligations to shareholders The Board has access to independent professional advice and to the advice are met is described throughout this Corporate Governance Report and an and services of the Company Secretary page 100. example of how the Board listens to and engages with stakeholders is set The Board is regularly updated on the Groups performance between outin the stakeholder engagement case study page 96. scheduled Board meetings page 93.
The Company has appropriate insurance in place to cover Directors against EVALUATION claims that may be made against them.
An internal Board and Committee effectiveness review was completed during DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES the year and an  review will be conducted in 2019 The Board is structured to ensure that there is limited scope for an page107.
individualor small group of individuals to dominate its decision-making, RE-ELECTION asdemonstrated throughout this Corporate Governance Report.
All Directors stand for annual re-election.
William Hayes will not be standing The CEO is not a Director of the Company and therefore not a member of for re-election in 2019 page 89. theBoard page 101.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and CEO ACCOUNTABILITY page 101.
FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS REPORTING The division of responsibilities between the Chairman, the CEO and the The Board has presented this Annual Report, which is fair, balanced and Senior Independent Director are recorded in writing and have been approved understandable page 139. by the Board.
The roles of the Board and the Board Committees are recorded in the Business model description pages 54 and 55.
Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board and the Terms of Reference foreach of the Boards Committees, which are available on the Companys Going concern statement page 22. website at www.
Robust assessment of principal risks and the Groups risk appetite pages24 to 30.
THE CHAIRMAN Effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems pages 22 The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, and his and 23and 111 and 112. responsibilities are set out on page 101.
He is responsible for setting the Boards agenda and ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information pages 92 and 101.
AUDIT COMMITTEE AND AUDITORS Three out of the four Audit and Risk Committee members are considered NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS to have recent and relevant financial experience page 108.
The Non-Executive Directors constructively challenge management and each Whistleblowing policy page 113. other, and help develop proposals on strategy page 101.
EFFECTIVENESS REMUNERATION COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD THE LEVEL AND STRUCTURE OF REMUNERATION The Board has 11 Directors, comprising a Non-Executive Chairman and ten other Non-Executive Directors, five of whom are independent.
The Company has no executive directors but voluntarily discloses the CEOs All members of the Audit and Risk and Remuneration and Talent Management remuneration, which includes transparent, stretching and rigorously applied Committees are independent and two of the three Nomination and performance-related elements designed to promote the Companys long-term Governance Committee members are independent.
The Board comprises Directors with a broad and complementary set of PROCEDURE technical skills, educational and professional experience, nationalities, The Directors Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the personalities, cultures and perspectives, including gender page 100.
The Directors biographies provide further information on their experience The procedure for setting policies on executive remuneration is voluntarily pages 98 and 99. disclosed pages 125 to 133.
The Roles in the Boardroom diagram shows the participation in Board No Director is involved in setting his or her own remuneration and the CEO is discussions and deliberations of each Director, the CEO and the Company not involved in fixing his own remuneration page 118.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD There is a formal and transparent procedure for the identification and DIALOGUE WITH SHAREHOLDERS appointment of new Directors page 106.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director met with shareholders and the Company met with over 550 investors and potential investors during the COMMITMENT year pages 88, 90 and 97.
All Directors have confirmed they are able to allocate sufficient time to meet CONSTRUCTIVE USE OF GENERAL MEETINGS the expectations of their role.
The Company held an accessible AGM in central London with voting on a poll, Other significant commitments are disclosed to the Board when they arise separate resolutions and proxy voting for, against or withheld.
All Directors attended the meeting and Committee Chairs were available Time commitment is considered as part of the Board effectiveness review to answer questions.
and when electing and re-electing Directors.
Notice was sent out at least 20 working days before the meeting.
