INTRODUCTION TO THE COMMITTEES BOARD COMMITTEES The Board relies on its Committees to ensure that deliberations are focused onkeyissues and that proposals are submitted after detailed  challenge.
Each Committee also provides an essential forum to allow the  stakeholders to be discussed, so that they canberepresented in the Boards deliberations.
CHAIR KEY RESPONSIBILITIES NOMINATION Jean-Paul Luksic Corporate governance AND GOVERNANCE Succession planning for MEMBERS COMMITTEE the CEO and the Board Tim Baker Ollie Oliveira Board and Committee composition Board effectiveness p105 reviews CHAIR KEY RESPONSIBILITIES AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE Ollie Oliveira Financial reporting External audit MEMBERS Jorge Bande Internal audit Vivianne Blanlot Risk and internal control Francisca Castro Compliance p108 CHAIR KEY RESPONSIBILITIES SUSTAINABILITY AND Vivianne Blanlot Policies and commitments STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT Safety and health MEMBERS COMMITTEE Jorge Bande Community relations Juan Claro Environment William Hayes p114 CHAIR KEY RESPONSIBILITIES PROJECTS COMMITTEE Ollie Oliveira Policies and commitments Project reviews MEMBERS Tim Baker Lessons learned from Jorge Bande completed projects Ramn Jara p116 CHAIR KEY RESPONSIBILITIES REMUNERATION AND TALENT Tim Baker Remuneration governance MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Directors remuneration MEMBERS Vivianne Blanlot Executive remuneration Francisca Castro Human resources and policy Talent management and succession planning for p118 the Executive Committee 104 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 GOVERNANCE NOMINATION AND GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE REPORT The Nomination and Governance Committee ensures that theBoard andits Committees operate effectively and that theGroup is aligned with theprinciples of corporate governance bestpractice.
Jean-Paul Luksic, Chairman KEY RESPONSIBILITIES 2018 MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGATTENDANCE Other regular attendees include the CEO and the Number attended CompanySecretary.
Jean-Paul Luksic Chair 3 3 The Committee meets as necessary and at least twice per year.
Tim Baker 3 3 Except for the Chairman, all Committee members Ollie Oliveira 3 3 areindependent.
KEY RESPONSIBILITIES KEY RESPONSIBILITIES KEY RESPONSIBILITIES The Nomination and Governance Committee supports the Board overseeing and facilitating annual reviews of the Chairman, inensuring that the Group has effective governance structures in Directors and the Board, including  reviews place and that the Board and its Committees operate effectively.
evaluating and overseeing the balance of skills, knowledge and The Committee identifies qualified individuals to join the Board, experience on the Board and its Committees, and reviewing the recommends any changes to Board and Committee composition independence of Directors and monitors an annual process to assess Board effectiveness.
overseeing Board succession plans and leading the process This involves: ofidentifying suitable candidates to fill vacancies, nominating suchcandidates for approval by the Board and ensuring that monitoring trends, initiatives and proposals in relation to appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria corporate governance overseeing CEO succession plans.
KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2018 Succession Board and committee Board effectiveness Corporate governance planning composition reviews Reviewed the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Reviewed updated Reviewed the Oversaw the Codeand associated reforms and approved plans to written succession independence of all implementation of respond to the new requirements and expectations.
plans for the Board Directors, making recommendations and its Committees.
recommendations arising from the Reviewed updates to the Committees terms tothe Board.
Reviewed updated facilitated review written succession Recommended that Completed the review of governance structures ofBoard and plans for the CEO.
Independent Noninplace at the Groups operating companies.
Committees Executive Director, Continued to Solicited feedback from shareholders on the performance.
Francisca Castro, be provide input to the Groupscorporate governance arrangements in appointed Chair of the Reviewed the 2018 Remuneration and advance ofthe 2018 AGM.
Remuneration and internal evaluation Talent Management Attended meetings with shareholders.
Talent Management ofBoard and Committee in relation Committee, with effect Committees Reviewed Directors potential conflict of to succession plans from 1 May 2019. performance.
for the Executive Committee Reviewed plans for Reviewed the Governance section of the 2017 excluding the CEO the external Board AnnualReport and recommended it to the Board and the Groups effectiveness review forapproval.
diversity and to be carried out inclusion programme.
co. uk 105 NOMINATION AND GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED BOARD COMPOSITION AND SUCCESSION PLANNING Succession planning at Board level includes the setting of policies that encourage a strong and diverse pipeline of candidates well into the future.
in Chile and we consider this to be a significant advantage.
WHAT IS THE SCOPE OF THE BOARDS ourthree most recent Board appointments have been women.
The succession plan is reviewed formally once a year and The Board actively seeks to increase female representation beyond addressesBoard size, Committee structure and composition, skills the current level, while ensuring that appointments continue to be onthe Board, Board and Committee members tenure, independence made on merit.
This extends across all levels of the Group, including ofDirectors, diversity including gender, Board roles, Board the Board where we ensure that searches for new Directors access policies, and succession plans for all Board and Committee the widest possible talent pool and include female candidates.
Succession plans include contingency plans in the Q.
WHAT POLICIES ARE IN PLACE TO PROMOTE A eventofan unexpected departure, medium-term plans for orderly DIVERSEPIPELINE OF TALENT FOR THE FUTURE?
replacement ofcurrent Directors and long-term plans linking strategywith the skillsneeded on the Board in the future.
To further promote diversity at the Executive Committee level and below, a new Diversity and Inclusion strategy was approved by the Q.
WHAT STEPS DOES THE COMMITTEE TAKE TO Board in 2017.
This was prepared following an exercise to assess IDENTIFY AND APPOINT NEW DIRECTORS?
thematurity of the Groups existing diversity and inclusion model The Committee discusses relevant profiles for future appointments which included interviews with stakeholders, a bench-marking and potential candidates, taking into account the results of Board exercise and a comprehensive review of the Groups policies and effectiveness reviews, as shown on page 107, the Groups vision and processes.
As noted on page 89, the Board has reviewed progress strategy, as shown on pages 18 and 19, the Boards diversity policy inthe implementation of this strategy during 2018 which saw the below and the core competencies and areas of expertise on the adoption of targets to double the percentage of women in the Board, as shown on page 100. workforce by 2022, compared to the 2017 baseline and to ensure thatmore than 1% of the workforce comprises of disabled workers The Committee usually appoints external search consultancies who bythe end of 2019. donot have any connection to the Group to assist with searches for Board candidates.
The consultancy is typically briefed on the skills The Group carefully considered the elements of diversity that would andexperience of the existing Directors and asked to identify potential most contribute to achievement of the Groups vision and strategy and candidates who would best meet a number of criteria, including has committed to increasing the percentage of women, people with relevant experience, skills, personality type, contribution to Board disabilities and international backgrounds and or experience in the diversity and whether they have sufficient time to devote to the role.
workforce by 2022, and for these improvements to be embedded, Members of the Committee usually interview short-listed candidates sustained and improved upon from that point onwards.
The current and collectively select a candidate to be recommended to the Board levels of gender diversity within the mining divisions workforce and for appointment.
A similar process is being followed for the director further rationale behind the Diversity and Inclusion strategy are set search that we have commenced in 2019. out within the Strategic Report on page 36.
As shown on page 129, metrics associated with the development Q.
WHAT IS THE BOARDS POSITION IN RELATION of the Diversity and Inclusion strategy were included as part of the TODIVERSITY?
Groups Annual Bonus Plan in 2018 and will again be included in The Board believes in the benefits of diversity and that more diverse 2019.
Performance will be assessed by the Remuneration and companies attract the best talent, thereby achieving stronger overall TalentManagement Committee at the end of the year.
However, diversity is a general term that covers The Remuneration and Talent Management Committee is also anumber of different components including gender, disability, responsible for succession planning for the Executive Committee educational and professional experience, nationality, personality excluding the CEO which allows for ongoing monitoring of the type, culture and perspective.
We are an international mining impact of the Diversity and Inclusion strategy on appointments companybased in Chile, thus we consider this broad definition of and progress within the Company including at the level of those diversity when setting policies and making appointments in support whoreport to the Executive Committee, as noted on page 120. ofour vision and strategy.
WHAT SUPPORT DOES THE COMPANY PROVIDE Q.
WHAT POLICY IS CURRENTLY IN PLACE TO ENSURE TOFACILITATE INDUCTION AND ASSIST WITH THAT THERE IS DIVERSITY AT BOARD LEVEL?
The Board adopted its Diversity Policy in August 2015.
The Company provides new Directors with a thorough induction, The Committee has worked hard to ensure that the Board is suitably and incumbent directors with access to resources and continuing diverse across the definitions of diversity set out above.
Further details are set out on page 100. reviews its effectiveness in meeting diversity goals each year as part of the annual Board evaluation process.
Jean-Paul Luksic As previously noted, the Groups current activities are focused in Chair of the Nomination and Governance Committee Chile, but for many years the Board has included a number of Directors from outside Chile in support of our vision and strategy.
Our Board is more diverse than companies of a similar size and scope 106 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018
