BOARD ACTIVITIES STRATEGIC CHALLENGE AND OVERSIGHT The Boards 2018 activities focused on revisions to, and implementation of, the Groups strategy as explained in more detail below.
Monitored feedback from letters sent Approved the Groups Modern Slavery STRATEGY AND CULTURE toinvestors regarding the Groups Actstatement.
Held a stand alone strategy day with corporategovernance arrangements.
particular focus on the Groups purpose, Reviewed half-yearly compliance reports.
mission, vision and strategic pillars.
Approved sponsorship of the 2018 Reviewed results of the Groups whistle FIAFormula-E championship, which Adopted the Groups purpose statement blowing processes.
promotes the use of electricity for and approved an updated Charter of worldwide mobility.
SUCCESSION PLANNING Values with four strategic pillars.
ANDTALENT MANAGEMENT Approved the 2018 Human Resources plan INTERNAL CONTROLS, RISK which included a review of the Groups Reviewed Board succession plans.
MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE organisational culture, talent management, EachDirector withdrew from any meeting Commissioned an external review of risk organisational effectiveness, labour when his or her own position was management systems maturity level.
Approved a restructuring of the risk Monitored progress on the implementation Reviewed the annual talent management management function and reporting lines.
of the Groups diversity and inclusion exercise, including succession plans for strategy and reviewed a gender-based Approved updates to the Groups Risk the Executive Committee.
Monitored the implementation of Reviewed the Groups risk appetite upgradedshort-term and long-term GOVERNANCE AND ENGAGEMENT statements, aligned with the Groups incentive programmes.
Reviewed and considered the 2018 UK strategic pillars.
FINANCIAL AND Reviewed the Groups risk matrix, PERFORMANCEREPORTING Reviewed Director independence.
materialised risks and risk mitigation actions.
Approved the Groups 2017 full-year and Reviewed Directors conflict of Reviewed budgets for initiatives designed 2018 half-year results.
to mitigate material identified risks.
Approved the dividends paid Approved updates to Committees terms Approved project guidelines specifying to shareholders during 2018. ofreference.
thelevel of project definition for feasibility study and execution approval, designed Reviewed and approved the Groups Oversaw the implementation of key toreduce project development risk.
recommendations arising from the 201617  and 2018 Reviewed findings of the independent Reviewed and approved the base case and internal Board effectiveness reviews.
technical board on tailings deposits.
development case for the Groups assets.
Engaged with shareholders on corporate Commissioned an independent audit of Reviewed and approved the Groups governance matters at the 2018 AGM.
Reviewed the Groups reserves and resources statements.
94 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 GOVERNANCE THE EXISTING CORE BUSINESS The first pillar of the strategy is to optimise and enhance the existing corebusiness: Los Pelambres, Centinela, Antucoya, Zaldvar and the Transport Division.
Reviewed and monitored the Groups safety and health Reviewed the Groups maintenance strategy.
Approved key procurement and sales contracts.
Reviewed and monitored the Groups operating performance.
Reviewed and approved the Groups copper concentrate and Approved carbon emission reduction targets.
Monitored results of the Groups Competitiveness and Reviewed the recovery plan following the blockage of Los CostProgramme.
Reviewed the Groups compliance with environmental Continued to monitor the independent review of tailings dam commitments and the results of a sustainability audit.
safety at Los Pelambres and Centinela.
Monitored labour relations at the Groups mining operations Reviewed progress in the implementation of the Somos Choapa andtransport division and reviewed the results of collective community relations model and its extension to the operations in negotiations.
Continued to monitor dialogue with governments in Argentina andChile regarding the Cerro Amarillo waste dump at LosPelambres and its removal.
ORGANIC AND SUSTAINABLE GROWTH OF THE CORE BUSINESS The second pillar of the strategy is to achieve sustainable, organic growthby further developing the areas around the Groups existing assetbase in Chile.
Approved execution of the Los Pelambres Expansion Project.
Reviewed lessons learned from the Encuentro Oxides, Molybdenum Plant and Thermo-Solar plant projects at Centinela.
Monitored the alternative growth cases for the expansion ofCentinela.
Approved work plans, budgets and studies in relation to the LosPelambres Expansion and Centinela expansion projects.
Reviewed the Zaldvar Sulphide Leaching project.
Reviewed and approved the acquisition and divestment of mining properties in Chile.
GROWTH BEYOND THE CORE The third pillar of the strategy is to seek growth beyond the Groups existing operations, through the acquisition of high-quality operating assets and or high-potential early-stage developments.
Continued to monitor developments at the Twin Metals project Reviewed business development and exploration updates detailing inMinnesota.
exploration activities and results during the year.
Monitored the Growth beyond the Core Business strategy Reviewed business development opportunities and divestment of guidelines for management of the preferred geography, non-core assets.
commodity, size and stage for growth opportunities outside the Approved the divestment of non-core assets, including the sale of Groups core business.
Centinelas electricity transmission lines and the Groups interest in the Parque Elico El Arrayn wind farm.
Further information on the Groups strategy and objectives for 2019 can be found on pages 18 and 19 antofagasta.
