GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT The shares of Antofagasta plc are listed on the main market of the LondonStockExchange.
As explained in the Directors Report on page 137, thecontrolling shareholders of the Company hold approximately 65% of the Companys ordinary shares.
The majority of the Companys remaining ordinary shares are held by institutional investors, mainly based in the UK and North America.
The Company maintains an active dialogue with institutional shareholders and sell-side analysts, as well as with potential 2018 SHAREHOLDER shareholders.
This communication is managed by the investor ENGAGEMENT CALENDAR relations team in London, and includes a formal programme of presentations and roadshows to update institutional shareholders Q1 CEO presented at an industry conference for institutional andanalysts on developments in the Group.
Throughout the year the Company held regular meetings with One-on-one and small group meetings with some 140 investors, institutional investors and sell-side analysts, including international of which senior management participated in over 40%.
investor roadshows, and presentations at industry conferences and Presentation of full-year 2017 results by the CEO and CFO.
These were attended by the CEO US East Coast roadshow 2 days.
andvarious members of the management team, including the CFO, theVice President of Investor Relations and the Vice President London and Geneva roadshow 4 days.
The Company publishes quarterly production figures as well as the Investor relations team attended three investor conferences: half-year and full-year financial results.
Copies of these production twoin the UK and, together with the CFO, one in Chile.
reports, financial results, presentations and press releases are Q2 CEO presented at an industry conference for institutional available on the Companys website.
The Group also publishes a investors in the US.
separate Sustainability Report on its social and environmental performance: the latest report is available on the website One-on-one and small group meetings with some 110 investors, in both Spanish and English.
of which senior management participated in over 50%.
Annual General Meeting in London.
WHAT INVESTORS FOCUSED ON MOST IN 2018 US West Coast roadshow 3 days.
free cash flow generation and capital allocation Buy-side analysts and institutional investors visited the Groups ability to achieve its full-year production and LosPelambres.
costguidance Investor relations team attended two investor conferences cost reduction programmes and expected future costs in the UK and one in the US.
labour negotiations at Los Pelambres Q3 Presentation of half-year 2018 results by the CEO and CFO.
the Groups capital expenditure programme and the potential fromlonger-term growth projects One-on-one and small group meetings with some 140 investors, of which senior management participated in over 60%.
supply and demand factors in the world copper market.
The Board receives regular summaries and feedback regarding London roadshow 2 days.
meetings held as part of the investor relations programme.
US East Coast roadshow 3 days.
TheCompanys Annual General Meeting is also an opportunity to communicate with both institutional and private shareholders.
All Chairmans lunch with key investors.
theDirectors met shareholders at the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
CFO attended two industry conferences in the UK.
Investor relations team attended two investor conferences CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ENGAGEMENT in the UK.
As noted on pages 88, 90, 105 and 119, the Board paid close attentionto the UK Corporate Governance reforms and the final Q4 CEO presented at an industry conference in Australia.
reform package as published in the 2018 Corporate Governance CEO and CFO presented to institutional investors in Chile.
Senior Independent Director Ollie Oliveira met with a number of One-on-one and small group meetings with some proxy advisers and major shareholders in London in November 2018 160investors.
to discuss corporate governance and associated matters relating to Sustainable and responsible investment roadshow in the Company, its strategy and management performance and its Londonwith Vice President of Corporate Affairs and approach towards the UK Corporate Governance reforms.
meetings were also attended by the Company Secretary and the Investor relations team attended three investor Director of the London Office.
