GOVERNANCE BOARD EFFECTIVENESS A YEAR OF INTERNAL REVIEW Candid, thorough effectiveness reviews reflect the Boards commitment to continuous improvement.
EXTERNAL REVIEW INTERNAL REVIEW The Board aims to undertake an  effectiveness In years where there is no  review, the Board review at least once every three years.
A further external review conducts an internal effectiveness assessment, led by the Senior will be undertaken in 2019.
Independent Director and the Company Secretary.
The most recent external reviews were carried out in 2016 17 An internal review was carried out in 2018, which confirmed that and2013 by Independent Audit Limited Independent Audit.
significant improvements had been made to Board effectiveness Independent Audit has no other connection with the Group.
since the first external review in 2013.
The Board will continue to use the findings of external and internal reviews to make additional Based on interviews with Board members and executive improvements to Board and Committee effectiveness.
management and detailed reviews of Board and Committee papers, Independent Audit stated in its February 2017 report that: During 2018, the Senior Independent Director asked Non-Executive Directors to complete a survey on the Chairmans effectiveness.
a very thorough approach to follow-through of the agreed actions Atameeting without the Chairman present, the Senior Independent has been adopted Director presented consolidated results to Non-Executive Directors considerable progress has been made across many aspects and agreed on both positive aspects and improvement opportunities, of the Boards activities, including a strong focus on cost and which were summarised in a feedback letter shared by the Senior competitiveness as well as considerable attention given to other Independent Director with the Chairman.
The Chairman used these crucial areas, including relations with local communities, and to comments to continue to improve the operation of the Board.
safety and health In turn, the Chairman assessed each of the Non-Executive looking ahead, management will need to focus on the further Directors individual effectiveness, performance and potential to development of the information provided to Directors to help assume new Board or Committee roles, in order to update the support discussion of the main challenges and risks.
In turn, the Board and Committee succession plans.
Board will need to assess how the Group will respond to industry trends, macroeconomic developments and innovation.
Following the 2019  review, the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director will meet to agree an action plan for closing any gaps identified and the Nomination and Governance Committee will evaluate gap-closure progress.
Year 1 2016 Year 2 2017 Year 3 2018 External effectiveness review, Internal review based on assessment Internal review, gap closure and .
andmonitoring of gap closure progress development of plan for 2019 following external effectiveness review.
Annual review of the Chairman by Annual review of the Chairman by the Annual review of the Chairman by theNon-Executive Directors, led by Non-Executive Directors, led bythe theNon-Executive Directors, led by theSenior Independent Director.
Annual review ofNon-Executive Directors conducted by the Chairman.
Annual review of Non-Executive Annual review of Non-Executive Directors conducted by theChairman.
Directors conducted by the Chairman.
External reviews provide fresh ideas and welook forward to benefiting from another external review in 2019.
