AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT The Audit and Risk Committeesupports the Boardin its responsibilities relating to financial reporting and risk management.
Ollie Oliveira, Chair 2018 MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGATTENDANCE Other regular attendees include the CEO, the CFO, the Group Number attended Financial Controller, the Head of Internal Audit, the Head of Risk and the Company Secretary.
Ollie Oliveira Chair 7 7 At least one Committee member serves on each of the other Board Jorge Bande 7 7 1 Committees which allows the Committee to take into account the Vivianne Blanlot 6 7 full spectrum of risks faced by the Group.
Francisca Castro 7 7 The Committee meets as necessary and at least twice a year.
Vivianne Blanlot was unable to attend one meeting held at short notice due to All Committee members are independent.
Ollie Oliveira, Jorge Bande and Francisca Castro are all considered to have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee as a whole has significant experience relevant to the mining sector.
KEY RESPONSIBILITIES The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board in meeting its internal audit, including monitoring of the Groups Internal Audit responsibilities relating to financial reporting and control and risk function, processes and findings management.
The Committees main responsibilities cover: assisting the Board with its responsibilities in respect of risk management, including reviews of the Groups risk appetite and financial reporting, which includes responsibility for reviewing key risks the year-end and half-year financial reports, and monitoring the overall financial reporting process monitoring the performance of the compliance and crime prevention models.
overseeing the external audit process and managing the relationship with PwC, the Groups external auditor KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2018 Financial External Risk and internal control Compliance reporting audit Reviewed the 2017 Reviewed and approved Reviewed the conclusions of the assessment of Reviewed the Groups year-end and 2018 the 2018 audit plan, thematurity of the Groups risk management whistleblowing half-year financial including fees.
process, which was completed during the year.
arrangements, including reports, focusing details of the most significant Assessed the Played a central role in the review of the Groups onthe significant reports and the actions taken.
effectiveness of the risk appetite, which was completed during the year.
accounting issues external audit process.
Reviewed updates to Assisted the Board in reviewing and updating the relating to the theconflict of interest Groups risk management policy.
Internal declarations by the Groups Conducted detailed reviews with the General audit Assisted the Board in employees and suppliers, Managers of each of the Groups operations, ensuring that the 2017 and details of the Groups covering the operations key risks.
Reviewed the key Annual Report was limited relationships with findings from the Reviewed developments in the Groups standard fair, balanced and politically exposed persons.
internal audit reviews risk management processes during the year.
understandable, and Monitored the functioning of conducted during 2018. reviewed the longAssisted the Board with its assessment of the Groups crime prevention term viability statement Agreed the scope and theGroups key risks and its review of the model, in accordance contained in the 2017 areas of focus for the effectiveness of the risk management and withChilean and UK Annual Report.
108 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 GOVERNANCE PROACTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT Proactive and focused risk management is a key tool in ensuring optimal performance and driving appropriate behaviour across the Group.
Given the significant new accounting standards that apply in 2018 Q.
WHAT WERE THE KEY AREAS OF FOCUS FOR THE and2019, we have monitored the implementation and impact of COMMITTEE IN 2018?
As expected, the impact of the standards The Group completed a review of the maturity of its risk management whichapplied for the first time in 2018 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments process during the year.
The Committee was closely involved and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, was relatively throughout the process, in particular reviewing the conclusions and limited for the Group.
The implementation of IFRS 16 Leases has been key actions arising from the assessment.
Partly as a result of this a more complex and extensive process, and has a more pervasive process, the Group updated its risk management policy, and the impact forthe Groups operations.
We monitored the progress of the Committee reviewed this policy prior to its approval by the Board.
implementation, in terms of the detailed contract review process TheBoard concluded a detailed review of the Groups risk appetite, toidentify leases contained within wider service contracts, the and the Committee was closely involved with the work around the conclusions of that work, and the necessary systems changes and framework and context of the review.
Ill discuss the conclusions training required to implement the new standard.
The main elements ofthese reviews in more detail below.
of the implementation process were completed well in advance of The copper market weakened in the second half of 2018, and the2018 year-end, and the effectiveness of the process has been wehaveconsidered the potential accounting implications of that, confirmed by the smooth transition to the new standard from particularly in terms of the carrying value of the Groups assets.
We have also monitored the implementation work in respect of the Q.
WHAT WERE THE SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ISSUES significant new accounting standards, which apply for the first time IN RELATION TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in2018 and 2019.
CONSIDERED BY THE COMMITTEE DURING 2018?
The main accounting issues considered in detail by the Committee FINANCIAL REPORTING in respect of the 2018 financial statements were: Q.
WHAT ARE THE COMMITTEES MAIN ACTIVITIES IN Asset valuations: we have considered whether there were any RESPECT OF THE GROUPS FINANCIAL REPORTING?
indicators of impairment or reversal of previous impairments The Committee reviews the year-end financial statements and at the Groups operations, and concluded that there were not.
half-yearly financial report, and ensures that the key accounting Accordingly, we have not performed any impairment reviews policies, estimates and judgements applied in those financial in respect of the Groups assets at the 2018 year end.
While the statements are reasonable.
copper spot price has decreased during 2018 from $3.25 lb at 31December 2017 to $2.70 lb at 31 December 2018 we remain We also monitor the overall financial reporting process to ensure confident in a positive longer-term outlook for the copper market, itis robust and well controlled.
This includes ensuring that the supported by the increase in consensus analyst forecasts for the Groupsaccounting and finance function is adequately resourced, long-term copper price.
We also considered the Groups operating withappropriate segregation of duties, that there are appropriate performance as well as the progress of significant development internal review processes, that the Groups accounting policies projects that contribute to the value of the Groups operations, areappropriate and clearly communicated, and that the Groups bothof which were generally in line with expectations for 2018. accounting and consolidation systems are also appropriate.
Inventories: we keep the Groups inventory balances under close The Committee assists the Board in undertaking its assessment review.
This reflects a combination of the value of the inventories, that the Annual Report is, when taken as a whole, fair, balanced the long-term nature of some of the balances and the fact that the andunderstandable, and provides the necessary information to monitoring of mining work-in-progress inventories, particularly in allowshareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, respect of leaching processes, can be complex.
Relevant factors business model and strategy.
As part of this assessment, we use that we review can include the processes and controls over the ourdetailed knowledge of the financial results and the key accounting stockpiles, including physical verification processes, the specific judgements applied in the financial statements to ensure that the accounting policies applied to the inventory balances, the level of toneand content of the narrative reporting fairly reflects the financial headroom indicated by net realisable value tests, the forecast results for the year.
futuremovements in the value of the balances and the potential We also review the going concern basis adopted in the financial accounting impact of operating factors such as changing recovery statements, as well as the detailed long-term viability statement in levels for the leach pile inventories.
These reviews have not raised theAnnual Report.
any concerns with the carrying value of the Groups inventory balances as at 31 December 2018. antofagasta.
co. uk 109 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED EXTERNAL AUDIT INDEPENDENCE AND OBJECTIVITY OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR Q.
WHAT ARE THE COMMITTEES ACTIVITIES IN RESPECT OF THE EXTERNAL AUDIT PROCESS?
The Committee monitors the external auditors independence and objectivity in line with Group policy, which covers the potential The Committee is responsible for overseeing Antofagastas employment of former auditors, the types of non-audit services relationship with PwC, the Groups external auditor.
I have a key thatthe external auditor may and may not provide to the Group, direct relationship with Jason Burkitt, the lead PwC audit partner.
andthe approval process in respect of permitted non-audit services.
Wereview and approve the scope of the external audit, the terms ofengagement and fees.
The Committee monitors the effectiveness The policy specifies services which the external auditor may not ofthe audit process and we are responsible for ensuring the provide to any Group entity.
This includes playing any part in the independence of the external auditor.
We also make recommendations management or decision-making of the entity, preparing accounting to the Board in respect of the appointment, reappointment or removal records and financial statements and designing or implementing of the external auditor.
The Committee formally meets with PwC internal control procedures relating to the preparation of financial without management present at least once a year.
In addition, a number of more specific services are prohibited, including internal audit services and valuation services Q.
HOW LONG HAS PWC BEEN THE GROUPS AUDITOR?
thatwould have a material effect on the financial statements and PwC has been our external auditor for four years.
We carried thepreparation of material tax calculations.
The policy also includes outatender process during 2014, which resulted in PwC being blacklisted services that may not be provided to Antofagasta plc appointedwith effect from 2015 onwards.
In line with relevant orits subsidiaries within the European Union EU for instance, regulatory guidance we expect to undertake a tender process virtually all services in respect of taxation are prohibited.
inrespect of the external audit at least every ten years.
The policy also requires prior approval by the Committee for all non-audit services, other than services considered to be clearly Q.
HOW DO YOU ASSESS THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE trivial, which the Committee has defined as being services with fees EXTERNAL AUDIT PROCESS?
In addition to this pre-approval process The Committee considered the following factors as part of its review forspecific non-audit services, the Audit and Risk Committee monitors of the effectiveness of the external audit process during the year: the total level of non-audit services provided by the external auditor inorder to ensure that neither the auditors objectivity nor the appropriateness of the proposed audit plan, the significant its independence is put at risk.
risk areas and areas of focus, and the effective performance of the audit A breakdown of the audit and non-audit fees is disclosed in Note 7 the technical skills and industry experience of the audit engagement to the financial statements.
The Companys external auditor, PwC, has partner and the wider audit team provided non-audit services excluding audit-related services which amounted to $88,000, or 5% of the fees for audit and audit-related the quality of the external auditors reporting to the Committee services.
This mainly related to transfer pricing documentation and the effectiveness of the co-ordination between the UK and Chilean compliance services provided to Group companies outside the EU.
audit teams In general, where the external auditor is selected to provide non-audit the effectiveness of the interaction and relationship between the services it is because it has specific expertise or experience in the Groups management and the external auditor relevant area and is considered to be the most suitable provider.
The feedback from management in respect of the effectiveness of the Committee has reviewed the level of these services in the course of audit processes for the individual operations and the Group overall the year and is confident that the objectivity and independence of the the review of reports from the external auditor detailing its own auditor is not impaired by such non-audit work.
internal quality control procedures, as well as its annual The external auditor provides a report to the Committee at least once transparency report.
a year, setting out its firms policies and procedures for maintaining In light of this assessment, the Committee considers it appropriate its independence.
that PwC be reappointed as external auditor.
The Committee considers that PwC remained independent and objective throughout 2018.
110 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 GOVERNANCE INTERNAL AUDIT RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL Q.
WHAT ARE THE COMMITTEES MAIN ACTIVITIES IN RELATION TO INTERNAL AUDIT?
WHAT ARE THE COMMITTEES MAIN ACTIVITIES The Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups INRELATION TO RISK MANAGEMENT AND Internal Audit function.
The Head of Internal Audit reports directly INTERNALCONTROL?
to the Committee and meets us without management present at least The Committee plays an important role in assisting the Board once a year.
 with regard to risk management and related The Committee reviews and approves Internal Audits plan of work controls.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for overseeing the for the coming year, including the departments budget, headcount Groups principal risks, as well as maintaining control systems.
We ensure there are sufficient resources in the order toachieve our business objectives, internal control systems plan to allow for special reviews that may be required during the year.
aredesigned to identify and manage, rather than eliminate, the risk offailure, and can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance We also monitor the resources available to the Internal Audit team against material misstatement or loss.
The Committee assists the sothat it has the right mix of skills and experience.
Internal Audit Board with its assessment of the Groups principal risks and its utilises a mix of permanent team members, temporary secondees review of the effectiveness of the risk management process.
from elsewhere in the Group and third parties, particularly for areas such as IT-related reviews.
The permanent team includes members Q.
WHAT WERE THE COMMITTEES MAIN ACTIVITIES IN with specific expertise in some of the most relevant areas for the 2018 RELATING TO RISK?
Group, including mining technical experience, IT and sustainability.
The Risk Management function presented to the Committee Internal Audit presents to the Committee summaries of the key severaltimes during the year on developments in the Groups risk findings from the reviews conducted during the year and any actions management processes and Group-level strategic risks.
The General that have been taken or proposed.
All Internal Audit reports are Managers of the Groups operations presented to the Committee their distributed to the Committee members once they have been finalised.
assessments of their respective operations key potential risks and The Committee monitors the interaction between Internal Audit and any significant materialised risks.
The analysis of key risks includes PwC, to ensure an efficient relationship between the internal and anassessment of the significance of the risks based on the probability external audit processes, avoid duplication of work, and achieve the of the risk materialising and the potential impact of the risk, as well as effective and timely sharing of findings.
an evaluation of the quality of the controls in place in respect of those specific risks.
The evaluation of the potential impact is not limited toeconomic factors but includes issues such as safety and health, environmental, community and reputational issues.
We also look atwhether those risks have been increasing or decreasing in significance.
The General Managers present their forecasts of any expected change in key risks over the coming 12 months.
If there isa specific issue at one of the operations that requires more , we will ask the General Manager to attend thenext meeting to discuss that issue.
This direct interaction between the Committee and the General Managers is extremely valuable notjust in terms of the direct insight into each operation it affords the Committee but in allowing us to emphasise the importance we attach to strong risk management processes.
As explained above, the Group completed a review of the maturity ofits risk management process during the year.
We have been closelyinvolved throughout the process, in particular reviewing the conclusions and key actions arising from the assessment.
In general, the review confirmed that the Groups risk management processes are at the appropriate level for a Group of its size and nature.
The review helped us to identify a number of areas that would benefit from further improvement and we are working to further strengthen these processes, particularly with respect to our risk appetite processes, our risk-related training, and the full alignment of evaluation and remuneration processes with risk management objectives.
Partly as a result of this review, the Group updated its riskmanagement policy, which the Committee reviewed prior to its approval by the Board.
co. uk 111 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED In terms of risk appetite, we have already updated our review of Q.
HOW DOES THE COMMITTEE INTERACT WITH THE theGroups risk appetite.
This was a Board-level process, but the BOARD AND OTHER COMMITTEES?
Committee was closely involved, particularly with respect to the I report to the Board following each Committee meeting, overall framework of the review.
summarisingthe main matters reviewed by the Committee.
These The mining industry is undergoing a period of dynamic change, regular reportsallow the Directors to understand the main issues withtechnological advances presenting significant opportunities and under consideration, and, when relevant, to discuss these matters risks, and it is important that our overall risk appetite assessment inmore detail with the Board.
isregularly updated to reflect the challenges and opportunities The Risk Management function presents directly to the Board, facingthe Group.
A clearly-articulated risk appetite framework providing updates of the analysis of the Groups key risks and relevant isveryvaluable in ensuring that we have a focused, proactive developments in the risk management and compliance processes.
It is also important in achieving We try to ensure that the review of risk by the Board is not aclearunderstanding across the Group regarding the types of compartmentalised into isolated sessions, but permeates everything actionsand behaviours that are unacceptable.
The updated review that the Board considers.
To this end, the operating update provided reconfirmed the Groups low risk appetite for issues relating to safety, by the CEO to the Board at each meeting covers any significant environmental impact, local communities, and potential corruption materialised risks, and each proposal presented to the Board issues.
Conversely, we have a higher appetite for exposure to incorporates an analysis of the principal risks.
commodity price fluctuations, given that this is a fundamental part ofour business, and focused exposure to the copper price is a key These processes have assisted the Board in carrying out a robust reason why many of our investors choose to invest in the Group.
assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those Wealso have a higher risk appetite in relation to the opportunities that that could threaten its business model, future performance, solvency come from adopting innovative technological solutions assuming, or liquidity, and to assess the acceptability of the level of risks that ofcourse, that the associated risks are well understood and managed.
arise from the Groups operations and development activities.
For more information on the Groups risk management framework please As noted above, the Board concluded a detailed review of the Groups refer to pages 22 and 23 risk appetite during 2018.
The Committee assisted the Board with this process, particularly in terms of the overall framework of the review.
Each year the Board, with the support of the Committee, reviews theeffectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal controlsystems.
The review covers all material controls, including financial, operating and compliance controls.
No significant failures orweaknesses were identified as a result of this review during 2018.
AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE, BOARD AND RISK MANAGEMENT FUNCTION INTERACTION The Risk Management function provides BOARD regular presentations covering changes in The Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee reports to the Board following the Groups key risks, major materialised each Committee meeting, allowing a wider discussion of the risk and risks, and updates on the risk management compliance issues reviewed in detail by the Committee.
RISK MANAGEMENT AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE FUNCTION The Committee supports the Board in its review of the effectiveness of the There are detailed presentations at each Groups risk management and internal control systems.
Committee meeting covering the risk management process, significant whistleblowing reports, and updates on GENERAL MANAGERS compliance processes and activities.
OF THE OPERATIONS The General Managers give detailed presentations to the Committee at least once a year, including on each operations key risks and materialised risks.
112 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 GOVERNANCE We also have members of the Audit and Risk Committee Q.
WHAT WERE THE COMMITTEES MAIN ACTIVITIES participatingon the Nomination and Governance Committee, the IN 2018 RELATING TO COMPLIANCE?
Projects Committee, the Remuneration and Talent Management The Committee reviewed the Groups whistleblowing arrangements, Committee and the Sustainability and Stakeholder Management which enable employees and contractors to raise concerns in Committee, allowing close co-ordination between these Committees.
confidence about possible improprieties or non-compliance with theGroups Code of Ethics.
This is important to encourage any COMPLIANCE potential issues to be raised.
We received regular reports on  incidents, detailing the number and type Q.
WHAT ARE THE COMMITTEES MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES ofincidents, along with details of the most significant and the actions RELATING TO COMPLIANCE?
The Committee ensures that appropriate compliance policies and We reviewed updates with respect to the conflict of interest procedures are observed throughout the Group.
The Groups Risk declarations by the Groups employees and suppliers, as well as Management function makes regular presentations to the Committee details of the Groups limited relationships with politically exposed covering developments in the Groups compliance processes persons ie individuals who hold prominent public positions.
We also andsignificant compliance issues.
Chilean law requires the Group reviewed details of the compliance training undertaken by the Groups toappoint a Crime Prevention Officer and the Committee makes employees during the year.
recommendations to the Board regarding this appointment as wellasmonitoring and overseeing the performance of the role.
TheCrimePrevention Officer is currently Alfredo Atucha, the CFO.
Ollie Oliveira The Committee receives reports from the Risk Management function Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee in respect of the Groups crime prevention model, in accordance withChilean and UK anti-corruption legislation.
For more information on the Groups compliance and internal control framework, please refer to page 31.
Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee, Ollie Oliveira and Committee member, Francisca Castro, meeting with Centinela General Manager, Andrs Hevia, and members of his team at a site visit to Centinela during 2018 antofagasta.
co. uk 113 SUSTAINABILITY AND STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE REPORT The interests of our stakeholders need to be addressed, including the commitments we have made to the communities neighbouring our operating sites.
This reflects the focus of the Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee, the Board and the Group as a whole.
Vivianne Blanlot, Chair 2018 MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGATTENDANCE Number Other regular attendees include the CEO, the Vice attended Presidentof Corporate Affairs and Sustainability and the Vivianne Blanlot Chair 8 8 Company Secretary.
Jorge Bande 8 8 Sessions were also regularly attended by Directors who are 1 Juan Claro 7 8 notCommittee members, including the Chairman of the Board.
William Hayes 8 8 The Committee meets as necessary and at least twice per year.
Juan Claro was unable to attend one meeting held at short notice due to priorcommitments.
KEY RESPONSIBILITIES The Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee The Committee provides guidance to the Board on sustainability supports the Board in the stewardship of the Groups social matters, reviewing and updating the Groups framework responsibility programmes and makes recommendations to ofstrategies and policies including safety and health, theBoard to ensure that ethical, safety and health, environment, environmental, climate change, human rights, community social and community considerations are taken into account in andother stakeholder interests, while monitoring and the Boards deliberations.
reviewingthe Groups performance in respect of , indicators and targets.
KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2018 Policies and Safety and Community relations Environment commitments health Reviewed the Monitored Reviewed the application of UN Sustainable Reviewed the Groups environmental Groups 2017 thecontinued Development Goals to the Somos Choapa compliance programme.
Sustainability deployment of community relations programme.
Monitored fulfilment of the compliance Report.
theGroups safety Monitored results from the communications plan presented by Los Pelambres to the and occupational Reviewed the campaign Generation Change.
sustainability Reviewed issues raised by communities with Reviewed progress of the removal of aspects of Monitored the Los Pelambres and strategies to resolve them.
theCerro Amarillo waste rock dump and theGroups work conductedby of the strategy to resolve legal disputes Reviewed Los Pelambres public perception expansion the Independent inArgentina.
projects at Los Technical Review Reviewed reports from the new Reviewed results from Los Pelambres local Pelambres and Board appointed environmental management system.
to advise Los Reviewed results of the internal audit of Pelambres and Monitored the first year of the technical Reviewed the sustainability processes.
Centinela in the training centre at Los Vilos, run in partnership Committees operation of their with a technical education specialist.
A full description of the Groups sustainability and stakeholder management initiatives can be found on pages 32 to 51 114 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 GOVERNANCE MONITORING OUR COMMITMENTS TO STAKEHOLDERS The Committee discusses topics and issues raised by the Groups stakeholders andensures that they are considered as part of the Boards deliberations.
SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS HAS BEEN MADE IN RELATION Q.
HOW DOES THE COMMITTEE ENSURE THAT THE TO COMMUNITY RELATIONS AT LOS PELAMBRES.
BOARDTAKES INTO ACCOUNT THE VIEWS AND WHATABOUT STAKEHOLDERS ELSEWHERE IN INTERESTS OF STAKEHOLDERS?
Committee meetings provide a forum for detailed discussion of the The future of our operating companies depends on committed and key issues that matter for our workforce such as safety and health, sustained partnerships with neighbouring communities and with local, local communities and other stakeholders.
These issues are identified regional and national governments.
In 2018 the Committee oversaw as part of the risk management and community engagement processes the application of lessons learned from Los Pelambres Somos and are brought to the Committee by executive management.
As Chairman Choapa model to the other mining operations and at the transport of the Committee, I report to the Board following each Committee division through the Dialogue for Development initiative.
meeting, summarising the main matters reviewed by the Committee.
We are also pleased to report that the model has attracted the Q.
WHAT WERE THE KEY ACHIEVEMENTS OVERSEEN attention of others as best practice in stakeholder relations and BYTHE COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR?
howbest to address community issues.
After 26 months without a fatality there was a fatal accident at LosPelambres on 7 October and our sincere condolences go to Q.
WHAT ARE THE COMMITTEES PRIORITIES IN 2019?
thefamily of Jorge Prez Barraza.
This incident was both extremely Our number one priority continues to be the safety and health of our sadand incredibly disappointing for the Group, and as a Committee workforce.
We have learned that on-site verification by supervisors we will do everything we can to help the Group achieve its target of ofthe Groups safety standards, together with employees and zero fatalities in the future.
contractors careful attention to risks through near-miss reporting, are key to meeting the Groups target of zero fatalities.
Lessons from Although the Group missed its zero fatalities goal, in recent years the safety model are also being applied to occupational health thesystematic and thorough application of safety standards and processes, with a goal of reaching the same maturity level as the highlevels of near-miss reporting by our operating companies has Groups safety standards and processes.
significantly improved our safety record.
Our first priority is the safetyand health of our people and we will continue to focus on The Committee will continue to monitor the implementation of the thesestandards and reporting statistics and details in pursuit of a Groups environmental management system by the Groups operating fatality-free working environment.
Being a good neighbour starts with continuing to meet environmental commitments.
The Environmental Impact Assessment EIA for the Los Pelambres Expansion project was approved in February 2018 and an EIA was Work is under way to achieve our greenhouse gases target for submitted for the extension of Zaldvars water rights beyond 2025 reduced carbon dioxide emissions, which was substantially advanced inline with its existing life of mine.
by the introduction of a new power purchase agreement at Zaldvar, which will now be exclusively supplied by renewable energy from Along with two other mining companies, we are pioneering an online 2020, as explained on page 56. system for monitoring the physical and chemical stability of tailings deposits and providing early emergency warnings in the event of a A good, long-term relationship with our neighbours is built day by failure.
The tailings dam at Los Pelambres is being used as the pilot, day.
The Committee continues to monitor the implementation of the with the participation of the local community, and the results will be Groups social programmes and the work done with communities used to modify Chiles already-rigorous tailings deposit regulations.
close to our operations in accordance with the Groups Social Management Model.
The Group has made some 7,683 environmental commitments as partof the EIA processes it has completed to receive approval for itsprojects over the years, and is using updated operating controls Vivianne Blanlot toensure compliance.
The Committee has focused on ensuring that Chair of the Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee the executive management recognises the importance of fulfilling these commitments, as well as obtaining new approvals when newconditions or new technology require a practical adjustment to previous commitments.
During the year the Committee also reviewed progress in closing gaps identified by an external audit of the Groups environmental commitments.
