BOARD BALANCE AND SKILLS A DIVERSE AND EFFECTIVE BOARD The Board comprises of 11 Directors with a broad and complementary set of technical skills, educational and professional experience, nationalities, personalities, cultures, perspectives and gender.
1 BOARD BALANCE 2 3 INDEPENDENCE GENDER DIVERSITY TENURE NATIONALITY 1 1 2 3 1 Chile Chairman 1-5 years 5 5 1 Male USA Independent 6-9 years Female Canada Non-Independent 9 years UK 5 8 3 9 1.
William Hayes will not be standing for re-election at the 2019 AGM.
The following figures reflect the Board balance during 2018 and as at the date of the Annual Report.
The Board reviews the independence of Directors annually.
None of the relationships set out in Provision B.
1.1. of the Code apply to the Companys Independent Directors.
A Report into the Ethnic Diversity of UK Boards Sir John Parker, The Parker Review Committee, 12 October 2017, identified eight of the current Directors as being from an ethnic minority background which includes individuals with South American heritage.
As explained on page 106, although the Groups footprint is primarily in Chile, themining industry is international and the Board includes a number of Directors from outside Chile in support of its vision and strategy.
BOARD SKILLS MATRIX Director Jean-Paul Luksic Ollie Oliveira Gonzalo Menndez Ramn Jara Juan Claro William Hayes Tim Baker Andrnico Luksic C Vivianne Blanlot Jorge Bande Francisca Castro PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT CONTINUING PERSONAL INDUCTION RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT New Directors receive a thorough Directors receive an annual briefing The Company provides Directors with induction on joining the Board.
This ongovernance, legal, regulatory and thenecessary resources to maintain and includes meetings with the Chairman, market developments that are relevant enhance their knowledge and capabilities.
other Directors, the CEO and Executive to directors of UK-listed companies All Directors have access to the advice and Committee members: briefings on complemented by discussions on Boardservices of the Company Secretary as well theGroups strategy, UK corporate related matters.
as to management and such information as governance, operations, projects and Directors have access to, and are they need to discharge their duties and exploration activities: and visits to the encouraged regularly to attend, responsibilities fully and effectively.
round-table discussions, seminars and Directors are also entitled to seek independent other events that cover topics relevant professional advice concerning the affairs to the Group and their role.
of the Group at the Companys expense.
100 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 Independence CEO experience Mining experience Mining operations experience Board governance Financial Legal Executive compensation Latin American experience UK market Project management Sustainability Energy experience Government relations Communication
