Ascential plc Annual Report 2018 Governance A STRONG GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK The Chairman leads an annual Board effectiveness review and is responsible for ensuring all new Directors have an appropriate tailored The Board has ultimate induction programme.
responsibility for the overall Chief Executive leadership of Ascential.
The Chief Executive has day-to-day responsibility for the effective management of the business and for ensuring that the Boards decisions are implemented.
He leads the development of strategy for approval by the Scott Forbes Chairman Board, as well as working with the Chief Financial Officer to develop budgets and medium-term plans to deliver the agreed strategy.
The Chief Executive is responsible for providing regular reports to the Board on all matters of significance, to ensure that the Board has accurate, clear and timely information on all key matters.
Role and operation of the Board Chief Financial Officer The Board oversees the development of a clear strategy, monitors The Chief Financial Officer supports the Chief Executive in developing and operational and financial performance against agreed goals and objectives, implementing strategy, as well as overseeing the financial performance of and ensures that appropriate controls and risk systems exist to manage risk.
She leads the development of the finance function to provide insightful financial analysis that informs key decision making.
The Board has agreed a schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision: Strategy, annual budgets and medium-term plans The Chief Financial Officer works with the Chief Executive to develop Approval of the annual and interim results, material acquisitions, budgets and medium-term plans to deliver the agreed strategy.
disposals and contracts Approval of risk appetite and review of principal risks The Chief Financial Officer also leads investor relations activities and Ensuring that a sound system of internal control and risk management is communication with investors alongside the Chief Executive.
maintained Changes relating to the Companys capital structure Senior Independent Director Approval of a dividend policy The Senior Independent Director acts as a sounding board for the Changes to Board composition Chairman and is available to the other Non-Executive Directors, including acting as an intermediary where necessary.
She is also available as an At the date of this report, the Board comprises seven Directors: the intermediary to shareholders if they have concerns which the normal Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer: and four channels through the Chairman or Chief Executive have failed to resolve or independent Non-Executive Directors.
With support from the Company Secretary, the Chairman sets the annual Independent Non-Executive Directors Board agenda programme and Board meeting agendas.
He ensures that The Non-Executive Directors scrutinise and monitor the performance of enough time is devoted, both during formal meetings and throughout the management, including the constructive challenge of the Executive year, to discuss all material matters including strategic, financial, operational, Directors.
They bring independence and a different perspective to the risk, people and governance.
Board and oversee the integrity of financial information, financial controls and systems of risk management.
All Directors make every effort to attend every meeting in person except in extraordinary circumstances.
If a Director is unable to attend a meeting, Company Secretary they are provided with all meeting materials and provide their views to the The Company Secretary supports the Chairman and is available to all Chairman, or other Directors, in advance of the meeting.
Directors to provide governance advice and assistance.
She works with the Chairman and the Chairs of the Board Committees to develop agendas and The Directors indicated as part of the Board evaluation process that the ensures that the Board receives sufficient, pertinent, timely and clear Board materials are relevant, clear and well presented and contribute to a information.
She also ensures compliance with the Boards procedures constructive debate and strong Board engagement.
and applicable rules and regulation.
In addition to the schedule of formal Board meetings, the Chairman and the Governance structure Non-Executive Directors meet periodically without the Executive Directors The management and day-to-day running of the Group, including the present, and the Senior Independent Director meets with the other development and implementation of strategy, monitoring the operating and Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present.
financial performance, and the prioritisation and allocation of resources, have been delegated to executive management.
Certain Board Board roles responsibilities are delegated to formal Board Committees, which play an Chairman important governance role through the work they carry out.
The Chairman provides leadership to the Board, setting its agenda, style and tone to promote constructive debate and challenge between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
He ensures that there are good information flows from the Executive to the Board, and from the Board to the Companys key stakeholders.
58 Strategic report Financial statements Governance Principal Board Committees Shareholder engagement Audit Committee Reviewed reports from the Companys brokers and advisers on Chaired by Paul Harrison shareholders and analyst feedback following results presentations: Reviews the Groups financial reporting and recommends to the Board Reviewed regular investor relations reports relating to share price, that the Reports and Accounts should be approved: trading activity and movements in institutional investor shareholdings: Reviews and reports to the Board on the effectiveness of internal Held a Capital Markets Day with a focus on the newly acquired controls: and Flywheel Digital and the recently launched Edge by Ascential: and Assesses the independence and effectiveness of the internal and Received reports from the Executive Directors following meetings external auditors.
You can read more about the Audit Committee on pages 61 to 65 For more information on our investor relations programme see page 60 Remuneration Committee Performance Chaired by Judy Vezmar Monitored operating and financial performance against plans: Sets the Remuneration Policy for the Group: reviewed the year end and interim results: and Sets the individual remuneration of the Executive Directors and conducted deep dive reviews of different brands across the Group.
senior management: For more information on our performance, see the Chief Executives Engages and consults with shareholders on proposed material changes Statement on page 11 and the KPIs on page 19 to the Remuneration Policy: and Approves awards under the Groups share based incentive plans.
Other Approved the 2017 Annual Report and Notice of the 2018 Annual You can read more about the Remuneration Committee and the General Meeting: Remuneration Policy on pages 68 to 75 Approved the 2017 final and 2018 interim dividends: Nomination Committee Approved the capital allocation policy: and Chaired by Scott Forbes Reviewed the Groups annual insurance programme.
Reviews the composition of the Board and its Committees: Ensures that appropriate procedures are in place for the nomination, Board attendance during the year selection, training and evaluation of Directors: and We expect all Directors to attend every meeting in person except in Has responsibility for Executive Directors and Senior Management extraordinary circumstances, or where a meeting is called at short notice.
If a Director is unable to attend a meeting, he or she is provided with the same information as the other Directors in advance of the meeting and You can read more about the Nomination Committee on pages 66 to 67 given the opportunity to express their views before the meeting, usually to the Chairman who will share with the other Directors at the meeting.
Board activity during the year The Board spent its time during the formal meetings held in 2018 on the In addition to the schedule of formal schedule of meetings, the Chairman following activities: and the Non-Executive Directors meet periodically without the Executive Directors present, and the Senior Independent Director meets with the Strategy other Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present.
Held a two-day offsite meeting to refine strategy and assess capabilities and opportunities in each of our three key segments: There were seven formal Board meetings held during 2018.
All directors Approved the 2019 annual budget and an updated medium-term plans attended all meetings, with the exception of Rita Clifton and Judy Vezmar in the context of the agreed strategy: and who both were unable to attend one meeting each due to long-standing Approved the acquisitions of Brand View and Flywheel Digital.
Both reviewed the Board materials in advance of the meeting and gave their input to the Chairman, who ensured that their For more information on our strategy see page 18 contributions were reflected at the meeting.
People Information flow at Board and Committee meetings Our Directors met with a range of senior management from across The Chairman agrees each meeting agenda with input from the the business: Chief Executive and the Company Secretary, using an annual forward Received updates from the Chief People Officer on people strategy: and agenda as the basis to ensure that all important issues are addressed Reviewed the results of the engagement survey.
throughout the year and a good balance is struck between operational and strategic focus.
Meeting agendas and supporting papers are For more information on our people see page 42 circulated to the Board at least five days ahead of the meeting.
The Company Secretary ensures that any actions arising from each meeting Risk are tracked and completion of these actions is reported to the Board.
Reviewed and approved the principal risk register: Board Committees operate a similar process with the Chairperson of Considered an impact analysis of the risks associated with Britain exiting each Committee agreeing the agenda with the Company Secretary and the EU: relevant members of senior management.
Any Board or Committee Reviewed recession dashboards to monitor likelihood of macromember can call for reports on additional matters of interest.
economic downturn: and Reviewed the effectiveness of internal controls, including but not limited to a report from the Audit Committee.
For more information on risk management see page 34 59 Ascential plc Annual Report 2018 Governance A STRONG GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK CONTINUED Induction and development The Board receives regular reports from the Head of Investor Relations, There were no new Directors during 2018 so there are no specific covering movements in the holdings of institutional shareholders and other induction activities to report.
There is an agreed induction programme that trading activity.
The Board is also provided with current analyst opinions takes into account any previous experience that a Director may already and forecasts, as well as feedback from FTI and from its joint corporate have and typically includes meetings with senior executives across the brokers, Goldman Sachs International and Numis Securities Limited.
This Group as well as information on the Groups structure, business segments includes direct feedback from investors and analysts on a non-attributed and operations, and policies to develop each Directors understanding of basis.
All of the Directors are available to meet with shareholders although the Group, its strategy, key risks and challenges.
contact with the Non-Executive Directors would normally be through the Chairman Scott Forbes or the Senior Independent Director Rita Clifton The Boards forward agenda is designed to include deep dive reviews on all in the first instance.
material aspects of the Group to develop Directors understanding of the business and ensure they meet with a range of senior management.
The Annual General Meeting AGM Board also receive specific updates on relevant developments, such as the The AGM of the Company will take place at 3pm on Wednesday 8 May new UK Corporate Governance Code.
2019 at Coworth Park Hotel, Blacknest Road, Ascot, Berkshire SL5 7SE, UK.
All shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote, in person or Directors conflicts of interest by proxy, at the AGM.
The Board has a procedure in place for Directors to declare conflicts of interest and for such conflicts to be considered for authorisation.
A All proxy votes received in respect of each resolution at the AGM are Director may be required to leave a Board meeting if a matter upon which a counted and the balance for and against, and any votes withheld, are conflict has been declared is discussed.
External appointments or other indicated.
At the meeting itself, voting on all the proposed resolutions is significant commitments of the Directors require prior approval of the conducted on a poll rather than a show of hands, in line with recommended Board.
The current external appointments of the Directors are set out on best practice.
All Directors will be in attendance at the AGM and available to answer Internal control statement shareholders questions.
The Notice of the AGM can be found in a separate The Board acknowledges its responsibility for establishing and maintaining booklet which is posted to shareholders at the same time as this report and the Groups system of internal controls and it receives reports identifying, is also available on the Ascential website.
The Notice of AGM sets out the evaluating and managing significant risks within the business.
The system of business of the meeting and an explanatory note on all resolutions.
internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of Separate resolutions are proposed in respect of each substantive issue.
failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and Results of resolutions proposed at the AGM will be published on the not absolute assurance against misstatement or loss.
Ascential website after the meeting.
The Board, assisted by the Audit Committee, has carried out a review of the UK Corporate Governance Code Compliance Statement effectiveness of the system of internal controls during the year ended We have complied with all principles and provisions of the 2016 UK Code 31 December 2018 and the period up to the date of approval of the on Corporate Governance the Code throughout the financial year ended consolidated financial statements contained in the Annual Report.
This Corporate Governance Statement and the Board confirms that no significant weaknesses or failings were identified as cross-referenced reports within set out our approach to applying the Code.
Louise Meads Investor relations Company Secretary In addition to the activities explained on page 55, there is an ongoing invest 22 February 2019 relations programme of meetings with institutional investors and analysts, and participation in conferences covering a wide range of issues within the constraints of publicly available information including strategy, performance and governance.
Ascential held a Capital Markets Day in December 2018, giving investors the opportunity to meet with the senior management team and to gain a more in-depth understanding of Flywheel Digital and Edge by Ascential.
The presentations are web cast and are available for viewing on the Ascential website.
Institutional shareholders and analysts have regular contact with the Executive Directors and the Head of Investor Relations.
All shareholders are kept informed of significant developments by announcements and other publications on our website www.
There are defined procedures in place to ensure that the requirements of the Market Abuse Regulations are met.
