Ascential plc Annual Report 2018 Governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS SCOTT FORBES DUNCAN PAINTER MANDY GRADDEN RITA CLIFTON PAUL HARRISON JUDY VEZMAR GILLIAN KENT Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointment to January 2016 October 2011 January 2013 May 2016 January 2016 January 2016 January 2016 the Board Scott has over 35 years Duncan joined the Group in Mandy was previously the CFO Rita has worked with many of Paul served as an independent Judy was Chief Executive Gillian has an executive career Experience experience in operations, finance October 2011 as CEO.
Following at Torex, the privately held retail the worlds leading companies non-executive director of Officer of LexisNexis of over 25 years in software, and mergers and acquisitions four years of turnaround of the technology firm, and was a key on their brand strategies.
Hays plc until November 2017, International, a division internet, digital media including 15 years at Cendant business and growth, Top Right member of the team that managed She was vice chairman chairing its audit committee of Reed Elsevier plc, from and mobile technologies.
Corporation, which was formerly Group previously known as the successful turnaround and and strategy director at from 2007 to 2011 and then 2001 until February 2014.
Previously, Gillian held various the largest provider of travel EMAP was rebranded as Ascential sale of that business.
Prior to that, Saatchi & Saatchi, and for its remuneration committee LexisNexis is a leading senior roles at Microsoft and residential property services and successfully floated on the she was CFO at the listed business over 15 years was London from 2011.
Paul acted as provider of content enabled including Managing Director worldwide.
Scott established London Stock Exchange in 2016. and technology consultancy, CEO and then chairman CFO for Wandisco plc, a workflow solutions, employing of MSN UK, creating one Cendants international Detica Group plc.
Earlier, she at Interbrand, the worlds software company before his 3.200 people.
Judy was of the UKs largest online headquarters in London in Before joining the Group, Duncan was Director of Corporate leading brand consultancy.
role as CFO of Just Eat plc.
responsible for the successful services businesses.
1999 and led this division was an executive at Sky plc, Development at Telewest and expansion of online services as group managing director where he supported its growth Group Financial Controller at Rita has also held a number A chartered accountant, Paul to over 100 countries.
Both at Microsoft and in a until he joined Rightmove.
Mandy qualified as of board roles in the not-forworked for PriceWaterhouse range of other businesses, Prior to that, he was Global a chartered accountant with profit sector, including the before joining The Sage Prior to LexisNexis, she including media, fashion and Product Leader at Experian plc, Price Waterhouse in 1992.
Governments Sustainable Group plc, where he served held executive roles within as CEO of Propertyfinder.
com and Founder and Chief Executive Development Commission on its board for 13 years as the Xerox Corporation she established her expertise Officer of consumer intelligence and as Trustee, then Fellow, CFO.
Paul also sits on the in the US and Europe.
in building markets and brands company ClarityBlue, which was of WWF.
She is on the advisory panel for Tech Citys for products and services.
Assurance and Advisory Panel Future Fifty Programme.
for BPs Target Neutral and is a director of Henley Festival.
External appointments Chairman NED NED and Audit Committee Chair NED Chief Financial Officer None NED Rightmove plc ITV plc SDL plc ASOS plc Just Eat plc Pendragon plc Cars.
com Inc Nationwide Building Society Mothercare plc Innasol Group Ltd NAHL Group plc Chairman Coull Ltd NED Brandcap Travelport Worldwide Ltd Chairman No Agent Technologies Ltd Please see page 67 for details of planned changes Independent Yes No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Committees Nomination Committee None None Audit Committee Audit Committee Chair Remuneration Audit Committee Chair Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Committee Chair Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee 56 Strategic report Financial statements Governance SCOTT FORBES DUNCAN PAINTER MANDY GRADDEN RITA CLIFTON PAUL HARRISON JUDY VEZMAR GILLIAN KENT Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointment to January 2016 October 2011 January 2013 May 2016 January 2016 January 2016 January 2016 the Board Scott has over 35 years Duncan joined the Group in Mandy was previously the CFO Rita has worked with many of Paul served as an independent Judy was Chief Executive Gillian has an executive career Experience experience in operations, finance October 2011 as CEO.
com Inc Nationwide Building Society Mothercare plc Innasol Group Ltd NAHL Group plc Chairman Coull Ltd NED Brandcap Travelport Worldwide Ltd Chairman No Agent Technologies Ltd Please see page 67 for details of planned changes Independent Yes No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Committees Nomination Committee None None Audit Committee Audit Committee Chair Remuneration Audit Committee Chair Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Committee Chair Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee 57
