Strategic report Financial statements Governance REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE 2018 KEY ACTIVITIES Reviewed the significant financial judgements made during The Audit Committee helps the year the Board ensure sound Considered the accounting treatment of acquisitions and governance and has specific disposals made during the year oversight of internal Considered the implications of IFRS 16 Lease accounting controls, financial reporting Oversight of the Risk Management Framework and internal and external Conducted a review of the Annual Report and Accounts to audit effectiveness.
confirm that it was fair, balanced and capable of being readily understood by shareholders Paul Harrison Chairman of the Reviewed the viability statement and the key judgements Audit Committee included therein Reviewed the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management Reviewed external and Internal Audit findings Reviewed payment practices reporting data Approved the engagement of KPMG in a non-audit capacity in accordance with the approved non-audit services policy Approved a revised Internal Audit Plan for 2019 CONFIRMATION OF INDEPENDENCE The Committee comprises only independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Head of Internal Audit and the KPMG Audit Partner are standing attendees.
The Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller and Chief Executive Officer are invited to attend on request.
Paul Harrison Chairman of the Audit Committee 61 Ascential plc Annual Report 2018 Governance REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED Role and composition Dear Shareholder, Role of the Audit Committee I am pleased to introduce the Report of the Audit The Audit Committee helps the Board ensure sound governance and has Committee for 2018 which describes our activities and specific oversight of internal controls and financial management, review of financial reporting and assessment of the effectiveness of internal and areas of focus during the year.
Significant financial judgements and financial reporting Membership and meetings We conducted a review of the significant financial judgements made during In addition to its members, other individuals and external advisers may the year as well as key financial reporting matters and these are described attend each Committee meeting at the request of the Chairman.
The in more detail on page 63 of this report.
In addition to our routine Committee Chairman has regular meetings with KPMG without consideration of the potential for fraud in revenue recognition and management present, and at least once a year, the Committee meets with management override of controls, we also considered the following key KPMG and the Head of Internal Audit without management present.
The reporting judgements: Committee also meets with the Chief Financial Officer without other Carrying value of goodwill and acquired intangible assets: management or KPMG in attendance.
Acquisition accounting: Recognition and valuation of deferred and contingent consideration: Paul Harrison is a chartered accountant and has more than 15 years New segmental reporting: experience as Chief Financial Officer of listed companies, most recently as Recognition of deferred tax assets and disclosure: and the current CFO of Just Eat plc, a FTSE 100 online marketplace business.
Paul chaired the audit committee of Hays plc for four years until 2011, when he became the Senior Independent Director.
The Board considers We assessed the prospects and viability of the Group, based on the that Paul has sufficient recent and relevant experience to discharge his Groups strategic planning, long range financial forecast and the potential duties as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The other members of the impact of the business should certain risks to the business materialise.
We Audit Committee, Rita Clifton and Gillian Kent, both have previous confirmed that a three-year timeframe continued to be appropriate for this experience of acting as a member of audit committees.
assessment and reported to the Board that, based on this assessment, there was a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue The Committee meets at least three times a year.
During 2018, the Committee in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to met five times and all members were in attendance at all meetings.
We also recommended that the Board should continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparation of the Committee activity in 2018 Financial Statements.
Financial reporting The main responsibility the Committee has in respect of financial reporting Risk management is to review with the management team and our external auditors, KPMG, The principal risks facing the Company are robustly assessed by the Board whether the interim and full year financial statements are appropriate.
More detail on these risks and the risk management framework particular, this means reviewing, assessing and challenging where required: are set out on pages 34 and 35.
The ongoing monitoring and effectiveness accounting policies and principles applied: review of the Groups risk management and internal control systems are new accounting standards for example, IFRS 16 : described on page 64.
The assessment of risk and the review of the risk accounting treatment for acquisitions: management systems feeds into the process for assessing the longer-term material accounting judgements and assumptions made by viability of the Company, which is described further on page 36. management, or significant issues or audit risks identified by KPMG: whether the Annual Report and Financial Statements are fair, balanced Internal Audit and understandable and provide the necessary information for We have appointed EY as our partner in our co-sourced Internal Audit shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, model, enabling us to benefit from access to specialist subject matter business model and strategy: and expertise and leveraging of technologies for deeper intelligence on compliance with relevant accounting standards and other legal or potential business risks.
We approved the 2018 19 Internal Audit Plan and regulatory financial reporting requirements, including the UK Corporate received Internal Audit reports on findings from reviews.
More detail on Governance Code.
Internal Audit is given on page 64.
Viability statement IFRS 16 We reviewed the process undertaken and conclusions reached to support IFRS 16 is effective from 1 January 2019 and has been adopted from that the Companys viability statement which can be found in full on page 36. date.
It replaces all existing lease guidance and introduces a single Our review included: on-balance sheet model for lessee accounting.
The Group has advanced its challenging management on whether the three-year time period assessment of the potential impact on the consolidated financial statements adopted remained appropriate and aligned with the long-term resulting from the application of IFRS 16.
These changes will be restated in forecasting of the Group: the financial statements for 2019 with the actual impact of adopting the challenging whether managements assessment of the principal risks new standard still being subject to change until the Group presents its first facing the Group and their potential impact was appropriate: financial statements.
considering whether there were any additional risks which could impair solvency or which, whilst not necessarily principal risks in themselves, Paul Harrison could become severe if they occur in conjunction with other risks: Chairman of the Audit Committee considering the likelihood of the risks occurring in the time period 22 February 2019 selected and the impact severity in the event that they did occur: and challenging management as to the appropriateness of the assumptions used in stress testing and modelling scenarios.
62 Strategic report Financial statements Governance Significant financial judgements in 2018 The key reporting judgements considered by the Committee and discussed with the external auditor during the year were: Issue Judgement Carrying value The Committee reviewed the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment, including a detailed review of the of goodwill and assumptions underlying the value in use calculations for businesses identified as cash generating units CGU.
The key assumptions acquired underlying the calculations are primarily the achievability of the long-term business plan, CGU specific discount rates, anticipated intangible revenue growth in the short-term and long-term growth assumptions.
For further information, please see Note 14 of the consolidated assets financial statements on pages 114116.
The Committee reviewed managements analysis and underlying assumptions, and were satisfied with the conclusions which demonstrated that no impairment or revision to useful economic life is needed.
Acquisition Acquired businesses give rise to material assets and liabilities at the point of acquisition that are based on estimates and judgements accounting about future performance.
The provisional recognition of goodwill, intangible assets, other assets and liabilities and estimates of the fair value of consideration transferred were based on a number of assumptions.
Often, significant elements of consideration are deferred, contingent on future performance, and may be subject to other conditions such as continued employment of key management personnel.
Significant judgement is involved in assessing the relevant forecast, and selecting the appropriate discount rates.
The Committee reviewed the acquisition accounting calculations and underlying estimates and assumptions for WARC, BrandView and Flywheel Digital, which were all acquired during 2018.
In respect of acquisitions in earlier years, the Committee reviewed the calculations in respect of deferred consideration and acquisition-related contingent employment costs in light of changes in forecast, in order to ensure these continued to be appropriate.
Recognition and Where a business combination agreement provides for an adjustment to the consideration, contingent on future performance over the valuation of contractual earnout period, the Group accrues the fair value, based of the estimated additional consideration payable as a liability at deferred and acquisition date.
To the extent that deferred contingent consideration is payable as part of the acquisition cost and is payable after one contingent year from the acquisition date, the deferred consideration is discounted at an appropriate discount rate and carried at net present value consideration in the consolidated balance sheet.
The liability is measured against the contractually agreed performance targets at each subsequent reporting date with any adjustments recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Acquisition-related employment costs are linked to continued employment of the founders over the contractual agreed period and are also contingent on future performance of the acquired business and are treated as remuneration and recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement.
The estimation of the likely liability requires the Group to make judgements concerning the future performance of related business over both the deferred contingent consideration period and the period of employment.
The Committee reviewed the proposed changes to the fair value of the deferred and contingent consideration which is based on the approved three-year plan and is satisfied with its valuation and recognition in the Financial Statements.
Segmental IFRS 8 Operating Segments sets out the criteria that must be fulfilled in order to meet the definition of an operating segment.
reporting Following the disposal of the Exhibitions business in July 2018, the Committee reviewed the proposal to report four new continuing reportable and operating segments for the year ended 31 December 2018 and restate the 2017 financial information for comparability.
Value of The determination of profits subject to tax is calculated according to complex laws and regulations, the interpretation and application of recoverable tax which can be uncertain.
In addition, deferred tax assets and liabilities require judgement in determining the amounts to be recognised, losses with consideration given to the timing and level of future taxable income over multiple years.
The main area of judgement is the recognition of the US deferred tax asset.
The Committee reviewed a report on the background to the Groups historic US net operating losses, the extensive period over which they will be recovered in cash and other significant judgements and rigorously challenged.
It also considered reports presented by KPMG before determining that the amount recognised as deferred tax asset is appropriate.
The Committee reviewed the proposed disclosures on taxation in Note 9 and agreed that the presentation of taxation, including deferred taxes, appropriately addresses the significant change in the international tax environment and that sufficient and appropriately transparent disclosures are provided.
Adjusted The Group uses certain non-GAAP measures of performance, as, in the opinion of the Directors this provides a better understanding of performance the underlying performance of the business, and provides better comparability with other peer group companies.
The use and definition measures of these measures is a matter of judgement.
The Committee ensures that there is equal prominence given to adjusted and statutory performance measures, and that there are full reconciliations between the two where appropriate.
The Committee discussed these measures with both management and advisers, including KPMG, to ensure that the measures were reasonable, and reviewed their use in the context of the overall Annual Report to ensure that this was consistent with the Code requirement to be fair, balanced and understandable.
63 Ascential plc Annual Report 2018 Governance REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED Fair, balanced and understandable Specific matters considered in relation to controls effectiveness included: The Board asked the Committee to consider whether the 2018 Annual control self-assessment process and findings: Report is fair, balanced and provides the necessary information for legal regulatory compliance updates: shareholders to assess the Companys position and prospects, business review of tax risks and compliance issues: model and strategy.
In performing this review, the Committee considered fraud, ethical issues and whistleblowing occurrence: the following questions: health and safety: and Is the Annual Report open and honest with the whole story being legal claims.
Have any sensitive material areas been omitted?
A formal control self-assessment process was in place during the year in Is there consistency between different sections of the Annual Report, relation to financial controls.
This process describes each control objective, including between the narrative and the financial statements, and does the controls required to meet the objective, the frequency of operating the the reader get the same message from reading the two sections control and the evidence to be retained by management to demonstrate independently?
Management teams across the Group self-assess their Is there a clear explanation of key performance indicators and their compliance with this framework.
Is there a clear and cohesive framework for the Annual Report with key Progress towards completion of actions identified to improve internal messages drawn out and written in accessible language?
control is regularly monitored by management and the Audit Committee, which provides assurance to the Board.
The Board considers that none of Following this review, and the incorporation of the Committees comments, the areas of improvement identified constitute a significant weakness.
we were pleased to advise the Board that, in our view, the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable in accordance with the requirements of External audit the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committee is responsible for ensuring that the external auditor provides an effective source of assurance for the Groups financial Financial Reporting Council FRC Review of Report and reporting and controls, including that the necessary independence and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 objectivity is maintained.
We also are responsible for recommending the During the year the FRC communicated with the Company regarding its appointment, reappointment or removal of the external auditor, and review of our Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2017.
There negotiating and agreeing the external audit fees.
were no significant questions or queries resulting from the FRCs review, although some additional disclosure items have been included within the Audit tender 2018 Annual Report to provide the reader with a better understanding.
KPMG was appointed as the Groups auditor in 2010 and we intend to conduct a competitive audit tender process before the end of 2020, The FRCs review was conducted in accordance with Part 2 of the in accordance with the EU Statutory Audit regime and the Competition Committees Operating Procedures and provides no assurance that the and Markets Authority Order CMA Order.
A new lead audit engagement report and accounts are correct in all material respects: the FRCs role is not partner led the 2018 audit, in accordance with KPMGs independence rules.
to verify the information provided but to consider compliance with reporting requirements.
For the financial year ending 31 December 2018, we have recommended to the Board that KPMG be reappointed under the current external audit Internal controls contract and the Directors will be proposing KPMGs reappointment The Board, with the assistance of the Audit Committee, regularly monitors at the Annual General Meeting on 8 May 2019. and reviews the policies and procedures making up the Groups internal control and risk management system.
To support this monitoring, the Effectiveness Audit Committee reviewed reports from senior management, Internal KPMG attends each scheduled meeting of the Committee and presented Audit and KPMG.
its reports on our half-year and full-year financial results, as well as its planning reports in advance of each audit.
We meet with KPMG without The major components of the internal controls systems include: management present at least once a year.
These sessions provide an clearly defined operational structure, accountabilities and authority limits: opportunity for open dialogue and we typically discuss KPMGs relationship detailed operational planning and forecasting: with executive management and particular audit risks identified.
We also thorough monitoring of performance and changes in outlook: and challenge KPMG on the independence of its audit.
In addition, I meet with established risk management processes.
the audit engagement partner outside of the formal Committee environment at least once per year.
We also meet with management without KPMG present to discuss its view of KPMGs effectiveness and quality of work delivered, as well as reviewing the results of a survey of finance staff throughout the Group.
64 Strategic report Financial statements Governance During the year, we assessed the findings of the Audit Quality Review and Internal Audit There was a formal Internal Audit function in place during the challenged KPMG on how it would address issues which may impact the year, utilising EY as our co-source partner.
The purpose of the Internal Ascential audit.
The Committee is satisfied that KPMG has conducted an Audit function is to consider whether the system of internal control is effective audit for the 2019 financial year and has therefore recommended adequately designed and operating effectively to respond to the Groups to the Board that KPMG be reappointed at the 2019 AGM.
principal risks, and to provide independent objective assurance to senior management and to the Board through its committees.
Internal Audit Independence accomplishes its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach As part of our work to manage the external auditor relationship, and the to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk management, control and annual effectiveness review, we consider whether there are adequate governance processes.
To provide for the independence of Internal Audit, safeguards to protect auditor objectivity and independence.
In conducting its personnel as well as the co sourced party report to the Group Financial our annual assessment, we consider feedback from the Chief Financial Controller, who also acts as Director of Internal Audit and is accountable to Officer, the level and nature of non-audit fees accruing to the external the Committee in respect of that role.
The Group Financial Controller auditor, KPMGs formal letter of independence, and the length and tenure attends all Audit Committee meetings and has the opportunity to meet of the external auditor and of the audit engagement partner.
independently with the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Non-audit services The Committee approves the annual Internal Audit Plan, and receives a The purpose of the non-audit services policy is to mitigate any report on Internal Audit activity and progress against that plan.
We monitor risks threatening, or appearing to threaten, the external audit firms the status of internal audit recommendations and managements independence and objectivity arising through the provision of non-audit responsiveness to their implementation.
We also challenge management services which either create conflicts of interest between the external where appropriate to provide us with assurance that our control audit firm and the Group or place the external audit firm in the position environment is robust and effective.
Whistleblowing We approved a revised non-audit services policy in 2017 to ensure The Committee has approved a whistleblowing policy which encourages all compliance with the new EU Statutory Audit regime and this policy staff to report suspected wrongdoing, in the knowledge that their concerns remained appropriate in 2018.
The policy sets out which services are will be taken seriously and investigated appropriately, and that their prohibited and cannot be provided by the external auditor.
The auditor confidentiality will be respected.
The policy also aims to reassure staff that is generally only engaged for audit and related activities such as annual they should be able to raise genuine concerns without fear of reprisals, covenant compliance audits.
However, if there is a case to use the external even if they turn out to be mistaken.
We provide details of a confidential auditor to provide non-audit services, permission is required prior to the helpline operated by an independent third party, as well as my own contact engagement of the external auditor in accordance with the following table: details within the policy.
The Committee receives reports on any whistleblowing incidents that are reported during the year.
Any significant Value of non-audit services Approver issues relating to potential fraud would be escalated to the Audit Committee Chairman immediately.
25,000 Group Financial Controller or Chief Financial Officer Paul Harrison 25,00050,000 Chairman of the Audit Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee 22 February 2019 50,000 Audit Committee When considering whether permission should be granted, the approver will assess whether the provision of such services impairs the auditors independence or objectivity, whether the skills and experience make the auditor the most suitable supplier of the non-audit service, the fee to be incurred and the criteria which govern the compensation of the individuals performing the audit.
During the year, the Committee pre-approved the engagement of KPMG to provide a review of our working capital report in relation to the disposal of the Exhibitions business for a total fee of 138,375.
A breakdown of total audit and non-audit fees paid to KPMG during 2018 is set out in Note 4 to the financial statements.
These non-audit services were pre-approved in accordance with the non-audit services policy.
