Ascential plc Annual Report 2018 Governance REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Considered the succession planning requirements for the The Board evaluation process Board and senior management team and approved a career confirmed that the Board is development and succession plan to ensure a healthy talent pipeline for senior executives operating effectively with thoughtful and rapid progress Reviewed and confirmed the independence of the NonExecutive Directors in the development and Reviewed the outcome of the employee engagement survey execution of changes to the and the resulting action plans strategy and business model.
Focus in 2019 will be on the ROLE OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE continued development of talent and succession Evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience, planning as well as continuing and size, structure and composition of the Board and Board Committees to ensure optimum Board composition.
Considers retirements and appointments of additional and replacement Directors and Committee members Scott Forbes Chairman Approves the design of the Board evaluation process Assists the Board in the consideration and development of appropriate corporate governance principles CONFIRMATION OF INDEPENDENCE The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that a majority of the members should be independent NonExecutive Directors and that it is chaired by the Board Chairman or a Non-Executive Director The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Board Chairman, Scott Forbes, and the other members are Rita Clifton and Judy Vezmar, both independent Non-Executive Directors Scott Forbes Chairman 66 Strategic report Financial statements Governance The Committee keeps under review the number of external directorships Dear Shareholder, held by each Director and performance evaluation is used to assess I am pleased to introduce the Report of the Nomination whether the Non-Executive Directors are spending enough time to fulfil Committee for 2018. their duties.
Mr Forbes has continued to demonstrate that he has sufficient capacity to meet his commitments to Ascential, including during periods The Committee focus during the year was on the further development of where a greater than usual involvement from Directors is required.
talent and succession plans for senior management.
This included a review of a detailed analysis of the existing skills and experience of the senior Any external appointments or other significant commitments of the management team, and development areas to build longer-term succession Directors require the prior approval of the Chairman, or, in the case of the options for executive management.
Chairman, the Senior Independent Director.
The Committee also received updates from the Chief People Officer on Board effectiveness other strategic people matters including culture, diversity, engagement The policy on Board effectiveness reviews is that an externally led levels, retention levels, and strategic skills and capability planning.
More evaluation of the Board, Committees and individual Directors will be details on Ascentials progress in these areas is set out in the Our People conducted every third year.
An internal Board effectiveness evaluation was section on pages 44 to 46. conducted during the year.
The results of the evaluation were very positive and more detail on this is set out on page 55.
In addition to this Board We have four female Board members, representing 57%, which exceeds effectiveness review, the Board has undertaken its recurring externally the one-third recommended by the Hampton-Alexander review.
We also facilitated Board strategy review to ensure optimum Board composition.
exceed the one-third recommendation in the wider leadership population the Executive Committee and their direct reports with 36.6% female Attendance at Committee meetings representation in this group.
However, we acknowledge that women The Committee meets at least annually.
During 2018, the Committee met remain under-represented in our senior leadership, as 53% of our total twice and all members were in attendance at both meetings.
We have launched a Women in Leadership programme to accelerate our progress addressing gender equality In addition to Committee members and the Company Secretary, the Chief and plan to build on this programme to address wider diversity and Executive and Chief People Officer often attend meetings at the invitation inclusion challenges.
The Committees policy towards Board appointments Scott Forbes The most important priority of the Committee has been, and will continue Chairman of the Nomination Committee to be, ensuring that members of the Board collectively possess the broad 22 February 2018 range of skills, expertise and industry knowledge, and business and other experience, necessary for the effective oversight of the Group.
The Committee takes account of a number of factors before recommending any new appointments to the Board, including relevant skills to perform the role, experience, knowledge and diversity.
The Committee has historically engaged external recruitment consultants with whom the Group has no other relationship to assist with the identification of suitable candidates, based on a comprehensive candidate search brief.
The shortlisted candidates met with members of the Board on a one-one-one basis before the Committee made its recommendation of the preferred candidate to the Board.
It is the Committees intention to continue with this policy.
Non-Executive Director appointments to the Board are for an initial term of up to three years.
Non-Executive Directors are typically expected to serve two three-year terms, although the Board may invite the Director to serve for an additional period on the recommendation of the Committee.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed under a formal appointment letter which are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours and at the AGM.
External directorships We acknowledge that many institutional investors have raised concern where company directors have a significant number of directorship and this was the basis of the 22% of votes cast against the re-election of Scott Forbes as Chairman.
Mr Forbes will be resigning as a director of Travelport Worldwide Ltd following the expected completion of the announced sale of that business, and has informed investors of his intention to retire from the board of Rightmove plc in May 2020.
