Governance The conclusions were that Ashmores Compliance Whistleblowing and fraud internal audit function demonstrates general In order to ensure a co-ordinated reporting The Committee is responsible for reviewing conformance with the standards laid out process with the Risk Management and the arrangements in place for employees to by the IIA Standards being the highest Internal Audit functions, the Group Head raise concerns in confidence about possible rating attainable and generally achieves of Compliance is invited to attend and wrongdoing in financial reporting and the key objectives of the Financial Services present to the Audit and Risk Committee.
other matters and for ensuring that these Code.
Thereview highlighted a number of Reports will include details of the Groups arrangements allow for proportionate and areas where minor enhancements could relations with regulators: the Compliance independent investigation.
be made to fully conform with the Financial monitoring programme: material breaches, Public funds audits Services Code guidance, and the Committee errors and complaints: retail conduct risk, The Audit and Risk Committee met with is pleased to report that these improvements anti-money laundering controls and sanctions and received reports from the independent have been made.
The Audit and Risk Committee auditors of Ashmores SICAV, US 40-Act and will also approve the Compliance monitoring After due consideration, and in accordance Guernsey public funds on the conduct of plan and review the Groups procedures for with the Financial Services Code guidance, those audits and outcomes from them.
ensuring compliance with regulatory reporting the Audit and Risk Committee is satisfied that requirements.
Audit and Risk Committee the quality, experience and expertise of the effectiveness internal audit function are appropriate for the Information security An externally facilitated evaluation of the business and that it has adequate resources Information security including cyber security effectiveness of the Board, its committees to fulfil its remit.
is identified as a key principal risk to the and the Directors was conducted during the business which is subject to Ashmores year.
Following the review the Board has governance, policies and procedures and risk concluded that the Audit and Risk Committee assessment.
The Audit and Risk Committee is working effectively.
receives annual updates from the Ashmore IT Department on potential cyber security threats and how Ashmore would respond to David Bennett a significant event.
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee 6 September 2018 The terms of reference for the Nominations Committee include: Nominations Committee reviewing the structure, size and Activities During the year the activities of the composition including the skills, During the year under knowledge and experience of the Board Nominations Committee have included review the Nominations and its committees: making recommendations to the Board Committee, which met reviewing annually the time required in connection with the appointment of four times, comprised the from each Non-executive Director, using following Non-executive a new Chairman to succeed me when I performance evaluation to assess whether Directors and was fully retire at the conclusion of the forthcoming the Non-executive Director is giving compliant with the Code: sufficient commitment to the role: Annual General Meeting, as well as Peter Gibbs Chairman giving full consideration to succession the appointment of both a new Senior planning in the course of its work, Simon Fraser retired Independent Director and an additional taking into account the challenges and 31December 2017 Non-executive Director.
In addition the opportunities facing the Company and David Bennett what skills and expertise are needed on Committee has reviewed the structure Anne Pringle from theBoard in the future: and and composition of the Board committees.
1January 2018 ensuring that on appointment to the Board, The recommendations of the Committee, Clive Adamson from Non-executive Directors receive a formal 1January 2018 which are described in my report below, letter of appointment setting out clearly Except as noted all have been approved by the Board and what is expected of them in terms of time members of the commitment, committee service and were announced on 2 July 2018.
Nominations Committee involvement outside Board meetings.
Peter Gibbs served throughout the year.
Chairman Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51 Nominations Committee report During the year the Committee considered Early in her career, Mrs Bingham trained as As referred to in the Corporate Governance the nomination of a prospective new an accountant, obtained a Post Graduate Statement on page 45, a revised Corporate Chairman to succeed me when I retire Diploma in Management Studies and then Governance Code the 2018 Code will take from the Board at the conclusion of the served as a senior executive of Brunswick effect for accounting periods beginning on or forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Capital Management Limited, an investment after 1 January 2019.
It was noted that the The Committee considered whether the manager specialising in the Russian equity appointment of Dame Anne Pringle as Chair present Senior Independent Director market.
The Committee considered of the Remuneration Committee would be SID, David Bennett, might be a suitable whether there might be other candidates in compliance with the 2018 Code as she candidate.
Neither myself nor David Bennett who would be well qualified for the role, has already served on the Remuneration were present for these discussions.
The and concluded that, given her background, Committee for more than 12 months.
Committee concluded that David Bennett MrsBingham would add to the balance of The Committee has not set any measurable was well qualified for the role, owing to his skills and experience on the Board and as objectives for diversity including gender extensive experience in financial services and there was only one female Director at the diversity in making Board appointments, his previous experience in other companies time, her appointment would add significantly but once the changes described above are in the role of Chairman and Deputy Chairman.
Itwas noted that implemented the Board will meet the target Given the availability of a candidate who MrsBingham was ready and willing to accept set by the Davies report of 33% female is an existing member of the Board it was the role and given her availability, it would not representation.
Ashmores policy on diversity not considered necessary to draw up a be in the Companys interests to undertake is described in the Directors report on job specification.
It was noted that the a search process or advertise for other page41.
Chairman should, on appointment, meet the candidates, in view of the costs involved.
independence criteria set out in B.
1.1 of the The members of the Nominations The Committee also considered Mrs Binghams Code and the Committee concluded that Committee have the appropriate balance independence and noted that between 2011 David Bennett would meet those criteria and of skills, experience, independence and and 2014 her company, Valley Management accordingly it was agreed to nominate him as knowledge of the Company to enable them UK Limited, had provided administrative my successor.
It was also noted that David to discharge their respective duties and and consulting services to a company owned Bennett currently holds the position of SID responsibilities effectively.
The Committee noted and would need to relinquish that role upon that theservices had been provided at The number of Nominations Committee taking up his appointment as Chairman.
The arms length, the aggregate fees paid were meetings and their attendance by the Committee duly nominated Clive Adamson, not significant 42k excluding VAT and all Directors are set out in the table on page 47. who has served as a Non-executive Director remunerated services ceased in June 2014 since 2015, to succeed David Bennett as An externally facilitated evaluation of albeit Mrs Bingham continued to serve as Senior Independent Director.
theBoard, its committees and the an unpaid non-executive director of four Directorswas conducted during the The Committee considers the appointment companies controlled by Mark Coombs, year.
Following the review the Board has and replacement of Directors subject to the resigning from the last of these on concluded that the Nominations Committee rules set out in the Articles of Association.
The Committee may engage an independent therefore concluded that Mrs Bingham is search consultant with no connection to the independentin accordance with the UK Ashmore Group to find appropriate candidates Corporate Governance Code and has no for the Board with the requisite skills, and conflictsof interest that could affect her in doing so will take account of relevant roleas an independent Non-executive guidelines and legislation relating to the Director of Ashmore.
appointment of individuals to boards including In the light of the changes referred to above but not limited to the Equality Act 2010, the leadership and composition of the Board relevant European Union law, guidance from committees was reviewed and it was agreed the Equality and Human Rights Commission to recommend the following structure which and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
has since been approved by the Board and The Committee may also consider candidates will apply from the conclusion of the 2018 introduced to the Company from other Annual General Meeting: sources.
Jennifer Bingham who was appointed as an additional Non-Executive Audit and Risk: Clive Adamson Chair, Director on 29 June 2018 is seeking election AnnePringle and Jennifer Bingham.
In considering her appointment, Remuneration: Anne Pringle Chair, the Committee reviewed whether the CliveAdamson, David Bennett, Anne Pringle Board had the appropriate balance of skills, and Jennifer Bingham.
independence, experience and knowledge of the Company to enable them to discharge Nominations: David Bennett Chair, their duties and responsibilities effectively.
Clive Adamson, Anne Pringle and JenniferBingham 52 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018
