Audit and Risk Committee report auditor independence andapproving the terms of engagement and proposed fees for the audit: Audit and Risk Committee reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness and quality of the external audit: Activities I am pleased to submit the reviewing the level and amount of external The Audit and Risk Committee held report on the activities of the auditor non-audit services: fivepre-scheduled meetings during Audit and Risk Committee the year.
The activities of the Audit making recommendations to the Board for the financial year ended andRisk Committee are described on fora resolution to be put to shareholders pages 48 to51.
30June 2018 toapprove the reappointment of the external auditor: During the year under review the David Bennett reviewing the Companys whistleblowing following Non-executive Directors served Chairman arrangements for its employees to raise on the Audit and Risk Committee, the concerns, in confidence, about possible membership of which was compliant wrongdoing in financial reporting or other withthe Code: matters and reviewing the Companys David Bennett Chairman systems and controls for detecting fraud Clive Adamson and the prevention of bribery: Dame Anne Pringle reviewing the Audit and Risk Committees terms of reference and carrying out an Simon Fraser retired 31 December 2017 annual performance evaluation exercise: Simon Fraser served as a member of the andreporting to the Board on how it has Committee until retiring from the Board discharged its responsibilities.
Allremaining Key judgements members of the Audit and Risk Committee In assessing the various key matters relative served throughout the year.
to its terms of reference, and to satisfy itself that the sources of assurance and information The Board is satisfied that for the year under reviewing the contents of the Annual the Audit and Risk Committee has used review, and thereafter, David Bennettand Report and Accounts and advising the to carry out its role to review, monitor and Clive Adamson had, and have, recent and Board on whether, taken as a whole, they provide assurance or recommendations to relevant commercial and financial knowledge are fair, balanced and understandable and the Board are sufficient and objective, the and experience.
The Board is further satisfied provide the information necessary for Audit and Risk Committee has adopted that the Audit and Risk Committee as a shareholders to assess the Companys an integrated assurance approach.
This whole has competence relevant to the sector performance, business model and strategy: approach relies not only on the work of in which the Company operates.
reviewing the effectiveness of the external auditor but also management theGroupsinternal control and risk David Bennett has served as Group Finance assurances received from various reports management systems: Director and the Group Chief Executive including from the Group Finance Director, of Alliance and Leicester plc, Dame Anne overseeing and challenging the day-toGroup Head of Risk Management, Group Pringle was a diplomat with the Foreign and day risk management and oversight Head of Compliance and also via the existing Commonwealth Office for over 30 years with arrangements of the executive: Ashmore governance framework such as extensive experience of Russia and Eastern specialised internal managementcommittees.
overseeing and challenging the design and Europe and Clive Adamson was formerly Otherindependent assurance is received from execution of stress and scenario testing: Head of Supervision and Executive Director of the Compliance Monitoring Programme and considering and approving the remit of the Board of the Financial Conduct Authority Internal Audit and from the externally audited the compliance, internal audit and risk and a Senior Advisor in Banking Supervision ISAE 3402 report on the control environment.
management functions and ensuring at the Bank of England.
The Group Finance Director, Group Head of thatthey have adequate independence: Risk Management, Head of Internal Audit A report on the activities of the Audit and Risk monitoring and reviewing the scope, extent and Group Head of Compliance are invited Committee is set out below.
and effectiveness of the activities of the to attend each pre-scheduled meeting of the Internal audit function in the context of the The terms of reference for the Audit and Risk Audit and Risk Committee.
Companys overall risk management and Committee include: The Audit and Risk Committee has the control systems: monitoring and challenging the integrity of authority to seek any information it requires reviewing, assessing and approving the the financial statements of the Company, to perform its duties from any employee internal audit plan: any formal announcements relating to of the Company and to obtain outside reviewing the external auditors plan for the the Companys financial statements or legalorother independent professional audit of the Groups financial statements, performance and any significant financial adviceasappropriate.
receiving and reviewing confirmations of issues and judgements contained in them: 48 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance The principal activities of the Audit and Risk Significant accounting matters External auditor Committee through the year, and the manner During the year the Audit and Risk Committee For FY2017 18 Thomas Brown was the in which it discharged its responsibilities, are considered key accounting issues, matters and KPMG audit partner, having first assumed described below.
judgements in relation to the Groups financial responsibility for the audit of the Group in statements and disclosures relating to: FY2016 17.
The FRCs Ethical Standards for Meetings Auditors require that KPMG rotate the audit The number of Audit and Risk Committee Share-based payments partners every five years for a listed entity.
meetings and their attendance by the It is the responsibility of the Remuneration Directors are set out in the table on page47.
Committee to address, and report upon, The external auditor attends all meetings The Audit and Risk Committee metfive compensation matters including share-based of the Audit and Risk Committee.
It is the times in relation to the current financial payments made to Executive directors of the responsibility of the Committee to monitor the reporting year as part of its standard process.
Group, which have performance conditions performance, objectivity and independence Scheduled meetings of the Committee take attached.
The Audit and Risk Committee of the external auditor.
The Audit and Risk place on the day prior to a Board meeting to considers these in its review of the financial Committee discusses and agrees the scope of maximise the efficiency of interaction with statements and receives a report from the audit plan for the full year and the review the Board.
The Chairman of the Audit and the external auditor on the quantification plan for the interim statement with the auditor.
Risk Committee reports to the Board, as part and accounting treatment related to such The external auditor provides reports at each of a separate agenda item, on the activities of payments, which are explained in note 10 committee meeting on topics such as the the Committee.
All Non-executive Directors tothe financial statements.
control environment, key accounting matters are invited to attend meetings of the Audit Classification of seed capital investments and mandatory communications.
The accounting treatment for seed capital External auditor independence The Chairman of the Audit and Risk investments is addressed more fully in note The Audit and Risk Committee has agreed Committee also held meetings during the 20 to the financial statements and in the the types of permitted and non-permitted course of the year, outside the scheduled accounting policies at page 92. non-audit services and those which Committee meetings, with the Group Head Management fee rebates requireexplicit prior approval.
All contracts of Internal Audit, the Group Head of Risk A report from the external auditor fornon-audit services in excess of 25,000 Management and Control, the Group Head of regarding the processing of fee rebates must be notified to the Chairman of the Audit Compliance, the Group Finance Director and and its treatment on revenue recognition and Risk Committee and approved by him.
The method During the year the value of non-audit Financial statements of accounting for revenue recognition is servicesprovided by KPMG LLP amounted In March 2018 the Company received a letter described more fully on page 95.
from the Financial Reporting Council FRC, and Risk Committee is satisfied that controls Non-audit services as a proportion of total fees containing comments on the Annual Report are in place to ensure that revenue rebates paid to the auditor have fallen to approximately and Accounts for the year ended 31 June are recorded accurately and completely.
This followed a review carried out by Future IFRS and UK GAAP developments of non-audit services is not considered to be the FRCs Conduct Committee.
Whilst there The Audit and Risk Committee has received significant given that Ashmore operates within were no questions that the FRC wished to a report from management and the external a highly regulated market and that a significant discuss with the Company or that required auditor and discussed future accounting proportion of the non-audit services provided a direct response, a number of comments developments likely to affect the presentation relate to the following matters: were provided in the spirit of promoting of the Groups financial statements.
continuous improvement in the quality of reporting on the half-year financial corporate reporting and the Company has Other accounting matters statements: taken account of these in preparing its 2018 During the year, the Audit and Risk Committee providing regular mandatory assurance Annual Report and Accounts.
TheFRCs received communications from management reports to the FCA as the regulator of role is to consider compliance with reporting and from the external auditor on other Ashmore Investment Management Limited requirements and not to verify the information accounting matters.
The Committee has also and Ashmore Investment AdvisorsLimited : provided.
Their reviewprovides no assurance reviewed the adoption of the going concern reporting on the internal control systems that the 2017AnnualReport and Accounts basis in preparing the interim and year end applicable to Ashmores offices in London, were correct in all materialrespects.
consolidated accounts and considered the New York and Singapore as required under longer-term viability statement for the Group, The Audit and Risk Committee reviewed the the international standard ISAE 3402, which is described in more detail on page 30.
2018 Annual Report, the interim results and pursuant to investment management reports from the external auditor, KPMG LLP, UK Corporate Governance Code industry standards: and on the outcome of its reviews and audits A separate Corporate Governance Statement auditing the controls and procedures in2018.
is included on pages 45 to 47 which explains employed by the Company relating to the how the Group has complied with the 2016 production of investment performance UK Corporate Governance Code.
figures over one, three and five-year periods to conform to the investment management industrys Global Investment Performance Standards.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 49 Audit and Risk Committee report continued The assurance provided by the Groups At the end of each Audit and Risk Committee A detailed description of the risk management external auditor on the items listed above is meeting, the Non-executive Directors meet framework and the manner in which risks considered by the Audit and Risk Committee with the external and internal auditors without areidentified and managed is set out on to be strictly necessary in the interests of the the Executive Directors being present so as pages 28 to 33. business and, by their nature, these services to provide a forum to raise any matters of Internal audit could not easily be provided by a separate concern in confidence.
The Head of Internal Audit has regular professional auditing firm.
In order to assess the effectiveness of meetings with the Chairman of the Audit and The provision of tax advisory services, due the external audit process, the Audit and Risk Committee and attends all meetings diligence transaction services and litigation Risk Committee asked detailed questions of the Committee to present reports on the services may be permitted with the Audit and of key members of management as well internal audit findings and on the proposed Risk Committees prior approval.
The provision as considering the firm-wide audit quality programme of reviews.
The Audit and Risk of internal audit services, valuation work and inspection report issued by the FRC in Committee continues to monitor the internal any other activity that may give rise to any June 2018 and KPMGs response to the audit plan on an ongoing basis to ensure possibility of self-review are not permitted findings inspection.
Based on this review the that it remains relevant to the needs of under any circumstance.
During the year there Committee concurred with managements the business and to ensure that it can be were no circumstances where KPMG LLP view that there had been appropriate focus adapted or changed if a particular focus area was engaged to provide services which might and challenge of the primary areas of audit necessitates this.
have led to a conflict ofinterests.
risk and assessed the quality of the audit to During the year, the Audit and Risk Committee be satisfactory.
Accordingly, the Audit and The Committee is mindful of the various received presentations from Internal Audit Risk Committee continues to be satisfied with legal and regulatory requirements for on a number of topics including the Internal the work of KPMG LLP and that it continues rotation and tendering of the external audit Audit plan for the year and the outcomes to remain objective and independent.
The including the EU Audit Regulation 537 14, of any internal audits conducted during the Committee has therefore recommended to the now implemented in the UK through the period under review.
The Committee also Board that a resolution be put to shareholders Statutory Auditors and Third Country Auditors received presentations from Internal Audit for the reappointment of the auditor, and its regulations 2016 SI 2016 649, UK audit on the implementation of the assurance remuneration and terms of engagement, at the legislation the Competition and Markets framework in the year and the results of the Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Authority Order and the 2016 UK Corporate assurance review over the effectiveness of Governance Code.
Mandatory audit firm Internal controls and risk the controls and mitigants in place for the rotation is required after 20 years and a management systems principal risks.
Based on the work described, re-tender must be conducted at least every The Group Head of Risk Management and and in accordance with the requirements of 10 years.
The Code requires disclosure of Control attends each meeting of the Audit the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors the length of tenure of the current audit firm and Risk Committee and provides reports to revised Financial Services Code guidance, and when a tender was last conducted, as each.
These reports have addressed a number Internal Audit has provided the Audit and Risk well as advance notice of any retendering of risk-related topics and have demonstrated Committee with its assessment of the overall plans.
KPMG LLP and its prior entity KPMG how the output of the different Investment, effectiveness of Ashmores governance and Audit plc have acted as the auditor to the Risk and Compliance and Pricing and Valuation risk and control framework and its conclusions Company since the IPO in October 2006 and Methodology Committees discussions with regard to Ashmores adherence to its risk the lead audit partner rotates every five years throughout the period have been effective appetite framework.
The Committee in highlighting, tracking and contributing Internal Audit provides annual confirmations undertook a comprehensive tender process towards managing key market, liquidity, to the Audit and Risk Committee on four in March 2016 for the audit in relation to the credit, counterparty and operational risks.
In areas: internal independence, internal year ending 30 June 2017 and has no plans to particular, in relation to operational risk, the audits ongoing conformance with relevant re-tender the audit at the present time.
Audit and Risk Committee has also reviewed professional standards, any potential conflicts and discussed the Groups Principal Risk Matrix In addition to rotation and tendering of of interest and the ongoing suitability of which continues to serve as an effective tool the external audit, the UK audit legislation the internal audit terms of reference.
In to highlight and monitor the principal risks restricts the non-audit services which can addition, the revised Financial Services Code facing the Group and its continued evolution, be provided by the auditor.
In compliance recommends that Audit and Risk Committees and reflects changes in the business profile of with this requirement, Deloitte provide should obtain an independent and objective the Group and the corresponding impact on independent tax advice services to the Group.
external assessment of the internal audit internal controls and related processes.
function at least every five years, and that this The UK audit legislation also imposes a The Audit and Risk Committee also received assessment should explicitly include whether fee cap of 70% of the average statutory an annual report on, and conducted a review Internal Audit conforms with the Financial audit fees paid in the last three consecutive and evaluation of, the system of internal Services Code guidance.
This cap will not restrict KPMG controls and risk management operated Audit and Risk Committee approved Deloitte from continuing to undertake assurance, within the Company pursuant to the Financial LLP to conduct this independent review verification and reporting work in other Reporting Council guidance, Guidance on andthey presented their findings to the required areas described above such as to Risk Management, Internal Control and AuditandRisk Committee during the year.
the FCA, Global Investment Performance Related Financial and Business Reporting, Standards and ISAE 3402. prior to final review by the Board.
50 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018
