Governance Corporate governance The Group has been in compliance with Approval of press releases concerning the procurement obligation included in that the UK Corporate Governance Code and matters decided by the Board agreement pursuant to UK Listing Rule its predecessor versions since Admission 9.2.
2BR 2 a, in each case during the financial Approval of D&O insurance limits to listing on the London Stock Exchange reporting period ending on 30 June2018.
the interim dividend and recommendation on 17 October 2006, except where the of final dividend: The views expressed by shareholders have Directors consider that, in particular limited been reported back to the Board and its annual budgets and forecast updates: circumstances, departure may be justified committees.
During the year under review the and explained.
No departures from the Code Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Chairman and the Chair of the Remuneration occurred during the year under review.
Process: Committee met with shareholders as part of References herein to the Code are to the significant capital expenditure: and shareholder engagement with reference to the April 2016 version of the UK Corporate the effectiveness of risk management and Remuneration Policy as submitted to the 2017 Governance Code.
This report describes the internal control systems.
The major shareholders are invited to Groups corporate governance arrangements, request meetings with the Senior Independent explaining how it has applied the principles The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Director as required.
A revised version of the UK Officer are separate, clearly defined and have Corporate Governance Code has beenissued been approved by the Board.
The Chairman During the year, meetings took place by the Financial Reporting Council and this is responsible for the effective conduct of the between the Senior Independent Directors will be effective for accounting periods Board, while the Chief Executive Officer is and the Non-executive Directors without commencing on or after 1 January 2019 responsible for execution of strategy and for the executives present and between the the 2018 Code.
The Company will in the day-to-day management of the Group.
Chairman and the Senior Independent due course be undertaking a full review Director.
The appraisal of individual In considering Non-executive Director of its governance arrangements to ensure Non-executive Directors performance and independence, the Board has taken into compliance with the 2018 Code.
As it relates the Chairmans performance was addressed consideration the guidance provided by to remuneration the Company believes that this year as part of the independently theCode.
The Board considers Peter Gibbs, its present arrangements are already aligned facilitated Board evaluation.
The Senior Clive Adamson, David Bennett, Jennifer to its purpose and values and clearly linked Independent Director then led a discussion of Bingham and Dame Anne Pringle to be to thesuccessful delivery of its long-term the Chairmans performance with the other independent.
David Bennett is the Senior strategy.
Further details are provided on Non-executive Directors excluding the Independent Director.
No performance issues arose During the year under review, the Group in respect of any of the Directors or the Directors complied with the Code requirement that at Chairman.
The Board evaluation also The Board of Directors comprises two least half of the Board consist of independent confirmed that the Directors felt they had Executive Directors andfive independent Directors excluding the Chairman.
As received sufficient training and the Chairman Non-executive Directors.
The two Executive previously announced, a number of changes was alert to their trainingneeds.
Directors are Mark Coombs, the Chief to the composition and structure of the Executive Officer, and Tom Shippey, the The Board meets a minimum of sixtimes Board and its committees will take effect Group Finance Director.
The Independent during the year to review financial performance immediately following the Annual General Non-executive Directors are Peter Gibbs, and strategy and to follow the formal Meeting of the Company to be held on Chairman: David Bennett, Senior independent schedule of matters reserved for its 19October 2018.
At that time Peter Gibbs Director:Jennifer Bingham, Dame Anne Pringle decision.
Comprehensive Board papers, will retire as Chairman and as a Director.
Simon Fraser retired from comprising an agenda and formal reports He will be succeeded as Chairman by the Board on 31 December 2017 and Jennifer and briefing papers, are sent to Directors in David Bennett who will be independent Bingham was appointed on 29 June 2018. advance of each meeting.
Throughout their on appointment and whose existing Allother Directors served throughout the year.
period in office, Directors are continually commitments had already been disclosed to updated by means of written and verbal The Board has a schedule of matters the Board.
At the same time Clive Adamson reports from senior executives and external specifically reserved to it for decision and will assume the role of Senior Independent advisers on the Groups business, and the approval, which include, but are not limited to: Director and Dame Anne Pringle will become competitive and regulatory environments Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
the Groups long-term commercial in which it operates, as well as on legal, objectives and strategy: compliance, corporate governance, corporate The Board confirms that the Company and responsibility and other relevant matters.
Mark Coombs entered into a relationship major acquisitions, disposals and agreement on 1 July 2014 as required investments: In addition to its formal business, the under UK Listing Rule 9.2.
2AR 2 a : and Changes relating to the Companys capital Board received a number of briefings and that: i the Company has complied with or its status as a plc presentations from members of executive the independence provisions included in management during the year covering a the Groups annual and interim reports and that agreement: ii so far as the Company wide range of topics across the range of the financial statements: is aware, Mark Coombs has complied with Groups business.
All Directors have access to Approval of quarterly AUM releases the independence provisions included in that independent professional advice, if required, agreement: and iii so far as the Company Approval of all company circulars and at the Companys expense, as well as to the is aware, Mark Coombs has complied with listingparticulars advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 45 Corporate governance continued New Directors appointed to the Board will the performance of the Company Secretary receive advice as to the legal and other duties in terms of how he had fulfilled his secretarial The Board evaluationcycle and obligations arising from the role of a duties and any comments were passed to the Year 1 director of a UK listed company within a full, Chairman.
The appointment and removal of Externally facilitated formal and tailored induction.
An induction the Company Secretary is a matter reserved Board evaluation programme has been arranged for Jennifer for the Board.
Bingham who recently joined the Board.
Year 2 Powers of the Directors One to one interviews with Chairman The Company Secretary, under the direction Subject to the Companys Articles, the focusing on issues raised in year 1 of the Chairman, is responsible for maintaining Companies Act 2006 and any directions and any other issues an adequate continuing education programme, given by the Company by special resolution, reminding the Directors of their duties and the business of the Company is managed Year 3 obligations on a regular basis, ensuring good by the Board, which may exercise all One to one interviews with Chairman information flows between the Board, its powers of the Company, whether relating focusing on progress committees and management and assisting to the management of the business of the with Directors continuing professional Company or not.
The Companys Biographical details of the Directors are given to this the Board has decided to set specific Nominations Committee considers the on page 43. objectives over five years and to review these appointment and replacement of Directors annually.
Another recommendation was to subject to the rules set out in the Articles, a Annual performance evaluation have greater understanding and assurance summary of which is set out below.
The Code recommends that the Board should regarding the investment process in local undertake a formal annual evaluation of its Under the Articles, the minimum number offices and in response it was agreed that own performance and that of its committees of Directors shall be two and the maximum when local investment teams present to and individual Directors and that an externally shall be nine.
Directors may be appointed the Board they presently attend Board facilitated evaluation should be undertaken by the Company by ordinary resolution or by meetings periodically on a rotational basis at least once every three years.
A Director appointed by the Board they will be specifically required to articulate year, an independent externally facilitated must offer himself herself for election at the their investment processes.
At the time of evaluation was undertaken by The Effective next Annual General Meeting of the Company the evaluation none of the Non-executive Board LLP which has no connection with the following their appointment but he or she Directors had served on the Board for six years.
The evaluation involved interviews is not taken into account in determining the However, on attaining six years service a with each of the members of the Board and Directors or the number of Directors who are Non-executive Director would be subject to a also included individual director appraisals.
to retire by rotation at that meeting.
The results of those appraisals have been fed The Directors to retire by rotation must be back independently to the Chairman except Board committees those who held office at the time of the for any comments on the Chairman which The Board has appointed Audit and Risk, two preceding Annual General Meetings were provided to the Senior Independent Remuneration and Nominations Committees and did not retire at either of them or those Director in order to facilitate his performance to assist in the execution of its duties.
who have held office with the Company for appraisal.
The Board believes that, following All of these committees operate within a continuous period of nine years or more the completion of the performance evaluation, written terms of reference, which are at the date of the Annual General Meeting.
the performance of the Chairman and the reviewed annually consistent with changes The office of Director shall be vacated in Directors continues to be effective and that inlegislation and best practice.
other circumstances, including where i that they continue to demonstrate commitment Director resigns or is asked to resign: ii they to their roles.
The performance of each of The chair of each committee reports regularly are or have been suffering from mental illthe Boards committees was also subject to to the Board.
health: iii they are absent without permission review and reports were provided to each of Each of the committees is authorised, at of the Board from meetings of the Board for the respective Chairs.
The Effective Board the Companys expense, to obtain external six consecutive months: iv they become LLP commented that not only is the Board legal or other professional advice to assist bankrupt or compound with their creditors effective absolutely but it compares relatively in carrying out its duties.
Only the members generally: or v they are prohibited by law highly to other listed company boards.
No of each committee are entitled to attend from being a Director.
issues were raised about the provision of its meetings but others, such as senior information to the Board with the consensus Notwithstanding these provisions, the Board management and external advisers, may being that information was delivered in a timely has adopted provision B.
7.1 of the Code and beinvited to attend as appropriate.
The evaluation all Directors will retire and seek re-election addressed the composition of the Board and Current membership of the committees at each Annual General Meeting.
The Listing how it works together as a unit, including how is shown in the relevant sections below.
Rules require that the election re-election Jennifer Binghams addition to the Board would A number of changes to the leadership of independent directors be by a majority add to both the skillset and the level of gender and composition of the committees have of votes cast by independent shareholders diversity.
A number of recommendations been announced and details are set out as well as by a majority of votes cast by all were made.
The first of these was to agree a in theNominations Committee report at shareholders.
TheBoard evaluation addressed long-term definition of success and in response page51.
46 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Board and committee attendance The table below sets out the number of meetings of the Board and its committees and individual attendance by the Directors.
Directors whoare not members of any Board committees are also invited to attend meetings of all such committees.
Board and committee attendanceis described in the table below andincludes attendancefor Directors who have only served on the Board or itscommittees through part of the year under review.
Nominations Audit and Risk Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings scheduled between1 July 2017 and 30 June 2018 7 4 5 6 Peter Gibbs 100% 100% 100% Mark Coombs 100% Tom Shippey 100% Simon Fraser 100% 100% 100% 100% Dame Anne Pringle 100% 100% 100% 100% David Bennett 100% 100% 100% 100% Clive Adamson 100% 100% 100% 100% Jennifer Bingham 100% 1.
Simon Fraser retired from the Board on 31 December 2017.
Jennifer Bingham was appointed to the Board on 29 June 2018.
Members of executive management are invited to attend Board committee meetings as required but do not attend as members of those committees.
Corporate Governance Framework plc Board of Directors plc Remuneration Committee Responsible for overall strategy, management and control Determines compensation for Code Staff and reviews compensation for Control Staff plc Executive Directors plc Audit and Risk Committee Separate detailed terms of reference in line with corporate governance best practice Management Committees Responsible for overseeing business, investments and internal controls Auditors External: Investment Committees Risk and Compliance Committee Independent assurance via audit of Group financial Systems and Controls statements and audit of internal control procedures Review Committee Pricing Oversight under ISAE 3402 Committee Pricing Methodology and Valuation Committee Foreign Exchange Management Committee Product Committee Internal: IT Steering Group Global Investment Performance Standards Best Execution Committee Independent assurance via audit directed at Committee specific departmental control procedures Awards Committee Operating Committee Disclosure Committee Senior Management Responsible for day-to-day management Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 47
