CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT NOMINATION COMMITTEE Appointment of non-executive directors CHRIS COLE Following a rigorous process, assisted CHAIRMAN OF THE by Korn Ferry, an independent search NOMINATION COMMITTEE firm with no other connection to the Company, we were delighted to appoint Lucinda Riches and Tanya Fratto as non-executive directors of the Company in 2016.
Lucinda joined the Nomination and Remuneration Committees and, following the retirement of Michael Burrow, became chair of the Remuneration Committee and joined the Audit Committee.
Tanya joined the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Reappointment of directors The Committee unanimously recommends the re-election of each of the directors at the 2017 AGM.
In making this recommendation, we evaluated each director in terms of their performance, commitment to the role, and capacity The Nomination Committee comprises all of the non-executive to discharge their responsibilities directors, each of whom is independent, Chris Cole as chairman effectively, given their other external and the chief executive, Geoff Drabble.
Eric Watkins is secretary time commitments and responsibilities.
Board composition and diversity Our objective is to have a broad range of skills, background and experience within the Board.
While we will The Nomination Committee meets Summary of the Committees work continue to ensure that we appoint as and when required to consider the during the year the best people for the relevant roles, structure, size and composition of the The Committee met four times during we recognise the benefits of diversity Board of directors.
The Committees the year and the principal matters and we will continue to take this primary focus during the year remained discussed were: into account when considering any succession planning.
particular appointment, although we succession planning: do not set any particular targets.
Main responsibilities of the Nomination the retirement of Michael Burrow Committee and Bruce Edwards: By order of the Board The principal duties of the Committee the appointment of Lucinda Riches are making recommendations to the and Tanya Fratto: and Board on: the reappointment of Wayne Edmunds and Ian Sutcliffe.
the Boards structure, size, composition and balance: the appointment, reappointment, retirement or continuation of any ERIC WATKINS director: and Company secretary the continuation of any non-executive 12 June 2017 director who has served for a period of three years or more.
The Nomination Committees terms of reference will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
68 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017
