CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT STRONG CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Areas of Board focus CHRIS COLE During the past year the Board has paid CHAIRMAN particular attention to the following important areas: reviewing Board priorities and activities in line with our risk and ethics management regime: an ongoing evaluation of the efficacy of our strategy and the degree to which it remains appropriate as markets and opportunities change: continuing review of the effectiveness of our capital structure as the economic environment changes: evaluating our robust operating model and structure to ensure they remain fit for purpose as Ashtead grows and markets change: assessing the effectiveness of our health and safety practices and monitoring across the Group, and Dear Shareholder identifying areas for improvement: ensuring our key management This year has seen continued development and growth for Ashtead.
resource remains motivated and We continue to deliver on our promises and execute our strategy of appropriately rewarded: and organic growth, supplemented by bolt-on acquisitions.
As we grow it succession planning and ongoing is crucial that our governance structures keep pace so that we can senior recruitment.
ensure growth is both responsible and sustainable.
Compliance We endeavour to monitor and comply with ongoing changes in corporate governance and evolving best practice in We need to manage our risks efficiently Board composition and diversity this area.
I am pleased to report that the and ensure transparency across the Each member of our Board must be Company has complied in full throughout business.
I am confident that your able to demonstrate the skills, experience the year with the 2014 UK Corporate Board is well placed to do that and we and knowledge required to contribute to Governance Code the Code, issued by remain committed to maintaining the the effectiveness of the Board.
It is also the Financial Reporting Council FRC very highest standards of corporate important that we address issues of and available to view at www.
We recognise that good diversity in terms of skills, geographical and I can confirm this report provides a governance is essential in assisting the experience relevant to our business fair, balanced and understandable view business deliver its strategy, generate and gender.
I believe the Board is of the Groups position and prospects.
shareholder value and safeguard appropriately balanced in terms of shareholders long-term interests.
diversity with a good mix of specialist skills and market expertise.
As chairman, it is my role to ensure that the governance regime remains During the year, Lucinda Riches and Tanya appropriately robust and that the Board Fratto were appointed as non-executive operates effectively.
I am pleased to directors in June and July 2016, CHRIS COLE introduce the corporate governance respectively, while Michael Burrow and Chairman report for 2016 17.
This report details Bruce Edwards retired in September 2016 the matters addressed by the Board after each having served for nine years and its committees during the year.
60 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION LEADERSHIP MATTERS RESERVED TO THE BOARD The Company is led by an effective Board which is collectively responsible for the The schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision includes: long-term success of the Company.
treasury policy: approval of the issue of shares The role of the Board acquisitions and disposals: and debentures: The Board is responsible for setting appointment and removal of directors the setting of dividend policy: and the Groups strategy and ensuring the or the company secretary: the buyback of shares.
necessary resources and capabilities are appointment and removal of the auditor: in place to deliver the strategic aims and approval of the annual accounts and objectives.
It determines the Groups key the quarterly financial reports to policies and reviews management and shareholders: financial performance.
The Groups governance framework is designed to facilitate a combination of effective, ATTENDANCE AT BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS HELD BETWEEN entrepreneurial and prudent management, 1 MAY 2016 AND 30 APRIL 2017 both to safeguard shareholders interests Board Audit Remuneration Nomination and to sustain the success of Ashtead over Number of meetings held 6 4 3 4 the longer term.
This is achieved through Chris Cole 6 4 a control framework which enables risk Sat Dhaiwal 6 to be assessed and managed effectively.
Geoff Drabble 6 4 The Board sets the Groups core values and standards and ensures that these, Brendan Horgan 6 together with the Groups obligations to its Suzanne Wood 6 stakeholders, are understood throughout Wayne Edmunds 6 4 3 4 the Group.
Tanya Fratto 5 2 2 Lucinda Riches 5 1 3 3 Board meetings Ian Sutcliffe 6 4 3 4 The principal activities of the Board are Lucinda Riches and Tanya Fratto were appointed as non-executive directors in June and July 2016 respectively.
conducted at regular scheduled meetings of the Board and its Committees.
The Board normally meets six times a year, THE BOARD AND COMMITTEES with at least one of these meetings being held in the US.
Additional ad hoc meetings and calls are arranged outside the scheduled meetings to take decisions GROUP RISK COMMITTEE FINANCE AND as required.
chaired by Suzanne Wood ADMINISTRATION BOARD COMMITTEE The chairman and chief executive maintain chaired by Geoff Drabble regular contact with the other directors to discuss matters relating to the Group and the Board receives regular reports and briefings to ensure the directors are suitably briefed to fulfil their roles.
The non-executive directors including the AUDIT NOMINATION REMUNERATION chairman meet as and when required in COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE the absence of the executive directors to discuss and appraise the performance of the Board as a whole and the performance of the executive directors.
In accordance with the Code, the non-executive directors, Wayne Edmunds Chris Cole Wayne Edmunds led by the senior independent nonLucinda Riches Geoff Drabble Tanya Fratto executive director, also meet at least Ian Sutcliffe Wayne Edmunds Lucinda Riches annually in the absence of the chairman Tanya Fratto Ian Sutcliffe to discuss and appraise his performance.
Lucinda Riches Ian Sutcliffe There is a schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision.
Other matters are delegated to Board committees.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 61 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Non-executive directors Delegated authority Summary of the Boards work during In the recruitment of non-executive Board committees the year directors, it is the Companys practice to The Board has standing Audit, Nomination During the year, the Board considered all utilise the services of an external search and Remuneration Committees.
The matters reserved to the Board for decision, consultancy.
Before appointment, membership, roles and activities of the focusing in particular on the following: non-executive directors are required to Audit and Nomination Committees are assure the Board that they can give the detailed on pages 65 to 68 and the review of operations and current time commitment necessary to fulfil Remuneration Committee in the separate trading: properly their duties, both in terms of report on pages 69 to 86. approval of the quarterly financial availability to attend meetings and discuss statements: matters on the telephone and meeting Each committee reports to, and has its approval of the Annual Report and preparation time.
The non-executives terms of reference agreed by, the Board.
accounts: letters of appointment will be available for The terms of reference of these approval of the AGM resolutions: inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
committees are available on our website dividend policy: The approval of the chairman is required and will be available for inspection at the investor relations: before a non-executive can take on other Annual General Meeting.
treasury policy: non-executive director roles.
increase of the senior debt facility Finance and Administration Committee to $3.1bn: EFFECTIVENESS The Finance and Administration growth and acquisition strategy: Composition of the Board Committee comprises Chris Cole, Geoff various acquisitions: The Companys Board comprises the Drabble chairman and Suzanne Wood.
adoption of the 2017 18 budget: chairman, the chief executive, the finance The Board of directors has delegated review of the work of the Groups director, the executive heads of Sunbelt authority to this committee to deal with Risk Committee: and A-Plant, the senior independent routine financial and administrative review and approval of the Groups non-executive director and three other matters between Board meetings.
risk register: and independent non-executive directors.
The Committee meets as necessary the recommendations of the Short biographies of the directors are to perform its role and has a quorum Remuneration Committee.
given on page 59. requirement of two members with certain matters requiring the participation of the The directors are of the view that the chairman, including, for example, the Board and its committees consist of approval of material announcements directors with the appropriate balance to the London Stock Exchange.
of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Group to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
Lucinda Riches was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 June 2016 and Tanya Fratto on 1 July 2016.
Michael Burrow and Bruce Edwards retired from the Board with effect from 7 September 2016.
BOARD COMPOSITION AND ROLES Chairman Chris Cole Responsible for leadership of the Board, agreeing Board agendas and ensuring its effectiveness by requiring the provision of timely, accurate and clear information on all aspects of the Groups business, to enable the Board to take sound decisions and promote the success of the business.
Chief executive Geoff Drabble Responsible for developing the strategy for the business, in conjunction with the Board, ensuring it is implemented, and the operational management of the business.
Finance director Suzanne Wood Supports the chief executive in developing and implementing the strategy and responsible for the reporting of the financial and operational performance of the business.
Independent nonWayne Edmunds Provide a constructive contribution to the Board by providing objective challenge and executive directors Tanya Fratto critique for executive management and insights drawn from their broad experience.
Lucinda Riches Ian Sutcliffe Senior independent Ian Sutcliffe Available to shareholders, if they have reason for concern that contact through the normal director channels of chairman or chief executive has failed to resolve.
62 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The company secretary also provides conduct in meetings and a review of the Appointments to the Board directors with an overview of their documentation circulated in advance The Nomination Committee is responsible responsibilities as directors, corporate of the Board and committee meetings.
for reviewing the structure, size and governance policies and Board policies composition of the Board and making and procedures.
The chairman and The report of the external reviewer, recommendations to the Board on any chief executive assess regularly the which included conclusions and changes required.
Appointments are development needs of the Board as a recommendations, was presented to a made on merit, based on objective criteria, whole with the intention of identifying meeting of the Board in April 2017.
The including skills and experience and any additional training requirements.
overall conclusion was that the Board recognising the benefits of diversity on the operated in an efficient and effective Board, including gender.
The Nomination Information and support manner.
In addition, certain areas of Committee led the process to refresh the The directors have access to the company focus were identified to enhance the Board due to the retirement of Michael secretary and are able to seek independent effectiveness of the Board in the future.
Further advice at the Companys expense.
The report was considered and debated details are given in the Nomination by the Board and various action points Committee report on page 68.
Regular reports and briefings are were agreed.
Based on the report, the provided to the Board, by the executive Board concluded that the performance Commitment directors and the company secretary, to of the Board and its committees had As part of the appointment process, ensure the directors are suitably briefed been satisfactory.
prospective directors are required to to fulfil their roles.
confirm that they will be able to devote Re-election sufficient time to the Company to Additionally, detailed management The directors will retire at this years discharge their responsibilities effectively.
accounts are sent monthly to all Board Annual General Meeting and will offer Furthermore, all directors are required members and, in advance of all Board themselves for re-election in accordance to inform the Company of changes in meetings, an agenda and appropriate with the Code.
their commitments to ensure that they documentation in respect of each item continue to be able to devote sufficient to be discussed is circulated.
ACCOUNTABILITY time to the Company.
Financial and business reporting Board evaluation The Board is committed to providing Non-executive directors are appointed for The performance of the chairman, chief stakeholders with a fair, balanced and specified terms not exceeding three years executive, the Board and its committees understandable assessment of the Groups and are subject to annual re-election and is evaluated formally annually against, position and prospects.
This is achieved the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 amongst other things, their respective through the Strategic report, which relating to the removal of a director.
role profiles and terms of reference.
includes an explanation of the Groups The executive directors are evaluated business model, and other information Development and training additionally against the agreed budget for included within this Annual Report.
The All newly-appointed directors undertake the generation of revenue, profit and value responsibilities of the directors in respect an induction to all parts of the Groups to shareholders.
of the preparation of this Annual Report business.
This includes visits to both the are set out on page 89 and the auditors Sunbelt and A-Plant businesses and In accordance with the Code, it is the report on page 95 includes a statement meetings with their management teams.
Boards intention to have its and its by Deloitte about their reporting committees performance evaluation responsibilities.
As set out on page 88, TENURE OF NON-EXECUTIVE conducted by an external third party every the directors are of the opinion that the DIRECTORS YEARS three years.
As stated in my report last Group is a going concern.
15 year, the Board delayed its evaluation to enable the non-executive directors Risk management and internal control appointed in 2016 to be part of that The Board is responsible for the Groups process.
The Board evaluation was risk management framework and internal conducted by Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom control systems.
It has established a 7 Review Limited, a company which has process for identifying, evaluating and no connection with Ashtead.
The last managing the principal risks faced by the external evaluation of the Board in 2013 Group.
This robust process has been in 3 was also undertaken by Dr Tracy Long.
place for the full financial year, is ongoing 1 1 This consistency provided useful insight and is consistent with the FRCs Guidance to the development of the Board in the on Risk Management, Internal Control and Chris Cole intervening period.
Related Financial and Business Reporting Wayne Edmunds published in 2014.
Under its terms of Tanya Fratto The review comprised a series of in-depth reference the Group Risk Committee Lucinda Riches interviews with all Board members and a meets semi-annually or more frequently number of the senior management team, if required.
Ian Sutcliffe together with observation of the Boards Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED or elsewhere.
The Audit Committee also During the year the then chairman As described more fully on pages 34 to 36, meets regularly with the external auditor of the Remuneration Committee met the Group reviews and assesses the to discuss their work.
or had discussions with a number of risks it faces in its business and how shareholders to discuss the application these risks are managed.
These reviews The Board considers that the Groups of our remuneration policy and the details are conducted throughout the year in internal control systems are designed of the remuneration policy approved conjunction with the management teams appropriately to manage, rather than at last years AGM.
of each of the Groups businesses and are eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve documented in an annual risk assessment, its business objectives.
Any such control The Groups results and other news including the updated risk register.
The system, however, can only provide releases are published via the London reviews consider whether any matters reasonable and not absolute assurance Stock Exchanges Regulatory News have arisen since the last report was against material mis-statement or loss.
In addition, these news releases prepared which might indicate omissions are published in the Investor Relations or inadequacies in that assessment.
Audit Committee and Auditor section of the Groups website at It also considers whether, as a result of The Board has delegated responsibility for www.
Shareholders changes in either the internal or external oversight of corporate reporting and risk and other interested parties can subscribe environment, any new significant risks management and internal control and for to receive these news updates by email have arisen.
The Group Risk Committee maintaining an appropriate relationship through registering on-line on the website.
reviewed the draft report for 2017, which with the Groups auditor to the Audit was then presented to, discussed and Committee.
The Audit Committee report Constructive use of the Annual endorsed by the Audit Committee on on pages 65 to 67 contains full details of the General Meeting 10 May 2017 and the Group Board on role and activities of the Audit Committee.
We value meeting with our private 8 June 2017. shareholders at the Companys Annual REMUNERATION General Meeting AGM.
The 2017 AGM One of our principal risks is business The Board has delegated responsibility will be held in London on Tuesday, continuity and the capacity, resilience and evolution of the Groups IT systems and for developing remuneration policy and 12 September 2017.
As part of the Boards regular fixing the remuneration packages of receive an update on first quarter trading updates on business risks, it received a individual directors to the Remuneration during the meeting and be invited to ask detailed report and update on Sunbelts Committee.
The Remuneration Committee questions and meet the directors after the IT strategy and forward priorities.
report on pages 69 to 86 contains full formal proceedings have been completed.
This provided the Board with assurance details of the role and activities of the that the principal IT and related Remuneration Committee.
Resolutions at the 2017 AGM will be voted development needs had been identified on by a show of hands.
Following each and prioritised appropriately.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS vote, the results will be announced to Dialogue with shareholders the meeting and then announced to the The Board monitors the risk management We engage actively with analysts and London Stock Exchange and published on framework and internal control systems investors and are open and transparent the Companys corporate website as soon on an ongoing basis and reviews their in our communications.
This enables us to as practicable after the meeting.
Notice effectiveness formally each year.
As part understand what analysts and investors of the AGM will be sent to shareholders at of its monitoring, through the Audit think about our strategy and performance least 20 working days before the meeting.
Committee, it received reports from the as we drive the business forward.
The operational audit teams and considered Board is updated regularly on the views the internal control improvement of shareholders through briefings and recommendations made by the Groups reports from those who have had internal auditors and its external auditor interaction with shareholders including and managements implementation plans.
the directors and the Companys brokers.
The control system includes written Regular dialogue is maintained with policies and control procedures, clearly analysts and investors through meetings, drawn lines of accountability and presentations, conferences and ad hoc delegation of authority, and comprehensive events.
During the year, senior reporting and analysis against budgets management conducted over 400 and latest forecasts.
meetings and calls and attended three conferences, with investors in the UK, In a group of the size, complexity and US and the rest of Europe.
geographical diversity of Ashtead, minor breakdowns in established control The chairman and the senior independent procedures can occur.
There are non-executive director are available to supporting policies and procedures for meet institutional shareholders to discuss investigation and management of control any issues or concerns in relation to breakdowns at any of the Groups stores the Groups governance and strategy.
64 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017
