STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT WAYNE EDMUNDS Membership of the Committee CHAIRMAN OF THE The Committee is comprised of independent non-executive directors, AUDIT COMMITTEE biographical details of which are set out on page 59.
The members of the Committee are: Wayne Edmunds Chairman Lucinda Riches Ian Sutcliffe Main responsibilities of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee assists the Board in its oversight and monitoring of financial reporting, risk management and internal controls.
The principal responsibilities of the Committee are to: monitor the integrity of the annual and I am pleased to introduce the report of the Audit Committee quarterly results, including a review for 2016 17.
The Committee is made up of three independent of the significant financial reporting non-executive directors.
judgements contained therein: establish and oversee the Companys relationship with the external auditor, including the external audit process, their audit and non-audit fees and I have been chairman since July 2014 I am satisfied that the Committee was independence and make and have recent and relevant financial provided with good quality and timely recommendations to the Board on the experience, having held a number of material to allow proper consideration appointment of the external auditor: senior international finance roles.
The to be given to the topics under review.
review and assess the effectiveness members of the Committee, together I am also satisfied that the meetings of the Companys internal financial with my experience, bring an appropriate were scheduled to allow sufficient time to controls and internal control and balance of financial and accounting ensure all matters were considered fully.
risk management systems: experience combined with a good oversee the nature, scope and understanding of Ashteads business.
One of the Codes principles is that the effectiveness of the internal audit Board should present a fair, balanced work undertaken: and Eric Watkins is secretary to the and understandable assessment of the monitor the Companys policies and Committee.
Chris Cole, Geoff Drabble, Companys position and prospects procedures for handling allegations Suzanne Wood, and the Groups deputy through its financial reporting.
finance director generally attend always sought to ensure our financial and meetings by invitation.
In addition, other external reporting is fair, balanced The Committee reports to the Board the Groups external audit partner and understandable.
The Committee has on its activities and minutes of meetings attends the Committee meetings.
kept this principle at the forefront of its are available to the Board.
thought process as it reviewed all the The Committee assists the Board Companys financial reports in advance The Audit Committees terms of in discharging its responsibility for of publication and is satisfied that reference are available on the Groups oversight and monitoring of financial they provide a fair, balanced and website and will be available for reporting, risk management and internal understandable assessment of the inspection at the AGM.
As chairman of the Committee, Companys position and prospects.
it is my responsibility to ensure that the Committee fulfils its responsibilities in a rigorous and effective manner.
The Committees agenda is designed, in conjunction with the Boards, to ensure that all significant areas of risk WAYNE EDMUNDS are covered and to enable it to provide Chairman of the Audit Committee timely input to Board deliberations.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 65 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Goodwill impairment review Summary of the Committees work Carrying value of rental fleet The Group undertakes a formal goodwill during the year Management undertakes an annual review impairment review as at 30 April each year.
The Committee met on four occasions of the appropriateness of the useful lives This is based on the latest approved during the year.
Meetings are scheduled to and residual values assigned to property, budget and three-year plan for Sunbelt coincide with our financial reporting cycle, plant and equipment and assesses and A-Plant.
The Group classifies certain with four regular meetings scheduled prior whether they continue to be appropriate specialty businesses as separate cashto our quarterly, half-year and annual and whether there are any indications generating units CGUs, due to them results announcements.
The Group audit of impairment.
Inter alia, this review generating separately identifiable cash partner from Deloitte or his designate considers the level of gains on disposal flows.
We are satisfied that these CGUs attends all meetings of the Committee and age of assets at the date of disposal remain appropriate and that there is no and reports formally at three of along with the level of second-hand values, impairment of the carrying value of these meetings.
while taking into account cyclical goodwill in the CGUs of Sunbelt or A-Plant.
We are satisfied that Further details are provided in Note 14 A similar process is undertaken at each the judgements taken are appropriate to the financial statements.
reporting date whereby the Committee and consistent with prior years.
receives a paper from management which External audit effectiveness comments on the principal balances in the Going concern The Committee conducted an assessment financial statements and discusses any We reviewed the appropriateness of the of the effectiveness of the audit of the 2017 significant judgements and matters of a going concern assumption in preparing financial statements, based on its own financial reporting nature arising since the financial statements.
We reviewed a experience and drawing on input from the last meeting.
In addition, we receive paper prepared by management which senior corporate management and reports from Deloitte at three of the considered the Groups internal budgets senior finance management at Sunbelt meetings.
The first, in December, contains and forecasts of future performance, and A-Plant.
The review was based on the results of Deloittes review of our available financing facilities and facility questionnaires completed by the members half-year results.
In addition, we reviewed the of the Committee and senior management.
forms part of Deloittes planning for the scenario planning considered in assessing The questionnaires focused on the quality annual audit and their full audit plan and the Groups viability over the medium term.
and experience of the team assigned to the proposed audit fee is presented to the Taking account of reasonably possible audit, the robustness of the audit process, February meeting of the Committee.
changes in trading performance, used equipment values and other factors the quality of delivery and communication Deloittes final report of the year is at the that might affect availability, the Group and governance and independence of the June committee meeting when we review expects to maintain significant headroom audit firm.
Overall, the Committee is the draft Annual Report.
Their report under its borrowing facilities for the satisfied that the audit process and contains the findings from their audit forthcoming year.
strategy for the audit of the 2017 financial work, including comments on the draft statements was effective.
We are satisfied that the going concern basis of preparation continues to be Non-audit services and external auditor Integrity of financial reporting appropriate in preparing the financial independence We reviewed the integrity of the quarterly statements.
Each year we review the level of fees and and annual financial statements of the nature of non-audit work undertaken and Company.
This included the review we were again satisfied that it was in line and discussion of papers prepared by with our policy and did not detract from management and took account of the the objectivity and independence of the views of the external auditors.
It is accepted that areas reviewed in the current year certain work of a non-audit nature is are as follows.
best undertaken by the external auditor.
The non-audit fees paid to the Companys auditor, Deloitte LLP, for the year relate to their review of the Companys interim results.
Details of the fees payable to the external auditor are given in Note 4 to the financial statements.
66 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION the control of key financial risks Viability statement Reappointment of external auditor through clearly laid down authority The Committee discussed managements Deloitte was appointed external auditor levels and proper segregation of approach to the viability statement in 2004.
The external auditor is required accounting duties at the Groups and reviewed the work undertaken to rotate the audit partner responsible for accounting support centres: by management and reviewed a paper the Group audit every five years and this the preparation of a monthly financial summarising their conclusions and year is the current lead audit partners report to the Board: proposed statement.
The Committee considers the preparation of an annual budget was agreed at the June meeting and the reappointment of the external and periodic update forecasts which is included on page 37. auditor each year and is recommending are reviewed by the executive directors to the Board that a proposal be put to and then by the Board: Internal audit shareholders at the 2017 Annual General a programme of rental equipment The internal operational audit teams in Meeting for the re-appointment of Deloitte.
inventories and full inventory counts the two businesses undertake operational There are no contractual restrictions on conducted at each store by equipment audits across the store network using a the Companys choice of external auditor type and independently checked on risk-based methodology.
Each year we and in making its recommendation the a sample basis by our operational agree the scope of work and the coverage Committee took into account, amongst auditors and external auditor: in the audit plan at the start of the year other matters, the tenure, objectivity and detailed internal audits at the Groups and receive formal reports on the results independence of Deloitte, as noted above, major accounting centres undertaken of the work at the half year and full year.
and its continuing effectiveness and cost.
periodically by internal audit During the year 444 audits were specialists from a major international completed, which is consistent with our The Committee has followed the legislative accounting firm: goal for each of our 800 stores to receive developments on audit tendering and comprehensive audits at each store an audit visit at least once every two years.
rotation from the EU and Competition & generally carried out at least every The audits are scored and action plans Markets Authority.
Under the transitional two years by internal operational audit.
agreed with store management to remedy arrangements, the Group is not required A summary of this work is provided identified weaknesses.
This continual to rotate its auditor until 2023.
During the semi-annually to the Audit Committee: process of reinforcement is key to the year we considered whether to conduct and store level control environment.
a tender for the audit in 2017 to fit in with whistle-blowing procedures by which the timing of the next rotation of the staff may, in confidence, raise concerns In addition, we engage a major current audit partner scheduled for 2018 about possible improprieties or breaches international accounting firm to perform 2019 year end.
We concluded that Deloitte of company policy or procedure.
detailed internal audits at the Groups continued to undertake an effective audit major support centres periodically.
and we would not tender for the 2019 audit.
The Committee receives regular We expect to tender the audit in 2022 23 reports from internal operational audit, Whistle-blowing for the 2024 audit.
outsourced internal audit and the Group There are policies and procedures in place Risk Committee.
The Groups risk whereby staff may, in confidence, report Financial control and risk management management processes are an area of concerns about possible improprieties or The Companys objective is to maintain focus as they adapt to reflect changes breaches of Company policy or procedure.
a strong control environment which to our risk profile as a result of our These suspicions are investigated and the minimises the financial risk faced by significant growth, both organic results of the investigation are, where the business.
It is the Committees and through bolt-on acquisitions.
possible, reported to the whistle-blower.
responsibility to review and assess the The Committee receives a report from effectiveness of the Companys internal the company secretary on control issues financial controls and internal control arising from whistle-blowing as well as and risk management factors.
In relation to internal financial control, the Groups control and monitoring procedures include: the maintenance and production of accurate and timely financial management information, including a monthly profit and loss account and selected balance sheet data for each store: Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 67
