14 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our business model in action Develop A strong pipeline ofopportunities.
This year saw the ribbon cut on some of our most exciting development projects as well as new faces joining the team to help keep up with demand.
Canolfan Feddygol Porthcawl Milestones at pace Medical Centre, Porthcawl We completed new builds in Derbyshire and Swansea while in West Gorton, ourfirst ultra low-energy premises wasopened by former health minister andGreater Manchester Mayor, Andy Burnham.
In Brixworth, Stow-on-the-Wold and Porthcawl, we began work on new primary care centres for practices with growing patient lists.
And in Kirklees and Wivenhoe, we overhauled, refurbished and fitted out older buildings to give practices new homes which are fit forthefuture.
We asked Simon Gould, howdoes our approach todevelopment stand out?
Tenacity, determination and our understanding of the primary care systemfrom both the provider and commissioner viewpoints are our hallmarks we aim todeliver projects which meet everyones needs.
You led much of our work this year to look at international design best practice what areyou excited about bringing into our primary care design projects here?
Top: Woodville Surgery, Derbyshire Our research of healthcare buildings Middle: Kibworth Medical Centre, Leicester Bottom: West Gorton Medical Centre, overseas has been very interesting.
We Greater Manchester hope to introduce some ideas into our new buildings, particularly around the patient experience in waiting rooms and integrating new technology.
Were also keen to go even further on environmental sustainability and cost in use.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 15 Getting good feedback from patients and clinicians on our new buildings is always the ultimate test as a long-term partner to GPs, its one of the most important parts of the process so that were continually learning.
Simon Gould Head of Development 16 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our business model in action Invest A record-breaking year.
A record-breaking year forour work to invest in existing primary care buildings was marked by anumber ofsignificant portfolio acquisitions and a new head forthe team, Patrick Lowther.
Our reputation among GPs continues to go before us, with most of our investment work driven by personal recommendations and experiences of our existing tenants.
Ilminster Medical Centre, Somerset Fit for the future Whats next for the Our acquisition of a portfolio of 11 investmentteam?
medical centres spread across Southern We want to keep up the England, providing primary care to paceandIm keen to explore 120,000 patients, was an inspiring end  and to2017.
The quality and design of this enhance our existing portfolio.
stunning group of buildings is exceptional, with concept, layout and fit out having been NHS future-proofed from inception.
They currently outperform many newer developments and even the oldest building, constructed in 2002, meets current NHS guidelines on room sizes andcorridor widths.
As examples oftheimportance ofgood design inprimarycare property, they dont comemuch better.
Patrick Lowther, what appealed to you aboutjoining Assura?
Its the experience the business hasbuiltup in its core market, and the competitive advantage that it gives the Company.
We work to get under the skin of the unique situation for every practice, so that we can find solutions for that particular group of GPs Im learning theimportance of the relationships we develop with the practice team over what can be a long process.
I also think its that sense of being a responsible custodian of social infrastructure of channelling ourexpertise for the buildings in which community healthcare services are delivered now, and for the future.
Assura has the resources and reputation to beaguardian of what is an important Top: Milborne Port Surgery, Dorset long-term relationship and thats Middle: Sturminster Newton MedicalCentre, Dorset whyGPs pick up the phone to us.
Bottom: The Surgery @ Wheatbridge, Chesterfield Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 17 In my real estate career to date, Icantthink of a time when I have beenexposed to a part of the market where there is such a disconnect between supply and demand.
Patrick Lowther Head of Investment 18 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our business model in action Manage An important measure of success for our portfolio team isthe satisfaction of our tenants.
This year, occupier satisfaction was at more than 94% for the third year running.
This is due in no small part to the dedication of our growing team, towhichwe added four new portfolio managers this year to ensure every tenantgets a service tailored to their needs.
Aspen Centre, Gloucester even better, with more space or a different Innovation in action layout.
Then, of course, its alsoabout In a year which saw us complete our doing the day to day portfolio workreally biggest ever extension of an existing well: responding promptly toproblems building in our portfolio, the strength of andchallenges, and makingsure we our internally managed, full-service team findsolutions.
Our specialists from portfolio management and development came together to deliver the huge new space for Wide Way Medical Centre, Mitcham, delivering five new clinical rooms, a minor operations suite and better waiting, administrative and reception areas.
At Severn Fields Health Village in Shropshire, were fitting out expansion space for the local acute trustto move its fertility clinic one ofthetop IVF locations in the UK tomodern premises where it can offermore advanced treatments.
InLincolnshire, we worked with our tenants at Freshney Green Primary Care Centre to fit out morespace for mental health services forchildren and young people who are suffering with conditions such as anxiety, depression, trauma, eating disorders and self-harm.
Spencer, with so many new tenants this year, how does theteam get to know each building and the needs of theteams within?
Weve always had a strong ethos that personal contact and face to face visits make a real difference.
The team spends alot of time on the road having those detailed, practical conversations with GPs Top: Long Lane Surgery, Coalville and practice managers about how our Middle and bottom: Wide Way Medical Centre, Mitcham buildings are working for them and most crucially how we can make them work Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 19 There is nothing more satisfying than seeing an extension thats been needed for many years come into service for patients, and to hear about the difference it makes for the practice team.
Projects to improve surgery buildings take a long time to plan with the NHS but the end result can change the experience for patients and staff almost instantaneously.
Spencer Kenyon Head of Portfolio Management
