12 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our business model and strategy We develop, invest and manage a portfolio of primary care medical centres across the UK.
We aim to generate attractive long-term financial and social returns for our shareholders and wider stakeholders by developing and investing in high quality, sustainable medical centres thatprovide crucial infrastructure for their local health economy.
What we need Customer relationships Knowledge of GPs evolving requirements through ourinvolvement in the design and management of medical Develop centres gives us a unique insight into their property needs.
Assets Our bespoke medical centres are constructed in locations that are crucial to the local health economy and to the highest sustainability standards.
People Our team of 50 people covers the key skills of realestate ownership and includes asset and property management, development, investment, marketing andfinancing.
Partners Invest We maintain strategic partnerships with the leading architectural practice in the sector and a number of specialist healthcare developers to complement our in-house expertise.
Capital The support of our shareholders, banking partners and lenders is crucial to sustaining our investment in the UKshealth infrastructure.
Manage Read more about Stakeholder engagement page 26 How our strategy and Focus businessmodelwork together Maintaining a strategic focus onahighly attractive market Our strategic priorities drive the behaviours of our team to support our business model, ensuring everything we do is tailored toward creating value for our shareholders and stakeholders.
Read more about Our strategic priorities page 20 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 13 Our competitive strengths We are unique in offering GPs a full property service, so a partnership with Assura is along-term approach.
Our ability todevelop, invest and manage gives us a crucial advantage when securing new development and investment opportunities and other asset management initiatives.
Moreover, our internally managed structure provides a highly scalable model which means that as we grow, the benefits of scaleaccrue to shareholders and drive our progressive dividend policy.
The value we create Our team of development managers works with ourdesign and development Key beneficiaries of our value creation: partners to provide bespoke, communityled property solutions for each of our GP customers healthcare partners.
We monitor and Develop Our purpose built medical centres provide the essential manage the process from design through infrastructure to allow GPs to provide a broader range to delivery of the completed building.
ofhealthcare services in the community.
Communities Our medical centres provide a crucial community resource to aid improved health outcomes in their locations.
In the year we donated 23,000 plus employee time toour local charity partners.
Our investment managers work to  and to build lasting Shareholders relationships withGPs, helping them to EPRA EPS of 2.5 pence and capital growth of3.1pence, realise their long-term ambitions for their supporting dividends paid of 2.455 pence.
practice and growing our portfolio to provide scale benefits to our investors.
Employees During the year we have invested significantly in increasing our skilled employee base with seven new recruits.
3.7 million paid to our employees.
We continue to promote actively from within and provide training and development opportunities to all staff.
Suppliers Our team of property surveyors supports the 69.2 million paid to suppliers of materials and services.
evolving requirements of our tenants, liaising Our construction and management contracts are often frequently to assist their efficient operation.
with local suppliers to promote sustainability.
Thisintegrated approach enables us to benefitboth the tenants and our shareholders Manage Government through lease renewals, property extensions 3.0 million paid in employment and other taxes to the orco-locating appropriate partners such UKGovernment.
Expertise Sustainability Effectiveness Responding to the Investing in our people Leveraging our teams skills NHSagenda and socialinfrastructure tomaximum advantage
