46 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Leadership The Board, together with its professional Relations with shareholders advisors, actively analyses the shareholder July 2017 AGM The Board welcomes open register and the Senior Independent communication with its shareholders keyhighlights Director is available to act as a conduit andworks with its stockbrokers Stifel forinvestor concerns if required.
andJP Morgan Cazenove to ensure that All resolutions passed.
an appropriate level of communication 1,457 to 1,468 million votes The equity issues completed in June 2017 ismaintained.
and December 2017 weresupported by shareholders is facilitated by a series All Directors retired and were both existing andnewshareholders and ofinvestor relations activities, including re-elected to the Board.
effective communication with current regular meetings between the Executive and  remains a Directors, institutional investors, sales keypriority for the year ahead.
teams and industry sector analysts, aswell as regular advice from KPMG Shareholders are encouraged to attend Makinson Cowell.
the AGM in July where all Board members will be on hand to answer any questions.
141 investor meetings have been held in theyear.
Accountability Role of the Board The Board understands its responsibility to The Company has an effective Board Feedback from these meetings is present a fair, balanced and understandable which is collectively responsible for the regularly relayed to the Board in order assessment of the Groups position and long-term success of the Company by toensure that all Board members, and prospects, to assess the principal risks directing and supervising its activities.
Non-Executive Directors in particular, facing the Group, to ensure that there are develop an understanding of the views effective systems of risk management and The Board has approved a schedule of ofmajor shareholders.
This process internal control and to provide a statement matters reserved for decision by the Board.
augments the regular dissemination of as to the Groups long-term viability.
The This includes all corporate acquisitions or annual reports and other market updates.
steps it has taken tocomply with these corporate disposals, debt raising above Copies of these announcements and any requirements are set out in this section 50 million, the Remuneration Policy, the accompanying presentational materials ofthe Annual Report.
annual budget approval and amendments are available on the Companys website to delegated authorities.
The Board meets at least six times per year for scheduled meetings.
It also meets as required to consider any important or urgent business such as the equity raises.
The relevant Board Committees are shown below.
Governance framework BOARD Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Executive Board Risk Committee Investment Committee IT Committee Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 47 Division of responsibilities Role Responsibilities Chairman The effective running of the Board Ensuring the Directors receive accurate and timely information Promoting high standards of Corporate Governance Ensuring Board agendas take full account of relevant issues and Board members concerns As Chair of the Nominations Committee, ensuring effective Board succession plans are in place CEO Running the Companys day to day operations Implementing the business strategy and culture Regularly updating the Board on progress against approved plans Providing effective leadership of the Executive Board to achieve agreed strategies and objectives Non-Executive Directors Challenging and helping to develop proposals on strategy Satisfying themselves as to the integrity of the financial information and that there are effective systems ofriskmanagement and financial control Chairing and or serving on relevant Committees Senior Independent Director Acting as Chair of the Board if the Chairman is conflicted If necessary, acting as a conduit to the Board for communicating shareholder concerns Ensuring the Chairman is provided with effective feedback on performance Serving as an intermediary for other Directors when necessary Company Secretary Ensuring good information flow within the Board and Committees Facilitating induction and training of Board members Advising the Board on all governance matters Board and Committee meeting attendance Nominations Remuneration Audit Director Board Committee Committee Committee Simon Laffin 8 8 4 4 4 4 5 5 Jonathan Murphy 8 8 4 4 4 4 5 5 David Richardson 8 8 4 4 4 4 5 5 Jenefer Greenwood 8 8 4 4 4 4 5 5 Andrew Darke 7 8 n a n a 4 5 Jayne Cottam 5 5 n a n a 4 4 Ed Smith 4 4 2 2 2 2 4 4 Full Board and relevant Committee attendance after appointment.
FLEET W OOD HEALTH AND W ELLBEING CENTRE Fleetwood Health And Wellbeing Centre
