24 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Policy matters Making the case.
How do GP What can our sector buildings do to support impactcare?
I am certain that the quality of the Sometimes, there comes a premises has a direct effect on the challenge so great that its working care that we can provide Ive with other organisations, with peers worked in rooms that were so small across a sector, which is called for.
that the examining couch was in a Making sure our countrys GP different room, a hugely inefficient surgery buildings are fit for the system which makes keeping to 10 changes to general practice and minute appointments impossible.
care closer to home could be onesuch task.
Dr Toni Hazell, blogging for Assura Jonathan Murphy, July 2017 blogging for Assura September 2017 Can primary care estate help easewinterpressures?
Paracetamol wont cure flu symptoms, and nor will better GP buildings rid A&E departments of all but the most seriously-ill patients overnight.
But premises which can allow primary care teams the space to offer more NHS services Is third party inthecommunity are a vital part of the prescription.
development Claire Rick, 3PD getting blogging for Assura therecognition January 2018 itdeserves?
3PD may still be somewhat underthe radar, despite its delivery of some of the most innovative buildings in the country.
But it has capacity, creativity and capability.
Jonathan Murphy, speaking at Westminster Forum February 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 25 Ardudwy Health Centre, Harlech How highly do buildings rank How can improved among the NHS priorities of voters?
GMS premises cost directions help?
Despite the turmoil of the election result, one thing is certain:  to forget their acknowledgement Get these sorts of funding ofthe problems for NHS premises during the campaign, or the mechanisms right, and more GPs commitmentsthey made in their manifestos to address them.
will have the buildings they need.
Simon Gould, Claire Rick, blogging for Assura blogging for Assura June 2017 June 2017 How should primary care infrastructure interlink with housing for older people?
Access to primary care must be in the right places andspaces, particularly for older patients who rely onitthe most.
Assura evidence to Communities and Local GovernmentCommittee Inquiry into HousingforOlder People What is the role of primary published February 2018 careinfrastructure in deliveringnew homes?
Ensuring the right healthcare infrastructure is there forpatients in new communities will be essential to fully realising governments housebuilding ambitions, so were pleased to see plans to improve the system of developer contributions towards local infrastructure.
Jonathan Murphy, responding to the Autumn Budget November 2017
