Senior Executive Team SET as at 14 February 2019 Pascal Soriot Marc Dunoyer Katarina Ageborg Sean Bohen CEO CFO Executive Vice-President, Sustainability Executive Vice-President, Global Medicines and Chief Compliance Officer Development and Chief Medical Officer See page 94.
Katarina was appointed Executive Sean has been Executive Vice-President, Vice-President, Sustainability in 2017 and has GMD since September 2015 and leads our been a member of SET since 2011.
She has global late-stage development organisation overall responsibility for the delivery, design and for both small molecules and biologics, implementation of the Companys sustainability driving a medicines pipeline which features In addition to the SET, we have two senior level governance programme, covering three priority areas: novel and groundbreaking science focusing bodies accountable for making key decisions regarding our access to healthcare: environmental protection: on three main therapy areas Oncology, portfolio and pipeline.
Following the organisational changes and ethics and transparency.
She leads the Cardiovascular, Renal & Metabolic diseases announced in January 2019, we are creating two therapy Global Sustainability function, including teams and Respiratory disease.
He is also the area-focused R&D units, one for BioPharmaceuticals CVRM focusing on Compliance, and Safety, Health Companys Chief Medical Officer and is and Respiratory and one for Oncology.
Katarina was also appointed responsible for patient safety across the future structure and nature of these governance bodies will President of AstraZeneca AB Sweden in 2018, entire AstraZeneca and MedImmune be reviewed in the first quarter of 2019. and her role is focused on strengthening portfolio.
He joined AstraZeneca from corporate reputation and relations by actively Genentech, where he held several senior representing the company in the Swedish leadership roles across various therapy Early Stage Product Late Stage Product business and academic community.
Prior to her areas and within early and late development.
Committees ESPCs Committee LSPC current roles, Katarina led the Global Before this, Sean was a Clinical Instructor in The ESPCs are senior The LSPC is also a senior Intellectual Property function from 2008 to Oncology at Stanford University School of level, cross-functional level governance body, 2011, during which time she streamlined the Medicine, a research associate at the governance bodies with accountable for the quality organisation and launched a new patent filing Howard Hughes Medical Institute and a accountability for oversight of the portfolio post-Phase III strategy before taking the role as Chief postdoctoral fellow at the National Cancer of our early-stage small investment decision.
Katarina holds a Master of Institute.
He is a graduate of the University molecule and biologics chaired by the EVPs of GMD Law Degree from Uppsala University School of ofWisconsin-Madison and later earned his portfolio to Proof of Concept and GPPS, members include, Law in Sweden and ran her own law firm before doctorate in biochemistry and his medical stage.
as appropriate, members of joining AstraZeneca in 1998. degree at the University of California, the SET, including the CEO SanFrancisco.
The ESPCs seek to deliver and CFO, and members a flow of products to GMD of the GMD and GPPS for Phase III development leadership teams.
The ESPCs also seek to maximise The LSPC seeks to the value of our internal and maximise the value of our external R&D investments investments in the late-stage through robust, transparent portfolio, also ensuring and well-informed decision well-informed and robust making that drives decision making.
Specific business performance accountabilities include: and accountability.
approval of the criteria Specifically, the ESPCs supporting Proof have responsibility for of Concept the following: decision to invest in Pam Cheng Fiona Cicconi Phase III development Executive Vice-President, Executive Vice-President, approving early-stage based on agreement of Operations & Information Technology Human Resources investment decisions commercial opportunity prioritising the and our plans to develop Pam joined AstraZeneca in June 2015 after Fiona joined AstraZeneca in September respective portfolios the medicine having spent 18 years with Merck MSD in 2014as Executive Vice-President, Human licensing activity for evaluation of the outcome Global Manufacturing and Supply Chain and Resources and is responsible for the overall products in Phase I of the development Commercial roles.
Pam was the Head of design and delivery of the Companys people and earlier programme and decision Global Supply Chain Management & Logistics strategy, impacting over 60,000 employees delivering internal and to proceed to regulatory for Merck from 2006 to 2011 and led the inmore than 100 countries.
She started her external opportunities filing transformation of Merck supply chains across career at General Electric, where she held reviewing allocation decision to invest in the global supply network.
More recently, Pam various human resources roles within the oil of R&D resources.
life-cycle management was President of MSD China, responsible for and gas business, which included experience activities for the MSDs entire business in China.
Prior to joining in major global acquisitions and driving late-stage assets Merck, Pam held various engineering and change.
Subsequently, Fiona spent a decision to invest in project management positions at Universal Oil numberof years at Cisco, overseeing late-stage business Products, Union Carbide Corporation and humanresources in seven countries in development GAF Chemicals.
Pam holds Bachelors and Europe and latterly handling employee opportunities.
Masters degrees in chemical engineering relations in Europe, Middle East and Africa, from Stevens Institute of Technology in before joining Roche in 2006.
There, she was NewJersey and an MBA in marketing from mostrecently responsible for global human Other SET members during the year were: Pace University in New York.
In addition to resources for Pharma Technical Operations, Bahija Jallal Mark Mallon herrole at AstraZeneca, Pam serves as a where her primary focus was to identify and During 2018, Bahija Jallal During 2018, Mark Mallon non-executive Director of the Codexis Inc. develop a sustainable supply of leadership was Executive Vicewas Executive ViceBoard CDXS.
Pam also serves as an Advisor and talent from within the organisation.
President, Global Product to the International Society of Pharmaceutical Bahija left AstraZeneca in and Portfolio Strategy, Global Engineering ISPE Board of Directors.
Medical Affairs and Global Corporate Affairs.
Mark left AstraZeneca in January 2019.
96 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Ruud Dobber David Fredrickson Menelas Pangalos Jeff Pott Executive Vice-President, Executive Vice-President, Executive Vice-President, Research & General Counsel BioPharmaceuticals Business Oncology Business Development BioPharmaceuticals Jeff was appointed General Counsel in January Ruud was appointed Executive Vice-President, Dave was appointed Executive Vice-President, Mene Pangalos was appointed as Executive 2009 and has overall responsibility for all BioPharmaceuticals Business in January 2019 Global Head Oncology Business in October Vice-President, R&D BioPharmaceuticals in aspects of AstraZenecas Legal and IP function.
and is responsible for product strategy and 2017 and is responsible for driving growth and January 2019 and is responsible for R&D from He joined AstraZeneca in 1995 and has worked commercial delivery for CVRM and Respiratory.
maximising the commercial performance of discovery through to late-stage development in various litigation roles, where he has had Prior to this, Ruud held the role ofExecutive the global oncology and haematology for CVRM and Respiratory.
Prior to this, he responsibility for IP, anti-trust and product Vice-President, North America and was portfolio.
In addition, he plays acritical served as Executive Vice-President of liability litigation.
Before joining AstraZeneca, responsible for driving growth and maximising leadership role in setting the Oncology AstraZenecas IMED Biotech Unit and hespent five years at the US legal firm Drinker the contribution of the commercial operations portfolio and product strategy for the GlobalBusiness Development.
Since Biddle and Reath LLP, where he specialised in in North America.
Ruud joined Zeneca in 1997 organisation.
Previously, Dave served as joiningAstraZeneca in 2010, Mene has led a pharmaceutical product liability litigation and and has held various senior commercial and President of AstraZeneca K. K. in Japan, and transformation of our R&D productivity and has anti-trust advice and litigation.
He received his leadership roles including Executive Vice-President, Specialty Care in the US, championed an open approach to working with bachelors degree in political science from Vice-President, Europe.
Ruud was also spanning oncology, infectious disease, academic and other external partners.
Mene Wheaton College and his Juris Doctor Degree responsible for the development of our andneuroscience medicines.
Dave joined previously held senior R&D roles at Pfizer, from Villanova University School of Law.
late-stage, small molecule antibiotic pipeline as AstraZeneca from Roche Genentech in Wyeth and GSK.
Mene holds an Honorary well as its global commercialisation and was 2014, where he was Business Unit Manager, PhDfrom Glasgow University and is a Fellow Regional Vice-President for European, Middle Oncology in Spain and held growing ofthe Academy of Medical Sciences, the Royal East and African region, Regional Vicecommercial responsibilities in strategy, Society of Biology and Clare Hall, University of President for the Asia Pacific region and Interim marketing and sales in the US.
He sits on the Medical Research Executive Vice-President, GPPS.
Ruud was a for nine years at the Monitor Group, LLC now Council, co-chairs the Life Sciences Council member of the Board and Executive Committee Monitor Deloitte Group, LLC, a global strategy Expert Group on Innovation, Clinical Research of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical consultancy.
He has served as Vice Chairman and Data and is a member of the Life Sciences Industries and Associations and was previously of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industrial Strategy Implementation Board Chairman of the Asia division of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations EFPIA Japan and andNational Genomics Board.
He is also a Research and Manufacturers of America.
Ruud was a member of the Board of the Japan Board member of the British Pharmaceutical holds a doctorate in immunology from the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association Group and Cambridge Universitys Judge University of Leiden, Netherlands and began JPMA.
He is a graduate of Georgetown Business School.
his career as a research scientist in University DC in Government.
Appointed post year-end Iskra Reic Leon Wang Jos Baselga Executive Vice-President, Europe Executive Vice-President, Executive Vice-President, International and China President Research & Development Oncology Iskra was appointed Executive Vice-President, Europe in April 2017 and is responsible for our Leon Wang is Executive Vice-President, Jos joined AstraZeneca in January 2019 as BioPharmaceutical sales, marketing and International and China President.
He is Executive Vice-President, R&D Oncology and commercial operations across our businesses responsible for the overall strategy and for is responsible for the oncology portfolio from in 30 European countries.
Iskra trained as a driving sustainable growth across the region.
discovery through to late-stage development.
Doctor of dental surgery at the Medical Leon joined AstraZeneca China in March He was formerly Physician-in-Chief at Memorial University of Zagreb, Croatia.
She joined 2013 and was promoted to President of Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, which became AstraZeneca in 2001 and has held a variety of AstraZeneca China in 2014.
Under Leons the leader in early-phase clincial trials for in-market, regional sales and marketing and leadership, China has become AstraZenecas cancer therapies and diagnostic genetic general management roles, including in Europe second largest market worldwide, and sequencing under his leadership.
In addition, as Head of Commercial Operations for Croatia AstraZeneca has become the second largest he was Professor of Medicine at Weill Cornell and Head of Specialty Care Central & Eastern and the fastest growing multinational Medical College and President of the American Europe and Middle East & Africa.
In 2012, she pharmaceutical company in China.
In Association for Cancer Research AACR.
Jos joined AstraZeneca Russia as Marketing & January 2017, Leon was promoted to is an international thought leader on innovation Strategy Director.
She was appointed General Executive Vice-President, Asia Pacific in cancer care and clinical research.
His work Manager Russia in 2014 and, under her Region.
Prior to joining AstraZeneca, Leon has led to the approval of life-saving cancer leadership, AstraZeneca achieved a leading held positions of increasing responsibility in therapies and the creation of several share in its three main therapy areas and marketing and business leadership at Roche, biopharmaceutical companies.
Jos is an became a top-six prescription medicine where he was a Business Unit Viceelected member of the National Academy of pharmaceutical company.
In addition, Leon holds several Medicine, the American Society of Clinical responsibilities were expanded in 2016 to cover positions in local trade associations and Investigation, the Association of American both Russia and the Eurasia Area.
Iskra was other prominent organisations in China.
Physicians, and an elected Fellow of the appointed Area Vice President of Russia and Leon holds an EMBA from China Europe AACRAcademy.
He is a past President of the Eurasia area in 2016, where she drove strong International Business School, and a European Society for Medical Oncology and performance from a 1,500-strong team in a Bachelor of Arts from Shanghai International recently received their Lifetime Achievement complex and dynamic region.
Iskra has an Studies University.
He serves on the Board of Directors International Executive MBA from the of theAmerican Society of Clinical Oncology IEDC-Bled School of Management, Slovenia.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Senior Executive Team 97
