Corporate Governance Science Committee Report The Science Committees core role is to provide assurance to the Board regarding the quality, competitiveness and integrity ofthe Groups R&D activities.
Our focus during 2018 Role of the Committee Activities during 2018 The Science Committees core role is to The Science Committee met twice in person AI, automation, digital provide assurance to the Board regarding the in 2018, in London, UK and Cambridge, UK.
technologies and quality, competitiveness and integrity of the analytics Groups R&D activities.
This is done by way of Key areas of focus for the Science Committee In vivo biologics: meetings and dialogue with our R&D leaders in 2018 included: and other scientist employees, visits to our personalised R&D sites throughout the world, and review Artificial Intelligence, automation, digital immunotherapy: and assessment of: technologies and advanced analytics: andbiologics device how knowledge graphs, augmented drug differentiation the approaches we adopt in respect of design, AI-led chemical synthesis and ourchosen therapy areas advanced image analytics will contribute to Achieve Scientific the scientific technology and R&D patient stratification, prediction of disease Leadership targets capabilities we deploy progression and therapeutic benefit.
Scientific competitive the decision-making processes for The future of in vivo biologics: moving intelligence R&Dprojects and programmes beyond monoclonal antibodies to overcome the quality of our scientists and their career the challenges inherent in traditional protein opportunities and talent development therapeutics with DNA, RNA, cell and virus benchmarking against industry and based therapies.
scientific best practice, where appropriate.
Personalised immuno-therapy: how weare developing the next generation of The Science Committee periodically reviews antibody-drug conjugates, cell therapies, important bioethical issues that we face and and cancer vaccines with the aim of assists in the formulation of, and agrees on reducing toxicity and increasing the behalf of the Board, appropriate policies in survivalof patients.
It may also consider, Biologics device differentiation: how the from time-to-time, future trends in medical current market and technology landscape science and technology.
The Science isinfluencing our product portfolio and Committee does not review individual R&D development strategies.
projects but does review, on behalf of the Achieve Scientific Leadership targets: Board, the R&D aspects of specific business the scientific and patient centric rationale development or acquisition proposals and for inclusion of new 2018 opportunities advises the Board on its conclusions.
Scientific competitive intelligence: Membership of the Committee howanalysis of the external environment During 2018, the members of the Science enables informed decision making along Committee, all of whom have a knowledge of, the product life-cycle.
or an interest in, life sciences, were Nazneen Rahman, who was appointed permanent Yours sincerely, Chair to the Committee in July 2018, Genevive Berger and Marcus Wallenberg.
As usual, the EVP, GMD: the EVP, IMED: and the EVP, MedImmune participated in meetings of Nazneen Rahman the Science Committee as co-opted members Chairman of the Science Committee in 2018.
The Vice-President, IMED Operations The Science Committees terms of reference are available acts as secretary to the Science Committee.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Science Committee Report 107
