Board of Directors as at 14 February 2019 Committee Board composition Membership Key as at 14 February 2019 Committee Chairman Gender split of Directors A Audit R Remuneration Men 8 Nomination Women 4 NG and Governance S Science NG R Leif Johansson Pascal Soriot Non-Executive Chairman of the Board Executive Director and CEO Date of first April 2012 October 2012 appointment Skills and experience: From 1997 to 2011, Leif Skills and experience: Pascal brings a passion or election to was Chief Executive Officer of AB Volvo.
Prior for science and medicine as well as significant the Board.
to that, he served at AB Electrolux, latterly as experience in established and emerging Chief Executive Officer from 1994 to 1997.
He markets, strength of strategic thinking, a was a Non-Executive Director of BMS from successful track record of managing change Directors nationalities 1998 to September 2011, serving on the and executing strategy, and the ability to lead a Boards Audit Committee, and Compensation diverse organisation.
He served as Chief and Management Development Committee.
Operating Officer of Roches pharmaceuticals British 4 division from 2010 to September 2012 and, Leif was Chairman of global French 3 prior to that, Chief Executive Officer of telecommunications company, LM Ericsson, Genentech, a biologics business, where he led American 2 from 2011 to 2018.
He holds an MSc in its successful merger with Roche.
Pascal joined engineering from Chalmers University of Swedish 2 the pharmaceutical industry in 1986 and has Technology, Gothenburg.
Canadian 1 worked in senior management roles in Other appointments: Leif holds board positions numerous major companies around the world.
at Autoliv, Inc and Ecolean AB.
He has been a He is a doctor of veterinary medicine cole member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Nationale Vtrinaire dAlfort, Maisons-Alfort Engineering Sciences since 1994 Chairman and holds an MBA from HEC, Paris.
Leif is also a member of the European Round Table of Industrialists Chairman 2009 to 2014 and a Member of the Length of tenure of Non-Executive Directors Council of Advisors, Boao Forum for Asia.
3 years 6-9 years 5 3 Philip Broadley Leif Johansson Deborah DiSanzo Genevive Berger Sheri McCoy Graham Chipchase Tony Mok Nazneen Rahman 9 years 3-6 years 2 Rudy Markham Marcus Wallenberg 0 R NG Changes to the composition Marc Dunoyer Graham Chipchase of the Board and its Executive Director and CFO Senior independent Non-Executive Director Committees for the year November 2013 April 2012 ended 31 December 2018 Skills and experience: Marcs career in Skills and experience: Graham is Chief pharmaceuticals, which has included periods Executive Officer and a Director of Brambles with Roussel Uclaf, Hoechst Marion Roussel Limited, the global supply-chain logistics Philip Broadley Deborah DiSanzo and GSK, has given him extensive industry company listed on the Australian Securities Became a member of the Became a member of the experience, including finance and accounting: Exchange.
Brambles operates in over 60 Remuneration Committee on Audit Committee on corporate strategy and planning: research and countries, primarily through the CHEP and 1 December 2018.
1November 2018. development: sales and marketing: business IFCO brands.
Graham served as Chief reorganisation: and business development.
Executive Officer of global consumer Nazneen Rahman Shriti Vadera Marc is a qualified accountant and joined packaging company Rexam PLC from 2010 to Became a member of the Stepped down as a member AstraZeneca in 2013, serving as Executive 2016 after serving at Rexam as Group Director, Nomination and of the Audit Committee on Vice-President, Global Product and Portfolio Plastic Packaging and Group Finance Director.
Governance Committee and 30 June 2018 and retired Strategy GPPS from June to October 2013.
Previously, he was Finance Director of appointed as Chairman of from the Board and as a Prior to that, he served as Global Head of Rare Aerospace Services at the global engineering the Science Committee on member of the Remuneration Diseases at GSK and concurrently Chairman, group GKN PLC from 2001 to 2003.
He holds an MBA from HEC, starting his career with Coopers &Lybrand 2018 after eight years Parisand a Bachelor of Law degree from Deloitte, he held various finance roles in the Sheri McCoy of service.
industrial gases company The BOC Group PLC Became a member of the now part of The Linde Group.
He is a Fellow of Remuneration Committee Graham Chipchase Other appointments: Marc was appointed the Institute of Chartered Accountants in on 1 July 2018.
Became senior independent to the Board of Orchard Therapeutics in England and Walesand holds an MA Hons in Non-Executive Director on June 2018. chemistryfrom Oriel College, Oxford.
Other appointments: Chief Executive Officer ofBrambles Limited.
94 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance S A R A A R NG Genevive Berger Philip Broadley Deborah DiSanzo Rudy Markham Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director April 2012 April 2017 December 2017 September 2008 Skills and experience: Genevive was Chief Skills and experience: Philip has significant Skills and experience: Deborah is a Harvard Skills and experience: Rudy has significant Science Officer at Unilever PLC & NV, and a financial and international business experience, University Advanced Leadership Fellow.
Prior international business and financial experience, member of the Unilever Leadership Executive having previously been Group Finance Director to this, she served as General Manager for IBM having formerly held various senior commercial from 2008 to April 2014.
She holds three of Prudential plc for eight years and Old Mutual Watson Health, the IBM business unit founded and financial positions with Unilever, doctorates in physics, human biology and plc for six years.
He started his career at Arthur to advance AI in health.
Deborah has a culminating in his appointment as its Chief medicine and was appointed Professor of Andersen where he was a partner for seven distinguished career working at the intersection Financial Officer.
He has also served as a Medicine at Universit Pierre & Marie Curie, years.
He is a past Chairman of the 100 Group of healthcare and technology.
Prior to IBM, she Non-Executive Director of the UK Financial Paris in 1995.
Her previous positions include of Finance Directors in the UK.
He is a Fellow of was CEO of Philips Healthcare, having Reporting Council from 2007 to 2012, as Professor and Hospital Practitioner at Hpital the Institute of Chartered Accountants in previously held executive roles at Agilent and Chairman and a Non-Executive Director of fide la Piti-Salptrire in Paris: Director General England and Wales.
Deborah has been honoured Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, at the Centre National fide la Recherche Philosophy, Politics and Economics from by multiple organisations as a top health and as a Non-Executive Director of Legal & Scientifique: Chairman of the Health Advisory StEdmund Hall, Oxford, where he is now influencer including Health Data Management, General Group plc.
Board of the EU Commission: and a St Edmund Fellow and holds an MSc in who named her as one of the top 20 people to Other appointments: Rudy is a non-executive Non-Executive Director of Smith & Nephew plc.
Behavioural Science from the London School watch in healthcare IT, and Modern Healthcare, member of the Board of United Parcel Services Genevive oversees sustainability matters on of Economics.
who list her as a Top 25 Women in Healthcare.
He is also Vice Chairman of the behalf of the Board.
She is the recipient of Xconomys X of the Year Other appointments: Philip chairs the Audit Supervisory Board of Corbion NV formerly Award as a Tech and Health Connector.
Other appointments: In May 2015, Genevive Committees of Legal & General Group plc and CSM NV, a Fellow of the Chartered Institute Babson College recognised Deborahs impact was appointed as a Director of Air Liquide Stallergenes Greer plc.
He is a member of the ofManagement Accountants and a Fellow in the world as one of the institutions leading SA for a term of four years.
She is currently Oxford University Audit Committee.
He is ofthe Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Deborah Chief Research Officer at Firmenich SA, Treasurer of the London Library and Chairman earned an MBA from Babson College and Geneva, Switzerland.
of the Board of Governors of Eastbourne a BS from Merrimack College.
Other appointments: Deborah is a Harvard University Advanced Leadership Fellow.
Appointed post year-end A R S NG S S Sheri McCoy Nazneen Rahman Marcus Wallenberg Tony Mok Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director October 2017 June 2017 April 1999 January 2019 Skills and experience: Sheri is retired Chief Skills and experience: Nazneen has significant Skills and experience: Marcus has international Skills and experience: Tony is the Li Shu Fan Executive Officer of Avon Products, Inc.
Prior to scientific, medical and data analysis business experience across various industry Medical Foundation endowed Professor and joining Avon in 2012, Sheri had a distinguished experience.
Her research integrates these to sectors, including the pharmaceutical industry Chairman of the Department of Clinical 30-year career at Johnson & Johnson, latterly identify and clinically implement human disease from his directorship with Astra prior to 1999.
Oncology at the Chinese University of Hong serving as Vice Chairman of the Executive genes.
She has a strong focus on cancer Kong.
His work includes multiple aspects of Other appointments: Marcus is Chairman of Committee, responsible for the predisposition genes, in which she is an lung cancer research, with his main focus on Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB, Saab AB Pharmaceuticals and Consumer business  expert.
She was biomarker and molecular targeted therapy in and FAM AB.
He is a member of the boards of segments that represented more than 60% of Head of the Division of Genetics and lung cancer.
He has led and co-led multiple Investor AB, Temasek Holdings Limited, and the companys revenues.
Sheri joined Johnson Epidemiology at the Institute of Cancer international Phase III trials, including as the the Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation.
& Johnson as a scientist in research and Research ICR, London and Head of Cancer principal investigator and first author on the development and subsequently managed Genetics at the Royal Marsden NHS landmark Iressa Pan-Asia Study, which businesses in every major product sector, Foundation Trust for 10 years to 2018.
Nazneen confirmed the application of precision medicine including consumer, prescription medicines was also the founder and Director of the for advanced lung cancer.
He has also and medical devices, holding positions TGLclinical Genetic Testing Laboratory, which contributed to the development of clinical including Worldwide Chairman, Surgical Care used new sequencing technologies to deliver research infrastructure in China and Asia.
Tony Group and Division President, Consumer.
She fast, affordable, cancer gene testing to the is currently the Treasurer of the International holds a Bachelor of Science degree in textile NHS.
Nazneen qualified in medicine from Association for the Study of Lung Cancer, chemistry from the University of Massachusetts Oxford University in 1991, gained her Certificate having previously served as President, and is Dartmouth, a Masters degree in chemical of Completion of Specialist Training in medical on the Board of Directors of the American engineering from Princeton University and genetics in 2001 and completed a PhD in Society of Clinical Oncology.
His work has been anMBA from Rutgers University, both in molecular genetics in 1999.
She has a strong recognised by numerous awards including the NewJersey, US.
commitment to open science and science ESMO Lifetime Achievement Award in 2018. communication and has garnered numerous Other appointments: Sheri serves on the Other appointments: Tony is a Non-Executive awards, including a CBE in the 2016 Queens boards of Stryker, Kimberly-Clark and Director of Hutchison China MediTech Limited birthday honours in recognition of her Novocure.
She is also an industrial adviser for and a co-founder and the Chairman of contribution to medical sciences.
EQT partners where she chairs Certara, the Sanomics Limited.
private company, and is a trustee for Stonehill College, Easton, Massachusetts.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Board of Directors 95
