Corporate All Directors are collectively responsible Governance Report for the success of the Group.
Activities of the Board Principal matters considered by the Board in 2018 The principal matters considered by Area of focus Strategic priority theBoard during 2018 and the link to the Strategic matters The Groups overall strategy, including its long-range plan, annual budget Groups strategic priorities are set out in and strategic options the table.
Aspart of the business of each Board meeting, the CEO typically submits The Groups capital structure, including financing needs, credit rating and aprogressreport, giving details of business capital strategy performance and progress against the goals the Board has approved.
To ensure Requests for approval of business development transactions ofasize that the Board has good visibility of the requiring Board approval key operating decisions of the business, members of theSET attend Board meetings Dividend decisions regularly andBoard members meet other senior executives throughout the year.
Operational Executive management reports, including business performance reports, TheBoard also receives accounting and matters R&Dpipeline updates, the results of key clinical trials, areview of othermanagement information about Operations global manufacturing and supply chain network and ourresources, and presentations from areviewofOncology pricing internaland external speakers on legal, governance and .
Quarterly results announcements For more information on the role of the Progress with construction of the Groups new strategic R&D centre and Board and the Non-Executive Directors, global corporate headquarters at Cambridge Biomedical Campus in the UK see Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code from page 102.
Stakeholders Investor perceptions Key Employee gender data Achieve Scientific Leadership Return to Growth Sustainability matters Be a Great Place to Work Achieve Group Financial Targets Approval of a Board Inclusion and Diversity Policy Visits to R&D and Commercial sites in the US and a review of the Groups USbusiness Participation in employee town hall meetings and informal meetings withgroups of high-potential employees Governance, Reports from Board Committees assurance and risk management Routine succession planning for SET and Board-level roles Risks arising from Brexit and mitigation plans Cybersecurity risk and mitigation plans Year-end governance and assurance reports The Groups viability and risk appetite statements The annual review of the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors Private discussions between Non-Executive Directors only 98 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Board performance evaluation 2018 Overview 2018 Outcomes During the year, the Board conducted the Main areas covered: Main conclusions and recommendations: annual evaluation of its own performance Board composition and The Board operates effectively and in a manner that encourages open and frank and that of its Committees and individual dynamics discussion.
The 2018 evaluation was carried Stakeholder oversight The Board identified certain areas that could be improved, including its understanding Board meeting ofour competitors strategies and performance, careful management of the late stages out internally, although Lintstock Ltd management and support ofthe recruitment process for new Non-Executive Directors and developing and refining Lintstock, a London-based corporate Board Committees the role of the Science Committee to ensure it meets the needs of the Board.
advisory firm that provides objective and Board oversight The Board should continue to develop a deep understanding of digital technology independent counsel to leading European Risk management and anditsapplication in the pharmaceutical industry.
internal control The reviews of the Boards Committees did not raise any significant problems companies, provided software and services Succession planning andconcluded that the Committees are operating effectively.
Linstock has andhuman resource In respect of the 2018 annual performance evaluation, it was concluded that no other commercial relationship with the management eachDirector continues to perform effectively and to demonstrate commitment Company.
Based on Board members Priorities for 2019 tohisorherrole.
responses to the web-based questionnaire covering a wide range of topics, Lintstock Chairman evaluation prepared a report which was discussed by Process Overall conclusion the Board at its meeting in December 2018 and was also used by the Chairman as the The 2018 evaluation also No significant issues needed to be addressed.
The Chairmans leadership of the Board basis for individual conversations with each included a review of the continued to be regarded as excellent.
His management of Board meetings was commended.
Board member prior to the full Board performance of the He created an environment where different views could be freely expressed and enabled discussion.
Chairman by the other allDirectors to contribute to discussion and decision-making.
He had a good, open and Directors, led by the senior transparent relationship with executive management.
His generous time commitment independent Non-Executive supporting management in other parts of the business was praised.
His interactions with The outcomes of the evaluation are set out in Director and absent the employees of the Company at all levels in various parts of the world were excellent.
continued to be very active representing the Company in relation to external stakeholders.
The senior independent Non-Executive Director provided feedback to the Chairman after the review of his performance, including minor suggestions for ways in which he might enhance The Board intends to continue to comply with the way the Board operated.
the UK Corporate Governance Code guidance that the evaluation should be externally Actions against prior year recommendations facilitated at least every three years and expects to commission the next externally- 2017 evaluation 2018 actions taken facilitated review in 2020.
Provide further In September 2018, the Board made a two-day visit to MedImmune in Gaithersburg, MD, opportunities to visit and US, our main US hub site, US R&D centre and MedImmune HQ, and to the HQ of our North learn from different American commercial business in Wilmington, fide, US.
Numerous interactions with AstraZeneca teams and sites employees at all levels took place.
The April 2018 Science Committee meeting was held at The Board operates to help build a balanced ourR&D site in Gaithersburg, US.
In addition, certain Audit Committee members visited understanding of the ourbusiness in China during the year and individual Non-Executive Directors visited effectively and in a business.
ourbusiness in Brazil, our South San Francisco site and our sites in Cambridge, UK andGothenburg, Sweden.
manner that encourages open and frank discussion.
Ensure succession planning Each year, the CEO and the EVP, Human Resources make a presentation to the Board about activities for business SET-level succession planning and seek the Boards views and input.
Board members have critical roles are undertaken the opportunity during the year to meet potential succession candidates for senior, business proactively with critical roles when they make presentations to the Board or, more informally, at dinners or opportunities for all Board high-potential employee meetings.
In addition, the CEO keeps the Board updated about members to input.
specific SET-level succession plans, seeking Directors views and input.
In a number of cases, the Chairman of the Board and other Non-Executive Directors have met potential candidates and provided feedback ahead of an appointment being made.
Employee engagement: central to AstraZenecas progress In 2018, all employees were invited to help countries.
Technology was also used to shape the next phase of AstraZenecas helpto analyse and prioritise the inputs.
strategic journey through a Group-wide strategy crowdsourcing event.
The twoThe ideas and comments submitted 56,000 weekevent focused on key themes, including by employees helped inform the changing world, future technology, recommendations that were made 56,000 ideas and comments next wave of science and patient-centricity, to the AstraZeneca Board as part of the from employees and generated 56,000 ideas and comments Groups annual strategy review process.
inputs and ideas were also discussed by the Chairman and CEO during engagement In line with the Groups commitment to events, including an all-employee webcast inclusion, technology was used to enable held across the Groups internal social media employees to participate in any language platform in December.
and this supported participation from 70 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Corporate Governance Report 99 Corporate In striving to achieve our Purpose to push the boundaries of Governance Report science and deliver life-saving medicines, our business touches Connecting with the lives of many people.
We exist in a complex and evolving our stakeholders regulatory and scientific environment and we have a number of keystakeholder groups.
Connecting with our stakeholders The Board is supportive of the upcoming Our Values and Code of Ethics empower employees  surrounding stakeholder to make the best decisions in the interest of the engagement, against which we will report when Group and our stakeholders, and help to ensure they come into effect in 2019. that these considerations are madenot only at Board level, but throughout ourorganisation.
When making decisions, we take the course of action that we consider best leads to the success of The following table summarises our key the Company over the long term, and this includes stakeholders, as well as the engagement that has considering the broad range of stakeholders that been undertaken across the business during 2018. interact with, and are impacted by, our business.
A full list of our stakeholders can be found in our 2018 Sustainability Report at www.
F or more information about our Code of Ethics, see page 43.
Shareholders, Overview Investors & Analysts Patients Employees Significance of the The Board is accountable to shareholders, To achieve our Purpose we need to engage Our 64,600 employees make AstraZeneca and, in accordance with section 172 of the with and understand the needs of patients.
We are committed to ensuring stakeholder to the business Companies Act 2006, must act in a way that AstraZeneca is a Great Place to Work that is likely to promote the success of the for our employees and we rely on their Company for the benefit of its members as commitment to uphold the Values, deliver a whole.
AstraZeneca aims to ensure that the strategic priorities and deliver the a good dialogue with shareholders, changes necessary to sustain and improve investors and analysts is maintained, and shortand long-term performance.
that their issues and concerns are understood and considered.
Issues and factors Issues and factors which Understanding the strategy and Support throughout the entire patient Understanding the Group performance operations of the Group journey through diagnosis, treatment and the factors that impact this are most important to the Financial performance and commercial and wellness Engagement with, and the opportunity stakeholder group to put questions and ideas to, senior success, including return to sales growth Safety and efficacy of medicines leaders Successful development of the pipeline Access to an uninterrupted supply of Collaboration across the Group and the Understanding the exposure to medicines opportunity to learn and share macro-economic risk Opportunity for dialogue with management on key matters, eg performance and executive remuneration Sustainability and the environmental and ethical impact of the Group Engagement Annual General Meeting in May 2018 Engaged patients in our development CEO and SET provided quarterly Examples of engagement Board Directors met investors, analysts and clinical trial programmes to ensure performance reports to employees in 2018 and investor bodies a more patient-informed medicine Group-wide strategy crowdsourcing Quarterly results conference calls for Collaboration with patient advocacy event generated 56,000 ideas and analysts and investors groups and establishment of patient comments in two weeks Investor Relations Team and senior advisory boards All employees invited to participate in management met regularly with Established patient support and patient Pulse survey investors, including office visits, affordability programmes Board and SET conducted site visits, industry and broker conferences, Organisation of Patient Engagement and in-person and webcast town roadshows and group meetings Day in the US hall Q&A sessions with employees Comprehensive investor perception Senior Leadership engagement via study, the results of which were Trades Union and Employee presented to the Board Representative forums Hosted an Emerging Markets call in Shanghai with a focus on China Outcomes The Investor Relations Team has been Patient insight has been integrated into Ideas generated from the Any actions which resulted recognised for best practice by the the development of innovative digital crowdsourcing event reviewed and Investor Relations Society technologies iPREDICT and clinical incorporated into annual strategy Following discussions with investors, trials study design and protocol recommendations to the Board there has been an increased focus on simulation Unit action plans developed in response sustainability matters within our Initiated a Group-wide initiative on to Pulse survey results quarterly results announcements patient-centricity and patient-centric business models Increased number of programmes deployed to support patients throughout the patient journey 100 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Government Payers general business environment Communities Suppliers Across the world, patient access to innovative Government policy determines the We rely on, and aim to make a positive impact In 2018, we spent approximately $13 billion medicines increasingly depends on public business environments in which we on, the local communities and environment in with suppliers on goods or services that are funding.
HTA agencies, national and regional operate.
This can be through direct policies which we operate, as well as the communities critical to the effective operation of our entire healthcare insurance funds and government eg tax and fiscal policy and indirect which our medicines reach.
Increasingly, value chain: from discovery to development, bodies appraise the clinical and economic policies that can create a supportive communities expect us to support the issues manufacturing and supply of our medicines value of our medicines following successful environment for our operations eg public and initiatives that intersect with our area of to patients.
Delays in approval by science and infrastructure investments.
Communities such bodies could negatively impact market Governments may also be responsible for have a direct influence on the health and Many of our business-critical operations access.
It is important that AstraZeneca creating and enforcing regulations which wellbeing of patients, caregivers and families.
including certain R&D processes, IT systems, HR, finance, tax and accounting fosters relations with payer organisations govern our licence to operate.
services are managed with the support of and anticipates relevant trends to respond our suppliers.
Access to innovative medicines in a Investment environment The impact of the our activities and Understanding of AstraZenecas timely, fair and sustainable manner Research funding and scientific plans on the local area and the strategy and how the supplier can best Predictability and containment of collaborations environment navigate the organisation to help create reimbursement expenditure for Medicines pricing and reimbursement Raising awareness of healthcare innovative and new opportunities pharmaceuticals Trade policy Promotion of science-based education Ability to resolve potential problems Breakthrough therapies and the cost Regulatory frameworks and careers and issues in their relationship with impact on public budgets Price reporting Investment in local infrastructure and AstraZeneca Transparency and accountability of Safety and efficacy of drugs capacity building initiatives Creating a trusting environment payer organisations Patient access Support for programmes, platforms between the supplier and AstraZeneca Management of pricing and generating and policy that make healthcare That AstraZeneca acts ethically, fairly savings in established mature product accessible and protects patients and transparently markets Engaged with HTA agencies over the Meetings and forum discussions with Young Health Programme with its focus Engaged with suppliers via summits need to reform evaluation criteria in governments and policy makers to on disease prevention and youth reached and meetings with senior management, clinical trials increase understanding of supporting nearly 335,000 young people which allows discussion and Contributed to the public debate around investment in life sciences, regulation of AstraZeneca HealthCare Foundation partnership between suppliers and pricing of innovative medicines and the pharmaceutical industry and provided $1.16 million in grants to 11 AstraZeneca assisted in facilitating a greater improving access to new medicines non-profit organisations for programmes Enabling small and diverse suppliers in understanding of the clinical and In the UK, we engaged extensively on to prevent and reduce CV disease the US access to business opportunities economic value of such medicines to Brexit, to ensure regulatory and policy Donated more than $686 million of through our participation in outreach society frameworks support patients needs and medicines in connection with patient events, collaborations, and our operations assistance programmes around the world memberships with various industry In the US, we engaged in discussions on Donations to support more than 1,000 groups and diversity councils evolving the current reimbursement system non-profit organisations in 70 countries Third parties and suppliers are provided Hosted site visits for international and for a total of $57 million in 2018 access to azethics.
com, which allows local politicians, including tours of our Engaged in capacity building projects them to raise concerns in confidence manufacturing and R&D facilities such as Healthy Lung Asia, Phakamisa and Healthy Heart Africa In the UK, we launched a high-level Expansion of disease prevention Supplier forums have helped our supply expert group on Innovation, Research programming in connection with base gain a better understanding of both and Data co-chaired with Ministers to government and NGO partnerships in AstraZenecas strategy and how we can advise on how to improve the UK Asia and Latin America work with suppliers to create a closer research and clinical trials environment Export of Healthy Lung Asia initiative to connection between our medicines and Latin America and the Middle East the patients we aim to help Increased investment in public-private In the US we received several external partnerships as a mechanism to address industry recognitions and awards for global and local health issues supporting diverse suppliers AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Connecting with our stakeholders 101 Corporate Governance Report Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Corporate governance We have prepared this Annual Report with sections of this Annual Report describes This statement of compliance should be read reference to the UK Corporate Governance how we apply the main principles of good in conjunction with the wider Corporate Code published by the UK Financial Reporting governance in the UK Corporate Governance Governance Report from page 98, Nomination Council FRC in April 2016.
We have complied throughout the and Governance Committee Report from accounting period with the provisions of the UK page 108, the Audit Committee Report from Our statement of compliance together with Corporate Governance Code, which is available page 110 and the Directors Remuneration the Corporate Governance Report and other on the FRCs website, www.
1 The role of the Board The Board discharges its responsibilities as set out in the Corporate The Articles enable the Directors to authorise any situation in which a Director Governance Overview on page 93 through a programme of meetings has an interest that conflicts or has the potential to conflict with the Companys that includes regular reviews of financial performance and critical interests and which would otherwise be a breach of the Directors duty, under business issues, review and approval of the Groups strategy and Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Board has a formal system in place long-range plan, and the formal annual strategy review day.
for Directors to declare such situations to be considered for authorisation by those Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered.
In deciding The Board held 13 meetings in 2018, including its usual annual strategy whether to authorise a situation, the non-conflicted Directors must act in the way review.
Six took place in London, UK: one was held at AstraZenecas they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the success of the facilities in the US: and six were held as teleconference or Company, and they may impose limits or conditions when giving the videoconference calls.
The Board is currently scheduled to meet six authorisation, or subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
Situations times in 2019 and will meet at such other times as may be required to considered by the Board and authorisations given are recorded in the Board conduct business.
minutes and in a register of conflicts maintained by the Company Secretary and are reviewed annually by the Board.
The Board believes that this system operates The Board maintains and periodically reviews a list of matters that are effectively.
reserved to, and can only be approved by, the Board.
These include: the appointment, termination and remuneration of any Director: approval of the annual budget: approval of any item of fixed capital expenditure or any proposal for the acquisition or disposal of an investment or business which exceeds $150 million: the raising of capital or loans by the Company subject to certain exceptions : the giving of any guarantee in respect of any borrowing of the Company: and allotting shares of the Company.
The matters that have not been expressly reserved to the Board are delegated by the Board to its Committees or the CEO.
As shown in the Corporate Governance Overview, there are four principal Board Committees.
The membership and work of these Committees is described on the following pages.
In addition, there may from time to time be constituted ad hoc Board Committees for specific projects or tasks.
In these cases, the scope and responsibilities of the Committee are documented.
The Board provides adequate resources to enable each Committee to undertake its duties.
T he membership of the Board as at 14 February 2019 and information about individual Directors is contained in Board of Directors on pages 94 and 95.
2 Division of responsibility, The roles of Chairman and CEO are separate.
Leif Johansson, our Leif Johansson was considered by the Board to be independent upon his A.
3 The Chairman Non-Executive Chairman, is responsible for leadership of the Board.
In accordance with the April 2016 UK Corporate CEO, Pascal Soriot is responsible to the Board for the management, Governance Code, the test of independence is not appropriate in relation to the development and performance of our business for those matters for which Chairman after his appointment.
he has been delegated authority from the Board.
Although the CEO retains full responsibility for the authority delegated to him by the Board, he has established, and chairs, the SET, which is the vehicle through which he exercises that authority in respect of our business.
The roles of the Board, Board Committees, Chairman and CEO are documented, as are the Boards reserved powers and delegated authorities.
In anticipation of his retirement from the Board at the end of the 2019 As part of the business of each Board meeting, the CEO typically submits a A.
4 Non-Executive Directors AGM, Rudy Markham stepped down from the role of senior independent progress report, giving details of business performance and progress against the Non-Executive Director on 31 December 2018, having held the role since goals the Board has approved.
To ensure that the Board has good visibility of the April 2015.
Graham Chipchase, who joined the Board as a Nonkey operating decisions of the business, members of the SET attend Board Executive Director in April 2012, was appointed senior independent meetings regularly and Board members meet other senior executives throughout Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 January 2019.
The Board also receives accounting and other management information senior independent Non-Executive Director is to serve as a sounding about our resources, and presentations from internal and external speakers on board for the Chairman and as an intermediary for the other Directors legal, governance and regulatory developments.
At the end of Board meetings, when necessary.
The senior independent Non-Executive Director is also the Non-Executive Directors meet without the Executive Directors present to available to shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the review and discuss any matters that have arisen during the meeting and or such normal channels of Chairman or Executive Directors has failed to other matters as may appear to the Non-Executive Directors to be relevant in resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
properly discharging their duty to act independently.
102 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Effectiveness B.
1 The composition The Board comprises of 10 Non-Executive Directors, including the Marcus Wallenberg was appointed as a Director of Astra in May 1989 and of the Board Chairman, and two Executive Directors the CEO, Pascal Soriot, and subsequently became a Director of the Company in 1999.
He is a Nonthe CFO, Marc Dunoyer.
Its responsibilities are set out in the Corporate Executive Director of Investor AB, which has a 4.07% interest in the issued Governance Overview on page 93. share capital of the Company as at 14 February 2019.
For these reasons, the Board does not believe that he can be determined independent under the UK During 2018, the Board considered the independence of each Corporate Governance Code.
However, the Board believes that he has brought, Non-Executive Director for the purposes of the UK Corporate and continues to bring, considerable business experience and makes a Governance Code and the corporate governance listing standards of the valuable contribution to the work of the Board.
In April 2010, he was appointed NYSE Listing Standards.
Except for Marcus Wallenberg, the Board as a member of the Science Committee, reflecting his interest in innovation considers that all the Non-Executive Directors are independent.
The and R&D, knowledge of the history of the Company and its scientific heritage Board noted that, as of September 2017, Rudy Markham had served on and culture, and his broad experience of other industries and businesses in the Board for nine years but determined that he remains independent in which innovation and R&D are important determinants of success.
character and judgement, as evidenced by the way in which he discharges his duties as a Board and Board Committee member.
2 Appointments to the The Nomination and Governance Committee and, where appropriate, During 2018, a Board Inclusion and Diversity Policy was approved, which can Board, succession planning the full Board, regularly review the composition of the Board and the be found on the Companys website, www.
and diversity status of succession to both senior executive management and F or more information on the Boards approach to Inclusion and Diversity, Board-level positions.
Directors have regular contact with, and access see the Nomination and Governance Committee Report on page 108. to, succession candidates for senior executive management positions.
F or more information on the Boards succession planning, see the Nomination and Governance Committee Report on page 108 and the actions against prior year recommendations in the Board performance evaluation on page 99.
3 Commitment Our expectation is that Non-Executive Directors should be prepared to On occasions when a Director is unavoidably absent from a Board or Board commit 15 days a year, as an absolute minimum, to the Groups Committee meeting, for example where a meeting clashes with their other business.
In practice, Board members time commitment exceeds this commitments, they still receive and review the papers for the meeting and minimum expectation when all the work that they undertake for the typically provide verbal or written input ahead of the meeting, usually Group is considered, particularly in the case of the Chairman of the through the Chairman of the Board or the Chair of the relevant Board Board and the Chairs of the Board Committees.
As well as their work in Committee, so that their views are made known and considered at the relation to formal Board and Board Committee meetings, the meeting.
Given the nature of the business to be conducted, some Board Non-Executive Directors also commit time throughout the year to meetings are convened at short notice, which can make it difficult for some meetings and telephone calls with various levels of executive Directors to attend due to prior commitments.
management, visits to AstraZenecas sites throughout the world and, for new Non-Executive Directors, induction sessions and site visits.
4 Development The Nomination and Governance Committee Report from page 108 As part of each Directors individual discussion with the Chairman, his or her provides information about the appointment process for new Directors.
contribution to the work of the Board and personal development needs were Newly appointed Directors are provided with comprehensive information considered.
Directors training needs are met by a combination of internal about the Group and their role as Non-Executive Directors.
They also presentations and updates and external speaker presentations as part of typically participate in tailored induction programmes that take account Board and Board Committee meetings: specific training sessions on of their individual skills and experience.
particular topics, where required: and the opportunity for Directors to attend external courses at the Companys expense, should they wish to do so.
5 Information and support The Company Secretary is responsible to the Chairman for ensuring that all Board and Board Committee meetings are properly conducted, that the Directors receive appropriate information prior to meetings to enable them to make an effective contribution, and that governance requirements are considered and implemented.
6 Evaluation During the year, the Board conducted the annual evaluation of its own The Board intends to continue to comply with the UK Corporate performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
The Governance Code guidance that the evaluation should be externally 2018 evaluation was carried out internally, although Lintstock Ltd, a facilitated at least every three years and expects to commission the next London-based corporate advisory firm that provides objective and  review in 2020. independent counsel to leading European companies, provided support.
F or details and the conclusions of the Board performance evaluation, see page 99.
7 Re-election In accordance with Article 66 of the Articles, all Directors retire at each AGM and may offer themselves for re-election by shareholders.
Accordingly, all the Directors will retire at the AGM in April 2019.
The Notice of AGM will give details of those Directors seeking election or re-election.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Corporate Governance Report 103 Corporate Governance Report Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code continued Accountability C. 1 Financial and business The Board considers this Annual Report, taken as a whole, to be fair, The Board as a whole takes a keen interest in the Companys financial reporting balanced and understandable, and provides the necessary information andbusiness reporting including, in particular, reviewing the Companys for shareholders to assess AstraZenecas position and performance, quarterly financial results announcements and through its oversight of business model and strategy.
F or more information about the Disclosure Committee, see Other Governance information on page 105.
C. 2 Risk management and The Board has overall responsibility for our system of internal controls The Directors believe that the Group maintains an effective, embedded internal control and risk management policies and has an ongoing responsibility for system of internal controls and complies with the FRCs guidance entitled reviewing their effectiveness.
During 2018, the Directors continued to Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial review the effectiveness of our system of controls, risk management and and Business Reporting.
These reviews included an assessment of internal controls and, in particular, financial, operational F or more information about the ways in which we manage our business and compliance controls, and risk management and their effectiveness, risks and describe our principal risks and uncertainties, see the Risk supported by management assurance of the maintenance of controls Overview from page 70 and Risk from page 220. reports from Internal Audit Services, as well as the external auditor on matters identified in the course of its statutory audit work.
The system of controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable not necessarily absolute assurance of effective operation and compliance with laws and regulations.
C. 3 Audit Committee The Audit Committee spends a significant amount of its time F or information on the role and work of the Audit Committee, see the Audit and Auditors considering the landscape of enduring risks, specific and current risks, Committee Report from page 110. and emerging risks.
Remuneration D. 1 The level and components Information about our approach to remuneration and the role and work Subject to specific Board approval in each case, Executive Directors and of remuneration, D. 2 Procedure of the Remuneration Committee, is set out in the Directors other SET members may accept external appointments as non-executive Remuneration Report from page 120. directors of other companies, and retain any related fees paid to them, provided that such appointments are not considered by the Board to prevent Our Remuneration Policy is available on our website at or reduce the ability of the executive to perform his or her role within the www.
Group to the required standard.
Relations with shareholders E. 1 Dialogue with The Board aims to ensure that a good dialogue with our shareholders Our Investor Relations Team acts as the main point of contact for investors shareholders is maintained and that their issues and concerns are understood throughout the year.
We have frequent discussions with current and and considered.
potential shareholders on a range of issues, including in response to individual ad hoc requests from shareholders and analysts.
We also hold In our quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial and business reporting meetings to seek shareholders views.
Board members are kept informed of to shareholders and other interested parties, we aim to present a any issues, and receive regular reports and presentations from executive balanced and understandable assessment of our strategy, financial management and our brokers to assist them to develop an understanding of position and prospects.
We make information about the Group available our major shareholders views about the Group.
to shareholders through a range of media, including our corporate website, www.
com, which contains a wide range of data of From time to time, we conduct perception studies with institutional interest to institutional and private investors.
We consider our website to shareholders and a limited number of analysts to ensure that we are be an important means of communication with our shareholders.
communicating clearly with them and that a high-quality dialogue is being maintained.
The results of these studies are reported to, and discussed by, the full Board.
As discussed above, the senior independent Non-Executive Director, Graham Chipchase, is available to shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels of Chairman, CEO and or CFO has failed to resolve, or in relation to which such contact is inappropriate.
E. 2 Constructive use All shareholders, including private investors, have an opportunity at the The Companys 2018 AGM was held in London on 18 May 2018. oftheAGM AGM to put questions to members of the Board about our operation and performance.
Formal notification of the AGM is sent to shareholders at The Companys 2019 AGM will be held on 26 April 2019.
The meeting place least one month in advance.
All Board members ordinarily attend the will be in London, UK.
A Notice of AGM will be sent to all registered AGM to answer questions raised by shareholders.
In line with the UK holders of Ordinary Shares and, where requested, to the beneficial holders Corporate Governance Code, details of proxy voting by shareholders, of shares.
including votes withheld, are given at the AGM and are posted on our website following the AGM.
104 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Other Governance information US corporate governance requirements Global Compliance and Internal Audit Services IA Code of Ethics Our ADSs are traded on the NYSE and, accordingly, we are The role of the Global Compliance function is to help the Our Code of Ethics the Code, which is available on our subject to the reporting and other requirements of the SEC Group achieve its strategic priorities by doing business the website, www.
com, applies to all Executive applicable to foreign private issuers.
Section 404 of the right way, with integrity and high ethical standards.
Global and Non-Executive Directors, officers, employees and Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires companies to include in their Compliance continues to focus on ensuring the delivery of temporary staff, in all companies within our Group annual report on Form 20-F filed with the SEC, a report by an aligned approach to compliance that addresses key risk worldwide.
A Finance Code complements the Code and management stating its responsibility for establishing areas across the business, including risks relating to applies to the CFO, the Groups principal accounting internal control over financial reporting and to assess external parties and anti-bribery anti-corruption.
Our officers including key Finance staff in major overseas annually the effectiveness of such internal control.
We have priorities include improving compliance behaviours subsidiaries and all Finance function employees.
This complied with those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act through effective training and communication: monitoring reinforces the importance of the integrity of the Groups applicable to foreign private issuers.
compliance with our Code of Ethics and supporting Financial Statements, the reliability of the accounting requirements: providing assurance that we are conducting records on which they are based and the robustness of the The Board continues to believe that the Group has a sound appropriate risk assessments and due diligence on third relevant controls and processes.
corporate governance framework, good processes for the parties whom we engage for services: and ensuring that accurate and timely reporting of its financial position and employees and external parties can raise any concerns.
The Code is at the core of our compliance programme.
It results of operations, and an effective and robust system of Global Compliance and IA work with various specialist has been translated into approximately 40 languages and internal controls.
We have established a Disclosure compliance functions throughout our organisation to outlines how our commitments to ethics, honesty, integrity Committee, further details of which can be found in the co-ordinate compliance activities.
and responsibility are to be realised through consistent Disclosure Committee section below.
actions across all areas of the business.
We take all alleged compliance breaches and concerns The Directors assessment of the effectiveness of internal extremely seriously, and investigate them and report the Compliance with the Code is mandatory and every control over financial reporting is set out in the Directors outcome of such investigations to the Audit Committee, as employee receives annual training on it which they are Annual Report on Internal Controls over Financial appropriate.
Internal investigations are undertaken by staff required to complete.
The Code is designed to support Reporting on page 143. from our Global Compliance, Human Resources and or employee understanding and adherence by outlining our Legal functions.
When necessary, external advisers are commitments in simple terms and focusing on why these We are required to disclose any significant ways in which engaged to conduct and or advise on investigations.
The Code is comprised of our our corporate governance practices differ from those Company Values, expected behaviours and Global Policies, followed by US companies under the Listing Standards Serious compliance breaches are raised with the Audit and is further supported by requirements at the global, ofthe NYSE.
In addition, we must comply fully with Committee.
Where a significant breach has occurred, local and business-unit level, to provide clear guidance theprovisions of the Listing Standards relating to the management, in consultation with our Legal function, will and direction to employees in carrying out their daily work.
composition, responsibilities and operation of audit consider whether the Group needs to disclose and or report The Code is also reviewed periodically and updated to take committees, applicable to foreign private issuers.
the findings to a regulatory or governmental authority.
account of changing legal and regulatory obligations.
Theseprovisions incorporate the rules concerning audit committees implemented by the SEC under the SarbanesGlobal Compliance provides direct assurance to the Audit The Code recommends that employees report possible Oxley Act.
We have reviewed the corporate governance Committee on matters concerning compliance issues, violations to their line managers or to their local Human practices required to be followed by US companies under including an analysis of compliance breaches.
Resources, Legal, or Compliance partners.
The Code also theListing Standards and our corporate governance Complementing this, IA carries out a range of audits that contains information on how to report possible violations practices are generally consistent with those standards.
include compliance-related audits and reviews of the through our helpline, which includes the AZethics assurance activities of other Group assurance functions.
telephone lines, the AZethics website, and the Global Business organisation The results from these activities are reported to the Audit Compliance email and postal addresses.
operated website is available in 38 languages to facilitate Our disclosure policy provides a framework for the reporting.
While telephone lines are listed for 123 handling and disclosure of inside information and other IA is established by the Audit Committee on behalf of countries, local carriers may impose in-country dialling information of interest to shareholders and the investment theBoard and acts as an independent and objective restrictions, potentially resulting in disruptions to community.
It also defines the role of the Disclosure assurance function guided by a philosophy of adding connectivity.
AstraZeneca is updating the AZethics Committee.
The members of the Disclosure Committee valueto improve the operations of the Group.
The scope webpages in all languages to provide enhanced dialling in2018 were: the CFO, who chaired the Disclosure ofIAs responsibilities encompasses, but is not limited information and to prompt the use of online reporting Committee: the EVP, GMD who is also the Companys to, the examination and evaluation of the adequacy and should telephone connectivity be limited.
The helpline Chief Medical Officer : the EVP, GPPS, Global Medical effectiveness of the Groups governance, risk management, isavailable to both employees and to external parties to Affairs and Global Corporate Affairs: the General Counsel: and internal control processes in relation to the Groups report any concerns or make enquiries.
Reports can be the Vice-President, Corporate Affairs: the Head of Investor defined goals and objectives.
made anonymously where desired and where permitted Relations: and the Vice-President Finance, Group bylocal law.
Anyone who raises a potential breach in Controller.
Other senior executives attend its meetings on Internal control objectives considered by IA include: goodfaith is fully supported by management.
The Deputy Company Secretary acted as secretary to the Disclosure Committee.
The consistency of operations or programmes with The majority of cases come to our attention through Disclosure Committee meets regularly to assist and inform established objectives and goals and effective management and self-reporting, which can be seen as an the decisions of the CEO concerning inside information and performance indication that employees are comfortable in raising their its disclosure.
Periodically, it reviews our disclosure effectiveness and efficiency of operations and employment concerns with line managers or local Human Resources, controls and procedures and its own operation as part of of resources Legal or Compliance, as recommended in the Code and work carried out to enable management and the Board to compliance with significant policies, plans, procedures, reinforced in the 2018 Code training.
In addition, in 2018, assure themselves that appropriate processes are operating laws and regulations 428 reports of alleged compliance breaches or other ethical for both our planned disclosures, such as our quarterly reliability and integrity of management and financial concerns were made through the helpline, including reports results announcements and scheduled investor relations information processes, including the means to identify, made by any anonymous route that could be considered events, and our unplanned disclosures in response to measure, classify, and report such information whistleblowing: in 2017 there were 359 reports.
Other Matters Disclosure of information to auditors Based on its activity, IA is responsible for reporting Corporate governance statement under the UK Disclosure The Directors who held office at the date of approval of significant risk exposures and control issues identified to Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR thisAnnual Report confirm that, so far as they are each the Board and to senior management, including fraud risks, The disclosures that fulfil the requirements of a corporate aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the governance issues, and other matters needed or requested governance statement under the DTR can be found in this Companys auditors are unaware: and each Director has by the Audit Committee.
It may also evaluate specific section and in other parts of this Annual Report as listed taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a operations at the request of the Audit Committee or below, each of which is incorporated into this section Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant management, as appropriate.
by reference: audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Other Governance information 105 Corporate Governance Report Other Governance information continued Subsidiaries and principal activities Directors shareholdings Use of financial instruments The Company is the holding company for a group of A shareholders resolution was passed at the 2018 AGM The Notes to the Financial Statements, including Note 27 subsidiaries whose principal activities are described in this whichupdated the Articles and removed the requirement for from page 187, include further information on our use of Annual Report.
The Groups subsidiaries and their locations a Director to become the beneficial owner, within two months financial instruments.
are set out in Group Subsidiaries and Holdings in the ofthe date of their appointment, of Ordinary Shares in the Financial Statements from page 201.
Company with an aggregate nominal value of $125, which External auditor currently represents at least 500 Ordinary Shares.
The A resolution will be proposed at the AGM on 26 April 2019 for Branches and countries in which the Group requirement was removed because such qualification the re-appointment of  LLP PwC as conductsbusiness shareholdings are no longer common practice and the cost auditor of the Company.
During 2018, PwC undertook various In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, we disclose ofobtaining such shares could hinder the recruitment of non-audit services.
More information about this work and the below our subsidiary companies that have representative newDirectors.
audit and non-audit fees that we have paid are set out in Note orscientific branches offices outside the UK: 31 to the Financial Statements on page 200.
The external Full details of each Directors interests in shares of the auditor is not engaged by AstraZeneca to carry out any AstraZeneca UK Limited: Algeria scientific office, Company are set out in Directors shareholdings on pages non-audit work in respect of which it might, in the future, be Angola, Chile, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cuba, Dubai branch 137 and 138, along with information about the shareholding required to express an audit opinion.
As explained more fully office, Georgia, Ghana scientific office, Jordan, expectations of the Remuneration Committee in respect of in the Audit Committee Report from page 110, the Audit Kazakhstan, Lebanon, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia Executive Directors and SET members and the Board in Committee has established pre-approval policies and scientific office, Serbia, Slovenia branch office, Syria, respect of Non-Executive Directors.
procedures for audit and non-audit work permitted to be Ukraine and Yemen scientific office carried out by the external auditor and has carefully AstraZeneca AB: Egypt scientific office and Slovakia Political donations monitored the objectivity and independence of the branch office Neither the Company nor its subsidiaries made any EU externalauditor throughout 2018.
AstraZeneca Singapore Pte Limited: Vietnam political donations or incurred any EU political expenditure Astra Export & Trading AB: United Arab Emirates in2018 and they do not intend to do so in the future in respect Electronic communications with shareholders branch office.
of which shareholder authority is required, or for which The Company has been authorised by shareholders to place disclosure in this Annual Report is required, under the shareholder communications such as the Notice of AGM Distributions to shareholders dividends for 2018 Companies Act 2006.
However, to enable the Company and its and this Annual Report on the corporate website in lieu of Details of our distribution policy are set out in the Financial subsidiaries to continue to support interest groups or lobbying sending paper copies to shareholders unless specifically Review from page 74 and Notes 23 and 24 to the Financial organisations concerned with the review of government policy requested.
While recognising and respecting that some Statements from page 185. or law reform without inadvertently breaching the Companies shareholders may have different preferences about how Act 2006, which defines political donations and other political they receive information from us, we will continue to The Companys dividend for 2018 of $2.80 215.2 pence, SEK expenditure in broad terms, a resolution will be put to promote the benefits of electronic communication given 25.38 per Ordinary Share amounts to, in aggregate, a total shareholders at the 2019 AGM, similar to that passed at the theadvantages that this has over traditional paper-based dividend payment to shareholders of $3,548 million.
Two 2018 AGM, to authorise the Company and its subsidiaries to: communications, both in terms of the configurability employee share trusts, AstraZeneca Employee Benefit Trust andaccessibility of the information provided and the and AstraZeneca Share Retention Trust, waived their rights to make donations to political parties or independent consequent cost savings and reduction in a dividend on the Ordinary Shares they hold and instead election candidates environmentalimpact.
make donations to political organisations other than political parties Insurance and indemnities Ashareholders resolution was passed at the 2018 AGM incur political expenditure, up to an aggregate limit The Company maintained Directors and Officers Liability authorising the Company to purchase its own shares.
The Directors are also Company did not purchase any of its own shares in 2018. able to obtain independent legal advice at the expense of On31 December 2018, the Company did not hold any shares Corporate political contributions in the US are permitted in the Company, as necessary, in their capacity as Directors.
defined circumstances under the First Amendment of the US Constitution and are subject to both federal and state laws and The Company has entered into a deed of indemnity in favour Going concern accounting basis regulations.
In 2018, the Groups US legal entities made of each Board member since 2006.
These deeds of indemnity Information on the business environment in which contributions amounting in aggregate to $1,156,800 2017: are still in force and provide that the Company shall indemnify AstraZeneca operates, including the factors underpinning $1,282,250 to national political organisations, state-level the Directors to the fullest extent permitted by law and the theindustrys future growth prospects, is included in the political party committees and to campaign committees of Articles, in respect of all losses arising out of, or in connection Strategic Report.
Details of the product portfolio of the Group various state candidates.
No corporate donations were made with, the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities are contained in both the Strategic Report in the Therapy at the federal level and all contributions were made only where as Directors of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
This is Area Review from page 50 and the Directors Report.
allowed by US federal and state law.
We publicly disclose in line with current market practice and helps us attract and Information on patent expiry dates for key marketed products details of our corporate US political contributions, which can retain high-quality, skilled Directors.
is included in Patent Expiries of Key Marketed Products from be found on our website, www.
Our approach to product development and our sustainability .
The annual corporate Directors Report development pipeline are also covered in detail with additional contributions budget is reviewed and approved by the US The Directors Report, which has been prepared in information by therapy area in the Strategic Report.
Vice-President, Corporate Affairs and the President of our US accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, business to ensure robust governance and oversight.
US comprises the following sections: The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity citizens or individuals holding valid green cards exercised position and borrowing facilities are described in the decision making over the contributions and the funds were Chairmans Statement Financial Review from page 74.
In addition, Note 27 to the not provided or reimbursed by any non-US legal entity.
Such Chief Executive Officers Review Financial Statements from page 187 includes the Groups contributions do not constitute political donations or political Business Review objectives, policies and processes for managing capital: expenditure for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 and Therapy Area Review financial risk management objectives: details of its financial were made without any involvement of persons or entities Financial Review: Financial risk management instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to outside the US.
Corporate Governance: including the Corporate credit, market and liquidity risk.
Further details of the Groups Governance Report, Science Committee Report, cash balances and borrowings are included in Notes 16 and 18 Significant agreements Nomination and Governance Committee Report, to the Financial Statements from page 174.
There are no significant agreements to which the Company and Audit Committee Report isa party that take effect, alter or terminate on a change of Directors Responsibility Statement Having assessed the principal risks and other matters control of the Company following a takeover bid.
There are Development Pipeline considered in connection with the viability statement on page nopersons with whom we have contractual or other Sustainability: supplementary information 71, the Directors consider it appropriate to adopt the going arrangements, who are deemed by the Directors to be Shareholder Information concern basis of accounting in preparing the Annual Report essential to our business.
and has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf.
Changes in share capital On behalf of the Board Changes in the Companys Ordinary Share capital during A C N Kemp 2018, including details of the allotment of new shares under Company Secretary the Companys share plans, are given in Note 23 to the 14 February 2019 Financial Statements on page 185.
106 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Corporate Governance
