Nomination and Governance Committee Report The Nomination and Governance Committee recommends to the Board new Board appointments and considers, more broadly, succession plans at Board level.
Our focus during 2018 Role of the Committee Membership of the Committee The Nomination and Governance Committees During 2018, the members of the Nomination Succession planning role is to recommend to the Board any new and Governance Committee were Leif forthe Board Board appointments and to consider, more Johansson Chairman of the Committee, Developments in broadly, succession plans at Board level.
It Rudy Markham, Graham Chipchase and Corporate Governance reviews the composition of the Board using a Nazneen Rahman following her appointment matrix that records the skills and experience to the Committee in July 2018.
Each member Inclusion and Diversity of current Board members, comparing this is a Non-Executive Director and considered with the skills and experience it believes are independent by the Board.
The Company appropriate to the Companys overall business Secretary acts as secretary to the Nomination and strategic needs, both now and in the and Governance Committee.
The matrix is set out and further discussed opposite.
Any decisions relating The attendance record of the Nomination and to the appointment of Directors are made by Governance Committees members is set out the entire Board based on the merits of the on page 93.
Typically, the Chairman of the candidates and the relevance of their Committee extends an invitation to any Board background and experience, measured member to attend Committee meetings if they against objective criteria, with care taken to wish and several Directors take advantage of ensure that appointees have enough time this and participate in the Nomination and to devote to our business.
The Nomination and Governance Committees terms The Nomination and Governance Committee of reference are available on our website, considers both planned and unplanned www.
unanticipated succession scenarios and met five times in 2018, splitting the majority of its Inclusion and Diversity time between succession planning for Diversity is integrated across our new Code of Non-Executive Directors and continued routine Ethics and associated workforce policy, and succession planning for the roles of Chairman, we promote a culture of diversity, respect and CEO and CFO, in each case with the equal opportunity, where individual success assistance of the search firms MWM depends only on personal ability and Consulting and Korn Ferry including the contribution.
We strive to treat our employees appointment of Tony Mok.
Korn Ferry with fairness, integrity, honesty, courtesy, periodically undertakes executive search consideration, respect and dignity, regardless assignments for the Company.
of gender, race, nationality, age, sexual orientation or other forms of diversity.
The Nomination and Governance Committee also advises the Board periodically on The Board is provided each year with a significant developments in corporate comprehensive overview of the AstraZeneca governance and the Companys compliance workforce, covering a wide range of metrics with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
108 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Non-Executive Directors experience, as at 1 January 2019 Business Geographic Industry-specific Medical Sales & Tech & Pre-AZ Doctor Name Commercial Financial Managerial Marketing Digital US Europe Asia Science Regulatory Pharma Biologics Physician Leif Johansson Genevive Berger Philip Broadley Graham Chipchase Deborah DiSanzo Rudy Markham Sheri McCoy Tony Mok Nazneen Rahman Marcus Wallenberg and measures including trends around The Policy sets out the Boards aim to gender diversity, leadership ethnic diversity maintain a composition of at least 33% female and age profile.
directors and a commitment to use at least one professional search firm which has signed More specifically, the Board views gender, up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for nationality and cultural diversity among Executive Search Firms, to help recruit Boardmembers as important considerations Directors from a broad, qualified group of when reviewing its composition.
The Board candidates to increase diversity of thinking recognises, in particular, the importance and perspective.
The Boards approach to ofgender diversity.
inclusion and diversity continues to yield successful results.
Currently, 40% of the Considering diversity in a wider sense, the Companys Non-Executive Directors are women Board aims to maintain a balance in terms of and women make up 33% of the full Board.
the range of experience and skills of individual This meets the Policys aim of 33% female Board members, which includes relevant representation on the Board, the same target as international business, pharmaceutical set out in the report from Lord Davies published industry and financial experience, as well in October 2015. asappropriate scientific and regulatory The Boards Inclusion and Diversity policy can be found knowledge.
The skills matrix used by the on our website, www.
Board and Committee is shown above.
The biographies of Board members set out on pages 94 and 95 give more information Information about our approach to diversity in about current Directors in this respect.
the organisation below Board level can be found in Employees from page 38.
The Board adopted an Inclusion and Diversity policy the Policy in December 2018, which is Yours sincerely, applicable to the Board and its Committees.
The Policy reinforces the Boards ongoing commitment to all aspects of diversity and tofostering an inclusive environment in which each Director feels valued and respected.
Whilst the Board appoints candidates based Leif Johansson on merit and assesses Directors against Chairman measurable, objective criteria, the Board recognises that an effective Board with a broad strategic perspective requires diversity.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Nomination and Governance Committee Report 109
