10 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Market overview Responding to changes inourmarket 1.
New homes longer but less carepolicy needinfrastructure healthily Our ageing, growing population is Governments five-year transformation A top priority for government is to programmes for both the NHS as a whole accelerate delivery of new homes to rent putting ever-greater pressures on NHSbuildings in terms of the sheer and for general practice include a focus and buy across the country, and to create on the expansion of primary care and the conditions for healthier placemaking.
number of patients they must serve, but also because of the complexity of the access to more services closer to home.
By engaging with the Governments work STPs in 44 footprints in England are to improve planning processes, we want care we now need as we live longer, lesshealthy lives.
driving local delivery of the outcomes to ensure that fast-growing communities required, and running across them all are supported by the primary care Better primary care buildings: isthe theme of investment in estate infrastructure they need, and that offer fit-for-purpose surroundings asakeyenabler.
developer contributions are employed forcare and use of technology effectively when existing local GP allow patients to access health NHS priorities 2017 18: buildings lack the capacity to cope services closer to home Concrete progress on local STPs withfuture demand.
provide space for an expanded More services provided away primary care workforce fromhospitals Better primary care buildings: allow goals of Five Year Forward A larger primary care workforce and provide easier access to healthcare View STPs to be delivered.
increased productivity fornew communities Easier and more convenient access help practices cope with an influx toplanned GP services, including ofpatients in new communities.
appointments in the evenings and Third party development model atweekends A strategic estates strategy in every works effectively with developers, planners and the NHS to deliver CCG that will help release surplus NHSland for new homes and theright infrastructure.
Better primary care buildings: provide the infrastructure to accommodate extended access to primary care, and diagnostic and treatment services away from hospitals help deliver goals of STPs.
Read more Our strategic priorities page 20 Key performance indicators page 22 Principal risks and uncertainties page 34 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 11 Pont Newydd Medical Centre 4.
NHS technology working estates policy together for healthier places and people In Wales, similar issues with recruiting Innovation in primary care building design In England, government has and development can cut building costs formallyadopted Sir Robert Naylors and retaining staff in general practice prevail.
Here, also, we are seeing local for GPs by using sustainable techniques recommendations to improve primary and design features.
This year, we care estate, committing to a 10 billion health boards stepping in to take on  to protect services brought together a specialist team to investment programme to ensure the study the best of international healthcare NHSs buildings are fit for purpose.
for patients in the long term.
With Welsh government announcing its biggest building design, highlighting ideas that Ministers state that private sector we hope to incorporate into our work in investment will form part of this work, targeted investment in primary and community care infrastructure this year, future.
It isclear that building design will where it is good value to the taxpayer, be a fundamental driver of the adoption andthat some of this will come from setting out a pipeline of a new generation of integrated health and care centres of digital technology to improve the thetypes of schemes that already fund patient experience, and our development primary care facilities.
The Five Year through new build and improvements toexisting buildings, commitment to team is committed to spearheading Forward View and STPs are united on newideas.
therole of fit-for-purpose buildings in theprovision of more health services closer to home is a clear priority.
Better primary care building design Better primary care buildings can spearhead better patient In Scotland, challenges of recruiting and experiences.
retaining GPs, particularly in rural areas, give NHS staff the workplaces theydeserve.
A new GP contract will be Building design implemented from April with a range must be fleet of foot to reflect Flexible lease solutions ofmeasures designed to make general support doctors to opt for stay in evolving role of technology in practice in Scotland more appealing to healthcare monitoring, diagnostics general practice by removing the new doctors, including steps to remove risksof property ownership.
and treatment closer to home.
from practices the risks of owning or leasing premises.
In a shift over the Third party ownership next25 years, GPs will have the option improves and protects existing forlocal health boards to purchase primarycare infrastructure, theirpremises from them, or to take on andcanfacilitate moves to the lease responsibilities if the surgery newerbuildings.
building is rented from a third party.
We are already actively engaged with the Need for investment implementation process.
can be met by third party developmentmodel.
