52 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Nominations Committee Report Nominations Committee members Simon Laffin Committee Chair Jenefer Greenwood Jonathan Murphy David Richardson Ed Smith from October 2017 Number of meetings in the year Four Additional attendees as appropriate Orla Ball Company Secretary Responsibilities Key activities of the Committee The Terms of Reference are reviewed Board and Committee changes recruitment firm TheZygos Partnership annually and are available toview on The Nominations Committee the which has no other connection with theCompanys website.
Committee met four times through Assura to assist with the search process.
A long list of potential candidates was Key issues reviewed by theCommittee and from Submitting for re-election all Directors Following Jonathan Murphys this, a short list selected.
appointment as CEO, the position then interviewed a number of candidates.
Appointment of CFO and NonofCFOhad to be filled and Warren In October 2017, the Board appointed Executive Director.
Partners which has no other connection Ed Smith on the Committees Review of succession planning with Assura was selected to assist with recommendation.
The Committee has particularly for Chairman and Audit the recruitment process.
A short list of recommended to the Board that Ed is Committee Chair.
potential candidates was interviewed by appointed as Chairman following my Review of Board composition, the Committee and, on the Committees planned retirement at the AGM.
Committee composition and recommendation, Jayne Cottam was Committee Chair.
appointed by the Board to the position The Board is planning to recruit Consideration of training needs and of CFO in September 2017. anotherNon-Executive Director with skills updating.
complementary skills and expertise Confirmation that the Non-Executive Another key process for the Committee tofurther the Boards strength and to Directors were independent.
wastoselect a Non-Executive Director, provide succession options as Chair preferably with relevant NHS expertise, ofthe Audit Committee.
The Committee tofurther strengthen the Board and has selected Russell Reynolds Associates whocould provide possible Chairman who acquired Zygos Partnership to succession.
The Committee selected assist with theprocess.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 53 The Committee will continue to consider Commitments of the Chairman gender and wider aspects of diversity I am also Non-Executive Chairman of such as experience, nationality, disability Flybe Group plc and Non-Executive and age when recommending any future Director at Watkin Jones plc.
The Board appointments and recruitment Committee considers that I manage firms are instructed to include a diverse mytime effectively in order to allocate list of candidates for the Committees sufficient time to each of my roles.
Final appointments will always be made on merit.
Diversity The Board believes that a diverse Succession planning workforce and management team Succession planning was a focus improve the culture of the organisation oftheCommittee during 2017. and add value to the business as a whole.
The Zygos Partnership and Warren The Committee considered the Partners were particularly tasked with externalBoard appointments as well searching for possible CFO and Nonasthe development of talent within the Executive Director candidates who could business to fill more senior roles over increase the diversity of the Board.
The Board targeted having at least Simon Laffin 20%female representation, which Chair of the Nominations Committee wasachieved in 2012.
Following Jayne 22 May 2018 Cottams appointment and Andrew Darkes resignation, female representation on the Board is now 33% and we are pleased that the Group ranked 33rd  Review FTSE250Rankings Women onBoards and in Leadership.
