48 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Board of Directors Name Simon Laffin Jonathan Murphy Jayne Cottam Position Non-Executive Chairman CEO CFO Skills and experience Simon is an experienced Jonathan is the CEO of Jayne is a CIMA qualified Chairman having served as Assuraand was previously the accountant, with skills Chairman of Assura since Finance Director, having joined including finance, debt 2011.
Previously he served the Group in January 2013.
He strategy and risk management.
as an advisor to CVC Capital has significant experience in She joined Assura from Partners, Chairman of real estate, capital markets MorrisHomes, one of the Hozelock Group and a and investment gained during UKslargest private national Non-Executive Director his time as Finance Director housing developers where of Quintain Estates and and Interim CEO of the Group she was the Finance Director Development plc, Mitchells & and in his previous position for Operations, heading Butlers plc, Aegis Group plc asManaging Director for uptheoperational finance and Northern Rock plc as theproperty management team across the Group part of the rescue team.
business of Brooks andproviding financial and Macdonald Group plc.
strategic support as a member Between 1995 and 2004 he of the Board for each of the was Group Chief Financial Jonathan was previously three operating regions.
Officer of UK grocery retailer Finance Director for the fund Safeway plc which he joined management business of Jayne was previously Director in 1990 and was latterly also Brooks Macdonald and of Finance for the Continental responsible for property.
His earlier Europe Division of European to that, he held a variety of career included commercial Metal Recycling Limited, one finance and management and strategic roles at Spirit of the worlds largest metal roles in Mars Confectionery, Group and Vodafone.
recyclers, and before that Rank Xerox and BP.
He is Jonathan qualified as a helda number of other aqualified accountant.
Chartered Accountant with seniorfinance positions.
, Simon also chairs the holding management roles Nominations Committee.
He holds an MBA from IESE, the Simon has announced his European Business School attention to stand down at in Barcelona.
Appointed August 2011 February 2017 September 2017 Other current appointments Simon is also Non-Executive None None Chairman of Flybe Group plc, a Non-Executive Director ofWatkin Jones plc and Chairman of the Audit Committee at Dentsu Aegis Network.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 49 David Richardson Jenefer Greenwood Ed Smith CBE Orla Ball Senior Independent Director OBE Non-Executive Director Company Secretary Non-Executive Director David is a Non-Executive Jenefer is a Chartered Ed is an experienced Orlas skills include corporate Director of Assura whose Surveyor with extensive Chairman with significant governance, and managing skillsand experience include knowledge of the real health service, public sector legal risk.
She qualified as finance and accounting, estateindustry in particular and business experience.
a solicitor with Eversheds mergers and acquisitions development and maximising Hewas Chairman of NHS Manchester and gained and corporate governance.
value and significant board Improvement for two years significant corporate Previously he spent 22 years level experience.
Jenefer and Deputy Chairman of NHS governance and mergers at Whitbread Plc where he started her career at Hillier England for the previous three andacquisitions experience was the Strategic Planning Parker in 1978, becoming years.
He was also Lead working as a corporate Director for eight years and the Executive Director and Head Non-Executive Director for the lawyerfor over 14 years.
Finance Director for four years.
of Retail on merger with Department for Transport until CBRE.
She worked for the end of December 2017.
Orlas move in-house At Whitbread he played a Grosvenor Estate from toBraemar Group plc, pivotal role in transforming 2003until 2012.
Ed was the former Global subsequently acquired theGroup from a brewing and Assurance Chief Operating byBrooks Macdonald plc, pubs company into a market Jenefer has previously Officer and Strategy Chairman provided her with further leader in hotels, restaurants servedon the Board of The of  property skills as she looked and leisure clubs.
Following Crown Estate and chaired PwC.
Before retiring from after the legal matters for its this he has held a number of itsRemuneration Committee.
PwC, he had a 30-year career property management and Non-Executive roles in FTSE She has held positions as as a Senior Partner, holding property funds business.
listed companies, including Chair of the National Skills many leading Board and Serco Group plc, Forth Ports Academy for Retail and topclient roles in the UK She recently qualified as a plc now called Forth Ports President of the British andglobally.
Chartered Secretary and has Ltd, Tomkins plc now called Councilof Shopping Centres.
been admitted as an Associate Gates Worldwide Limited, Ed is a Chartered Accountant.
Dairy Crest plc and fide Jenefer chairs the VereGroup plc.
The Board intends to appoint Orla is Head of Legal for Chartered Accountant.
theGroup, Chair of the Risk Committee and a member David chairs the of the Executive Board.
January 2012 May 2012 October 2017 April 2015 David is currently Chairman Jenefer is a Non-Executive Ed is the Pro-Chancellor None of BBGI SICAV S. A. and a Director of St Modwen andChairman of Council at Board member of The Properties plc, sits on the University of Birmingham.
the Supervisory Board of Healso has advisory INTERNOS Global Investors, rolesatPushdoctor and Independent ison the Board of Liverty and HCAHealthcare.
is a Director of the Ernest Cook Trust.
