22 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Assura is the UKs leading healthcare REIT.
In order to sustain Key performance indicators theleadership position, we need to demonstrate that we can consistently outperform over time.
In order to measure ourselves against this objective we have a wide range of key performance indicators KPIs.
These can be distilled into three key areas.
Firstly, Total Property Return, which measures our success in choosing the right investments and managing these over time.
Secondly, Total Accounting Return, which measures the returns wehave delivered to our shareholders in the form of dividends paid Focus KPI and benchmark Explanation Performance Rental growth from rent reviews Rental growth, being the weighted We have delivered rental growth of 1.7% average annualised uplift on reviews from rent reviews completed during the 1.7% settled during the year, provides an year.
This slight increase against 2017 indicator of how cost inflation is has been driven mainly by reviews 2017: 1.6% translated into increased rent.
linked to inflation but we believe, with Total Property Return construction cost inflation returning, Total Property Return shows the return medium-term prospects for rental 9.7% generated by our portfolio on a debt growth are improving.
2017: 9.7% free basis, with the IPD value providing an equivalent five-year annualised The Total Property Return for the IPD annualised five-year figure.
This shows the quality of our yearof9.7% reflects the capital growth Total Return investments to deliver a combination achieved on the portfolio in addition to ofrental income and capital growth.
The IPD five-year 9.9% Total Return of 9.9% per annum is in IPD All Healthcare: 9.4% excess of the All Healthcare Benchmark of 9.4%, demonstrating how our portfolio has delivered strong returns over a sustained period.
Sustainability KPI and benchmark Explanation Performance BREEAM rating achieved on BREEAM is the worlds foremost All developments completed during the developments Very Good or better environmental assessment method year achieved our target of aBREEAM andrating for buildings, and sets the rating of Very Good, and achieved an 100% standard for best practice in sustainable average EPC rating of B.
2017: 100% building design, construction and operation.
An Energy Performance In addition, our on-site buildings Average EPC rating Certificate EPC gives a building a incorporate several environmentally rating for energy efficiency.
Strong friendly design features, and we B performance against these measures expectall buildings on site to meet 2017: A demonstrates our commitment to ourBREEAM and EPC ratings targets.
building sustainable buildings that improve the local infrastructure.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 23 and our growth in net asset value NAV.
Lastly, we consider This overriding objective is reflected in the long-term management Total Shareholder Return TSR as measured by the stock incentive schemes implemented, with rewards linked to both TSR market, which reflects the value of dividends paid and the and EPS over a three-year period.
Further detail is provided in relative movement in our share price over the period.
the Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 69.
In order to achieve these objectives, we have four strategic priorities and how we These measures are complementary and should build on each monitor ourselves against them is outlined below: other although the share price movement is also affected by other external factors outside of our control.
By managing the Total Property Return and Total Accounting Return over the medium term we should be able to deliver a superior TSR toourinvestors.
Expertise KPI and benchmark Explanation Performance % of tenant covenant NHS GP NHS percentage is the proportion of In a year of growth, the WAULT of 12.6 our rent roll that is paid directly by GPs years and effective NHS backing of rent 84% or NHS bodies.
Weighted Average of 84% have remained strong, showing Unexpired Lease Term WAULT is the how investments during the year fit with 2017: 86% average period until the next available our existing portfolio.
Developments completed break clause in our leases weighted byrent.
These measures show who Development activity has been strong 31.3m weprovide our buildings to and how with six schemes completed during the 6 sites long our existing leases last for, year and five onsite at the year end.
2017: 13.8m 2 sites demonstrating our position as a Although development activity in the long-term partner to the NHS.
sector is not yet at the levels we would WAULT hope for, we have a pipeline of 10 Developments, both completed during schemes development cost 47million 12.6 years the year and currently on site, illustrate that we would hope to be on site in next 2017: 13.2 years how our buildings are chosen by the 1218 months.
NHS to provide a modern facility to Developments on site suitthe primary care needs of that particular location.
23.6m 5 sites 2017: 31.0m 6 sites Effectiveness KPI and benchmark Explanation Performance EPRA Cost Ratio A reducing EPRA Cost Ratio shows The efficient integration of the 115 theefficiency and scale benefits of properties acquired during the year has 13.0% ouroperating model, being costs contributed to a reduction in our EPRA 2017: 13.7% asapercentage of rental income.
This cost efficiency, EPRAEPS is a measure of recurring along with the growth achieved and Total Accounting Return profit calculated in accordance with reduction in weighted average cost of EPRA guidelines.
debt, has been reflected in our EPRA 11.0% EPS increasing to 2.5 pence per share.
2017: 12.0% Total Accounting Return is the amount generated for shareholders in the form of Our Total Accounting Return of 11.0% EPRA EPS dividends and movement in EPRA NAV.
reflects capital growth achieved during TSR is the amount generated in the form the year along with the consistent 2.5p of dividends and movement in share dividend returned to shareholders.
These two measures are key TheTSR of 6.8% illustrates how the measures in assessing our performance ratio of share price to EPRA has Total Shareholder Return in the form of returns for shareholders increased.
As at 31 March 2018, the and are the measures to which Directors share price premium to EPRA NAV 6.8% long-term incentive plans are linked.
