54 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Audit Committee Report Audit Committee members David Richardson Committee Chair Jenefer Greenwood Ed Smith from October 2017 Simon Laffin until October 2017 Number of meetings in the year Five Additional attendees as appropriate Deloitte LLP Savills Commercial Limited and Jones Lang LaSalle Jonathan Murphy CEO Jayne Cottam CFO Andrew Darke Property Director Orla Ball Company Secretary Paul Carroll Financial Controller David Purcell Head of Financial Reporting Responsibilities Key activities of the Committee Financial statements Financial statements Review of Committee and reports andreports The Committee reviewed its To monitor the integrity of the half year Reviewed the Annual Report performance and was found to and annual financial statements before andfinancial statements and half be performing to a high standard.
submission to the Board, reviewing yearfinancial report and made significant financial reporting matters recommendations to the Board Review of risk management andinternal controls and judgements, focusing particularly regarding the approval of on matters of material financial impact.
Reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and To review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control.
Review of external audit risk management processes and Reviewed, considered and agreed the the disclosures made in the To conduct an annual review of theneed to establish an internal scope and fees for the audit work to Annual Report.
be undertaken by the external auditor.
Received the minutes from the Risk auditfunction.
To discuss the issues arising from Reviewed the effectiveness, Committee and reviewed the principal performance and fees of the risks derived from the risk register theinterim and final audits.
To monitor and review annually the external auditor.
along with any movement in those risks in the year.
auditors independence, objectivity Review of external valuers and effectiveness.
Reviewed the appropriateness of the Received presentations from both accounting policies, and the design To develop and implement the policy external valuers and raised queries for provision of non-audit services and operation of the internal controls.
Reviewed the effectiveness, Other matters To make recommendations to the performance and fees of the Monitored compliance with the Board in relation to the selection externalvaluers.
process for the appointment of Reviewed the requirement for theexternal auditor.
Reviewed the viability statement andsupporting evidence.
Reviewed the approved treasury counterparties.
Reviewed documentation relating tothe December 2017 equity raise.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 55 Viability statement the Committee Audit non-audit fees Dear Shareholder considered the viability statement payabletoexternal auditor proposed for inclusion in the Annual The only non-audit services provided by As Chairman of the AuditCommittee Report and the supporting analysis Deloitte were as reporting accountant to theCommittee, I havepleasure in produced by management.
The the equity raise, as required by SAS 72 setting out below the formal report statement was approved for inclusion regulations.
The fees paid to the external onitsactivities forthe year ended in the 2018 report and appears on auditor are disclosed in Note 4 a to the 31March 2018. page 33. accounts, and the policy for non-audit services is in the Audit Committee Terms The Committee is aware of the Codes Other financial of Reference available on our website.
requirements in relation to risk and the reporting matters monitoring of internal control systems.
In addition to the significant financial Effectiveness of external During the year the Committee received reporting matters discussed above, auditprocess minutes from the meetings of the Risk theCommittee considers other financial The Committee assessed the effectiveness Committee, reviewed the risk register, reporting matters as and when they of the external audit process, initially monitored the Groups risk management arise to ensure appropriate treatment reviewing and challengingthe audit and internal control systems and was kept in the accounts.
planning memorandum prepared by appraised of the upgrades being made Deloitte and then monitoring fulfilment tothe IT systems, security and processes.
During the year this included the following: ofthis plan.
TheCommittee received The Committee has not identified any regular feedback from management on the significant failings or weakness in these Share-based payment charges for service and support provided by Deloitte, control systems during the year.
theValue Creation Plan VCP and had a meeting at the end of the audit Performance Share Plan PSP.
todiscussjudgements and concluded The Committee performed a detailed Prospectus, working capital and thatthe external audit was carried out reviewof the content and tone of the SAS72 sign offs required for the efficiently and effectively with objective, AnnualReport and half year results and has equityraise in December 2017. independent challenge.
Accordingly, satisfied itself that there are robust controls Presentation of non-recurring theCommittee recommends Deloittes over the accuracy and consistency of the expenses such as early repayment re-appointment at the 2018 AGM.
Accordingly, the fees and loan issue costs written off.
Committee has advised the Board that Deloitte was appointed following a theAnnual Report taken asa whole is We are satisfied that there were no competitive tender in March 2012 and fair, balanced and understandable and matters arising from any of the above thelatest date by which the Company provides the information necessary for the thatwe wish to draw to the attention isrequired to tender and appoint a new shareholders to assess the Companys ofthe shareholders.
auditor is for the financial year beginning position and performance, business 1April 2022.
The current lead auditor, modeland strategy.
Internal controls Rachel Argyle, was appointed in March The Groups internal control systems 2015.
There are no current intentions The Company ceased to be a smaller include a detailed authorisation process, toconduct an audit tender in the next company as defined by the Code on formal documentation of all transactions, 12months.
1April 2017 and as such membership of a robust system of financial planning the Audit Committee did not comply with including cash flow forecasting and David Richardson Code Provision C. 3.1.
Compliance was scenario testing and a robust appraisal Chair of the Audit Committee achieved following the appointment of process for all property investments.
Changes to internal controls, or controls to respond to changing risks identified, Significant financial are addressed by the Risk Committee reporting matters with appropriate escalation to the Valuation of investment properties, AuditCommittee as required.
including those under construction valuations and yields are discussed Internal audit with management and benchmarked The Committee is satisfied that against comparable portfolios.
The thecurrent level of control and risk two external valuers present and management within the business discuss their findings with the adequately meets the Groups current Committee.
Specific pieces of internal work Validity of the going concern basis are commissioned by the Committee andthe availability of finance going toexamine particular processes and forward the Committee considers the controls as deemed necessary.
The financing requirements of the Group in Committee considers that theadditional the context of committed facilities and cost of an internal audit department is evaluates managements assessment notcurrently justified.
of going concern and the assumptions made.
The external auditor also reports to the Committee following itsreview.
