Audit Committee Report The integrity of AstraZenecas financial reporting is underpinned by effective internal controls, appropriate accounting practices and policies, and the exercise of good judgement.
In this Report we describe the work of the Audit and quality of the external audit, in particular Committee the Committee and the significant through its review and challenge of the issues it considered in 2018.
Our priorities were coverage of the external auditors audit plan to receive assurance over the soundness of our and subsequent monitoring of their progress financial reporting and internal controls, risk against it.
The Committee maintained regular identification and management, compliance contact with PwC through formal and informal with the Code of Ethics and relevant legislation, reporting and discussion throughout the year.
cybersecurity and information governance, and business resilience.
Risk identification and management During the year, in addition to its regular Financial reporting reviews of the Groups approach to risk The integrity of AstraZenecas financial management, the operation of its risk reporting is underpinned by effective internal reporting framework and risk mitigation, the controls, appropriate accounting practices Committee considered an audit evaluating the and policies, and the exercise of good adequacy and effectiveness of the Global Risk judgement.
The Committee reviewed, at Management Framework, noting strengths leastquarterly, the Groups significant and opportunities to enhance the framework accounting matters including contingent through targeted improvements.
The liabilities, revenue recognition and deferred Committee invited Nazneen Rahman, tax and, where appropriate, challenged theChairman of the Companys Science managements decisions before approving Committee, to attend one of its meetings theaccounting treatment applied.
During todeepen its understanding of the clinical 2018, the Committee reviewed the Groups compliance risks facing the Group and to significant restructuring programmes initiated review the compliance regime for good clinical from 2013 onwards, including accounting and laboratory practice.
The Committee also forrestructuring charges, and control over encouraged the Groups Internal Audit capital expenditure and their projection for Services Function IA to engage with the completion.
The Committee continued to Science Committee to support its plans for monitor the inclusion of Externalisation second line defence in the Groups science Revenue in AstraZenecas Statement of functions.
The Committee intends to further Comprehensive Income.
For more information strengthen its links with the Science on Externalisation Revenue, please refer to Committee in 2019. the Financial Review from page 79.
The Committee also looked closely at intangible When identifying risks, we consider the total asset impairment reviews, legal provisions landscape of enduring risks which are longand other related charges, to ensure that standing and business-as-usual in nature.
We items are appropriately accounted for in then consider more specific and current risks Reported and Core results.
key active risks which are challenging our business presently.
Finally, in order that we PwC were reappointed as the Companys scanthe horizon and identify risks which may external auditor by its shareholders at the challenge us in the future, we also consider Companys AGM held in May 2018, serving for emerging risks.
These deliberations provided the second successive year.
The Committee the framework for the Committees activities continued to oversee the conduct, performance in2018 and provided the context for the 110 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Our focus during 2018 Committees consideration of the Directors Compliance with the Code of Ethics viability statement.
The Directors viability The Committees priorities continue to include Financial reporting, internal statement is underpinned by the assurance overseeing compliance with AstraZenecas controls, and the quality provided through a stress test analysis under Code of Ethics, high ethical standards, and and effectiveness of the which key profitability, liquidity and funding operating within the law in all countries where external audit metrics are tested against severe downside we conduct business or have interactions.
scenarios each of which assume that the TheCode of Ethics is written in simple and Cybersecurity, data significant risks modelled in the planning accessible language to empower decision analytics, GDPR and process will crystallise and against which making that reflects AstraZenecas Values, information governance management take mitigating actions.
The expected behaviours andkey policy Compliance matters, Committee considered in detail the authenticity principles.
During the year the Committee of each scenario including seeking additional engaged with HR to support the publication of including fostering a analysis from management as to the indirect new Global Standards of behaviour to counter speaking up culture unintended consequences of its proposed the risk of sexual harassment and bullying.
Risk management, including mitigating actions, including, for example, AstraZeneca is committed to ensuring that its the identification, mitigation, assessing the likely response of a broader range people feel respected through promoting a of stakeholders.
The Committee also assessed culture of inclusion and diversity and fostering monitoring and reporting of the feasibility of the proposed mitigations to the a working environment in which its employees risks and lines of revised scenarios being effected.
feel able and safe to speak up.
The management accountability Committee also monitored and reviewed F or more information on the Viability statement, please Business continuity theeffectiveness of our anti-bribery and refer to the Risk Overview from page 71. anti-corruption controls across the Group, planning and resilience prioritising its focus on countries regions where we have significant operations and The Committees consideration of risk countries in which doing business is generally management was supported by deep dive considered to pose higher compliance risks.
reviews of key activities, including: F urther information on our Code of Ethics is set out from cyber defence capability and the page 105. continuous enhancements to safeguard critical applications, information assets and business continuity resilience Engagement with employees and actions to comply with the EU GDPR other stakeholders obligations, which came into force The Committee regularly interacts with in May 2018 members of management below the SET and the post-acquisition integration of ZS seeks wider engagement with the Groups Pharma and management of Lokelma employees and other stakeholders.
In March IAs use of data analytics in marketing 2018, Marc Dunoyer CFO and I visited company audits, and IAs interaction with AstraZenecas US commercial business to the Global Business Services function meetwith the finance teams and the lead US the evolution of the Groups Global external audit partner to discuss continuous Business Services organisation, its key improvement of our financial management achievements, challenges and its and internal controls systems and the management of risks.
efficiency of the external audit.
In September, we met again with the teams to discuss In addition to these deep dive reviews, the progress made and noted the further Committee periodically assured itself of the strengthening of the US finance team, appropriateness of the Groups planning bothinnumber and professional skills, for Brexit.
In October, during theCommittees visit to Shanghai and Wuxi, F urther information on the deep dive reviews can be found China, Committee members met with many in the Business updates section on page 114. employees and key stakeholders.
Through this engagement the Committee members gained invaluable insight into the opportunities As discussed overleaf, in accordance with its and challenges, and current and emerging focus on risks arising in key markets and internal risks associated with our activities in China.
controls, the Committee also visited the Groups sites in Shanghai and Wuxi, China, and I visited our site in Wilmington, US, during the year.
F or further information on the Groups Principal Risks see the Risk Overview from page 70.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Audit Committee Report 111 Audit Committee Report continued Committee site visit to Shanghai and Wuxi, China In October, members of the Audit and held an informal questions and Committee visited the Groups sites in answers session with a wide group of Shanghai and Wuxi, China.
China is employees based in Shanghai.
AstraZenecas second-largest national The Committee met physicians and market, with absolute growth that has patients at a large hospital in Wuxi and out-performed other multinational visited the China Commercial Innovation pharmaceutical companies for several Centre an open strategic platform years.
We have approximately 13,000 designed to promote innovative healthcare Philip Broadley, who will become Chairman employees in China.
The Committee practices in China as well as Dizal of the Audit Committee in March 2019, during the Committees visit to China.
enjoyed several meetings with our local Pharmaceutical, a recently formed joint management to discuss the opportunities, venture with the Chinese SDIC Fund challenges and risks being managed by Management Company an innovative senior leaders across a range of activities biopharmaceutical enterprise, which including R&D, commercialisation, demonstrated how innovation and its manufacturing, supply and distribution.
interconnectivity with smart healthcare The Committee also undertook a tour of has the potential to transform Chinas AstraZenecas Wuxi manufacturing plant healthcare industry.
Further information on the Committees visit to Finally, in light of the fact that I will formally step China can be found above.
The Committee down from the Board at the conclusion of the also met informally with employees from the Companys AGM in April 2019, the Company Finance, Investor Relations, Corporate Affairs, announced that Philip Broadley has been IA, HR and Global Business Services teams.
chosen by the Board to succeed me as Chairman of the Committee.
Philip, who joined During 2018, I participated in the UK the Board and Committee in April 2017, is Competition and Markets Authoritys statutory well-attuned to the working of the Committee audit market study, which has the objective of and, with his significant international business considering whether that market is operating as and financial experience having served as well as it should.
I also participated in the Finance Director at large financial institutions, Department for Culture, Media and Sports the Board believes he is well placed to lead the annual FTSE 350 Cyber Security Health Survey.
Committee in the coming years.
Changes to the membership We hope that you find this information helpful in of the Committee understanding the work of the Committee.
Our Shriti Vadera stepped down from the Committee dialogue with our shareholders and other in June 2018, and I thank her for her invaluable stakeholders is valued greatly and we welcome insight and significant contribution since she your feedback on this Audit Committee Report.
We welcomed Deborah DiSanzo as a member of the Yours sincerely, Committee in November 2018.
While Deborah has only served for a short period of time, her long career working at the intersection of healthcare and technology has been shown to be of particular benefit to the Committee as it continues to increase its focus on cybersecurity, the use of big data and privacy matters.
Rudy Markham Chairman of the Audit Committee 112 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Principal activities focused on by the Committee in 2018 During 2018 and in January 2019, the Committee considered and discussed the following items: Financial Key elements of the Financial Statements and the estimates The adoption, impact and presentation of new financial reporting and judgements contained in the Groups financial standards including IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS disclosures.
Accounting matters considered included the 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers in the Groups areas described in the Financial Review under Critical 2018 Financial Statements: and impact assessments for IFRS accounting policies and estimates with a focus on 16 Leases and IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax accounting issues relevant to revenue recognition, litigation Treatments which are effective from 1January 2019. and taxation matters, goodwill and intangible asset The external auditors reports on its audit of the Group impairment from page 87.
Financial Statements, and reports from management, IA, Monitoring the accounting for Externalisation Revenue in Global Compliance and the external auditor on the the Groups Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive effectiveness of our system of internal controls and, in Income arising from externalisation activities, including the particular, our internal control over financial reporting.
collaboration agreement with Innate Pharma announced in Compliance with applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley October and the divestment of the US rights of Synagis to Act.
In particular, the status of compliance with the Sobi which closed in January 2019. programme of internal controls over financial reporting Robust testing of the appropriateness of managements implemented pursuant to Section 404 of that Act.
and the external auditors analysis and conclusions on F or more information see Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404 in the Financial Review judgemental accounting matters.
The completeness and accuracy of the Groups financial performance against its internal and external key performance indicators.
The going concern assessment and adoption of the going concern basis in preparing this Annual Report and the Financial Statements.
More information on the basis of preparation of Financial Statements on a going concern basis is set out in the Financial Statements on page 154.
The preparation of the Directors viability statement and the adequacy of the analysis supporting the assurance provided by that statement.
Risk and The Groups principal, enduring and emerging risks, Quarterly reports from Global Compliance regarding key Compliance including the Groups risk management approach, risk compliance incidents both substantiated and reporting framework and risk mitigation.
The Committee unsubstantiated, trends arising and the dispersion of incidents also considered how the risk management process was across the Groups business functions and management embedded in the Group and assured itself that hierarchy including any corrective actions taken so that the managements accountability for risks was clear and Committee could assess the effectiveness of controls, and functioning.
More information about the Principal Risks monitor and ensure the timeliness of remediation.
faced by the Group is set out in the Risk Overview Data from reports made by employees via the AZethics section from page 70. helpline, online facilities and other routes regarding potential Quarterly reports from the General Counsel on the status breaches of the Code of Ethics, together with the results of of significant litigation matters and governmental enquiries into those matters.
Progress in remediation of previously identified shortcomings Quarterly reports of work carried out by IA and Finance at AstraZenecas Chennai, India, site relating to Health & including the status of follow-up actions with Safety, strength of leadership and cultural integration.
The state of readiness and effectiveness of the Groups The geographic presence, reach and capabilities of the business continuity testing and resilience framework at its IA and Compliance functions and the appropriateness Global Technology Centres in Chennai, India, and of the Groups resource allocation for these vital Guadalajara, Mexico.
The monitoring, review, education and improvements made to support assurance that the risk of modern slavery and human trafficking is eliminated, to the fullest extent practicable, from AstraZenecas supply chain.
External Monitoring the effectiveness and quality of the external Audit and non-audit fees of the external auditor during the audit audit process through: examination and testing of the year, including the objectivity and independence of the coverage provided by the external auditors audit plan, external auditor through the application of the Audit and and their performance against it: managements Non-Audit Services Pre-Approval Policy as described further feedback on the conduct of the audit: and considering the from page 118. level of, and extent to which, the auditors challenged F urther information about the audit and non-audit fees for 2018 is disclosed in managements assumptions.
Note 31 to the Financial Statements on page 200.
Reviewing quarterly reports from the external auditor over key audit and accounting matters, and business processes, internal controls and IT systems.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Audit Committee Report 113 Audit Committee Report continued Principal activities focused on by the Committee in 2018 continued Performance An effectiveness review of IA by considering its performance The Committee conducted the annual evaluation of its own assessment against the internal audit plan and key activities.
The performance, with each Committee member responding to a Committee noted how IA had continued to deliver value to web-based questionnaire prepared by an external third party.
The the business and acted as a trusted adviser to the Committee effectiveness review of the Committee was assessed as high, with during the year.
IA provided assurance over compliance with the Committees reporting to the Board commended in particular, significant policies, plans, procedures, laws and regulations, and it was thought that the Committee continued to effectively as well as risk-based audits across a broad range of key challenge management and support the Compliance function.
business activities, strengthened its thematic reporting to Itwas felt that the Committees interactions with the Science the business, and adapted the audit plan to respond to new Committee could be further strengthened, and the importance of or arising risks.
The Committee encouraged IA to consider ensuring an effective transition and handover of the chairmanship the alignment of its global presence to business risks in the of the Committee was highlighted.
longer term and to more keenly focus on ensuring the timely remediation of findings by the business.
Business Regular updates from the IS IT team on matters including: Assessing the performance of, and progress made by, the updates the alignment of critical systems and information assets to Groups Global Business Services function, including its four the Groups cyber defence capability: enhancing segregated key towers, namely: Global Commercial Operations: Global networks: and, in particular, the Groups framework for Assurance and Reporting Services: Global Finance Services: identifying, mitigating and remediating cyber-risk and data and Digital.
breach exposure arising from its use of third-party vendors, Assessing the Groups ability to identify patterns of nonincluding potential legal and regulatory GDPR liability, and compliant behaviour through IAs use of data analytics to IS ITs ability to escalate any associated concerns through develop marketing company audits, and considering how IA the management chain.
can provide more impactful insights to the business.
Updates from HR on the actions taken in response to the Considering the risks arising from the Groups third-party #metoo movement and the publication of Global distributor relationships in emerging markets and from its Standards on sexual harassment and bullying.
strategy for market penetration in China through lower-tier An overview of the Groups preparation for GDPR and cities, and its management of them.
the progress made since its implementation.
Considering the circumstances leading to the FDAs 2017 Complete Response Letters for Lokelma and the accountabilities for the related remediation actions through a review of the post-acquisition integration of ZS Pharma and the key learnings.
114 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Significant financial reporting issues considered by the Committee in 2018 Reporting Committee conclusion Further issue Rationale Committee response actions taken information Revenue The US is our largest The Committee pays particular The Committee receives regular F inancial Review from page 74 recognition singlemarket and sales attention to managements estimates of reports from management and and Note 1 to the accounted for 33% of our these items, its analysis of any unusual the external auditor on this Financial Statements Product Sales in 2018. movements and their impact on complex area.
Revenue recognition, revenue recognition informed by remains highly competitive with particularly in the US, commentary from the external auditor.
diverse marketing and pricing isimpacted by rebates, strategies adopted by the Group chargebacks, returns, and its peers.
The Committee otherrevenue accruals was satisfied with the progress andcash discounts.
made by management to increase its accuracy in forecasting for managed market rebates and excise fees and, in particular, by managing a year-on-year decline in the level of related accounting true-ups.
Valuation of The Group carries significant The Committee considered the annual The Committee assures itself F inancial Review from page 74 and intangible intangible assets on its impairment reviews of the Groups of the integrity of the Groups Note 9 to the Financial assets balance sheet arising from intangible assets, including MEDI0680 accounting policy and models Statements from the acquisition of businesses a PD-1 monoclonal antibody asset for its assessment and valuation page 169. and IP rights to medicines in acquired through the acquisition of of its intangible assets, and development and on the Amplimmune in 2013, Eklira Tudorza, related headroom, including market.
Each quarter, the Movantik Moventig, Byetta, Lokelma by reviewing the internal and CFO outlines the carrying andverinurad.
external estimates and forecasts value of the Groups for the Groups cost of capital intangible assets and, in The development programme for relative to the broader industry.
respect of those intangible MEDI0680 was discontinued and the The Committee was satisfied assets that are identified as at asset fully impaired due to recent trial that the Group had appropriately risk of impairment, the data indicating a lower standard of care accounted for the identified difference between the than a launched competitor.
carrying value and impairments were taken on Eklira managements current Tudorza as a result of reduced sales estimate of discounted future forecasts, and on Movantik Moventig cash flows for at risk following a further review of the products the headroom.
marketopportunity in the OIC Products will be identified as indication, respectively.
at risk because the headroom is small or, for The Byetta review considered the low example, in the case of a headroom following the impairment medicine in development, taken in the prior year and sensitivity there is a significant arising from anticipated generic development milestone such entryin the US.
The Committee as the publication of clinical alsoreviewed and agreed with trial results which could managements conclusions that no significantly alter impairments were required for managements forecasts for verinurad or Lokelma and that a the product.
reversal of the impairment taken in 2017 for FluMist was not appropriate at this stage due to continued uncertainty in relation to FluMist sales in the US.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Audit Committee Report 115 Audit Committee Report continued Significant financial reporting issues considered by the Committee in 2018 continued Reporting Committee conclusion Further issue Rationale Committee response actions taken information Litigation and AstraZeneca is involved in The Committee was regularly informed Of the matters the Committee N ote 29 to the Financial Statements contingent various legal proceedings by the General Counsel of, and considered in 2018, the more from page 194. liabilities considered typical to its considered management and the significant included: the business and the external auditors assessments about, favourable settlement of pharmaceutical industry as IP litigation, actions, governmental long-standing Losec patent awhole, including litigation investigations, and claims that might infringement and damages and investigations relating to result in fines or damages against the actions in Canada and the product liability, commercial Group, to assess whether provisions settlement of Seroquel and disputes, infringement of IP should be taken and, if so, when and Crestor cases with the State rights, the validity of certain inwhat amount.
The Group patents, anti-trust law and continues to defend the sales and marketing allegations arising from the practices.
Nexium and Prilosec product liability litigation in the US, and to manage patent validity challenges to Calquence and Imfinzi in the US and Brilinta in China.
The Committee was assured that the Group was effectively managing its litigation risks including seeking appropriate remedies and continuing to vigorously defend its IP rights.
Tax The Group has business The Committee reviews the Groups The Committee was satisfied AstraZenecas Approach to accounting activities around the world approach to tax including governance, with the Groups practices Taxation, which was and incurs a substantial risk management and compliance, tax in regard to tax liabilities, published in amount and variety of planning, dealings with tax authorities including, most notably, the December 2018, and business taxes.
AstraZeneca and the level of tax risk the Group is accounting impact of the covers its approach to governance, risk pays corporate income taxes, prepared to accept.
reduction in tax rates in the management and customs duties, excise taxes, Netherlands and Sweden compliance, tax stamp duties, employment as a result of tax reform, planning, dealing with and many other business which resulted in a reduction tax authorities and the level of tax risk the taxes in all jurisdictions of deferred tax balances of Company is prepared where due.
In addition, we $297 million in 2018. to accept, canbe found collect and pay employee on our website, taxes and indirect taxes such www.
The taxes the Group pays N ote 4 to the and collects represent a Financial Statements from page 163. significant contribution to the countries and societies in which we operate.
Tax risk can arise from unclear laws and regulations as well as differences in their interpretation.
116 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Significant financial reporting issues considered by the Committee in 2018 continued Reporting Committee conclusion Further issue Rationale Committee response actions taken information Retirement Pension accounting is an The Committee monitors, on a The Committee considered the F inancial Review from page 74 and benefits important area of focus quarterly basis, the Groups funding impact of the outcome of the Note 21 to the recognising the level of position for its principal defined Guaranteed Minimum Pension Financial Statements pension fund deficit and its benefit pension obligations in Sweden, trial and the resulting increase on page 178. sensitivity to small changes the UK and the US, including the in the UK liability during 2018. in interest rates.
key actuarial and interest rate assumptions used to determine the The Committee was assured by value of the Groups liabilities and the Groups tailored journey pension scheme funding requirements.
plans for the UK and Swedish funds which target full funding The Committee also reviews, over the longer term, on a annually, the Groups global funding self-sufficiency funding basis objective andprinciples.
and which aim to close the existing funding gap via a balanced mix of investment returns on existing assets, company contributions, and by hedging the risks inherent in the liability valuation.
The Committee was satisfied that the Groups pension fund deficits were appropriately managed during the year.
The role of the Committee and how we have complied Committee membership and attendance The Committee regularly reports to the Board on how it Following each Committee meeting, the Committee All Committee members are Non-Executive Directors and discharges its main responsibilities, which include the Chairman informs the Board of the principal matters the considered by the Board to be independent under the UK following standing items: Committee considered and of any significant concerns it Corporate Governance Code.
The Committees members has or that have been reported by the external auditor, are Rudy Markham Committee Chairman, Philip Broadley, monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial theVice-President, IA or the Chief Compliance Officer.
Sheri McCoy and Deborah DiSanzo.
Shriti Vadera stepped reporting and formal announcements relating to its TheCommittee identifies matters that require action or down as a member of the Audit Committee with effect from financial performance, and reviewing significant financial improvement and makes recommendations on the steps 30 June 2018. reporting judgements contained within them tobe taken.
The Committees meeting minutes are ensuring the Companys Annual Report and Accounts circulated to the Board.
In December 2018, the Board determined that, for the present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code, at least of the Companys position and prospects by carrying out The Committees work is supported by valuable insight one member of the Committee had recent and relevant aformal review of the documentation and receiving a gained from its interactions with other Board Committees, financial experience, and Rudy Markham and Philip year-end report from management on the internal controls, senior executives, managers and external experts.
The Broadley were determined to be financial experts for the governance, compliance, assurance and risk management Committee meetings are routinely attended by: the CFO: the purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Board also activities that support the assessment General Counsel: the Vice-President Global Sustainability determined that the members of the Committee as a reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal and Deputy Chief Compliance Officer: the Vice-President, wholehad competence relevant to the sector in which financial controls, internal non-financial controls, risk IA: the Vice-President Finance, Group Controller: and theCompany operates, as Rudy Markham has served as a management systems including whistleblowing the Companys external auditor.
The CEOattends on Non-Executive Director of the Company for approximately procedures and compliance with laws and the an agenda-driven basis.
10 years, Sheri McCoy has had a 30-year career in the AstraZeneca Code of Ethics pharmaceutical industry, Deborah DiSanzo has healthcare monitoring and reviewing the role, resources and In addition, the Committee and separately the Committee sector experience from her role at IBM Watson Health and effectiveness of the Groups IA function, its Compliance Chairman meet privately with: the CFO: the Vice-President Philip Broadley has served as a Non-Executive Director function, the external audit process and overseeing the Global Sustainability and the Deputy Chief Compliance ofthe Company since April 2017.
The Board of Directors Groups relationship with its external auditor Officer: the General Counsel: the Vice-President, IA: and biographies on pages 94 and 95 contain details of monitoring and reviewing the external auditors the Companys external auditor on an individual basis eachCommittee members skills and experience.
independence and objectivity toensure the effective flow of material information ensuring the provision of non-audit services by the betweenthe Committee and management.
The Committee held six meetings in 2018 and the external auditor are appropriate and in accordance Committee members attendance is set out in the table withthe policy approved by the Committee Regulation onpage 93. making recommendations to the Board for seeking The Committee considers that the Company has complied shareholder approval relating to the appointment, with the Competition and Markets Authoritys Statutory Role and operation of the Committee reappointment and removal of the external auditor, Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation The Committees terms of reference are available on our andtoapprove the remuneration and terms of Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and website, www.
engagementofthe external auditor Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 in respect monitoring the Companys response to any external ofits financial year commencing 1January2018.
enquiries and investigations regarding matters within theCommittees area of responsibility.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Audit Committee Report 117 Audit Committee Report continued Fair, balanced and Company maintained an effective system of annual fee limit are subject to case-by-case  disclosure controls and procedures.
approval by the Vice-President Finance, As in previous years, at the instruction of the Group Controller.
Board, the Committee undertook an There was no change in our internal control assessment of this Annual Report to ensure over financial reporting that occurred during The pre-approved audit services included that, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and the period covered by this Annual Report that services in respect of the annual financial understandable and provides the information has materially affected, or is reasonably likely statement audit including quarterly and necessary for shareholders to assess the to materially affect, our internal control over half-year reviews, attestation opinions under Companys position and performance, financial reporting.
section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, business model and strategy.
The Committee statutory audits for subsidiary entities, and reviewed the Companys governance For further information on the Companys other procedures to be performed by the structure and assurance mechanisms for the internal controls, please refer to the independent auditor to be able to form an preparation of the Annual Report and, in Accountability section in the Corporate opinion on the Groups consolidated financial particular, the contributor and SET member Governance Report on page 104. statements.
The pre-approved audit-related verification process.
The Committee received services, which the Committee believes are an early draft of the Annual Report to review External auditor services reasonably related to the performance its proposed content and the structural Following a competitive tender carried out in of the audit or review of the Companys financial changes from the prior year and to undertake 2015, PwC were appointed as the Companys statements, included certain services related to a review of the reporting for the year, following external auditor for the financial year ending 31 acquisitions and disposals, financial statement which the Committee members provided their December 2017.
In May 2018, PwC were audits of employee benefit plans, and review of individual and collective feedback.
In addition, reappointed as the Companys auditor for the internal controls.
The Committee is mindful of in accordance with its terms of reference, the financial year ending 31 December 2018.
Richard the 70% non-audit services fee cap under EU Committee alongside the Board took an Hughes is the lead audit partner at PwC.
regulation, together with the overall proportion active part in reviewing the Companys of fees for audit and non-audit services in quarterly announcements and considered the Non-audit services and safeguards determining whether to pre-approve such Companys other public disclosures which are The Committee maintains a policy the Audit services.
managed through its Disclosure Committee.
and Non-Audit Services Pre-Approval Policy To further aid their review, the Committee also for the pre-approval of all audit services and The CFO supported by the Vice-President received a summary of the final Annual permitted non-audit services undertaken by Finance, Group Controller, monitors the Reports content, including the Companys the external auditor, the principal purpose status of all services being provided by the successes and setbacks during the year and ofwhich is to ensure that the independence external auditor.
Authority to approve work an indication of where they were disclosed ofthe external auditor is not impaired.
The exceeding the pre-agreed annual fee limits within the document.
policy covers three categories of work: and for any individual service above the auditservices: audit-related services: and clearly trivial threshold is delegated to the The processes described above allowed the taxservices, the latter of which is significantly Chairman of the Committee together with one Committee to provide assurance to the Board restricted such that no tax services are other Committee member in the first instance.
to assist it in making the statement required of pre-approved under the policy.
The policy A standing agenda item at Committee it under the UK Corporate Governance Code, defines the type of work that falls within each meetings covers the operation of the which is set out on page 104. of these categories and the non-audit services pre-approval procedures and regular reports that the external auditor is prohibited from are provided to the full Committee.
Internal controls performing under the rules of the SEC and The Committee receives a report of the matters other relevant UK and US professional and All non-audit services other than the preconsidered by the Disclosure Committee during regulatory requirements.
approved audit and audit-related services are each quarter.
At the January 2019 meeting, the approved by the Audit Committee on a CFO presented to the Committee the The pre-approval procedures permit certain case-by-case basis.
In 2018, PwC provided conclusions of the CEO and the CFO following audit and audit-related services to be non-audit services including an interim review the evaluation of the effectiveness of our performed by the external auditor during the of the results of the Group for the six months disclosure controls and procedures required by year, subject to annual fee limits agreed with ended 30 June 2018, and audit-related Item 15 a of Form 20-F at 31 December 2018. the Committee in advance.
Pre-approved assurance services in respect of the Groups Based on their evaluation, the CEO and the audit and audit-related services below the US debt issuance.
CFO concluded that, as at that date, the clearly trivial threshold within the overall 118 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance The Committee assessed effectiveness Audit non-audit services considering the views of senior management 2018 $17.4m within the finance function and regular 2017 $11.1m Committee attendees principally against four key factors, namely: judgement: mind-set & Statutory audit fees culture: skills, character & knowledge: and Assurance services quality control.
Following the effective Taxation services transition of the Groups external auditor in Other corporate projects 2017, the Committee felt that a number of improvements had been made during 2018 including an overall improvement in planning Fees for non-audit services amounted to 7% for receipt and assessment of audit of the fees paid to PwC for audit, audit-related deliverables and in communications between and other services in 2018 2017: 4%.
management and the external auditor, alongside greater oversight of the US.
PwC were considered better placed than any Accordingly, the Committee concluded that alternative audit firm to provide these services thePwC audit was effective for the financial in terms of their familiarity with the Companys year commencing 1 January 2018. business, skills, capability and efficiency.
All such services were either within the scope of In January 2019, the Committee recommended the pre-approved services set out in the to the Board the reappointment of PwC as the Non-Audit Services Pre-Approval Policy or Companys auditor for the financial year ending were presented to Committee members for 31December 2019.
to reappoint PwC as auditors will be put to shareholders at the Companys AGM in Further information on the fees paid to PwC April 2019. for audit, audit-related and other services is provided in Note 31 to the Financial Statements on page 200.
Assessing external audit effectiveness In accordance with its normal practice, the Committee considered the performance of PwC and its compliance with the independence criteria under the relevant statutory, regulatory and ethical standards applicable to auditors.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Audit Committee Report 119
