Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 The dates of appointment shown are the dates on which the Directors were first appointed to the Board of AutoTrader Group plc or the Groups previous parent company, AutoTrader Holding Limited.
52 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 1.
Nathan Coe Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer Biography Biography Biography Ed has been a Non-Executive Director Trevor joined AutoTrader as Chief Executive Nathan was appointed to the Board as Chief of AutoTrader since November 2010 Officer in June 2013.
Previously, Trevor was Operating Officer COO in April 2017 and and Chairman since March 2014.
President and CEO of ThoughtWorks, a global as Chief Financial Officer CFO in July 2017.
IT and software consulting company.
Nathan joined AutoTrader in 2007 to oversee He was the founding Chief Executive the transition from a magazine business to of Rightmove plc, serving in that capacity Trevor joined ThoughtWorks in 2001, to being a pure digital company.
He was from November 2000 until his retirement kick-start the UK branch of the company, and responsible for launching a number of new from the business in April 2013.
Rightmove plc then took responsibility for all international business areas, and led the Companys early was floated on the London Stock Exchange operations before becoming CEO in 2007. entry and subsequent growth in mobile and in February 2006.
Prior to Rightmove, He helped oversee the business grow from online.
For the past two years, Nathan has Ed spent the majority of his career as a a 300-person North American company to been the joint Operations Director, sharing management consultant with Accenture a 2,200-person global business with responsibility for the day-to-day operations and McKinsey & Co. Ed holds an MA in operations in 29 cities around the world of the business.
Philosophy, Politics and Economics from with a particular personal focus on helping St Annes College, Oxford.
Before his Prior to joining AutoTrader, Nathan time at ThoughtWorks, Trevor spent almost was at Telstra, Australias leading 10years at Andersen Consulting now telecommunications company, where he Accenture focusing on e-business solutions.
led Mergers and Acquisitions and Corporate Trevor holds an MEng in Aeronautics and Development for its media and internet Astronautics from Southampton University.
He was previously a consultant at PwC, having graduated from the University of Sydney with a B. Com.
External appointments: Burns Sheehan External appointments: None.
Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Nomination Chairman.
Jeni Mundy Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Biography Biography Biography David was appointed as a Non-Executive Jill was appointed as a Non-Executive Jeni was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 May 2015.
Director to the Board on 1 July 2015.
David was previously Group Finance Jill is currently the CEO of Boden, Jeni was previously at Vodafone 1998 to Director of NEXT plc 1991 to 2015 and its the clothing retailer.
Most recently she held Group Director Group Treasurer 1986 to 1991.
Previous roles across Product Management and Jill was previously at Tesco PLC 2001-16 management experience includes nine years Sales.
Prior to that she was Chief Technology where she was a member of the Executive in the UK and overseas operations of Officer on the UK and New Zealand Committee, having held a variety of roles multinational food manufacturer Nabisco Executive Boards.
1977 to 1986 and prior to that seven years Jeni started her career as a in the accountancy profession.
David is a Jill started her career at Marks & Spencer Telecommunications Engineer with member of the Association of Chartered in buying and merchandising and also spent BellSouth in New Zealand and holds Certified Accountants and of the Association time as a management consultant with an MSc in Electronic Engineering from of Corporate Treasurers.
Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Audit Chairman, Nomination, Remuneration.
Auto Trader Group plc 53 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018
