Corporate governance statement This corporate governance statement explains key features of the Companys governance framework and how it complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code published in 2016 by the Financial Reporting Council.
Introduction A Leadership This statement also includes items required by the Listing Rules and the See page 54 Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTRs.
The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code is B Effectiveness available on the Financial Reporting Council website at frc.
uk See page 56 Compliance with the 2016 Code C Accountability The Company has complied in full See page 58 with all provisions of the 2016 Corporate Governance Code during the year.
This report is structured to follow D Remuneration each of the sections of the Code: See page 59 E Relations with shareholders See page 59 A Leadership Board and Committee meetings Board responsibilities Insurance and attendance The Board has adopted a formal schedule The Company maintains appropriate Board meetings are planned around the key of matters reserved for its approval and has insurance to cover Directors and officers events in the corporate calendar, including delegated other specific responsibilities to liability for itself and its subsidiaries and such the half-yearly and final results and the its Committees.
The schedule sets out key insurance was in force for the whole of the Annual General Meeting AGM, and a aspects of the affairs of the Company which financial year ending 31 March 2018. strategy meeting is held each year.
the Board does not delegate.
It is reviewed at least annually, and is published on our website In months where there is no Board meeting, at plc.
co. uk investors a financial update call is held at which the Board discusses results with operational Refer to page 51 for a summary of management.
Once a year, Directors these matters.
During the year, the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have met without Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Executive Directors present.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors have met Number of scheduled meetings held 8 4 7 3 without the Chairman and the Executive Director Directors present.
Ed Williams 8 n a n a 3 Trevor Mather 8 n a n a n a Nathan Coe 8 n a n a n a David Keens 8 4 7 3 Jill Easterbrook 8 4 7 3 Jeni Mundy 8 4 7 3 54 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board roles Chairman Chief Executive Officer To ensure a clear division of responsibility Leadership and governance of the Board.
Responsible for the day-to-day operations at the head of the Company, the positions and results of the Group.
Creating and managing constructive of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are relationships between the Executive Developing the Groups objectives and separate and not held by the same person.
strategy and successful execution of strategy.
The division of roles and responsibilities Ensuring ongoing and effective communication Responsible for the effective and ongoing between the Board and its key shareholders.
between the Chairman and the Chief Setting the Boards agenda and ensuring that Delegates authority for the day-to-day Executive Officer is set out in writing adequate time is available for discussions.
management of the business to the and has been approved by the Board.
Operational Leadership Team comprising the Ensuring the Board receives sufficient, Executive Directors and senior management David Keens is the Senior Independent pertinent, timely and clear information.
who have responsibility for all areas of Director.
Non-Executive Directors Senior Independent Director Company Secretary Scrutinise and monitor the performance Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman.
Available to all Directors to provide of management.
Available to shareholders if they have Constructively challenge the Executive concerns which the normal channels through Responsible for providing governance advice.
the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Ensures compliance with the Boards other Directors have failed to resolve.
Monitor the integrity of financial information, procedures, and with applicable rules financial controls and systems of risk Meets with the other Non-Executive and regulations.
Directors without Executive Directors Acts as secretary to the Board and all present.
Leads the annual evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
Overall authority for the management Monitoring delivery of business strategy Oversight of operations including and conduct of the Groups business, and objectives: responsibility for any effectiveness of systems of internal strategy, objectives and development.
Board responsibilities Providing leadership for the long-term success of the Group Approval of the Annual Report and Approval of changes to the capital, Financial Statements, communications corporate and or management structure Approval of the dividend policy.
with shareholders and the wider of the Group.
Auto Trader Group plc 55 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Corporate governance statement continued Letters of appointment The Board as a whole is updated, The Chairman and the Non-Executive as necessary, in light of any governance B Effectiveness Directors have letters of appointment which developments as and when they occur, are available for inspection at the registered and there is an annual Legal and Regulatory Board composition, balance office of the Company during normal Update provided as part of the Board and independence business hours and at the place of the AGM meeting.
All Directors are required to At the date of this report, the Board from at least 15 minutes before and until the complete our annual compliance training consists of the Non-Executive Chairman, end of the meeting.
These letters set out modules covering anti-bribery, anti-money three independent Non-Executive Directors the expected time commitment from laundering, data protection and and two Executive Directors.
All of the Non-Executive Directors David External directorships As part of the Board evaluation, the Chairman Keens, Jill Easterbrook and Jeni Mundy are Any external appointments or other meets with each Director to discuss any considered to be independent in character significant commitments of the Directors individual training and development needs.
and judgement, and free of any business or require the prior approval of the Board.
Information and support available other relationship which could materially Trevor Mather is a director on the board to Directors influence their judgement.
Ed Williams was of Burns Sheehan Limited, a recruitment Full and timely access to all relevant considered to be independent on business, for which he does not receive information is given to the Board.
The Chairmans fees and the any remuneration.
The Board approved meetings, this consists of a formal agenda, Non-Executive Directors fees are disclosed the appointment and confirmed that it minutes of previous meetings and a on pages 75 and 79, and they received no was satisfied that there was no conflict of comprehensive set of papers including additional remuneration from the Company interest arising.
Trevor is also Chair of Forever regular operational and financial reports, during the year.
Manchester, a charity which AutoTrader provided to Directors in a timely manner in supports through donations.
Nathan Coe Therefore, at 31 March 2018 and to the date advance of meetings.
does not have any external directorships of this report, the Company is compliant with as at the date of this report.
The Board is All of the Directors have the right to have the Code provision that at least half the Board, comfortable that external appointments their opposition to, or concerns over, excluding the Chairman, should comprise of the Chairman and the Non-Executive any Board decision noted in the minutes.
Directors do not impact on the time that Directors are entitled to take independent The Board and its Committees have an any Director devotes to the Company.
professional advice at the Companys appropriate balance of skills, experience expense in the furtherance of their duties, In accordance with the Companys Articles and knowledge of the Group to enable them where considered necessary.
of Association, the Board has a formal system to discharge their respective duties and in place for Directors to declare conflicts of All Directors have access to the advice responsibilities effectively in accordance interests and for such conflicts to be and services of the Company Secretary, with main principle B.
Biographies of all members of the Board appear on pages 52 and 53.
Induction and development Election of Directors All newly appointed Directors receive an The Board can appoint any person to be Appointments to the Board induction briefing on their duties and a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an The Board has established a Nomination responsibilities as Directors of a publicly addition to the existing Board.
Any Director Committee, chaired by Ed Williams, with quoted company.
There is a formal induction so appointed by the Board shall hold office all other members comprising independent programme to ensure that newly appointed only until the next AGM and shall then be Non-Executive Directors, and one of the Directors familiarise themselves with the eligible for election by the shareholders.
main responsibilities of this Committee is Group and its activities, either through to identify and nominate candidates for reading, meetings with the relevant member appointment as Directors to the Board.
of senior management or through sessions in The work of the Committee is described the Board meetings.
Each Board meeting contains a presentation Non-Executive appointments to the Board from senior management on one of the focus are for an initial term of up to three years.
Specific business-related Non-Executive Directors are typically presentations are given to the Board by expected to serve two three-year terms, senior management and external advisors although the Board may invite the Director when appropriate refer to the table of to serve for an additional period.
All Directors are offered the opportunity to meet with customers and take part in sales calls to understand the business from a customers perspective.
There is a formal day of dual calling where Board members accompany the sales force on their visits to customers.
All Directors now receive a weekly newsletter from our sales and service team to ensure they are kept informed of the latest customer dialogue and sentiment.
56 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board and Committee activities in 2018 Strategy Operational Financial People Shareholders Risk and governance Regular reports received Monthly operational Monthly financial Monthly report Regular feedback Approval of material report with key report with results, of people changes, from investor contracts.
achievements and KPIs, outturn and recruitment, meetings.
Governance and issues in the month, external view.
resourcing needs Quarterly regulatory updates.
view of the industry, and employee shareholder competitors and engagement.
Acquisition of Motor Annual review Trade Delivery of governance Limited.
Accelerate audience, Business continuity ad views and planning and disaster valuations growth.
Approval of Annual Bonus approval Confirmation of Review and approval Report and for 2017 PSP targets Groups capital of Group risk register.
structure and the Review and approval Announcement.
Improve stock Appointment of Reviewed feedback choice, volumes Nathan Coe as joint from analysts and and accuracy.
Develop consistently high-performing, data-oriented teams AT-wide.
Become known by Appointment Reviewed feedback Review and approval consumers, retailers of Deloitte as from investors and of Modern Slavery and manufacturers as Remuneration proxy advisory Statement.
agencies in advance Criminal offence of Annual General of tax evasion.
Strategy off-site Diversity and Review approach including customer inclusion.
Pricing and product strategy for 2018.
Approval of Initial review of Approval of interim Review and approval half-yearly report.
ROI on marketing Review of tax Gender Pay Gap Reviewed feedback Legal and regulatory activity.
reporting and from analysts and update.
investors from results Review of internal roadshow.
Approval of changes control framework.
to Remuneration Review of progress Policy to be proposed towards GDPR to shareholders.
Salary reviews Feedback from External Board update.
and bonus targets Capital Markets Day.
evaluation feedback for 2019. and action plan.
Feedback from shareholder consultation on Remuneration review.
Auto Trader Group plc 57 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 2018 2017 March February November October September July June April Corporate governance statement continued Board evaluation and effectiveness In the third year as a listed company, the Board engaged Independent Audit Limited to facilitate an external evaluation of the Board, Committees and individual Directors during the year.
This included interviews with each of the Board Directors and members of senior management, review of Board and Committee papers and observation of Board and Committee meetings.
The draft findings were discussed with the Chairman and then presented to the Board in March 2018.
Actions arising from the review The Board and Committees operate with a relatively This will be kept under continuous review, and specifically focused on during informal and high trust approach, and should monitor meetings of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors, including review that this continues to function well.
of any behavioural early warnings, weakening business performance relative to the economic cycle, and retrospective review of major decisions taken.
The Board should develop a systematic approach A cultural scorecard will be developed and used by the Board to formally to building a view of and measuring the culture measure and track culture.
The Nomination Committee should focus on succession The Terms of Reference of the Nomination Committee have been broadened planning and motivation of senior managers beyond to explicitly include talent development and succession planning below theBoard.
The Board should consider opportunities for deeper More opportunities for contact are being developed, including employee and wider contact between the Non-Executive forums, attendance at all-employee events and greater exposure to areas Directors and the wider workforce.
ofthe business on an ad hoc and informal basis.
Board papers should be reviewed to ensure they are The Company Secretary will review all Board papers to ensure that every consistent and concise, and address the desired areas.
paper has a clear purpose and positioning to give focus to Board discussions.
In addition, an assessment of the Chairmans performance was carried out, led by the Senior Independent Director, and feedback was provided to him individually.
Overall, the results showed that the Board and its Committees continue to operate well, and that each individual Director continues to make an effective contribution.
Risk management and internal control The Board, assisted by the Audit Committee, The Company does not have a separate has carried out a review of the effectiveness C Accountability Risk Committee: the Board is collectively of the system of risk management and responsible for determining the nature and internal controls during the year ended The Board has established an Audit extent of the principal risks it is willing to 31 March 2018 and for the period up to the Committee, chaired by David Keens take in achieving its strategic objectives.
date of approval of the consolidated and comprised entirely of Independent The processes in place for assessment, financial statements contained in the Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee management and monitoring of risks are Annual Report.
The review covered all has defined Terms of Reference which described in a separate section on pages material controls, including financial, include assisting the Board in discharging 32 to 33. operational and compliance controls and many of its responsibilities with respect risk management systems.
The Board to financial and business reporting, The Board acknowledges its responsibility considered the weaknesses identified and risk management and internal control.
for establishing and maintaining the Groups reviewed the developing actions, plans and The work of the Committee is described system of risk management and internal programmes that it considered necessary.
on pages 62 to 65. controls and it receives regular reports from The Board confirms that no significant management identifying, evaluating and Financial and business reporting weaknesses or failings were identified as managing the risks within the business.
The Assisted by the Audit Committee, the Board a result of the review of effectiveness.
system of internal controls is designed to has carried out a review of the 2018 Annual manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of Report and considers that, in its opinion, the failure to achieve business objectives and report is fair, balanced and understandable can provide only reasonable, and not and provides the information necessary for absolute, assurance against material shareholders to assess the Companys misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee position and performance, business model reviews the system of internal controls and strategy.
Refer to the Audit Committee through reports received from report on page 63 for details of the review management, along with others from process.
Management See pages 18 to 21 in the Strategic report continues to focus on how internal controls for a description of our business model, and risk management can be further strategy and focus areas.
embedded into the operations of the business and on how to deal with areas of See page 38 for the Boards statement on improvement which come to the attention going concern and the viability statement.
of management and the Board.
Auto Trader Group plc 58 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Board receives regular reports on issues relating to share price, trading activity D Remuneration and movements in institutional investor shareholdings.
The Board is also provided The Board has established a Remuneration with current analyst opinions, forecasts and Committee, chaired by Jill Easterbrook and feedback from its joint corporate brokers, comprised entirely of Independent Bank of America, Merrill Lynch and Numis, Non-Executive Directors.
The work of the on the views of institutional investors on a Committee is described on pages 66 to 80. non-attributed and attributed basis, and on the views of analysts from its finance PR agency, Powerscourt.
Any major E Relations with shareholders concerns are communicated shareholders to the Board by the Executive Directors.
The Chairman, the Senior Independent The Board has a comprehensive investor Director and other Non-Executive Directors relations programme to ensure that existing are available to meet with shareholders and and potential investors understand the arrangements can be made through the Companys strategy and performance.
As part of this programme, the Executive Directors give formal presentations to Annual General Meeting investors and analysts on the half-year The AGM of the Company will take place and full-year results in November and June at 10.00 am on Thursday 20 September 2018 respectively.
These updates are webcast at the Companys registered office at live and then posted on the Groups website 4thFloor, 1TonyWilson Place, Manchester, and are available to all shareholders.
All shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote, in person The results presentations are followed or by proxy, at the AGM.
by formal investor roadshows in the UK and overseas.
All proxy votes received in respect of each resolution at the AGM are counted and the In March 2018, a Capital Markets Day was balance for and against, and any votes held, attended by institutional investors, withheld, are indicated.
At the meeting itself, buy-side and sell-side analysts.
During the voting on all the proposed resolutions is Capital Markets Day, the Executive Directors conducted on a poll rather than a show of presented an update on progress made since hands, in line with recommended best the IPO, information about long-term risks practice.
The Chairman, the Chair of each of and opportunities, the automotive market the Committees and the Executive Directors and the competitive environment.
Members are present at the AGM and available to of senior management also presented more answer shareholders questions.
detail on the Companys customers, consumers and products, including The Notice of the AGM can be found in a product demonstrations.
booklet which is being mailed out at the same time as this Annual Report.
The Notice of All announcements, investor the AGM sets out the business of the meeting presentations, the Capital Markets Day and an explanatory note on all resolutions.
presentations and the Annual Report are Separate resolutions are proposed in respect on the Companys website: of each substantive issue.
co. uk investors resolutions proposed at the AGM will be During the year, the Company carried out an published on the Companys website: extensive consultation process in relation plc.
co. uk investors following tothe Remuneration Policy to be proposed the AGM.
atthe 2018 AGM, which included contact withthe top 30 investors, and with proxy advisory agencies.
There is also an ongoing programme of attendance at conferences, one-to-one meetings and group meetings with institutional investors, fund managers and analysts.
These meetings cover a wide range of issues, including strategy, performance and governance, but care is exercised to ensure that any price-sensitive information is released to all shareholders, institutional and private, at the same time.
Meetings which relate to governance are attended by the Chairman or another Non-Executive Director as appropriate.
Private shareholders are encouraged to give feedback and communicate with the Board through ir@autotrader.
co. uk Auto Trader Group plc 59 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018
