Report of the Audit Committee Dear shareholders, I am pleased to introduce the Audit Committee report for 2018.
The Committee operates under defined Terms of Reference and assists the Board in discharging many of its responsibilities over monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial reporting: the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management framework: the internal audit function: and the independence and effectiveness of the external auditors.
The Committee is comprised entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors.
I fulfil the requirement for a Committee member to have recent and relevant financial experience, and all members and therefore the Committee as a whole have competence in consumer and digital businesses.
The Committee met four times during the year, arranged around our external reporting and audit cycle and with an additional meeting this year in relation to GDPR compliance.
Meetings are David Keens attended by the CFO COO and other members of management Chairman of the Audit Committee by invitation, and with representation from KPMG and Deloitte.
The Committee reviewed significant accounting matters with an appropriate level of challenge and debate.
We believe that the information in this Annual Report clearly explains progress Composed of three independent Non-Executive Directors.
against our strategic objectives and is fair, balanced and David Keens is considered by the Board to have recent understandable.
All members have significant The Committee plays a key role in ensuring that we continue commercial and operating experience in consumer to have a robust internal control and risk management process.
Our internal audit function is outsourced to Deloitte LLP, who continue to provide us with specialist expertise in delivering At least three meetings held per year.
Meetings are attended by the Chief Financial Officer At the 2017 AGM, shareholders approved the Boards and Chief Operating Officer, Chief Executive Officer, recommendation to re-appoint KPMG LLP as our external internal auditors and external auditors by invitation.
The Committee has carried out a review of the For more information on the Committees Terms of Reference effectiveness and independence of KPMG and has visit plc.
co. uk investors recommended to the Board that they are re-appointed at the 2018 AGM.
David Keens Chairman of the Audit Committee 7 June 2018 Four meetings were held during the year: Meetings attended Percentage of total meetings held meetings attended David Keens Chairman 4 4 100% Jill Easterbrook 4 4 100% Jeni Mundy 4 4 100% Our progress in 2018: Focus on key areas of judgement, including acquisition accounting for Motor Trade Delivery and treatment of contingent liability for VAT treatment of insurance revenue.
Review of effectiveness of internal audit function, internal controls and risk management framework.
Evaluate effectiveness and independence of external audit.
In 2019 we will: Agree with KPMG any changes for their 2019 audit.
Review the impact of changes to accounting policies for IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16.
Continue to review the effectiveness of the internal audit function and risk management framework.
62 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial reporting The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial reporting is to review and monitor the integrity of the financial statements, including annual and half-year reports, result announcements, dividend proposals and any other formal announcement relating to the Groups financial performance.
The Committee assessed the quality and appropriateness of the accounting principles and policies adopted, and whether management had made appropriate underlying estimates and judgements.
In doing so, the Committee reviewed management reports in respect of the main financial reporting issues and judgements made, together with reports prepared by the external auditor on the 2018 half-year statement and 2018 Annual Report.
The Committee, with assistance from management and KPMG, identified areas of financial statement risk and judgement as described below.
Description of focus area Audit Committee action Revenue recognition Revenue recognition for the Groups revenue streams is not complex.
The Committee was satisfied with the explanations provided However, this remained an area of focus for KPMG due to the large and conclusions reached.
volume of transactions and as revenue is the most material figure in the financial statements.
KPMG carried out a review of our revenue recognition policies: performed detailed analytical procedures: tested completeness and existence of revenue by matching sales information from sales systems to the financial systems and to cash receipts: reviewed customer contracts: tested revenue cut-off and assessment of deferred and accrued revenue: and carried out other computerassisted audit techniques.
KPMG also reviewed the Groups assessment of IFRS 15 which will be adopted from 1 April 2018 when it becomes mandatory.
Share-based payments The Company has a number of share-based payment arrangements, The Committee reviewed the assumptions made by management, accounted for under IFRS 2, which requires the use of valuation particularly in relation to profit forecasts that determine the models and certain assumptions in determining their fair value at proportion of shares granted under the PSP and DABP.
The grant and in the recognition of charges and, as such, is an area of Committee reviewed the comments within KPMGs report into the judgement for management.
calculation of the charge and satisfied itself that the share-based payment accounting is appropriate and in accordance with accounting standards.
Acquisition accounting Managements assessment of the allocation of goodwill and The Committee reviewed the assumptions made by management intangible assets as part of the acquisition of Motor Trade Delivery in respect of the identification and valuation of intangible assets, requires significant judgement.
and the allocation of consideration, and was satisfied that these were appropriately accounted for under IFRS 3.
KPMG evaluated the process and models used, challenged the assessment of the identification of intangible assets and verified the reliability and relevance of the data used.
Going concern and viability statement The Directors must satisfy themselves as to the Groups viability and The Committee reviewed managements schedules supporting the confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that it will continue going concern assessment and viability statements.
These included to operate and meet its liabilities as they fall due.
The period over the Groups medium-term plan and cash flow forecasts for the which the Directors have determined it is appropriate to assess the period to March 2021.
The Committee discussed with management prospects of the Group has been defined as three years.
In addition, the appropriateness of the three-year period, and discussed the the Directors must consider if the going concern assumption is correlation with the Groups principal risks and uncertainties as appropriate.
The feasibility of mitigating actions and the potential speed of implementation to achieve any flexibility required was discussed.
The Committee evaluated the conclusions over going concern and viability and the proposed disclosures in the financial statements and satisfied itself that the financial statements appropriately reflect the conclusions.
Auto Trader Group plc 63 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Report of the Audit Committee continued Fair, balanced and understandable Risk management and internal control At the request of the Board, the Committee has reviewed the content The Committees responsibilities include a review of the risk of the 2018 Annual Report and considered whether, taken as a whole, management systems and internal controls to ensure that they in its opinion it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the remain effective and that any identified weaknesses are properly information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys dealt with.
The Committee: position, performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee reviews annually the effectiveness of the Groups internal was provided with an early draft of the Annual Report, and provided control framework: feedback on areas where further clarity or information was required receives reports from the Groups outsourced internal audit in order to provide a complete picture of the Groups performance.
function and ensures recommendations are implemented The final draft was then presented to the Audit Committee for review where appropriate: and before being recommended for approval by the Board.
When forming reviews reports from the external auditors on any issues identified its opinion, the Committee reflected on discussions held during the in the course of their work, including any internal control reports year and reports received from the external auditor and considered received on control weaknesses, and ensures that there is an the following main areas: appropriate response from management.
Is the report Is a complete picture presented and has any The Group has internal controls and risk management systems in fair?
sensitive material been omitted that should place in relation to its financial reporting processes and preparation have been included?
These systems include policies and Are key messages in the narrative aligned procedures to ensure that adequate accounting records are with the KPIs and are they reflected in the maintained and transactions are recorded accurately and fairly financial reporting?
to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance Are the revenue streams described in the with IFRS.
The internal control systems include the elements narrative consistent with those used for described below.
financial reporting in the financialstatements?
Element Approach and basis for assurance Is the report Is there a good level of consistency between balanced?
the reports in the front and the reporting in Risk Whilst risk management is a matter for the Board the back of the Annual Report?
management as a whole, the day-to-day management of the Do you get the same messages when reading Groups key risks resides with the Operational the front end and the back end independently?
Leadership Team OLT and is documented in a risk register.
A review and update of the risk Is there an appropriate balance between register is undertaken twice a year and reviewed statutory and adjusted measures and are by the Board.
The management of identified risks any adjustments explained clearly with is delegated to the OLT, and regular updates are appropriate prominence?
given to executive management at quarterly Are the key judgements referred to in the steering group meetings.
narrative reporting and significant issues Financial Group consolidation is performed on a monthly reported in the Report of the AuditCommittee reporting basis with a month-end pack produced that consistent with disclosures of key estimation includes an income statement, balance sheet, uncertainties and critical judgements set out cash flow statement and detailed analysis.
The month-end pack also includes KPIs and these How do these compare with the risks that are reviewed each month by the OLT and the KPMG are planning to include in their report?
Results are compared against the Plan Is the report Is there a clear and cohesive framework or Reforecast and narrative provided by understandable?
management to explain significant variances.
Are the important messages highlighted Budgeting and An annual Plan is produced and monthly results and appropriately themed throughout reforecasting are reported against this.
The Plan and the Reforecast are Is the report written in accessible language prepared using a bottom up approach, informed and are the messages clearly drawn out?
by a high-level assessment of market and economic conditions.
Reviews are performed by the OLT and the Board whilst the Plan is also Following the Committees review, the Directors confirm that, compared to the top down Medium Term Plan in their opinion, the 2018 Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, MTP as a sense check.
The Plan is approved balanced and understandable and provides the information by the OLT and the Board, and the Reforecast is necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position approved by the OLT and reported to the Board.
and performance, business model and strategy.
Delegation of A documented structure of delegated authorities authority and and approval for transactions is maintained approval limits beyond the Boards Terms of Reference.
This is reviewed regularly by management to ensure it remains appropriate for the business.
Segregation Procedures are defined to segregate duties of duties over significant transactions, including procurement, payments to suppliers, payroll and discounts refunds.
Key reconciliations are prepared and reviewed on a monthly basis to ensure accurate reporting.
64 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Internal audit Non-audit services provided by the external auditor Deloitte has been appointed as the Groups outsourced internal The external auditor is primarily engaged to carry out statutory audit audit function.
They are accountable to the Audit Committee and use work.
There may be other services where the external auditor is a risk-based approach to provide independent assurance over the considered to be the most suitable supplier by reference to their adequacy and effectiveness of the control environment.
The internal skills and experience.
It is the Groups practice that it will seek quotes audit work plan for 2018 was approved by the Audit Committee and from several firms, which may include KPMG, before engagements covers a broad range of core financial and operational processes for non-audit projects are awarded.
Contracts are awarded based and controls, focusing on specific risk areas, including: on individual merits.
A policy is in place for the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor, to ensure that the provision of such FCA compliance framework services does not impair the external auditors independence or Fraud risk management objectivity, in accordance with the EU Audit Reform.
Business continuity planning Non-audit service Policy GDPR readiness Key financial controls Audit-related services Considered to be approved directly related to the audit by the Committee up to a level Management actions that are recommended following the audits For example, the review of interim of 100,000 for each individual are tracked to completion and reviewed by the Committee to ensure financial statements, compliance engagement, and to a that identified risks are mitigated appropriately.
certificates and reports to maximum aggregate in any regulators.
financial year of the higher The Committee met with representatives from Deloitte without of 200,000 and 70% of the management present and with management without representatives Acceptable non-audit services average audit fees paid to of Deloitte present.
There were no issues of significance raised Including, but not limited to: the audit firm in the last three during these meetings.
work related to mergers, consecutive years.
acquisitions, disposals, Whistleblowing joint ventures or circulars: Any engagement of the A whistleblowing policy has been adopted which includes access benchmarking services: and external auditor to provide to a whistleblowing telephone service run by an independent corporate governance advice.
permitted services over these organisation, allowing employees to raise concerns on an entirely limits is subject to the specific confidential basis.
The Committee receives regular reports on the approval in advance by the use of the service, any significant reports that have been received, Audit Committee.
the investigations carried out and any actions arising as a result.
Prohibited services Prohibited, with the exception External auditors In line with the EU Audit Reform, of certain services which One of the Committees roles is to oversee the relationship with the services where the auditors are subject to derogation if objectivity and independence certain conditions are met, external auditor, KPMG, and to evaluate the effectiveness of the may be compromised by the in accordance with the EU service provided and their ongoing independence.
The Committee threat of self-interest, self-review, Audit Reform.
has carried out a review based on discussion of audit scope and management, advocacy, familiarity plans, materiality assessments, review of auditors reports and or intimidation for example, tax feedback from management on the effectiveness of the audit services, accounting services, process, and has concluded that the external auditor remains internal audit services, valuation effective and independent.
services and financial systems During the year the Committee reviewed KPMGs findings of the consultancy.
external auditor in respect of their review of the half-yearly report for the six-month period ending 30 September 2017, and in respect Refer to plc.
co. uk investors for full details of the policy.
of the audit of the financial statements for the year ended During the year, KPMG charged the Group 37,575 for audit-related 31 March2018.
The Committee met with representatives from assurance services.
KPMG without management present and with management without The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market representatives of KPMG present, to ensure that there were no Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes issues in the relationship between management and the external and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 statement auditor which it should address.
of compliance The Committee has reviewed, and is satisfied with, As a competitive tender was carried out in 2016, and KPMG LLP were the independence of KPMG as the external auditor.
first appointed as statutory auditors in the financial year to March 2017, we have complied with the requirement that the external audit contract is tendered within the 10 years prescribed by EU and UK legislation and the Codes recommendation.
The Company confirms that it complied with the provisions of the Competition and Markets Authoritys Order for the financial year under review.
David Keens Chairman of the Audit Committee 7 June 2018 Auto Trader Group plc 65 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018
