Report of the Nomination Committee Dear shareholders, I am pleased to present the Report of the Nomination Committee for 2018.
Role of the Committee The Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and its Committees, and makes appropriate recommendations to the Board for appointments to the Board.
The Committee also has specific responsibility to oversee diversity and inclusion across the whole Group: and as a result of the external Board evaluation, now monitors talent development below Board level.
How the Committee operates All members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman of the Board chairs all meetings of the Committee unless they relate to the appointment of his successor: for these meetings, the Senior Independent Director Ed Williams SID is invited to take the Chair unless the SID is in contention Chairman of the Nomination Committee for the role.
The Committee meets at least annually, and on an ad hoc basis as required throughout the year.
Only members of the Committee Composed of the Chairman and three independent have the right to attend meetings: however, the Chief Executive Non-Executive Directors.
Officer attends for all or part of meetings so that the Committee At least one meeting held per year.
can understand his views, particularly on key talent within the business.
Meetings are attended by the Chief Executive Officer Succession planning in action and other relevant attendees by invitation.
The Committee recognises that effective succession planning For more information on the Committees Terms of is critical to the Companys long-term success.
co. uk investors Our succession plans were put into action when Sean Glithero announced his intention to resign in July 2017.
The Committee considered the options for replacing Sean, and agreed that, in line with the succession plan, Nathan Coe was the most suitable candidate for CFO in addition to his existing role as COO, and so was appointed as joint CFO COO with effect from 21 September2017.
Following Nathans appointment and Seans departure, the Committee reviewed and updated the succession plan to ensure Three meetings were held during the year: orderly succession for the Board and senior management, in the Meetings attended Percentage of context of the Groups strategy.
The succession plan takes into total meetings held meetings attended account future skills requirements in the context of the Groups Ed Williams Chairman 3 3 100% strategy, as well as recognising the importance of growing and developing our internal talent.
David Keens 3 3 100% Jill Easterbrook 3 3 100% Policy on appointments to the Board The most important priority of the Committee has been, and Jeni Mundy 3 3 100% will continue to be, ensuring that members of the Board should collectively possess the broad range of skills, expertise and Our progress in 2018: industry knowledge, and business and other experience Appointment of Nathan Coe in joint role of Chief Financial necessary for the effective oversight of the Group.
Officer and Chief Operating Officer and continued monitoring Appointments are made on merit, against objective criteria of succession planning.
and with due regard to the benefits of diversity on the Board.
Further focus on diversity and inclusion.
The Committee takes account of a variety of factors before Renewal of additional three-year term for the Chairman recommending any new appointments to the Board, including and Senior Independent Director.
relevant skills to perform the role, experience, knowledge and diversity, including gender diversity.
Engagement of external Board evaluators and review of the recommendations.
We have a target of women representation on our Board of 25%, and we continue to meet this target, as two of our six Board In 2019 we will: members are women.
Continue to monitor Board and senior management succession in the context of the Companys long-term strategy.
Renewal of additional three-year terms for Non-Executive Directors.
Support management and the Board in promoting diversity in senior management and across the workforce.
Auto Trader Group plc 60 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Diversity and inclusion Board composition The Nomination Committees Terms of Reference also include the As at 31 March 2018 responsibility to oversee diversity and inclusion across the whole Group, not just at Board and senior management level.
3 The Company has established a Diversity and Inclusion Guild, with representation from across all parts of the business and led 2 by members of our Operational Leadership Team.
This guild is responsible for developing and driving our strategy to create a 1 diverse, inclusive and conscious AutoTrader, and reports to the Nomination Committee on its activities and progress.
Diversity at AutoTrader means respect for and appreciation of Chairman differences in: gender, age, sexual orientation, disability, race and Independent Non-Executive Directors ethnic origin, religion and faith, marital status, social, educational Executive Directors background and way of thinking.
We do not set targets but we do aim for our employee workforce to be reflective of the communities in which we operate, across all aspects of diversity.
We acknowledge the recommendations of the Hampton-Alexander Board diversity Review and we are committed to strengthening women representation As at 31 March 2018 at senior management level and throughout the organisation, particularly in parts of the business where women are currently unrepresented, such as technology.
2 We are pleased to report that 50% of our Operational Leadership Team OLT and 27% of the OLTs direct reports are women.
External Board evaluation During the year, there was an externally facilitated Board evaluation.
4 This is described in detail on page 58 of the corporate governance statement.
Men Women Independence and re-election to the Board In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will retire and offer themselves for election or re-election to the Board.
The Directors who have been in post throughout the year have been Board tenure subject to a formal evaluation process, and both the Committee and As at 31 March 2018 the Board are satisfied that all Directors continue to be effective in, and demonstrate commitment to, their respective roles on the Board 1 1 and that each makes a valuable contribution to the leadership of the Company.
The Board therefore recommends that shareholders approve the resolutions to be proposed at the 2018 AGM relating to the election and re-election of the Directors.
I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions on the work 4 of the Committee.
Over 5 years Ed Williams 2-5 years Chairman of the Nomination Committee Up to 2 years 7 June 2018 Auto Trader Group plc 61 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018
