Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 47 Corporate Governance Report Additionally, the Code provides that notice Group structure chart Group Structure Chart of an Annual General Meeting should be given 20 working days 28 calendar days in advance, but the longer year end reporting process resulting from the combination with SES, together with Board constraints over AGM dates, means that Provides strategic leadership we shall only be able to provide notice 23 to the Group calendar days in advance, which is within the statutory minimum period.
Finally, under the current Code, the independence of the Chairman is not taken into account under the rule requiring a majority of members of the Nomination Committee to be independent NonNomination Committee Executive Directors.
However, as this will Reviews Board composition be permitted under the proposed and succession planning revisions to the Code published by the FRC in December 2017, no changes are proposed pending publication by the FRC of the final version of these revisions, Read more on expected in early summer of this year.
page 51 Composition of the Board The composition of the Board is the Chairman, two Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors, three of Audit Committee whom are independent.
In the course of Monitors and oversees risk the year ended 31 March 2018 and as management and control announced by the Company, the Board has undergone several significant, planned changes to refresh and strengthen the Board, including the appointment of a new Chief Executive, a Read more on pages 5255 new Chief Financial Officer and two new Non-Executive Directors see more in the Nomination Committee Report provided on page 51.
Brief biographical details of all Board Remuneration Committee members are set out on pages 44 Reviews Board and senior and 45.
The chairmanship, membership management remuneration and attendance record of all Board Committees is set out on page 48.
Read more on pages 5677 Executive Leadership Team Management Committee chaired by the Chief Executive, setting Group strategy and reviewing the operational performance of the Group AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 48 Corporate Governance Report continued Board Audit Remuneration Nomination meetings Committee Committee Committee Meetings attended: Philip Aiken 7 7 Chair 3 3 Craig Hayman appointed 19 February 2018 1 1 James Kidd 7 7 David Ward resigned 19 February 2018 6 6 Jennifer Allerton 7 7 5 5 Chair 6 6 2 2 Chris Humphrey 7 7 Chair 5 5 5 5 3 3 Ron Mobed 7 7 5 5 6 6 2 2 Phil Dayer resigned 7 July 2017 2 2 1 1 1 1 Emmanuel Babeau appointed 1 March 2018 1 1 1 1 Peter Herweck appointed 1 March 2018 1 1 1 1 Executive Directors and members of Operation of the Board Matters reserved for the Board the senior management team make The Chairman, supported by the The Board is responsible to shareholders presentations covering progress Company Secretary, ensures that the for the proper management of the Group.
against current strategy and objectives Board functions effectively and has There is a formal schedule of matters and ideas for future investment.
established Board processes designed specifically reserved for the Boards This year the Board also held a to maximise its performance and decision and this was updated following number of additional unscheduled effectiveness.
Key aspects of these completion of the combination with the meetings throughout the due diligence processes are: software business of Schneider Electric.
phase of the combination, to offer Senior management are frequently The schedule covers key areas of the support, guidance and appropriate invited to attend AVEVA Group Board Groups affairs, which include: challenge to management.
meetings, ensuring the Board is well overall responsibility for the strategy The Board delegates the day-to-day informed on technical and market of the Group: responsibility for managing the Group factors driving the Groups corporate governance: to the Executive Directors.
performance, as well as on financial review of trading performance and To enable the Board to discharge its outcomes.
forecasts: duties, all Directors receive appropriate The Board had seven scheduled risk management: and timely information.
Briefing papers meetings during the year.
These Board membership: are distributed by the Company meetings, together with any communications with shareholders: Secretary to all Directors, usually Committee meetings, are generally approval of major transactions, seven days in advance of Board and held at the Groups Head Office in including mergers and acquisitions: Committee meetings.
Cambridge or in our London office and A monthly reporting pack containing and are approximately one day in approval of the financial statements management accounts with duration.
and annual operating and capital commentary and reports from each Each scheduled Board meeting has expenditure budgets.
member of the Executive team is an over-arching theme.
These include distributed to the Board on a monthly an annual technology review, business Independence of Non-Executive basis.
plan strategy day, succession planning, Directors and segregation Meetings were held between the annual budget, presentations from of duties Chairman and the Non-Executive Executive management, and interim The Board has considered the Directors during the year, without the and final results.
The Board aims that independence of the Non-Executive Executives being present, to discuss Directors visit an AVEVA office or Directors and believes that, with the appropriate matters as necessary.
business event outside of the UK at exception of the two newly appointed The Chairman ensures that the least once per year.
During the year the Non-Executive Directors, all are currently Directors take independent Chairman and other Non-Executive independent of management and free professional advice where they judge it Directors visited offices in Hyderabad, from any material business or other necessary to discharge their Houston and California.
Further, three relationships that could materially interfere responsibilities as Directors at the of the Non-Executive Directors also with the exercise of their independent Groups expense.
All members of the attended the AVEVA World Summit in judgement.
Their biographies on pages Board have access to the advice of the October 2017, which this year took 44 and 45 demonstrate a range of Company Secretary.
place in Cambridge, meeting with staff experience and sufficient calibre to bring Non-Executive Directors and and customers throughout the event.
independent judgement on issues of Executive Directors are encouraged The Executive Directors visit non-UK strategy, performance, resources and annually to undertake training in AVEVA offices on a regular basis.
standards of conduct which is vital to furtherance of their specific roles and In addition, the Board holds a full-day the Group.
strategy meeting every year at which Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 49 The roles of the Chairman and the Chief The review highlighted that many of the The key elements of the system of Executive are distinct and the division of recommendations of the 2014 report had internal controls currently include: responsibility between these roles has been implemented prior to this latest each member of the Executive team been clearly established, set out in writing review and this demonstrated strong has responsibility for specific aspects and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman signs of effectiveness.
In particular, it was of the Groups operations.
They meet is responsible for the effectiveness of the recognised that the Boards response on a regular basis and are responsible Board and ensuring that it meets its to the strategic changes required, for the operational strategy, reviewing obligations and responsibilities.
The Chief as the profitability of the Company operating results, identification and Executive is responsible to the Board for had declined since 2014, had been mitigation of risks and communication the day-to-day management of the successful.
The Board had also pursued and application of the Groups policies business, leadership of the Executive a transformational deal with Schneider and procedures.
Where appropriate, team and execution of the Groups Electric which has the potential to meet matters are reported to the Board: strategic and operating plans.
The the strategic objectives of the Company.
regular reports to the Board from the Chairman and Chief Executive meet Executive team on key developments, regularly to discuss any issues pertaining It was recommended that the Board financial performance and operational to the Companys performance, review strategic objectives to redefine issues in the business: reputation and organisation.
success for the new organisation operational and financial controls and following the appointment of the new procedures which include authorisation Performance evaluation CEO and completion of the integration limits for expenditure, sales contracts The Board undertakes a formal and plan.
An induction programme for the and capital expenditure, signing rigorous review of its performance and Board in relation to the new SES business authorities, IT application controls, that of its Committees and Directors each was also recommended to be undertaken.
organisation structure, Group policies, financial year.
In December 2017, an segregation of duties and reviews by extensive review was externally facilitated Internal control and risk management: by The Effective Board LLP, the management an annual budget process which is independent board performance The Board has overall responsibility for reviewed, monitored and approved by consultants, who also facilitated an the Groups system of internal control and the Board: extensive review in 2014.
The review was for monitoring its effectiveness.
However, regular meetings between the carried out following one-on-one such a system is designed to manage Executive team, regional sales teams interviews with each Director, the General rather than eliminate the risk of failure and and key functional managers to Counsel and the Deputy CFO and by its very nature can only provide discuss actual performance against Company Secretary, following which an reasonable and not absolute assurance forecast, budget and prior years.
The extensive report covering the operation of against material misstatement or loss.
operating results are reported on a the Board as well as each Committee was The principal risks and uncertainties the monthly basis to the Board and prepared.
One advantage of using the Group faces are set out on pages 32 to compared to the budget and the latest same consultants as in 2014 was that a 34.
There were no significant control forecast as appropriate: comparison of matters was possible and failures during the year.
targeted internal audit reviews which progress against previous objectives focus on confirming the operation could be tracked.
The exercise also The Board has established a continuous of controls in key process areas: and resulted in individual feedback for each process for identifying, evaluating and maintenance of insurance cover to Director as to areas of strength amongst managing the significant risks the Group insure all major risk areas of the the Board collective as well as comments faces.
The Board regularly reviews the Group based on the scale of the risk where effectiveness might be improved.
effectiveness of the Groups internal and availability of the cover in the The final report was presented by The controls, which have been in place from external market.
Effective Board LLP to the January 2018 the start of the year to the date of Board meeting.
approval of this report, and believes that it The Boards monitoring covers all is in accordance with the September 2014 material controls, including financial, Overall, the review concluded that the Financial Reporting Council Guidance on non-financial, operational and compliance Board and its Committees had Risk Management, Internal Control and controls and risk management.
It is based demonstrated a high degree of Related Financial and Business principally on reviewing reports from effectiveness.
management to consider whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Board periodically carries out visits to the Groups subsidiaries and receives presentations from local management on their operations.
AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 50 Corporate Governance Report continued The Board also twice annually undertakes Dialogue with institutional Constructive use of the Annual a specific risk assessment which involves shareholders General Meeting reviewing the Groups risk matrix that is Communication with shareholders is The Board seeks to use the Annual owned and maintained by the Groups given high priority by the Board.
The General Meeting to communicate with Risk Committee, with representatives CEO, Deputy CEO and CFO and Head investors and all shareholders are involved from the Executive team and of Investor Relations have meetings encouraged to participate.
These assessments with representatives of institutional of the Audit, Remuneration and consider all significant aspects of internal shareholders and hold analyst briefings Nomination Committees will be available control necessary for the Company to at least twice a year, following the at the Annual General Meeting to answer successfully carry out the key business announcement of the interim and full-year any questions.
strategies of the Group, together with results, but also at other times during the more generic inherent risks of the Groups year as necessary.
Senior managers from Philip Aiken operations.
The Audit Committee assists Product Development, Business Strategy Chairman the Board in discharging its review and Finance also attended analyst and 14 June 2018 responsibilities.
shareholder meetings during the year to assist in providing more detail as to the Indemnities to Directors business strategy and key areas of focus.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Directors are All of these meetings seek to build a granted an indemnity from the Company mutual understanding of objectives with to the extent permitted by law in respect major shareholders by discussing of liabilities incurred as a result of the long-term strategy and obtaining performance of their duties in their feedback.
capacity as Directors to the Company.
The indemnity would not provide any The Board also receives formal coverage to the extent the Director is feedback from analysts and institutional proven to have acted fraudulently or shareholders through the Companys dishonestly.
The Company has financial PR adviser and financial maintained Directors and Officers advisers.
The Board is appraised of liability insurance cover throughout discussions with major shareholders to the year.
ensure that Executive and Non-Executive Directors consider any matter raised by Policy on appointment and shareholders and to enable all Directors to reappointment understand shareholder views.
In addition, In accordance with the Articles of when necessary, the Group consults with Association, all Directors are required to shareholders in respect of proposals for retire and submit themselves for rethe remuneration of Executive Directors.
election at least every three years by The Senior Independent Non-Executive rotation and also following their Director, Chris Humphrey, is available to appointment.
In addition, as in the prior shareholders if they have concerns which year and in accordance with the UK contact through the normal channels of Corporate Governance Code, all of the Chairman, CEO or Deputy CEO and CFO Board members are offering themselves has failed to resolve or if such contact for re-election at the Annual General would be inappropriate.
The Chairman, Meeting unless retiring.
Senior Independent and Non-Executive Directors are available for dialogue with Non-Executive Directors are appointed shareholders at any time and attend for a term of three years.
The terms and together with the other members of conditions of appointment of Nonthe Board the Annual General Meeting, Executive Directors are available for but are not routinely involved in investor inspection at the Companys registered relations or shareholder communications.
office during normal business hours Corporate information is also available on and will be available for inspection on the Companys website, www.
the day of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
