Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 51 Nomination Committee Report On appointment, all Directors are asked Membership and attendance Details of Board changes to confirm that they have sufficient As a result of the combination and the Chair time to devote to the role, which is Company now having significantly confirmed together with details of their increased scale and greater complexity, Philip Aiken 3 3 duties in the letter of appointment.
All Board changes were considered Committee members Directors undergo an induction as soon important for the furtherance of the as practical following their appointment.
Christopher Humphrey 3 3 1 As part of the induction process, Peter Herweck 1 1 2 Directors are provided with background The Committee appointed from outside Jennifer Allerton 2 2 2 information on the Group and attend the Company a new Chief Executive and Ron Mobed 2 2 the Groups headquarters in Cambridge two Non-Executive Directors in the year, 1 Appointed 1 March 2018 for meetings and presentations from bringing to AVEVA a greater breadth of 2 Resigned 1 March 2018 senior management.
In addition, complementary skills, experience and where appropriate, meetings are also knowledge that will enable future growth For the majority of the financial year, until arranged with the Groups advisers.
and fulfilment of the strategic plans of the completion of the combination with the Company.
SES, the Nomination Committee The two new Non-Executive Directors are comprised a majority of independent appointed by Schneider Electric and are On 19 February, Craig Hayman was Non-Executive Directors, chaired by Philip therefore not independent: consequently, appointed CEO of the enlarged AVEVA Aiken.
Following completion of the and in order for the Board of the enlarged Group, with James Kidd appointed combination, the Nomination Committee Group to comprise a majority of Deputy CEO and CFO.
David Ward, who comprised three Non-Executive Directors, independent Non-Executive Directors previously held the position of CFO, one of which was a Schneider Electric including the Chairman, one additional resigned as an Executive Director and appointee, Peter Herweck, and the independent Non-Executive Director is member of the Board, taking on the role Committee was still chaired by Philip Aiken.
Recruitment of Deputy CFO and Company Secretary.
for this position is underway, and the The Committee has responsibility for resulting Board will total nine members, In relation to Craigs appointment, the Board and Committee composition, comprising the Chairman, two Executive Company consulted with a number of particularly in relation to the diversity of Directors, two Non-Executive Directors search firms, and retained the services of background, skills and experience.
The and four independent Non-Executive Spencer Stuart, an independent executive Committee oversees the nomination, Directors.
search and leadership consulting firm, to selection and appointment of Nonprovide suitable candidates for Executive and Executive Directors and Diversity policy consideration by the Nomination monitors succession planning for the The Board considers that diversity, Committee.
Shortlisted candidates were Board and senior management roles.
including diversity of gender, is interviewed by the Chairman and the Effective succession planning is vital for very important when reviewing the other Non-Executive and Executive the long-term success of the Company.
composition of the Board and possible Directors.
There have been considerable changes new appointments.
That said, whilst to the composition of the Board during the Board notes the 2016 Hampton It was agreed as part of the combination the financial year and the Committee Alexander report on FTSE women that Schneider Electric, as the majority has taken a lead role in the process for leaders, it has not set targets on gender shareholder, would appoint two Nonthe appointment of both Executive and balance.
The Board considers that Executive Directors to the Board.
Non-Executive Directors and senior the most important consideration is Emmanuel Babeau holds the role of management.
A key requirement of to appoint people based on merit, Vice Chairman of the Board in addition the succession planning and Board skills and relevant experience with to being a Non-Executive Director, evaluation has been to ensure a balance a view to enhancing the balance and is also employed by Schneider of skills, experience, independence and effectiveness of the Board.
Electric as Deputy Chief Executive and and knowledge that is appropriate CFO.
Peter Herweck is employed by to manage future growth and the Schneider Electric as an Executive Vice strategic plans of the Company.
Both appointments will add significant management and industrial In 2017 18, the Committee met three experience to the existing AVEVA Board.
times and the main areas that it concentrated on were the changes described here.
