70 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Nomination Committee report Nomination Committee report Introduction The Nomination Committee assists The Committee met three times during Succession planning the Board in reviewing the structure, the year.
Each meeting was attended size, performance and composition of by all members of the Committee then is carried out with a the Board.
It is also responsible for appointed other than on one occasion reviewing succession plans for the Mr. Schwarz was unable to attend a view to strengthening Directors and senior executives.
All Committee meetings were our organisational The full terms of reference of the also attended by the Chief Executive Committee can be found on the Offi cer and the Groups General Counsel.
capabilities and Companys website at investors.
ensuring our board and executive team possess the requisite Membership Committee Member Date of Appointment skills, experience Warren Finegold Chairman 10 May 2018 and diversity.
John Schwarz 10 May 2018 Warren Finegold Erwin Gunst 10 May 2018 Chairman Belinda Richards 7 June 2018 Composition The Company complies with the The Committee is chaired by Warren The Groups General Counsel is secretary requirements of the Code that a majority Finegold, the Senior Independent Director to the Committee.
From time to time, of the nomination committee be of the Company, and comprises three the Committee may invite others to join non-executive directors, independent in other Non-Executive Directors.
Full the meetings, where it considers their character and judgment and free from any biographies of the Committees members expertise and knowledge to be relevant relationship or circumstance which may, can be found be on pages 58 to 59. and necessary to the subject matter under could or would be likely to, or appear to, consideration.
To date, this has included aff ect their judgment.
the Chief of Staff & Corporate Secretary and the Chief Human Resources Offi cer.
Avast annual report 2018 71 Principal Activities The Committee sets an annual forward The Committee leads the recruitment of a candidate.
The Board reviews agenda based on the scope of its process in relation to the appointment of the information provided to it, and, responsibilities under its terms of Non-Executive Directors to the Board.
where deemed appropriate, approves reference.
In addition, the Committee The Committees standard process the appointment.
considers any other relevant ad-hoc involves developing a candidate pro le On 7 June 2018, Belinda Richards was matters which require its review.
During based on the skills and experience that appointed to the Board, the Nomination the year, the Committee paid particular it believes would best complement the Committee and the Audit and Risk attention to the following matters: Board, as well as satisfying the diversity Committee.
The Committee followed needs of the Company as set out in its Diversity of the Board its standard recruitment process Diversity Policy.
in connection with Ms. Richards Succession plans for the Board and The Committee typically seeks to engage appointment.
Spencer Stuart, an external executive management an external professional search agency, professional search consultancy with no New appointees to the Board with no other connection with the other connection to the Company, was Company, to assist in the search for engaged by the Company to assist with Evaluation of the Boards structure, candidates for Non-Executive Director the recruitment process.
Spencer Stuart size, performance and composition positions.
The Committee reviews all adheres to the Voluntary Code of Conduct Boards compliance with the UK suitable candidates, and, following for Executive Search, relating to, amongst Corporate Governance Code consideration, makes a recommendation other things, gender diversity.
to the Board regarding the appointment currently comprises members from discusses the succession plans for each Diversity Policy 5 diff erent nationalities, with experience of them.
The successors are given a In addition to the Diversity Policy which across a diverse range of disciplines readiness status and their development applies to the Groups recruitment process and industries.
The Board set itself the is discussed.
Succession planning is more generally as further described on objective of adding two new female carried out with a view to strengthening page 51, the Board has adopted a members during 2019, subject to such our organisational capabilities and Diversity Policy speci c to its composition.
candidates possessing the requisite skill, ensuring our Board and executive team The Board recognises the need to have knowledge and experience to complement possess the requisite skills, experience leaders who embrace the Groups culture the Boards composition.
The Board met and diversity.
It is the Companys intention and values, and believes that in order to this goal by appointing Maggie Chan Jones to ll the majority of the senior executive provide eff ective strategic leadership, the and Tamara Minick-Scokalo in March 2019. positions with internal candidates.
Board must comprise individuals with a Vincent Steckler announced on 13 March Independent Directors broad range of perspectives, along with 2019 that he will retire as CEO, eff ective the requisite skills, knowledge, and The Code recommends that at least half as of 30 June 2019.
He will be succeeded experience.
The Board acknowledges of the board of directors of a UK-listed by the Groups current President of the bene ts of diversity, and aspires to company, excluding the Chairman, Consumer, Ondrej Vlcek.
Following a re ect a greater diversity of gender, race, should comprise non-executive directors comprehensive assessment and market cultural, educational and professional determined by the board to be independent benchmarking exercise undertaken by backgrounds, among other diff erences.
in character and judgment and free from the Committee with the assistance of relationships or circumstances which may The Board, and speci cally the Committee, Russell Reynolds, the Board concluded aff ect, or could appear to aff ect, the encourage the emergence and Mr. Vlcek was the best quali ed person to Directors judgment.
As six of the Directors consideration of female candidates and lead the Group.
during the year were not independent, those of diverse backgrounds in all of its the Company did not comply with the Performance Evaluation searches.
The Committee requires that recommendation of the Code that at least all lists of potential new Board members The evaluation of the Nomination half the board of directors, excluding the include a diverse set of candidates.
Committee for 2018 was completed as part Chairman, should comprise independent of the annual Board evaluation process.
The Board is committed to increasing non-executive directors.
Two additional The performance of the Committee was diversity, including the number of female independent non-executive Directors were evaluated in accordance with the process Board members over time, and to appointed in March 2019, Ms. Chan Jones set out on pages 61 to 62.
The Committees improving its position on diversity and Ms. Minick-Scokalo, and we therefore performance was rated highly.
The whenever appropriate opportunities comply as at the date of this report.
Committee has re ected on the findings of arise.
During 2018, the Board appointed the report, together with the suggestions Succession Plans its first female member, Belinda Richards.
off ered in relation to how the Committee The Company reviews the risk rating of the The Board conducts a review of its can operate more eff ectively.
senior executives on an annual basis and composition, at least annually.
