AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 52 Audit Committee Report We are committed to ensuring the integrity of the Groups financial reporting, audit process, key risk management and internal control.
The Audit Committee is appointed by the Membership and attendance Board.
The members are Christopher Chair Humphrey Chair, Jennifer Allerton and Ron Mobed.
All the Committee members Christopher Humphrey 5 5 are regarded by the Board as independent Committee members Non-Executive Directors.
Committee meetings are also regularly attended by Jennifer Allerton 5 5 other Board members and relevant senior Ron Mobed 5 5 management at the invitation of the Chair, Attending by invitation to provide company insight, advice and reports to help the Committee consider the Chairman Companys approach to its primary CEO responsibilities.
In addition, the external Deputy CEO and CFO audit partner is invited to attend all Deputy CFO and Company Secretary meetings.
Group General Counsel Head of Internal Audit & Risk The Committees primary responsibilities Other senior members of the are as follows: Group Finance team to undertake regular scrutiny of the External audit partner Groups financial performance: ensuring the financial integrity of the Group is effective: ensuring the Group has the appropriate risk management processes and internal controls: and ensuring that the internal and external audit processes are robust.
Committee membership and skills I was appointed Chairman of the Committee in November 2016.
The Board believes I have the necessary recent and relevant financial experience as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, as I am a Chartered Management Accountant and a Fellow of CIMA, and have most recently held the role of Chief Executive Officer and previously Group Finance Director of Anite plc, a UK-listed company, and previously senior positions in finance at Conoco, Eurotherm International plc and Critchley Group plc.
I have maintained an up-to-date understanding of financial and corporate governance best practice by attending many training sessions and updates presented by the major accounting firms.
Christopher Humphrey Audit Committee Chairman 14 June 2018 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 53 Spotlight Areas of Focus In addition to its prescribed duties, the Audit Committee undertook several additional projects during the year.
Project Activity in the year The Committee played a very important part in, and spent considerable time throughout the due diligence phase Combination of, the combination, specifically around assessing risks, reviewing working capital forecasts and understanding the with SES financial reporting complexities of combining the businesses.
GDPR The new EU General Data Protection Regulations GDPR represent a significant overhaul to existing data protection regulations and requirements, and the financial and reputational consequences of non-compliance could have a very serious impact on the Group.
Accordingly, the Committee has been working closely with the Legal, HR and IT teams within the Group, overseeing a risk-based approach to the assessment of the use and processing of personal data, and the key business functions and systems impacted.
As a result of these efforts, key remedial actions, policies and training are presently being finalised to ensure Group-wide GDPR compliance.
Management will be held accountable for any remedial actions required to ensure effective GDPR compliance.
GDPR compliance was, and remains, a particular area of focus in the meetings of the Committee held towards the end of the financial year, with the effective date of the regulations being 25 May 2018.
The Audit Committee has worked closely with the external auditors in agreeing the scope and level of assurance to Audit of the be provided on the Schneider Electric Software business, given the complexities involved.
enlarged Group In addition, the Committee made the decision to instruct our auditors to perform a full scope audit over the heritage AVEVA business.
The Board also considers that the considerable amount of time in regular the process that has been established to other members of the Committee unscheduled meetings throughout the ensure that the Annual Report is fair, have a broad range of appropriate due diligence phase of the combination.
balanced and understandable, reporting skills and strong experiences covering to the Board on their findings.
financial, commercial and operational Audit Committee terms matters.
Brief biographical details for of reference Risk and internal controls all the members of the Committee The role of the Committee is set out The key elements of the Groups internal are included on pages 44 and 45. in its terms of reference which are control framework and procedures are available on the companys website at set out on page 31.
The principal risks The Audit Committee provides effective www.
The terms of reference the Group faces are set out on pages 32 governance over external financial have been fully reviewed and amended to 34.
At least on an annual basis, the reporting, risk management and internal following the combination and the Audit Committee considers the Group controls and reports its findings and new governance agenda.
The Audit risk register and related management recommendations to the Board.
In Committee monitors the integrity of controls.
Throughout the process, my capacity as Chairman of the Audit the financial statements of the Group the Board or the Audit Committee: Committee, I am pleased to report on and the Committee members as part Gives consideration to whether areas the operations of the Committee during of the full Board review all proposed should be looked at more closely the past year, with emphasis on the regulatory announcements to be made through specific control reviews: specific matters we have considered, by the Group, with consideration given Identifies areas where enhancement of including compliance with the Code to any significant financial reporting internal controls is required: and and associated Guidance on Audit judgements included or required.
Agrees action plans to deliver the Committees.
I confirm that, save for the necessary or recommended areas of non-compliance outlined on The Committee considers the enhancements.
page 46, we have fully complied with the effectiveness of financial reporting and requirements of the Code as issued in internal controls, compliance with legal The Audit Committee has developed a April 2016 and which applies to financial requirements, accounting standards and framework to gain assurance over the years beginning on or after 17 June 2016. the Listing, Disclosure and Transparency system of internal financial and Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
This comprises: The Committee usually meets four times We also review any proposed change in A risk assessment performed by a year: an extra formal meeting was held accounting policies and any operational management and the this year for the purposes of considering recommendations from the Groups Board to identify key areas for the combination with the Schneider auditor regarding improvements to assurance.
Electric software business and the internal controls and the adequacy of Peer and Head Office reviews of key associated financial and risk matters.
resources within the Groups finance risk areas of financial internal control.
Additionally, the Committee spent a function.
The Committee also assesses During the year, a subsidiary company control visit was undertaken in Norway.
AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 54 Audit Committee Report continued Audit Committee objectives The Audit Committee agreed a number of objectives at the start of the financial year.
Objectives Activity in the year Progress Complete induction Ron Mobed joined the Board and Audit Committee in March 2017.
It is important that Ron is suitably briefed on all matters concerning the business of the Audit Committee.
of new Committee member As part of the main Board induction, Ron attended the Cambridge office for two days in April 2017 for meetings with key management.
As part of this visit, Ron met with the CFO and was introduced to AVEVAs revenue recognition policy.
An additional Audit Committee meeting was held as a result of the combination, and was attended by Ron.
The new revenue recognition standard will be fully implemented for the 2018 19 financial IFRS 15 revenue year, and a large amount of material has been prepared to determine, and have audited, recognition the opening position as at 1 April 2017 as well as the quantitative impact on the 2017 18 conversion financial year.
The accounting policy change to revenue recognition is the biggest accounting policy change seen in many years, and the magnitude of this task is not to be underestimated.
The Corporate Finance team have been working on this project for over 18 months, with one member of the team having worked full time on this project for nine months.
The Audit Committee continually reviews progress of this project and has offered regular guidance and advice throughout this period.
Good progress has been made in determining the impact upon the pre-merger AVEVA.
Given the timing of completion of the combination with Schneider Electric Software, the project of conversion to IFRS 15 for this component began late but a thorough impact assessment is substantially complete, with the audit of this underway.
Product At the start of the year, the Board and Audit Committee requested improvements in the reporting of progress and risk of key Product Development projects, to include metrics, Development profitability and progress against the roadmap.
reporting Improvements in reporting were implemented during the year, which covered key development projects as well as more general project governance metrics.
The project for further enhancements was put on hold and will now form part of the integration project following completion of the combination with the Schneider Electric Software business as processes and systems are harmonised.
Completion of In 2016 17, the Committee undertook a review of the Groups position on internal audit.
An outline proposal was considered in November 2016 to create an internal audit programme, Minimum Controls and the level of assurance that such a programme would provide.
The proposal was approved Framework by the Committee and incorporated the establishment of a Minimum Controls Framework, against which internal audit testing would be focused.
The drafting of the Minimum Controls Framework was completed, with input from the Groups internal audit co-source partner, PwC, in September 2017.
Continued At the start of the year, the Audit Committee agreed an internal audit plan for the year which included three subsidiary audits as well as a specialist review of cyber security and IT development of penetration testing.
The plan was successfully delivered using a mix of resources from the AVEVAs internal Corporate Finance team as well as our internal audit co-source partner, PwC.
The Committee audit function selected Deloitte to undertake the IT security review, as they had undertaken a similar review in 2015.
Following completion of the combination, which has led to the Group having significantly greater scale and complexity, the Audit Committee endorsed managements plans to recruit a dedicated, experienced Head of Audit and Risk.
This new role was filled in April 2018, enabling a greater and broader scope of internal audit in future periods.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 55 The use of qualified third parties to without any local language barrier.
and were 1,236k for non-audit work.
undertake specialist reviews in more Further, the Committee believes that The Committee continues to keep technical areas.
During 2017 18, PwC such instances favour the provision of under review the cost effectiveness performed an internal audit of our assurance from external sources, which and quality of the audit service.
is considered to be both more efficient An annual assessment by the Audit and effective.
This will be reviewed on a The Committee meets quarterly with Committee of the whole system of case-by-case basis, with PwC performing the auditor without any members of the internal financial and operational these visits as necessary.
with the external auditor from time to time External audit away from the Companys offices.
There is a formal whistle-blowing Ernst & Young EY have been our auditor policy which has been communicated since 2003 and following a successful Audit planning and main audit issues to employees.
This policy provides audit tender process in the previous year At the November 2017 meeting of the information on the process to follow shall remain our auditor until no later than Committee, the auditor presented their in the event that any employee feels 2023, at which point a change shall have audit plan for 2017 18.
This included a it is appropriate to make a disclosure.
During the year, we complied summary of the proposed audit scopes The Audit Committee is satisfied that with the Statutory Audit Services for for the year for each of the Groups the process is effective and reviews Large Companies Market Investigation subsidiaries and a summary of what key issues which are reported.
Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender the auditor considered to be the most Processes and Audit Committee significant financial reporting risks facing Key estimates and judgments Responsibilities Order 2014. the Group, together with the auditors The Audit Committee discusses with proposed audit approach to these management and the auditor the The effectiveness of the external audit significant risk areas.
The main area of approach that has been taken in process is dependent on appropriate audit focus for the year is the significant assessing all key estimates.
These include audit risk identification and a robust judgement surrounding revenue revenue recognition, provisions for assessment of key estimates and recognition.
impairment of receivables, the valuation judgments at the start of the audit cycle.
of retirement benefit obligations and the We challenge the auditor regarding their Committee objectives for 2018 19 uncertainty of tax treatments in certain test of management's assumptions each In March 2018, the Committee jurisdictions.
Annually, the Committee audit cycle and also request feedback considered the objectives for the year considers the going concern principle from management on their assessment ahead and it was agreed the following upon which the financial statements are of auditor effectiveness.
Overall, both would be prioritised: prepared and also the Groups viability management and the Committee are Understanding and assessing financial statement disclosures.
satisfied at the quality and effectiveness risks resulting from the integration of of the external audit process.
heritage AVEVA and Schneider Internal audit Electric software As outlined in the previous year, the Audit partners are rotated every five years Induction of a fourth independent Company has established an internal and a formal statement of independence Non-Executive Director to the Board audit function which is co-resourced is received from the auditor each year.
and Audit Committee using Company employees as well as The Board and the Audit Committee are A complete review of the enterprise third party specialists.
This was further satisfied that the independence of the risk management process for the strengthened by an experienced hire of a auditor has been maintained.
The current enlarged Group Head of Audit & Risk in April 2018.
As a audit partner, Marcus Butler, will complete Development of AVEVAs new internal Committee, we believe this resourcing his third year with the Group this year.
audit function model will provide the most effective Continued focus on improvements to approach, with some audit reviews The Committee also advises the Board R&D reporting requiring internal Company knowledge on the auditors remuneration both for and for other audit review areas specialist audit and non-audit work and discusses Christopher Humphrey input from an independent third party will the nature, scope and results of the Audit Committee Chairman be optimal.
The Company has initially audit with the external auditor.
Tighter 14 June 2018 chosen PwC for its internal audit partner, legislation on non-audit services provided although this appointment is not by the external auditor came into force last contractual or for any fixed term.
year, and we successfully transitioned all non-audit services away from EY before The Groups operations are the year started.
However, we required geographically widely spread, which use of EYs services for elements of means that in some instances where the accountants report in relation to the assurance over the operation of internal combination.
The Committee considered control is considered valuable, there is a that the independence and objectivity clear advantage in such reviews of of the EY audit would not be impaired controls being undertaken by teams with by this work.
The audit fees paid to EY specific local regulatory knowledge and for the statutory audit were 1,723k,
