64 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Audit and Risk Committee report Audit and Risk Committee report Introduction The Committees role is to assist the Board controls and risk management systems, We are committed with the discharge of its responsibilities in including the Groups risk management relation to financial reporting, including framework, whistleblowing processes, in assisting the reviewing the Groups annual and half-year cybersecurity controls and readiness and financial statements and accounting fraud systems.
The full terms of reference board on matters policies, internal and external audits and of the Committee can be found on the of governance, controls, and reviewing and monitoring Companys website, at investors.
the scope of the annual audit and its com investors corporate-governance.
The Committee reviews The Committee met three times during and monitors the independence and and internal control the year.
Each meeting was attended objectivity of the external auditor, including by all members of the Committee then reviewing the appropriateness of practices of appointed.
All Committee meetings were any non-audit services provided by also attended by the Chief Executive the group.
the external auditor, and providing Offi cer, the Chief Financial Offi cer and recommendations to the Board on the the Groups General Counsel, as secretary Erwin Gunst appointment of external auditors.
Chairman Committee also reviews the eff ectiveness of the Groups internal audit, internal Membership Committee Member Date of Appointment Erwin Gunst Chairman 10 May 2018 Ulf Claesson 10 May 2018 Belinda Richards 7 June 2018 1 Warren Finegold 10 May 2018 Composition The Company complies with the The Committees members each have From time to time, the Committee may requirements of the Code that all members relevant experience in the technology and invite others to join their meetings, where of the audit and risk committee be consumer industry, which is evidenced it considers their expertise and knowledge non-executive directors, independent in their biographies set out on page 58. to be relevant and necessary to the in character and judgment and free from The Chairman, Erwin Gunst, was formerly subject matter under consideration.
any relationship or circumstance which an auditor.
Belinda Richards has recent To date, this has included the Chief of may, could or would be likely to, or appear and relevant financial experience, Staff & Corporate Secretary, the Groups to, aff ect their judgment and that one being a former corporate finance internal and external auditors and the such member has recent and relevant partner at Deloitte LLP, and currently Groups Vice President of Finance.
acts audit committee chair at two FTSE 350 companies.
1 Director left the Committee on 7 June 2018 to focus on other Committee responsibilities.
Avast annual report 2018 65 Principal Activities The Committee sets an annual forward Reviewing the half-year results of the Considering the principal risk factors agenda based on the scope of its Group, together with the Groups facing the Group and reviewing, and responsibilities under its terms of external auditor approving, the viability statement of reference.
In addition, the Committee the Group Monitoring an intra-group reconsiders any other relevant ad-hoc organisation pursuant to which the Reviewing Avasts compliance with, matters which require its review.
During intellectual property of the AVG and readiness for, the start of the 2018, the Committee aff orded particular business was transferred from the enforcement of the General Data focus to the following matters: Netherlands to Czech Republic Protection Regulation GDPR on Assessing the internal controls and risk 25 May 2018 Reviewing, and approving, the management of the Group, including reduction of the Companys share Reviewing the Groups security policies, the annual internal audit plan and premium account by GBP 138,000,000 including in relation to vulnerability internal audit charter more details of which are set out on management, the product build Reviewing, and approving, the Groups page 93 environment and the security of external audit and tax advisory fees data collected by the Group Reviewing the impact of changes to for 2018 IFRS accounting, speci cally IFRS9, Monitoring and reviewing the external 15 & 16 auditors independence and objectivity, Reviewing the annual goodwill and the eff ectiveness of the audit impairment assessment, together with process, including setting and the Groups external auditor considering maintaining a policy on the Committees the Groups external auditors findings assessment of the auditors and reports on the annual audit and independence and the eff ect of interim review non-audit services on audited financial statements costs.
Otherwise revenues are recognised The Group has a revenue recognition Signi cant Issues relating on a net basis.
Licence agreements policy in place that details the application to the Accounts with customers include a pre-fide ned of relevant standards to the products and The issues considered by the Committee subscription period during which the services sold by the Group.
The policy that are deemed to be signi cant to the customer is entitled to the usage of the includes rules for applying timing of Groups accounts are set out below: products, including updates and upgrades recognition dependent upon the individual Revenue recognition of the software.
Deferrals of licence nature of the services sold.
The Groups agreements revenues are the same for external auditors have also reported to The Group generates revenue mainly IFRS 15 revenue recognition standard the Committee that they have reviewed from the sale of its software and related and previous guidance mainly IAS 18. the revenue recognition policy as well services for desktop and mobile which The Group must determine whether a as performing detail testing of revenue protect users security, online privacy licence sold provides a customer with a recognition across the year and found and device performance.
The Group has right to access or a right to use the revenue to be appropriately accounted for.
revenue arrangements with resellers, underlying intellectual property.
If a licence payment providers, partners and other Having provided appropriate challenge is determined to provide a customer with a third parties.
When the Group concludes to management and the external auditors, right to access, the revenue is required that it has control over the provided the Committee has concluded that to be recognised over time.
If a licence is product or service before that product the revenue recognition for the Group determined to provide a customer with a or service is transferred to the customer, is appropriate.
right to use, the revenue is required to be the Group acts as principal, and revenues recognised at a point in time.
There is a risk for satisfying the performance obligations that if incorrectly determined, revenue are recognised on a gross basis before would not be properly recognised.
deduction of resellers commissions, payment provider fees and the third party 66 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Audit and Risk Committee report Income and deferred taxes Management has provided the Committee The Finance team has been working with the results of the annual impairment on the implementation, and a signi cant The Group operates in multiple tax analysis for 2018.
Having provided amount of material has been prepared and jurisdictions and realised multiple appropriate challenge to management presented to the external auditors and to signi cant transactions during 2018, and the external auditors, the Committee the Committee, evaluating the eff ect on including transfers of intellectual property has concluded that the result of analysis is the opening position at 1 January 2019 as within the Group, as a result of which the appropriate and there is no impairment of well as the quantitative impact on the 2019 Group generated a tax bene t of $99.2m either goodwill or intangible assets as of financial year.
The Group proactively seeks 31 December 2018. reviews progress of the implementation to agree arms length pricing with tax and signi cant judgements made by the authorities to mitigate tax risks of Leases IFRS 16 Group, including in respect of discount signi cant cross-border operations.
Management has presented the rates applied and the treatment of lease The Group is operating in multiple tax Committee with the outcome of the review extension options.
The Group has elected jurisdictions and undertook a number of the Groups lease contracts.
The Group practical expedients permitted by the of signi cant transactions during 2018. has signi cant offi ce lease contracts.
standard as described in Note 4.
There is a risk that taxation will not The evaluation of lease contracts included properly re ect all transactions which The Groups external auditors have assessment of short-term lease contracts arose during the reporting period correctly been reviewing the impact of IFRS 16 on which the Group has elected to exclude and income tax accounts, including the ongoing lease accounting and the from IFRS 16 measurement, the deferred tax, in both the consolidated transition by performing detailed testing appropriate lease term, given options statement of financial position and the of speci c leases, and have provided for extension of the offi ce lease and the consolidated statement of pro t or loss feedback on the judgements made by accounting for variable lease rentals.
the Group, application of the accounting Following adoption of IFRS 16, the Group policy, and practical expedients adopted.
Management provides regular risk will recognise a right of use ROU asset The auditors found that the Groups updates relating to taxation to the and a corresponding financial liability to proposed adjustment to lease accounting Committee on a quarterly basis.
These the lessor based on the present value of on implementation of IFRS 16 was updates mainly focus on recent tax future lease payments.
There is a risk materially correct.
matters of the Group and also on that the expense would not be properly future development in corporate taxes recognised if the contract is not properly worldwide where relevant for the Group.
In the consolidated statement of pro t or loss, IFRS 16 replaces Impairment of Goodwill and inde nite the straight-line operating lease expense lived intangibles by amortisation of the ROU asset included At each reporting date, the Group within operating costs and an interest assesses whether there is an indication expense on the lease liability included that an asset may be impaired.
As at within finance costs.
Refer to Note 4 for 31 December 2018, the Group reported illustration of the eff ect in the consolidated $1,993.7 million of Goodwill and statement of pro t or loss in 2019.
The $71.5 million of intangibles assets with Group is expecting the impact of the initial inde nite useful lives Note 25.
Goodwill recognition on 1 January, 2019 in the and intangible assets with inde nite useful amount of $69.7m of the ROU asset and lives are tested for impairment annually $71.7m of the lease liability.
The Group is as at 31 December at operating segment using the option to bring on the ROU asset level, which is the smallest group of at an amount equal to the lease liability, cash-generating units CGU s to which adjusted by the amount of any prepaid the Goodwill and intangible assets with or accrued lease payments relating to inde nite useful life can be allocated.
that lease recognised immediately before Goodwill is allocated to the groups of 1 January, 2019 representing the CGUs, that corresponds with operating remaining $2.0m.
segments Consumer and SMB according to the allocation from past business combinations.
Intangible assets with inde nite useful lives are all allocated to the Group of CGUs that corresponds to the Consumer operating segment.
Avast annual report 2018 67 enterprise risk management policy.
The Committee has reviewed, and Internal Controls The Groups internal controls over financial approved, the internal audit plan The Board is responsible for the reporting are in line with the COSO for 2019, which was created using a Companys risk management, internal framework for internal controls.
For 2019, Internal control and internal financial control internal controls process of the Group are Audit will focus on validating the systems, and for reviewing the based around control environment, risk eff ectiveness of the internal control eff ectiveness of these systems.
The assessment, control activities, information framework and mitigating identi ed Committee is responsible for monitoring and communication, and monitoring, operational and compliance risks.
and keeping under review the adequacy each of which is explained in more detail and eff ectiveness of these systems.
It is a process designed to provide The Group maintains risk management The Group has in place a whistleblowing reasonable assurance regarding the and internal control systems and policy, which enables employees to report achievement of objectives relating to processes which accord with the Financial any concerns relating to misconduct operations, reporting and compliance.
Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk and serious breaches of Avast policy Internal Audit Management, Internal Control and Related or ethical guidelines without fear of Financial and Business Reporting, and The Group established a formal Internal retribution.
The Group has established a these remained in place from the date Audit department in 2018 to support the dedicated hotline and email address to of the Companys IPO up to the date of Committee.
The primary purpose of the handle all such reports.
The Committee is satis ed Internal Audit department is to enhance or concerns raised by employees are that there are no signi cant weaknesses and protect organisational value by investigated and all findings and remedial in these systems and that the Groups providing an independent, objective actions are reported in detail in periodic internal controls are operating eff ectively.
assurance and consulting activity reports prepared for and reviewed by designed to add value and improve the Committee.
Internal controls relating to financial the Groups operations, control and reporting form an integral part of the governance processes.
Groups corporate governance and Control Environment Control Activities Monitoring The Groups control environment serves Control activities are designed to prevent The Group implemented a process for the as a foundation for its internal control or detect material misstatements in monitoring of the performance of internal process.
Management at all levels is the financial statements and reporting.
control activities through periodic control responsible for ensuring that the Group, To manage these risks, the Group self-certi cation and compliance reviews and its employees, comply with the has established control activities.
by the internal audit function.
The Group Groups internal policies, including its Key processes in relation to control maintains an ongoing and transparent Code of Conduct and other internal activities, including related risks and dialogue with its employees regarding policies relating to, amongst others, key controls, have been implemented internal controls and the performance of financial processes, human resources, and documented in the Groups internal control activities.
Control owners are legal, information security and IT.
encouraged to disclose any issues related to the performance of control activities The financial shared services of the Information and communication in order to ensure that any issues in the Group support harmonised and Internal policies and directions, process can be addressed in their infancy.
standardised financial accounting including requirements relating to the processes and controls.
The Committee receives reports directly implementation of internal controls as from both external and internal auditors.
well as accounting and reporting, are Risk Assessment The reports are considered and communicated to all relevant employees The Group takes a risk-based approach discussed in detail by the Committee through internal communication channels towards internal controls.
During the year, in meetings at which both the external such as the intranet, training sessions the Committee, on behalf of the Board, and internal auditors are present.
carried out an assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
A description of the principal risks facing the Group and how these were reviewed to assess the Groups viability can be found on page 47.
68 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Audit and Risk Committee report The Annual Report is reviewed by the The Committee is satis ed that there is Financial Reporting Internal Committee in advance of presentation to an on-going process for identifying, Controls and Risk Management the Board for approval.
The Committee evaluating and managing the principal The Groups internal controls over financial reviewed the Annual Report in detail, risks faced by the Group.
The systems reporting are designed to provide as well as the processes carried out by have been in place from the date of IPO reasonable assurance regarding the management in compiling its contents, up to the date of approval of the annual reliability of financial reporting and with a view to ensuring that it was fair, report and accounts, and they are regularly the preparation of published financial balanced and understandable.
On the reviewed by the Committee.
statements in accordance with the basis of this, the Committee recommended relevant applicable laws and procedures.
During the year the Head of Internal to the Board that it could give the The key elements of the internal control Audit reported to the Committee on disclosure as set out on page 97. framework, in addition to the risk updates on the internal control framework management processes outlined in implementation and eff ectiveness, on Eff ectiveness of Internal Control pages 46 to 47 of this report, are: areas where it had carried out key control and Risk Management reviews, including account reconciliations, A clear schedule of matters which During the year, the Committee, on behalf information technology and entity require approval at Board level of the Board, reviewed the eff ectiveness of level controls.
the internal control and risk management A policy in relation to delegation of The Board is satis ed that there are no systems of the Group and reported its authority and the limitations which apply signi cant weaknesses in these systems conclusions to the Board.
and that the groups internal controls are Comprehensive annual budgets The Committee believes that the internal operating eff ectively.
prepared for the Group, and individual controls, including the internal audit business units function, and risk management function External Auditor On-going monitoring of the performance of the Group are eff ective, and that the The Committee makes recommendations of the Group, and individual business quality, experience and expertise of the to the Board on the appointment, units, against budgets with reports Groups function is appropriate for the remuneration and removal of the given to the Board on a regular basis business.
In coming to this conclusion, Groups external auditor.
the Committee considered numerous A centralised financial reporting system In accordance with the mandatory factors, including: and close process, with controls and re-tendering rules implemented by the reconciliation procedures designed Reports it received from, and meetings UK Competition and Markets Authority, to facilitate the production of the it held with, the Groups external auditor at least once every ten years the audit consolidated accounts services contract will be put out to tender Managements self-certi cation of to enable the Committee to compare the Assessment of accounting standard the Groups internal controls and risk quality and eff ectiveness of the services changes with both the external auditor management systems, including against provided by the incumbent auditor with and the Committee the 2013 COSO Framework, as those of other audit rms.
The Committee monitored by the Committee Documented policies made widely oversees and supervises any competitive available to employees in relation Work carried out by the Internal tender process undertaken by the Group on anti-bribery and corruption, Audit function during the year ended for the provision of external audit services.
anti-money laundering, export 31 December 2018, including an Ernst & Young LLP was appointed as controls and whistleblowing assessment of the functional personnel external auditor of the Company on and the annual internal audit work plan An ongoing review of the principal 26 April 2018 for the year ended risks which face the Group, in addition Detailed assessment of the risk ratings 31 December 2018.
Previously, Ernst & to the assessment undertaken by assigned to the individual risks within Young s. r. o. was appointed as external the Committee in preparing the the business auditor to the underlying group since viability statement the year ended 31 December 2007.
Measures the Group has in place The Company was in compliance with Regular reports in relation to finance, to mitigate the principal risks it faces the Statutory Audit Services for Large tax and treasury given to the Committee more details of which can be found Companies Market Investigation on pages 47 to 48 Mandatory Use of Competitive Processes Approved audit plan for year and Audit Committee Responsibilities ended 31 December 2019 relating Order 2014 during the year.
to financial, control, business and operational audits Avast annual report 2018 69 The Committee considered the application Non-Audit Services Performance Evaluation of the Policy with regard to non-audit In order to ensure the ongoing The evaluation of the Audit and Risk services and con rms it was properly and independence of the external auditor, Committee for 2018 was completed as part consistently applied during the year.
The the Group maintains a Non-Audit Services of the annual Board evaluation process.
Committee further reviewed the services Policy Policy which fide fines the rules The performance of the Committee was provided to the Group by the external under which the Group can use the evaluated in accordance with the process auditor during the year, and the safeguards external auditor for non-audit services.
The Committees in place to protect its independence and The Policy complies with the Financial performance was rated highly.
The Committee concluded that Reporting Councils guidelines on the The Committee has re ected on the the non-audit services carried out by the UK Corporate Governance Code and findings of the report, together with the external auditor did not impair the external Ethical Standards.
suggestions off ered in relation to how the auditors independence or objectivity.
The Policy provides that any non-audit Committee can operate more eff ectively.
A comparison of total audit and non-audit services carried out by the external auditor By Order of the Board fees charged by the external auditor for must be approved in advance by the the financial year 2018 is set out in Note 11 Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee and to the financial statements.
carried out in accordance with the terms of the Policy.
The Policy further provides Eff ectiveness of External Auditors Erwin Gunst that the Committee must assess the ratio Chairman The Committee reviewed the of audit to non-audit fees in the period eff ectiveness of the external auditors 9 April 2019 and projected for that financial year end.
for the financial year ended 31 December If the Committee nds that the level of 2018.
The Committee considered fees being paid to the external auditor numerous factors when undertaking for audit or non-audit related services are this assessment, including: of a magnitude that could impair, or be perceived to impair, auditor independence, The independence and objectivity the Committee may impose a restriction of the external auditor on the services being awarded to the The external auditors quali cations, external auditor.
The Policy imposes a expertise and resources and the cap on the fees charged by the external eff ectiveness of the audit process auditor for non-audit services, which is 70% of the average of the fees paid in the The tenure of external auditor, and last three consecutive financial years for whether it would be appropriate to any statutory audits provided to the Group.
put the audit services contract out As with all non-audit service providers, to tender the Committee is also required to review The transparency reports of the external the services proposed to be provided by auditor for 2018 the external auditor to consider whether it has the appropriate skills and expertise The non-audit work which was carried to do so.
out by the external auditor for the Group During the financial year, the external Its meetings and discussions with the auditor carried out the following non-audit external auditor, including in relation to services on behalf of the Group: the auditors findings and reports on the annual audit and interim review Reviewed the half-year results of the Group Upon completion of its review of the eff ectiveness of the external auditors, Acted as the Companys reporting the Committee recommended to the accountant and other advisory work in Board that a resolution to re-appoint connection with its IPO Ernst & Young LLP be proposed at the Provided tax advice to the Group which next Annual General Meeting.
were ceased prior to the IPO
