60 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Corporate governance statement Corporate governance statement Ulf Claesson Independent Independence of Non-Executive Dear Shareholder Non-Executive Director Directors and Division of Roles As a Board, we place great emphasis Erwin Gunst Independent The Board has considered the on ensuring that the Group has in place Non-Executive Director independence of the Non-Executive a robust and transparent corporate Directors and believes that, although governance framework, appropriate for Philip Marshall Chief Financial Offi cer half of its members excluding the its size, operations, and organisational Ondrej Vlcek President, Consumer Chairman were not considered structure.
It is our strong belief that independent during the year, all Directors corporate governance plays a key role The Company welcomed Belinda Richards were able to ful ll their duties.
Two in delivering long-term success to the as a new independent Non-Executive additional independent directors, Group and its shareholders.
Ms. Richards Maggie Chan Jones and Tamara has extensive experience of financial We believe that the Board follows Minick-Scokalo, were appointed to the management with companies listed on suitable and appropriate corporate Board in March 2019, and as a result the London Stock Exchange.
Further governance practices, and we continue the Company is compliant with the details in relation to all Board members to develop and enhance these to match requirement as at the date of this report.
are set out on pages 58 to 59. the dynamic landscape of our business.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Since the year ended 31 December 2018, This report aims to give shareholders Executive Offi cer are distinct and the the Board has appointed two new and other stakeholders insight into division of responsibility between these independent directors, Maggie Chan the approach that the Board takes to roles has been agreed by the Chairman, Jones and Tamara Minick-Scokalo.
corporate governance, including the the CEO and the Board.
The Chairman is manner in which it implements the The Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for the overall eff ectiveness principles of the UK Corporate comprised of Erwin Gunst Committee of the Board and ensuring that it meets Governance Code.
Chair, Ulf Claesson, Warren Finegold and its duties.
The CEO is responsible for Belinda Richards.
Further details in relation the Groups day-to-day operations, John Schwarz to the Audit and Risk Committee are set the management of the Executive Chairman out on pages 64 to 69.
Management team, and for establishing the leadership for the Group.
The The Remuneration Committee is Chairman and CEO meet regularly to comprised of Ulf Claesson Committee Board Composition discuss operational, reputational, and Chair, Warren Finegold, and John organisational issues.
The Chairman was Avast is governed by the Board, which Schwarz.
Further details in relation to the independent when he became a Director delegates certain responsibilities Remuneration Committee are set out of Avast Holding B. V. in 2014 and also of to an Audit and Risk Committee, a on pages 72 to 91.
Remuneration Committee, a Nomination The Nomination Committee is comprised Committee, and a Disclosure Committee.
Con icts of Interest of Warren Finegold Committee Chair, During the year, the members of the Board John Schwarz, Belinda Richards, and The Board has agreed an approach and were as follows: Erwin Gunst.
Further details in relation adopted guidelines for handling any to the Nomination Committee are set out potential and actual con icts of interest John Schwarz Chairman on pages 70 to 71. that arise between any of its Board Vincent Steckler Chief Executive Offi cer members and the Group.
Each Director is The Group has a Disclosure Committee required to disclose any potential or actual Warren Finegold Senior Independent comprised of Vincent Steckler, con icts that their other professional Non-Executive Director Philip Marshall, Kelby Barton General commitments and interests may cause.
Counsel, and Peter Russell Director Pavel Baudis Non-Executive Director Any con ict of interest must be approved of Investor Relations.
in advance by the Board, and such Eduard Kucera Non-Executive Director The Executive Management team is con icts must be permitted by the Lorne Somerville comprised of the Chief Executive Offi cer, Companys Articles of Association.
Non-Executive Director Chief Financial Offi cer, President of Consumer, and ten other individuals who Belinda Richards Independent are responsible for the key functions of Non-Executive Director the business and the management of daily operations.
Avast annual report 2018 61 Note 35 of the Financial Statements The Group is committed to providing the Avast Board Review 2018 describes the related party transactions Directors with training in governance and Disclosure between certain Directors and the other matters as necessary to assist them Avast engaged the services of Lintstock Group, which have been considered and with ful lling their duties as Directors.
to assist with the 2018 review of Board approved by the Board of Avast Holding performance.
Lintstock is a corporate Matters Reserved for the Board B. V. if it was entered into prior to the IPO, governance advisory rm specialising in The Board is responsible to shareholders or the Board of the Company, if it was Board reviews.
Lintstock has no other for the proper management of the Group.
entered into after the IPO.
The Group has a policy that delineates Board Operations those matters speci cally reserved for The first stage of the review involved The Chairman, supported by the Group the Boards consideration and approval.
Lintstock engaging with the Chairman and Secretary and the Senior Independent Key areas reserved for the Board include: Company Secretary to set the context for Director, leads the Boards functions the evaluation and to tailor the survey The Groups Strategy and ensures its eff ectiveness.
Members content to the speci c circumstances of of the Executive Management team The Groups corporate structure Avast.
All Board members were then regularly attend Group Board meetings and capitalisation invited to complete an online survey and support the Boards engagement addressing the performance of the Approval of financial reports on the Groups strategy, financial results, Board and its Committees.
Risk management The exercise was weighted to ensure In 2018, the Board held eight scheduled Approval of expenditures and that core areas of Board and Committee meetings.
The Audit and Risk and major transactions including mergers performance were addressed, as well Nomination Committees held three and acquisitions as having a particular focus on the meetings, and the Remuneration following areas: Board composition Committee held four meetings.
Meetings The quality of preparations, and the role are generally held in London.
During 2018, Determining remuneration policy for played by the Board, with regard to the the Boards meetings included reviewing Executive Directors IPO of Avast the Groups latest financial results, Oversight of governance, including business unit execution, principal risks, The evolution of the Boards approval of the Groups applicable the Groups strategy, and its technology.
composition, including the numbers corporate Policies The Board delegates the ordinary of independent Directors, and the day-to-day operational responsibility to Approval of equity awards to employees priorities with regard to developing the the Executive Management team.
and executive management Boards pro le in the context of Avasts strategic goals The Chairman and Non-Executive Board Focus during 2018 Directors also regularly hold sessions, The potential to improve the Board Approved, and monitored, the without the attendance of the Executive papers, as well as areas in which the Groups long-term business strategy Directors or other members of the members of the Board would bene t and objectives Executive Management team.
from training or support in future Provided oversight of Avasts IPO in The Chairman ensures that the Directors The management of Board meetings, May 2018 take independent professional advice including the frequency with which Identi ed and discussed Avasts where they judge it necessary to discharge meetings are held, and how the principal risks their responsibilities.
The Group Secretary allocation of time to key topics could is also available to provide advice for be optimised.
Supported Avasts succession planning every Director.
for the Executive Management team Board members also attended the Groups Reviewed Avasts operating results and annual technology summit, held at the financial statements with management Companys main operating offi ce in and Avasts external advisors.
The Board Prague, where Directors were able to also approved Avasts operating plan meet some of the Groups senior for 2018 technology leaders.
Undertook an evaluation of the performance and eff ectiveness of the Board, its Committees and its Directors The Senior Independent Director evaluated the performance of the Chair 62 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Corporate governance statement The mechanisms by which the Board Regarding strategy, the Board has Shareholder Engagement can develop its understanding of key concluded that more time needs to be The Board maintains a dialogue with stakeholder groups including investors, dedicated during meetings on discussion shareholders to help enable a mutual customers, regulators and employees of Group strategy.
This means that more understanding.
The Boards primary throughout the business information should be provided to contact with shareholders is through the Directors on issues such as the needs Executive Directors, but the Chairman The oversight of plans for organic and of target customers, competition, and the Non-Executive Directors also inorganic growth, the development of and product roadmap.
engage with and are available to major the Boards understanding of the shareholders periodically and in advance markets in which Avast operates, Regarding engagement with managers, of the Annual General Meeting to and key competitors Directors would like to spend more time understand their views on the Group.
hearing from middle and senior The continued development of the Feedback is shared with the Board to management below the executive level approach to risk, talent management help inform the Groups strategy and so as to better assess the Groups talent development and succession planning governance framework.
pool and succession planning process.
within the organisation The Group has a comprehensive investor UK Corporate Governance Lintstock produced reports considering relations IR programme through which Code Compliance the performance of the Board, the the CEO, CFO and Director of Investor Committees and the Chairman, which The Company is subject to the UK Relations engage regularly with the were considered at a subsequent Corporate Governance Code Code, Companys shareholders and potential Board meeting.
a copy of which can be found on the investors to discuss strategic and other Financial Reporting Councils website issues as well as to give presentations Actions for the Board for 2019 www.
This includes As a result of the review conducted by attendance and participation at various The Company was compliant with the Lintstock, the Board is focusing on conferences hosted by brokers to provisions of the Code during 2018 with improving the diversity of the Board ensure that a wide variety of shareholders, the exception of the following: composition, providing additional training including those from diff erent to its members on corporate governance, At least half of the Board excluding the geographies, have access to management.
dedicating more time at Board meetings Chairman was not represented by Current and historical financial information, to discussions of strategy, and increasing independent Non-Executive Directors.
including trading statements, news the time and engagement spent with the Two additional independent directors, releases, financial results presentations, Groups mid-management.
Ms. Maggie Chan Jones and Ms. Tamara and a wealth of other information Minick-Scokalo, were appointed to the Regarding diversity, the Board agreed that regarding Avast can be found on Board in March 2019 and as a result it was desirable to recruit Board members the Investors section of the website at the Company is compliant with the who had experience in the US technology https: investors.
The Group requirement as at the date of this report.
market, and the market for consumer makes use of webcast technology for products.
The Board also agreed on the results presentations.
The Code requires a company to state its need to increase the number of women reasons if it determines that a Director is Avast off ers all its shareholders the on the Board.
I n March 2019, the Board independent, including where a Director opportunity to register to receive appointed two new female directors.
holds cross-Directorships or participates shareholder communications such as Maggie Chan Jones brings the experience in the companys share option or the Annual Report, Notice of Meeting and that the Board was seeking performance related pay scheme.
related forms of proxy electronically.
in the US technology sector while Mr. Schwarz, Mr. Finegold, Mr. Claesson Tamara Minick-Scokalo brings deep and Mr. Gunst hold equity interests in the Annual General Meeting experience in the consumer sector.
Group resulting from their participation in The Annual General Meeting AGM the Groups share option plans prior to will be held at 10am on 23 May 2019.
Regarding training, the Board recognises the Companys IPO: however, it should be All Directors are expected to attend that as a newly listed company on the noted that following the IPO no new option the AGM and to use this meeting as an London Stock Exchange, it needs to grants were made to the Directors under opportunity to meet with investors and ensure that all Directors are appropriately these plans.
Further, the Group has no shareholders.
The Chairmen of the Audit trained on corporate governance issues, intention to award any Non-Executive and Risk, Remuneration, and Nomination such as the new Corporate Governance Director any new option grants.
The other Committees will be available at the Code.
In addition, eff orts should be Directors have concluded that the AGM to answer questions.
The Notice directed toward ensuring that the judgement, experience and challenging of AGM is sent to all shareholders who Directors know how other companies approach of each of them should ensure have requested to receive hard copy listed on the Main Market of the that they make a signi cant contribution documentation, and can also be found London Stock Exchange deal with to the work of the Board and its on our website at investors.
Committees, and that independence has been maintained.
Avast annual report 2018 63 Board and Committee Meeting Attendance 29-30 9 May 23 May 4 July 19 July 20 August 17 October November 20 December Board Meeting 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 John Schwarz X X X X X X X Vincent Steckler XXXXX XX Ondrej Vlcek X XXXXXXX Philip Marshall XX XXXXX Pavel Baudis XX XXXXX Eduard Kucera XX XXXX Lorne Somerville X X X X X Warren Finegold XX XXXXX Ulf Claesson XX XXXXX Erwin Gunst X X X X X X 1 Belinda Richards XXXXX 23 May 23 August 4 September 29 November Remuneration Committee 2018 2018 2018 2018 John Schwarz XXXX Warren Finegold XXXX Ulf Claesson XXXX 23 May 20 August 29 November Nomination Committee 2018 2018 2018 John Schwarz XX Warren Finegold XXX Erwin Gunst XXX 2 Belinda Richards XX 23 May 20 August 29 November Audit and Risk Committee 2018 2018 2018 Ulf Claesson XXX Erwin Gunst XXX 2 Belinda Richards XX 3 Warren Finegold X The Corporate Governance statement includes the Audit and Risk Committee report, the Nomination Committee report, certain aspects of the Directors Remuneration Report, and incorporates the Takeover Directive disclosures in the Directors report.
This Corporate Governance statement was approved by the Board on 9 April 2019 and signed by order of the Board.
By order of the Board Alan Rassaby Company Secretary 9 April 2019 1 Director did not join the Board until 7 June 2018.
2 Director did not join the Committee until 7 June 2018.
3 Director left the Committee on 7 June 2018 to focus on other Committee responsibilities.
