Effectiveness Nominations Committee Mike Turner CBE, Chairman No individual participates in discussion The Committee also assists the Board Committee membership and indischarging its responsibilities in ordecision-making when the matter attendance under consideration relates to him or respect of: Mike Turner Chairman 4 of 4 her.
The Company Secretary is Secretary Sir David Omand 4 of 4 Regularly reviewing and evaluating to the Committee.
thesize, structure and composition Ian Duncan 4 of 4 In addition to its formal meetings, including the balance of skills, diversity, Anna Stewart 0 of 1 members of the Committee also met knowledge and experience of the Jeff Randall 4 of 4 together informally to discuss senior Board and making recommendations Myles Lee 4 of 4 executive succession planning.
to the Board withregard to any changes Victoire fide Margerie 4 of 4 Considering succession planning for Matters within the Committees remit Anna Stewart sadly died on 5 October 2017.
Directors and other senior executives, arealso sometimes taken as specific taking into account the challenges and items at full Board meetings, principally Membership of the Committee opportunities facing the Company and consideration of succession planning The Nominations Committee is chaired the skills and expertise needed on the more widely within the Group and by the Chairman of the Company and Board in the future talentidentification, management its other members are the Companys anddevelopment.
Reviewing the leadership needs of Non-Executive Directors all of whom are theGroup, both executive and independent.
The Committee sometimes Responsibilities of the Committee non-executive, with a view to ensuring invites Executive Directors to attend thecontinued ability of the Group to The Committee is responsible for meetings of the Committee, if compete effectively in the marketplace  to the Board, appropriate.
The current membership within itsagreed terms of reference, Identifying and making ofthe Committee, and its membership on appointments to the Board.
The recommendations for the approval throughout the year to 31 March 2018, terms ofreference of the Committee ofthe Board regarding candidates to fill as well as attendance at Committee are available on the Companys website.
Board vacancies and reviewing the time meetings during the year, is shownabove.
required from Non-Executive Directors for the performance of theirduties to the Company.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 92 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Diversity Activities undertaken by the Committee during the year When considering recommendations forappointment to the Board, the During the year ended 31 March 2018, Committee has in mind the strategic plans the Committee: and the development of the business in Oversaw the appointment of Kjersti both existing and new marketsectors and Wiklund and Lucy Dimes, effective with new, and new types of, customers, 1 April 2018 and both in the UK and internationally, and the Considered the governance structure need to maintain the Boards credibility in of the Group.
The Committee also takes into account as part of its In the search for the Non-Executive deliberations the Boards policy to foster Directors, the Committee set the and encourage greater diversity of gender, candidate specification and reviewed outlook, background, perception and a number of potential candidates, using experience at Board level.
the services and advice of Egon Zehnder as search consultants.
Egon Zehnder The Board has a clear objective to see does not have any connection with the an increasing number of women in Group other than as a senior recruitment senior executive management roles and consultant.
The Committee will continue throughout the workforce as a whole.
to focus onensuring that the Board However, we believe that diversity has the appropriate balance of skills, should not be about firm quotas or solely experience, independence and knowledge a gender debate and that instead we of the Company in order to meet the should look at a wide-ranging approach.
For this reason the Board has chosen notto set any specific targets but willcontinue to maintain its practice ofembracing diversity in all its forms Mike Turner CBE whencompiling a shortlist of suitable candidates and recommending any future Committee Chairman Board appointments.
Further insight into the work being done to foster female participation in the industries in which we operate is provided in the Strategic report on page 65 and in the Chairmans review on page 12.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 93
