Leadership Creating the right culture through our governance framework Board Chairman Senior Independent Director The Board of Directors of The Chairman is responsible for the leadership Sir David Omand is currently Babcock International Group and overall effectiveness of theBoard.
In particular, and has throughout the year PLC the Board is collectively his role is to: been the Senior Independent responsible to the Companys Director.
Shareholders can bring With the Chief Executive, demonstrate ethical Shareholders for the long-term matters to his attention, if they leadership and promote the higheststandards of success of the Company.
This have concerns, which havenot integrity throughout the business responsibility includes matters been resolved through the Ensure effective operation of the Board, andits of strategy, performance, normal channels of Chairman, Committees resources, standards of conduct Chief Executive or Group Finance Set the agenda, style and tone of Board discussions and accountability.
The Board Director, or if these channels are in order to promote constructive debateand also has ultimate responsibility not deemed appropriate.
The effective decision-making for corporate governance, Chairman looks tothe Senior which it discharges either Foster effective working relationships between the Independent Director as a directly or through its Executive and Non-Executive Directors, support the sounding board and he is Committees, as well asthe Chief Executive in his development of strategy and, available as an intermediary structures described in this more broadly, support and advise the ChiefExecutive between the other Directors Governance statement.
The Senior Ensure effective communication with Shareholders Independent Director is also and other key stakeholders and make the Board responsible for leading the aware of their views.
Non-Executive Directors in the annual performance evaluation of the Chairman.
The specific role of the Senior Independent Director has been set out in writing and approved by the Board.
Executive Chief Executive Group Executive Committee The Group Executive Committee Responsible for implementing The Chief Executive is responsible fortheday to day the strategy, led by the leadership of the business.
Inparticular, his role is to: reviews and discusses all matters of material significance to the Chief Executive.
Develop strategic proposals for recommendation Groups management, operational tothe Board and implement the agreed and financial performance as well strategies as strategic development.
It is not Develop an organisational structure, establishing a formal Board Committee but processes and systems to ensure that the the minutes of its meetings are Company has the capabilities and resources circulated to Board members.
required toachieve its plans For membership of the Be responsible to the Board for theperformance Committee see page 88. of the business consistent with agreed plans, strategies and policies Oversee the application of Group policies and governance procedures Develop and promote effective communication with Shareholders and other key stakeholders.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 84 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Babcocks culture is defined through 'being babcock' and our Code of Conduct.
Together, these set out what our Company stands for, what we expect from our employees and how we expect our business to deliver our strategy.
The Board recognises that strong governance underpins a healthy culture and it is important that the Board leads by example, setting the tone from the top and championing the behaviours we expect to see.
Non-Executive Directors Audit and Risk Committee Group Finance Committee The Non-Executive Directors bring Responsible for overseeing the Approves borrowing, guarantees, externalperspectives and insight to Companys systems for internal treasury and related matters within thedeliberations of the Board and its Committees, financial control, risk management its terms of reference delegated providing a range of knowledge and business and financial reporting.
Comprises any two or other experience from different sectors and Directors, one of whom must be undertakings see their biographies on page 87.
Remuneration Committee the Group Finance Director.
They play an important role intheformulation Oversees the remuneration and progression of theBoards agreed strategy, arrangements for Babcocks Directors and review and monitor the performance of the and senior employees across all executive management in the implementation sectors.
The Committee is keenly of thisstrategy.
conscious of the importance of having in place a fair remuneration structure, one that strikes a balance between rewarding employees hard work and Shareholders interests.
Nominations Committee Refreshing the Board and succession planning are issues which the Committee, and the Board as a whole, see as important aspects of its governance of the Company.
Steering Groups Sector Management Boards Group Security Committee: chaired by the Group Each of our four business sectors have Finance Director and made up of senior functional their own management boards and operational managers with responsibility for responsible for: setting sector strategy security and information assurance at Group and and objectives: ensuring adequate operational level.
See page 69. financial and human resources to achieve those objectives: reviewing Diversity Steering Group: coordinates the sector performance: and ensuring the implementation of our equality and diversity policy.
sectors obligations to Shareholders See page 65. and other stakeholders are understood Corporate Safety Steering Group: ensures the and met.
delivery of Group policy and initiatives relating to all matters relevant to the health and safety of the Groups employees and any other persons affected by the Groups undertakings.
Energy Environmental Working Group: responsible for developing and sharing best practice for cost effective energy and environmental control and for developing strategy for meeting energy and environmental targets.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 85
