Leadership Executive Committee B B B Archie Bethel CBE Franco Martinelli John Davies Roger Hardy Chief Executive Group Finance Director Chief Executive, Land Chief Executive, Aviation Kevin Goodman John Howie Simon Bowen Jon Hall Group Director of Organisation Chief Executive, Marine Chief Executive, Cavendish Nuclear Managing Director, Technology and Development B Board Jack Borrett Kate Hill Group Company Secretary Group Director of IR Biographies for Archie Bethel CBE, Franco Martinelli and and General Counsel and Communications John Davies are on page 86. and Marine and Technology Divisions prior to Roger Hardy Simon Bowen his current Group appointment.
In his present Chief Executive, Aviation Chief Executive, Cavendish Nuclear role, he is responsible for remuneration, talent Appointed: Executive Committee Appointed: Executive Committee April2017 management, executive development and November 2015 Experience: Simon was appointed Chief diversity.
Heis a trustee of the Babcock Experience: Roger started in Devonport 30 Executive of Cavendish Nuclearin April 2017, International Group pension scheme.
years ago and joined Babcock in 2007 following having been Managing Director since December Babcocks acquisition of Devonport, when he 2015.
Simon was previously the Managing Jack Borrett was appointed Managing Director of Babcocks Director of Urenco UK, which he joined in 2010.
Group Company Secretary Submarine Business.
In 2010, Roger took up a Prior to this, Simon worked at BP, undertaking new role as Managing Director for Cavendish a variety of seniorroles, culminating in his and General Counsel Nuclear, Babcocks civil nuclear business, before appointment as Vice President of Manufacturing Appointed: Executive Committee April 2016 moving in 2015 to Chief Executive of the then andProcurement for Petrochemicals.
Experience: Jack joined Babcock in 2004 and Defence and Security division.
In April 2017 from 2010 was Deputy Group General Counsel, Roger was appointed to Chief Executive, Jon Hall until his appointment as Group General Counsel Aviation, leading Babcocks military and civil and Company Secretary in April 2016.
He is Managing Director, Technology aviation businesses.
Secretary to the Board and to the Remuneration, Appointed: Executive Committee April2017 Audit and Risk and Nominations Committees and Experience: Jon joined Babcock in 2008 John Howie MBE a member ofthe Executive Committee.
Prior to asManaging Director, Technology.
Prior to joining Babcock, Jack was a solicitor at law firm Chief Executive, Marine that, Jon held senior roles within the Weir Clifford Chance.
Appointed: Executive Committee April2016 Group, covering defence, nuclear and Experience: Prior to succeeding Archie Bethel commercial sectors and, before that, worked Kate Hill as Chief Executive, Marine and Technology in the power and process sectors with Balfour division in April 2016, John was Managing Beatty International and Monenco Inc. Jon is a Group Director of IR Director of Naval Marine, with responsibility Chartered Engineer and Fellow of the Institution and Communications for the management of Babcocks submarine, of Mechanical Engineers, and holds a PhD from Appointed: Executive Committee April2017 warship and naval base operations, having Bath University for research work in technology.
Experience: Kate joined Babcock following its joined Babcock in April 2001.
John is a Visiting acquisition of Avincis, and became the Groups Professor at Strathclyde University, a Director Kevin Goodman Head of Investor Relations in 2015. of the Society of Maritime Industries, a member Group Director of Organisationand of the Glasgow Economic Leadership Board Prior to that, she was a Partner in the financial and Acting Chair of Maritime Research Development PR consultancy Kreab Gavin Anderson, which & Innovation UK.
Appointed: Executive Committee July2010 she joined from Royal Dutch Shell PLC.
Originally trained as ajournalist, Kate has also held a Experience: Kevin joined Babcock in 2001.
He variety of roles managing communications in was a Director of both our Defence and Security the rail industry.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 88 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Board of Directors Attendance at Board meetings The Board issatisfied that each Director Chairman has the necessary time to devote to the Mike Turner 12 of 12 effective discharge of their responsibilities Executive Directors and that, between them, the Directors Archie Bethel 12 of 12 have a blend of skills, experience, knowledge and independence suited to Franco Martinelli 12 of 12 the Companys needs and its continuing John Davies 12 of 12 development.
Bill Tame 12 of 12 The powers of the Directors are set out Non-Executive Directors inthe Companys Articles of Association Sir David Omand 12 of 12 the Articles, which may be amended Ian Duncan 12 of 12 byway of a Special Resolution of the Anna Stewart 4 of 5 members of the Company.
The Board Jeff Randall 12 of 12 may exercise all powers conferred on Myles Lee 12 of 12 it by the Articles, in accordance with Victoire fide Margerie 10 of 12 the Companies Act 2006 and other applicable legislation.
Anna Stewart sadly died on 5 October 2017. are available for inspection online at 2.
Victoire fide Margerie was unavailable to attend two meetings due to overseas business commitments.
com and canalso be seen at the Companys Composition of the Board registered office.
The composition of the Board during the year, and as it currently stands, is shown below: Independent Board meeting attendance Executive Non-Executive Chairman Directors Directors The Board has at least 10 scheduled full Board meetings each financial year and Date two other meetings devoted solely to 1 April 2017 5 October 2017 1 4 6 strategy.
The Chairman also meets 5 October 2017 31 March 2018 1 4 5 separately with Non-Executive Directors 1 April 2018 22 May 2018 1 3 7 without Executive Directors or other managers present.
Debate and discussion During the financial year and up to the date of this report, there were the following at Board and committee meetings is changes to the Board: on 5 October 2017, Anna Stewart sadly died: on 31 March 2018, encouraged to beopen, challenging Bill Tame stepped down from the Board, prior to his retirement on 30 June 2018: and on and constructive.
Directors regularly 1 April 2018, Lucy Dimes and Kjersti Wiklund joined the Board.
receive presentations by senior managers.
In the annual Board and committee evaluation review, no Directors expressed dissatisfaction with the timing or quality of information provided to them.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 89 Leadership Board matters and delegation Key areas of focus during the year The Board has established a formal During the year key areas focused on by the Board included: schedule of matters specifically reserved for its approval.
It has delegated other specific responsibilities to its Committees Strategy and Risk and these areclearly defined within their business terms of reference.
Review either by itself and or development through the Audit and Risk Summary of key Board reserved Committee of the Companys matters principal risks to determine the Group strategy, with particular Group strategy and resourcing reference to the Groups nature and extent of the risks the Interim and final results announcements Company is willing to take and to international development, which and the Annual Report and financial included two special Board meetings review the management of those statements risks, including internal controls dedicated to strategy andrisk management Dividend policy Business unit strategy updates and Assessment of viability, as well as Acquisitions, disposals and other presentations considering the principal risks to transactions outside delegated limits Financial planning, including theGroups solvency and viability Significant contracts not in the ordinary budgetsand dividend policy Succession planning and talent course of business Business development opportunities development Major changes to the Groups and pipeline review Consideration of the implications of management or control structure The implementation of a new political developments and outlook Changes relating to the Companys Enterprise Resource Planning ERP application Cyber-security and information capital structure or status as a listed PLC assurance risk management Annual budgets Succession planning and through the Remuneration Committee Legal updates and litigation reports Major capital expenditure Executive Directors remuneration Insurance strategy Major changes in governance, accounting, tax or treasury policies Internal controls and risk management systems advised by the Audit and RiskCommittee Major press releases and Shareholder Shareholder relations Governance circulars.
Annual Report and Accounts Annual review of Board, Committee Board committee terms of reference and half-year results and Director effectiveness andother delegated authorities are Annual General Meeting Health and safety management formalised and reviewed from time to time, usually at least once a year.
Key reports and annual and halfIndependent investor relations yearlyreviews committee terms of reference are surveys and feedback reports available to view on our website: Annual anti-bribery and corruption Monthly investor relations and www.
and risk management update Shareholder engagement reports Review of terms of reference In addition to the principal committees Review of analyst reports ofBoard committees of the Board the Remuneration Committee, the Audit and Risk Committee Monthly management reports and the Nominations Committee and Tax affairs the Finance Committee operating under Review of delegated authorities its terms of reference, the Board from Potential conflicts of interest time to time establishes committees to ofDirectors deal with specific matters on its behalf.
Consideration of revisions to the The Board also allows for routine matters, Governance Code or the implementation offormal steps for matters approved in principle by the Board, to be dealt with by a Board meeting of any two Directors, but these are later ratified bythe full Board.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 90 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Effectiveness Overseeing a changing organisation Board evaluation Information and support for the Board Since 1 April 2017, the Group has been The evaluation for the financial year realigned into four sectors: Marine, Land, ending 31 March 2018 was carried The Chairman, with the assistance Aviation and Cavendish Nuclear.
The outinternally by the Company Secretary.
oftheCompany Secretary, ensures Board believes that this realignment has He carried out confidential one on one appropriate information flows to the gone well and will facilitate the Groups meetings with each Director and other Board and its Committees to facilitate future growth in the UK and senior managers.
The review considered their discussions and allow fully informed internationally.
the balance of skills, experience, decisions to be made.
Non-Executive independence and knowledge on the Directors receive copies ofminutes Talent management Board: its diversity: how the Board, its of meetings of the Group Executive The Board recognises that a key factor committees, the Chairman and individual Committee and sector Boards and in the continuing growth of the Group Directors performed and how they worked monthly sector operatingreports is succession planning to ensure that the together: as well as other factors relevant which also cover health, safety and senior management team has strength to effectiveness.
The review found that the environmental matters and compliance in depth, so that there are candidates feedback from Board members was with the Groups ethical and security ready to step up as and when positive and concluded that the Board was standards.
They are also invited to opportunities arise.
To this end, the functioning well.
No significant concerns attend the Groups senior management Board has had presentations from senior were expressed by Board or committee conferences.
The Company Secretary managers of business units within the members as to the way in which the Board attends all Board meetings and all Group and has considered a specific or its committees functioned, the support Directors have access to his advice and, report on succession planning.
given to them, the matters covered at if necessary, to independent professional Diversity their meetings orhow they were dealt advice at the Companys expense to assist with, or as to the contribution of any The Board recognises the importance with the discharge of their responsibilities individual Director.
of diversity and is pleased that it has as Directors.
However, Recommendations for primary areas Election of Directors the Board continues to work with senior offocus or consideration going management in order to improve diversity The rules relating to the appointment and forwardwere: throughout the Group.
replacement of Directors are contained A refresh of the presentation at the within the Articles.
The Articles provide Induction and training for Directors Boards strategy day of the Groups that Directors may be appointed by an New Non-Executive Directors receive core strategy ordinary resolution of the members or detailed business briefings on the Groups More presentations from the Groups by a resolution of the Directors, provided operations and make induction visits to business unit MDs.
that, in the latter instance, a Director operational sites.
Those who have not appointed in that way retires and The Board is addressing and will continue previously served as a Director of a listed is submitted for election at the first to address the above matters and will company receive a briefing from the AGM following their appointment.
In report back to Shareholders on progress Companys external lawyers on their compliance with provision B.
7.1 of the in the 2019 Annual Report.
Code, all existing Directors will be seeking Training fornew Directors and ongoing re-election at the 2018 AGM.
The names Follow-up on the review for year general Director training is arranged as and biographical details of each of the ending 31 March 2017 necessary oras they may request, and Directors are set out on pages 86 and 87.
As reported last year, the Board evaluation the Company Secretary briefs, or arranges for the year ending 31 March 2017 was Executive Directors are entitled under briefings for, Board members about led externally by Independent Board their service agreements to 12 months significant changes in the law, regulations Evaluation.
Key areas of focus to come notice of termination of employment from or governance codes affecting their duties outof that review and how they were the Company: Non-Executive Directors, as Directors.
addressed in the year to 31 March including the Chairman, have letters of Non-Executive Directors may at any 2018included: appointment which can be terminated timemake visits to Group businesses or at will.
Presentations on the Groups businesses and specialist functions are made to the Board from time to time.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 91
