Leadership Board Directors N E E E Mike Turner CBE Archie Bethel CBE Franco Martinelli John Davies Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Chief Executive, Land A A A A R R R R N N N N Sir David Omand GCB Ian Duncan Jeff Randall Myles Lee Senior Independent Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director A A A E Executive Committee R R R A Audit Committee N N N R Remuneration Committee N Nominations Committee Prof. Victoire fide Margerie Lucy Dimes Kjersti Wiklund Board Committee Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Chairperson appointment as Group Finance Director.
Before Mike Turner CBE Archie Bethel CBE joining Babcock, Franco worked across the Chairman Chief Executive support services and engineering sector.
Appointed: June 2008 as a Non-Executive Appointed: Board Director May 2010 Previous roles: He was Group Financial Director and November 2008 as Chairman and Chief Executive September 2016 Controller at Powell Duffryn PLC and before that Tenure: 10 years Tenure: 8 years he held divisional and group roles at Courtaulds, Nationality: British Nationality: British James Capel andBP.
Experience: Mike brings extensive aerospace Experience: Archie was Chief Executive, Qualifications: Franco is a Chartered and defence industry experience.
Marine and Technology division, from June Accountant and has a degree in Physics from 2007, having joined the Group in January Exeter University.
He acted as Chief Operating Officer appointed as a Non-Executive Director from 1April 2016 until his appointment as of Barclays PLC on 1 January 2018.
John Davies Chief Executive on 1 September 2016.
He is a member of the UK Governments Chief Executive, Land Apprenticeship Ambassadors Network.
He is President of the Society of Maritime Appointed: Board Director January 2013 Industries and is a Lay Member of the Court Previous roles: He was Chairman of GKN Tenure: 5 years of the University of Strathclyde.
He was formerly Chief Executive of BAE Systems PLC, Chairman of Previous roles: He held various senior roles Nationality: British the UK Defence Industries Council DIC and working for Vetco Gray, Lanarkshire Experience: John joined Babcock in2010, a Non-Executive Director of Lazard Limited.
Development Agency and Motherwell Bridge.
following the acquisition of VT Group, and was appointed Divisional Chief Executive of Qualifications: Whilst working for Hawker Qualifications: Archie is a Chartered the then Defence and Security division.
He Siddeley Aviation, as an undergraduate Engineer and a Fellow of the Royal Academy joined the Group Board on 1 January 2013.
Commercial Apprentice, Mike gained a of Engineering.
In November 2015 he moved to lead the BA Honours degree from Manchester Support Services division.
Mike has honorary degrees Franco Martinelli from Manchester Metropolitan, Cranfield Previous roles: He worked extensively across Group Finance Director and Loughborough universities.
the support services and defence sectors within Appointed: Board Director August 2014 Bombardier, BAE Systems and VT Group.
Tenure: 4 years Qualifications: John is a lawyer by background Nationality: British and a graduate of the University of Manchester and Chester Law College.
Experience: Franco served 12 years with the Group as Group Financial Controller, prior to his Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 86 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Experience: Jeff brings extensive experience of Lucy Dimes Non-Executive Directors the media, particularly in politics, business and Independent Non-Executive Director finance.
Sir David Omand GCB Appointed: April 2018 External appointments: He is an Independent Senior Independent Director Tenure: 1 month Non Executive INE at BDO, the accounting and Appointed: April 2009 and Senior Independent business-services firm, and a Visiting Fellow at Nationality: British Director January 2012 Oxford Universitys Sad Business School.
Experience: Lucy brings experience in industries Tenure: 9 years Previous roles: He worked at Sky News and was at the forefront of growth and : British editor-at-large of the Daily Telegraph.
He was based innovation and an understanding of business editor of the BBC, the launch editor of complex outsourcing and long-term global Experience: Sir David brings extensive Sunday Business and, for six years, City Editor of strategic partnerships.
UK intelligence and change management the Sunday Times.
He is a former director of experience.
External appointments: Chief Executive Times Newspapers.
Officer, UBM EMEA External appointments: He is a visiting Qualifications: Jeff holds a degree in Economics professor in the Department of War Studies, Previous roles: She was a Non-Executive Director from the University of Nottingham, where he is Kings College London, and PSIA Sciences Po of Berendsen PLC and a member of its Audit, an Honorary Professor in the School of in Paris, where he teaches intelligence studies.
He is a senior advisor to Paladin Capital Group Previously in her executive career, she was Chief LLP, investing in the cyber security sector.
Executive Officer, UK & Ireland, of Fujitsu, the Chief Operating Officer and Executive Director Myles Lee Previous roles: He served in various senior of Equiniti Group, Chief Executive Officer UK & roles in the UK Government service, including Independent Non-Executive Director Ireland of Alcatel Lucent now Nokia and had as UK Government Security and Intelligence Appointed: April 2015 a 19-year career at BT, where she held various Coordinator, Permanent Secretary of the Tenure: 3 years senior roles, including Managing Director of Home Office, Director of GCHQ the UK Signals Group and Openreach Service Operations.
Nationality: Irish Intelligence and Information Assurance Agency and  of State for Policy Qualifications: She holds an MBA from London Experience: Myles brings extensive global in the Ministry of Defence.
Business School and a First Class Honours experience in management, M&A and finance.
Degree in Business Studies from Manchester Qualifications: Sir David holds a degree in External appointments: He is a Non-Executive Metropolitan University.
Economics from Cambridge University, has an Director of UDG Healthcare PLC and Ingersoll honorary Doctorate from Birmingham University Rand PLC, which is listed on the New York and he recently completed a degree in Kjersti Wiklund Stock Exchange.
Mathematics and Theoretical Physics with the Independent Non-Executive Director Previous roles: He was Chief Executive Officer Open University.
from 2009 to 2013 and Finance Director Appointed: April 2018 from 2003 to 2008 of CRH PLC.
Tenure: 1 month Ian Duncan Qualifications: Myles holds a degree in Civil Nationality: Norwegian Independent Non-Executive Director Engineering and is a Fellow of the Institute of Experience: Kjersti brings broad technology Appointed: November 2010 Chartered Accountants inIreland.
and business experience gained across Europe, Tenure: 7 Years Eastern Europe Russia and Asia.
Prof. Victoire fide Margerie Nationality: British External appointments: She is a Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Director Experience: Ian brings extensive financial and Director of Laird PLC and Spectris PLC.
Appointed: February 2016 change management experience.
Previous roles: She has held senior roles, External appointments: He is currently the Tenure: 2 years including Director, Group Technology Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of Operations of Vodafone, and Chief Operating Nationality: French Bodycote PLC, as well as being the Chairman of Officer of VimpelCom Russia, Deputy Chief Experience: Victoire brings strong international its Audit Committee.
He is also a Non-Executive Executive Officer and Chief Technology Officer strategic and commercial experience.
Director and Audit Committee Chair of SIG PLC.
of Kyivstar in Ukraine, Executive Vice President External appointments: She is the and Chief Technology Officer of Digi Previous roles: He is a former Group Finance Executive Chairman of Rondol France, a Telecommunications in Malaysia, and Executive Director of Royal Mail Holdings PLC and has also start up developing micro machinery for Vice President and Chief Information Officer at formerly been the Corporate Finance Director at advanced industry applications.
She is also a Telenor in Norway.
She was also a Non-Executive British Nuclear Fuels, the Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director of Eurazeo S. A. France Director of Cxense ASA in Norway, Fast Search & and Senior Vice President at Westinghouse and Arkema France.
Transfer ASA in Norway and Telescience Inc in Electric Company LLC in Pennsylvania, USA, the US.
Previous roles: Shewas a Non-Executive and a Non-Executive Director and the Chairman Director of Banque Transatlantique, Italcementi of the Audit Committee of Fiberweb PLC, Qualifications: She holds a Master of S. p. A Italy, Morgan Advanced Materials PLC MouchelGroup and WANdisco PLC.
Business Management from BI Norwegian UK, Norsk Hydro ASA Norway and Outokumpu Business School and an MSc in Electronical Qualifications: Ian is a Chartered Accountant OyJ Finland.
During her earlier executive Engineering from Chalmers University of and holds an MA from Oxford University.
career, she held senior management positions Technology, Sweden.
in France, Germany and the USA, with Atochem, Jeff Randall Carnaud MetalBox and Pechiney.
Independent Non-Executive Director Qualifications: She holds a PhD in Strategic Appointed: April 2014 Management from Universit Panthon-Assas and a Master in Business Administration from Tenure: 4 years HEC Paris.
Nationality: British Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 87
