Accountability Audit and Risk Committee Ian Duncan, Chairman The Board is satisfied that Ian Duncan, Review and monitor at least Committee membership and who has been Chairman of the Committee once ayear the external auditors attendance since July 2011, has recent and relevant independence and objectivity and Ian Duncan Chairman 4 of 4 financial experience and that the theeffectiveness of the audit Sir David Omand 4 of 4 Committee complies with Codeprovision process, taking into consideration Anna Stewart 2 of 2 relevant UK professional and C. 3.1.
Ian is a chartered accountant and Jeff Randall 4 of 4 former Group Finance Director of Royal regulatory requirements Myles Lee 4 of 4 Mail Holdings PLC.
Currently, Ian is a Develop and implement policy on the Victoire fide Margerie 3 of 4 Non-Executive Director and Chairman engagement of the external auditor to of the Audit Committee ofBodycote PLC supply non-audit services, taking into Anna Stewart sadly died on 5 October 2017. and SIG PLC.
He has alsoformerly been Victoire fide Margerie could not attend one account relevant ethical guidance meeting due to overseas business Corporate Finance Directorat British regarding the provision of non-audit commitments.
Nuclear Fuels PLC, andCFOand Senior services by the external audit firm Vice President at Westinghouse Electric Keep under review the adequacy and Membership of the Committee Company LLC inPennsylvania, USA.
effectiveness of the Companys internal The Audit and Risk Committee was financial controls as well as its internal during the year, and at the date of this Role of the Committee control and risk management systems report is, made up entirely of independent The principal responsibilities of the Monitor and keep under review the Non-Executive Directors.
Committee Audit and Risk Committee are to: effectiveness of the Companys internal membership and attendance at its Monitor the integrity of the full-year and audit service meetings in the year are set out above.
half-year financial statements and any Report to the Board, identifying any Unless otherwise stated, members were formal announcements relating to the matters in respect of which it considers members throughout the year.
Further Companys financial performance that action or improvement is needed, details of the backgrounds and Make recommendations to the Board, and make recommendations as to the qualifications of the members of the for it to put to the Shareholders for steps to be taken.
Committee can be found on pages 86 their approval in general meeting, The full terms of reference for the and 87.
The Group Company Secretary inrelation to the appointment of Committee can be found on the and General Counsel was Secretary to theexternal auditor Companys website.
the Committee throughout the year.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 94 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Who attends Committee meetings?
sector Chief Executives present in the Activities undertaken by the context of their own understanding of Committee during the year In addition to the members of the reports and accounts provided to the Committee, the Committee, at its During the year to 31 March 2018 the Board and its discussions throughout discretion, usually invites the Group Committee met four times.
Before drafts are submitted Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group for each meeting is set by the Committee tothe Board, the Group Director of Finance Director and the sector Chief Chairman in conjunction with the Investor Relations and Communications Executives.
The Committee is satisfied Company Secretary and other members reviews the content of the Strategic that having theseinvited attendees of the Committee as appropriate.
At these report to ensure consistency with other present doesnotinfluence or constrain the meetings, the following matters and issues financial statements made by the Group Committees discussions or compromise were considered: during the year the Committees independence.
Their review of the assumption that the presence ensures that all Board Directors Financial results and the senior management of the Group Companys financial statements are full-year and half-year financial prepared on a going concern basis are directly aware of the Committees statements and related results deliberations, how it goes about the Companys approach to the announcements including, following discharging its responsibilities on behalf of requirement on the Company to correspondence with the FRC, the full Board and any areas of concern or examine the Companys longer term improving our disclosure in respect of focus for the Committee.
It also assists the solvency and viability please see our alternative performance measures Committee by allowing direct questioning page 79 for further details.
and further clarifying the reconciliation of executives on matters thatthe between the Group's statutory and Committee thinks need further challenge, Audit plans underlying results clarification, explanation orjustification.
Internal and external audit plans for reports and reviews from the Should a situation arise where the presence theyear.
external auditors of any such attendee would be matters that required the exercise of inappropriate or might compromise Internal audit asignificant element of management discussion, the Committee would either At each meeting, the Committee receives judgement in relation to the financial not invite the attendee concerned or internal audit reports on findings from statements for the year to 31 March request that they not attend the relevant audit visits to business units, which, as 2018 see page 96 part of that meeting.
a matter of course, look at accounting, advice to the Board on the requirement The Group Risk Manager attended anti-bribery and corruption controls, for a statement from it that the Annual Committee meetings for its discussion business continuity, contract performance Report and Accounts for the year to ofGroup risk reports and related items.
These include 31March 2018 are fair, balanced and follow-up reports on any matters identified During the year to 31 March 2018, understandable and provide the in earlier reports as requiring attention Ernst & Young LLP provided internal information necessary for Shareholders or improvement.
Thereports contain audit services to the Company and to assess the Companys position, tracking information to enable the  LLP was the performance, business model and Committee easily to see the control Groups external auditor.
Both auditors strategy during the relevant period.
The performance of business units over attended the Committees meetings Committee satisfies itself that this is so timeand how quickly any matters during the year to 31 March 2018. by circulating to Board members draft areaddressed.
TheCommittee Chairman also met wording at an early stage with sufficient  LLP PwC and time and detailed content to allow for Risk and internal controls Ernst & Young LLP in the absence of an assessment of the content against review of internal control processes executive management.
The auditors the reports and accounts provided to and their effectiveness arealso invited to address the Committee the Board and its discussions regular detailed reports identifying without executives present at least once throughout the relevant period.
In areas of risk at business unit, sector and a year.
addition, the Committee asksthe Group Group level, assessing and prioritising Financial Controller toprepare a formal The Committees terms of reference potential impact, risk mitigation steps in written report forthe Committee werereviewed during the year to place and the preand post-mitigation reviewing the relevant draft, its ensurethat they are in line with best risk levels consistency with hisknowledge and practice guidelines.
understanding of matters and the focused reviews of selected major risk appropriateness of theweighting given areas: insurance strategy, business to them, in each case to allow for their critical suppliers, treasury risk, and review and consideration by the contract performance.
Committee with all Directors and Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 95 Accountability Fraud Audit non-audit fees and auditor In planning the year end audit, independence theCommittee considered with Reports covering any suspected incidents management and the Companys of fraud, their investigation and any Audit and non-audit fees for the external auditors the key areas of focus for the remedial or preventive action.
and internal auditors were reviewed by audit having in mind their significance the Committee and considered in relation tothe Groups reporting of results and Whistleblowing to their effect on auditor independence.
the degree of judgement involved in The Committee is responsible for theirevaluation.
The significant issues Significant issues considered by monitoring the Group whistleblowing considered in relation to the financial theCommittee in relation to the policy and receives regular reports of statements for the year ended 31 March callsand emails to the Groups external financialstatements 2018 and how the Committee addressed independent whistleblowing services We are required to provide an explanation them are set out in the table below.
andhow these have been investigated of the significant issues that the and concluded.
The total number of Committee considered in relation to whistleblowing reports in the year to the financial statements for the year to 31March 2018 was 66 2017: 41.
For 31 March 2018 and how these issues further explanation of the whistleblowing were addressed, having regard to procedure please see page 70. matterscommunicated to the Committee by the auditors.
Significant issue How the Committee addressed it Contract accounting and revenue The Committee considered the material contracts, which require a significant degree of recognition management judgement and could materially affect the appropriate accounting treatment for them: these were the subject of discussion and challenge with management to ensure that the Committee was satisfied as to the reasonableness of those judgements.
Pensions accounting the choice The Committee assessed the particular assumptions proposed to be used by management and of assumptions in the valuation for their impact on scheme assets and liabilities in the context of assumptions being used in respect accounting purposes of the liabilities of the same factors by other companies and the pensions industry more widely.
See note 24 of the Groups defined benefit schemes on pages 186 to 190. Business acquisitions goodwill The Committee reviewed and challenged managements assessment of the goodwill balance impairment assessment by considering, amongst other things, managements evaluation of cash flow forecasts, budget, and growth rates.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 96 Strategic report Governance statement Financials the effectiveness of the audit including, tonon-audit fees payable to them Internal controls and risk inter alia, the understanding of our in the year exceeding 20% of their audit management business and reporting processes for fee, theCommittee Chairmans approval The Committee believes that the subsidiary audit teams, and PwCs is required.
In addition, any fee for identification, control, mitigation and independence and leadership.
The non-audit work in excess of 100,000 reporting of risk is central to the delivery review includes the provision to PwC, mustbe approved by the Committee of the Companys strategy.
The way that and discussion with it, of detailed Chairman.
Having considered the the Company manages risk is set out in feedback from those exposed to the audit non-audit services provided by the the Strategic report on pages 68 to 70, process within the Group.
The question auditor during the year ended 31 March with the principal risks facing the Group 2018, the Committee is satisfied that of PwCs continuing independence in the described on pages 71 to 79.
The provision of audit services is considered these services were provided effectively Committee has conducted a rigorous and didnot prejudicethe objectivity or and discussed with PwC, including the androbust review of the ongoing basis upon which that assessment can independence of the auditor.
effectiveness of the Companys risk reasonably be made and supported.
management processes in light of the For the year ended 31 March 2018, 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code The Company expects to tender the the Committee has approved the and the Financial Reporting Councils external audit function in three years and payment toPwC of fees of 2.4 million associated Guidance on Risk Management, PwC, having been auditor since 2002, for audit services 0.4 million of which Internal Control and Related Financial and will not be invited to participate in that was for the statutory audit of the Business Reporting.
The Committee confirms that the Companys consolidated financial Group is in compliance with the Statutory statements and of fees of 0.1 million A statement regarding the effectiveness Audit Services for Large Companies Market for other assurance services.
Non-audit of the internal controls and control Investigation Mandatory use of related work accounted for 4% of the total processes, including those over financial Competitive Tender Processes and Audit audit and non-audit related fees paid to reporting, can be found on page 138.
Committee Responsibilities Order 2014. the external auditor during the year.
A breakdown of fees paid to the auditor is Internal audit Non-audit fees set out in note 4 on page 166.
The Committee considers that it is The Committee regularly considers the still appropriate to have an internal audit engagement of, and level of fees payable service provided by an external advisor, to, the auditor for non-audit work, but keeps this under review.
In the year considering potential conflicts and the to 31 March 2018, the Committee Ian Duncan possibility of actual or perceived threats to wassatisfied with the service provided Committee Chairman their independence.
The Companys policy byErnst & Young LLP acting as is to consider whether to place material internalauditor.
non-audit services work with the external auditor on a case-by-case basis, based on External audit an assessment of who is best placed to do The Committee manages the the work having regard to the availability, relationshipwith the external auditor resources, capability, experience and any onbehalf of the Board and monitors the conflicts of interest ofpotential candidate auditors independence and objectivity, firms for the work.
The Committee makes along with the effectiveness of the the choice based on what it considers to external audit, on an annual basis.
Audit be in the Companys best interest overall, fees are re-evaluated periodically.
having regard to potential independence For the year to 31 March 2018, PwC issues, if the work is placed with the hasbeen the Groups external auditor, Companys auditor.
Non-audit services havingbeen reappointed by Shareholders offered to the auditor would notinclude at the AGM on 13 July 2017 on the the design or operation of financial recommendation of the Board.
The information systems, internal audit Chairman and the Committee regularly services, maintenance or preparation of assess PwCs effectiveness in the provision accounting records or financial statements of audit services in their meetings with that would be subject to external audit, PwC.
After each annual audit, there is a or work that the Committee considers as rigorous review of PwCs audit services reasonably capable of compromising their in that audit, examining the level and independence as auditors.
If use of the consistency of expertise and resources, auditors for non-audit work would lead Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 97
