Governance Report Corporate Governance Report The Board is committed to achieving and demonstrating high than nine years offer themselves for re-election annually.
However standards of Corporate Governance.
This statement outlines how in March 2018 the Company moved into the FTSE 250 and as a the principles of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the result, all Directors will be subject to annual election by Code which can be found at www.
uk and the relevant shareholders to comply with Corporate Governance Code rules.
principles of the Association of Investment Companies Code of Independence of Directors Corporate Governance the AIC Code were applied throughout All the Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of the financial year.
The AIC Code provides a framework of best the Managers and free of any business or other relationship which practice for investment companies and can be found at could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Directors recognise the importance of succession planning Compliance for company boards and review the Board composition annually.
The Board confirms that the Company has complied throughout The Board is of the view that length of service will not necessarily the year under review with the relevant provisions of the Code compromise the independence or contribution of Directors of an and the recommendations of the AIC Code.
The Code includes investment trust company, where continuity and experience can provisions relating to the role of the chief executive directors be a benefit to the Board.
The Board concurs with the view remuneration and the need for an internal audit function.
Given expressed in the AIC Code that long serving Directors should not that the Company is an externally managed investment trust, be prevented from being considered independent.
the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the Company the need for an internal audit function specific to the Mr Bannerman, Mr Paling and Mr Dimond have served on the Company has been addressed on page 26.
Board for more than nine years.
Following formal performance evaluation, the Board concluded that, notwithstanding their length The Board of service, Mr Bannerman, Mr Paling and Mr Dimond, continue to The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs.
be independent in character and judgement.
Mr Bannerman has a It has a number of matters formally reserved for its approval sound background in finance, Mr Paling has extensive investment including strategy, investment policy, currency hedging, gearing, experience and Mr Dimond has wide Japanese commercial treasury matters, dividend and corporate governance policy.
experience covering all types of industry.
Their independence has A separate strategy session is held annually.
The Board also not been compromised by length of service.
reviews the Financial Statements, investment transactions, revenue budgets and performance of the Company.
Full and Meetings timely information is provided to the Board to enable it to function There is an annual cycle of Board meetings which is designed to effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
address, in a systematic way, overall strategy, review of investment policy, investment performance, marketing, revenue budgets, At 31 August 2018, the Board comprises six Directors, all of whom dividend policy and communication with shareholders.
The Chairman is responsible for organising the considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its effectively.
The table below shows the attendance record for the agenda.
Board and Committee meetings held during the year.
The Annual The executive responsibility for investment management has General Meeting was attended by all Directors.
been delegated to the Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM, Baillie Gifford & Co Limited, and, in the context Directors Attendance at Meetings of a Board comprising only non-executive Directors, there is no Audit Nomination chief executive officer.
Mr Dimond is the Senior Independent Board Committee Committee Director.
Mr Paling will become the Senior Independent Director Number of meetings 5 2 2 following Mr Dimonds retirement at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 6 December 2018.
NAC Bannerman 5 2 The Directors believe that the Board has a balance of skills and PS Dimond 5 2 2 experience that enables it to provide effective strategic leadership JKR Falconer 4 2 2 and proper governance of the Company.
Information about the DP Kidd 5 2 2 Directors, including their relevant experience, can be found on MH Paling 5 2 2 page 19.
JB Pitman appointed 28 June 2018 1 There is an agreed procedure for Directors to seek independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Mr Bannerman is not a member of the Audit Committee.
Ms Pitman was in attendance at the Board Meeting held on 28 June Appointments to the Board 2018 and appointed immediately following the meeting.
The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set out Nomination Committee in formal letters of appointment which are available for inspection on request.
The Nomination Committee consists of the whole Board and the Chairman of the Board is the Chairman of the Committee.
Under the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, a The Committee meets on an annual basis and at such other times Director appointed during the year is required to retire and seek as may be required.
The Committee has written terms of reference election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
which include reviewing the composition of the Board, identifying Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at least and nominating new candidates for appointment to the Board, once every three years and Directors who have served for more The Baillie Gifford Japan Trust PLC 23 Governance Report Board appraisal, succession planning and training.
The Committee Audit Committee also considers whether Directors should be recommended for The report of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 26 and 27. re-election by shareholders.
The Committee is responsible for Internal Controls and Risk Management considering Directors potential conflicts of interest and for making recommendations to the Board on whether or not the potential The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Companys conflicts should be authorised.
risk management and internal control systems and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The systems are designed to manage rather Appointments to the Board are made on merit with due regard for than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives the benefits of diversity including gender.
The priority in appointing and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance new Directors is to identify the candidate with the best range of against material misstatement or loss.
skills and experience to complement existing Directors.
The Board therefore does not consider it appropriate to set diversity targets The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, or apply a diversity policy.
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company in accordance with the FRC guidance Guidance on Risk Cornforth Consulting was engaged during the year to help identify Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business potential new Directors in advance of Mr Dimonds retirement Reporting.
from the Board at the conclusion of this years Annual General Meeting.
Cornforth Consulting has no other connection with the The practical measures in relation to the design, implementation Company or its Directors.
and maintenance of control policies and procedures to safeguard the Companys assets and to manage its affairs properly, The Committee identified the skills and experience that would be including the maintenance of effective operational and compliance required, having due regard for the benefits of diversity on the controls have been delegated to the Managers and Secretaries.
Board, and candidates were interviewed from a shortlist of names provided by Cornforth Consulting.
Ms Joanna Pitman was The Board oversees the functions delegated to the Managers and identified as the preferred candidate due to her knowledge of Secretaries and the controls managed by the AIFM in accordance Japan.
Ms Pitman was appointed to the Board on 28 June 2018. with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive as detailed below.
Baillie Gifford & Cos Internal Audit and Compliance The Committees terms of reference are available on request from Departments and the AIFMs permanent risk function provide the the Company and on the Companys page of the Managers Audit Committee with regular reports on their monitoring website: www.
The reporting procedures for these departments are Performance Evaluation defined and formalised within a service level agreement.
Baillie Gifford & Co conducts an annual review of its system of internal An appraisal of the Chairman, each Director and a performance controls which is documented within an internal controls report evaluation and review of the Board as a whole and its Committees which complies with ISAE 3402 and Technical Release AAF 01 06 was carried out during the year.
After inviting each Director and Assurance Reports on Internal Controls of Service Organisations the Chairman to consider and respond to an evaluation made available to Third Parties.
This report is independently questionnaire, each Director had an interview with the Chairman reviewed by Baillie Gifford & Cos Auditor and a copy is submitted and the Chairmans appraisal was led by Mr PS Dimond, the to the Audit Committee.
The appraisals and evaluations considered, amongst other criteria, the balance of skills of the A report identifying the material risks faced by the Company and Board, training and development requirements, the contribution of the key controls employed to manage these risks is reviewed by individual Directors and the overall effectiveness of the Board and the Audit Committee.
Following this process it was concluded that the These procedures ensure that consideration is given regularly to performance of each Director, the Chairman, the Board and its the nature and extent of risks facing the Company and that they Committees continues to be effective and that each Director and are being actively monitored.
Where changes in risk have been the Chairman remain committed to the Company.
identified during the year they also provide a mechanism to A review of the Chairmans and the other Directors commitments assess whether further action is required to manage these risks.
was carried out and the Nomination Committee is satisfied that The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of they are capable of devoting sufficient time to the Company.
the Companys risk management and internal controls systems, There were no significant changes to the Chairmans other which accord with the FRC Guidance in the Risk Management, commitments during the year.
Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting Induction and Training and they have procedures in place to review their effectiveness on a regular basis.
No significant weaknesses were identified in the New Directors are provided with an induction programme which is year under review and up to the date of this Report.
tailored to the particular circumstances of the appointee.
Briefings were provided during the year on regulatory matters.
Directors The Board confirms that these procedures have been in place receive other relevant training as necessary.
throughout the Companys financial year and continue to be in place up to the date of approval of this Report.
Remuneration To comply with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers As all the Directors are non-executive, there is no requirement for Directive, The Bank of New York Mellon International Limited a separate Remuneration Committee.
Directors fees are considered BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary UK Ltd prior to 3 April 2018, as by the Board as a whole within the limits approved by shareholders.
explained on page 20 acts as the Companys Depositary, and The Companys policy on remuneration is set out in the Directors Baillie Gifford & Co Limited as AIFM.
Remuneration Report on pages 28 and 29.
24 Annual Report 2018 Governance Report The Depositarys responsibilities include cash monitoring, safe keeping Statements.
If the continuation resolution is not passed, the Articles of the Companys financial instruments, verifying ownership and provide that the Directors shall convene a General Meeting within maintaining a record of other assets and monitoring the Companys three months at which a special resolution will be proposed to compliance with investment limits and leverage requirements.
The wind up the Company voluntarily.
If the Company is wound up, its Depositary is liable for the loss of financial instruments held in investments may not be realised at their full market value.
The Depositary will ensure that any delegate segregates Relations with Shareholders the assets of the Company.
Following the change of Depositary The Board places great importance on communication with on 3 April 2018, as explained on page 20, the Companys shareholders.
The Companys Managers meet regularly with Depositary also acts as the Companys Custodian this function shareholders and their representatives, accompanied by the having previously been delegated to The Bank of New York Chairman when requested and report shareholders views to the Mellon SA NV London Branch.
The Custodian prepares a report Board.
The Chairman is available to meet with shareholders as on its key controls and safeguards which is independently appropriate.
Shareholders wishing to communicate with any reviewed by KPMG LLP.
The reports are reviewed by Baillie members of the Board may do so by writing to them at the Giffords Business Risk Department and a summary of the key Companys registered office or through the Companys broker, points is reported to the Audit Committee and any concerns are Canaccord Genuity see contact details on back cover.
The Companys Annual General Meeting provides a forum for The Depositary provides the Audit Committee with a report on its communication with all shareholders.
The level of proxies lodged monitoring activities.
for each resolution is announced at the Meeting and is published The AIFM has established a permanent risk management function at www.
co. uk subsequent to the meeting.
The to ensure that effective risk management policies and procedures notice period for the Annual General Meeting is at least twenty are in place and to monitor compliance with risk limits.
Shareholders and potential investors may obtain has a risk management policy which covers the risks associated up-to-date information on the Company from the Managers with the management of the portfolio, and the adequacy and website at www.
effectiveness of this policy is reviewed and approved at least annually.
This review includes the risk management processes Corporate Governance and Stewardship and systems and limits for each risk area.
The Company has given discretionary voting powers to Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Managers vote against resolutions they The risk limits, which are set by the AIFM and approved by the consider may damage shareholders rights or economic interests Board take into account the objectives, strategy and risk profile and report their actions to the Board.
These limits, including leverage see page 56, are monitored and the sensitivity of the portfolio to key risks is The Company believes that it is in the shareholders interests to undertaken periodically as appropriate to ascertain the impact of consider environmental, social and governance ESG factors changes in key variables in the portfolio.
Exceptions from limits when selecting and retaining investments and has asked the monitoring and stress testing are escalated to the AIFM and Managers to take these issues into account as long as the reported to the Board along with remedial measures being taken.
investment objectives are not compromised.
The Managers do not exclude companies from their investment universe purely on Going Concern the grounds of ESG factors but adopt a positive engagement In accordance with The Financial Reporting Councils guidance on approach whereby matters are discussed with management with going concern and liquidity risk, the Directors have undertaken a the aim of improving the relevant policies and management rigorous review of the Companys ability to continue as a going systems and enabling the Managers to consider how ESG factors concern.
could impact long term investment returns.
The Managers The Companys principal risks are market related and include Statement of Compliance with the UK Stewardship Code can market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of these be found on the Managers website: www.
risks and how they are managed is contained in note 18 to the The Managers policy has been reviewed and endorsed by Financial Statements.
The Companys assets, the majority of the Board.
which are investments in quoted securities which are readily The Managers, Baillie Gifford & Co, are signatories of the United realisable, exceed its liabilities significantly.
All borrowings require Nations Principles for Responsible Investment and the Carbon the prior approval of the Board.
Gearing levels and compliance Disclosure Project and are also members of the International with borrowing covenants are reviewed by the Board on a regular Corporate Governance Network.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, On behalf of the Board shareholders have the right to vote annually at the Annual General Nick AC Bannerman Meeting on whether to continue the Company.
The Directors have Chairman no reason to believe that the continuation resolution will not be 24 October 2018 passed at the Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, the Financial Statements have been prepared on the going concern basis as it is the Directors opinion, having assessed the principal risks and other matters set out in the Viability Statement on page 9, that the Company will continue in operational existence for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of these Financial The Baillie Gifford Japan Trust PLC 25
