Strategic report Governance Financial statements Audit Committee report In June we agreed the scope and level of As part of the auditor transition arrangements, materiality of the 2018 audit plan of work and subsequent to their appointment, we Nick Rose anddiscussed with Deloitte the areas that have reviewed on a regular basis similar Chairman of the theyhad identified as key risks and other confirmations and information from Deloitte particular areas of focus, and the specific to ensure their independence.
AuditCommittee auditprocedures that they would perform Non-audit services policy toundertake the related audit work.
Whilst The Committee has a formal policy audit continuity isimportant, as a Committee governingthe engagement of the auditor we equally recognise the benefits that fresh toprovide non-audit services which we perspective, challenge and insight can bring.
The policy At the beginning of the year the Group prohibitscertain activities from being adopted accounting standard IFRS 15 undertaken by the auditor and also places Revenuefrom Contracts with Customers, restrictions on the employment of former inthe financial statements.
A significant employees of the auditor.
amount of work had been undertaken We recognise that the auditor is best placed throughout the Group to enable the new toundertake certain work of a non-audit standard to be implemented and further nature, and thus the policy permits the information on IFRS 15 is provided in note 37 provision of Audit-Related Services and to the Group accounts on pages 205 to 209.
Members Permitted Non-Audit Services up to limits We also reviewed the implementation thatare pre-approved by the Committee, anddisclosures relating to the adoption withspecific approvals required beyond Nick Rose Chairman ofIFRS 9 Financial Instruments by the suchlimits by the Committee.
A copy of the Paula Rosput Reynolds Groupon1January 2018 which did not policy is available on the Companys website.
Following the selection of Deloitte as the Ian Tyler Furtherinformation is setout in note 37 to Companys proposed auditor in 2017, the theGroup accounts onpages 205 to 209.
Committee reviewed the non-audit services A further accounting change coming into being provided by Deloitte at that time and Dear Shareholders, force in 2019 is the adoption of IFRS 16 the steps being taken by Deloitte to ensure I reported last year on progress on our audit Leases.
We reviewed the implementation audit independence by 1 October 2017 re-tender and on our audit transition plans.
planand disclosures relating to IFRS 16 whenshadowing began.
Certain services, Iam pleased to report that our audit re-tender whichwill be adopted by the Group with even though they fell within the Permitted process, for which preparatory work had effect from 1 January 2019.
The expected Non-Audit Services category, were wound commenced in 2016, concluded at the impact of IFRS 16 is set out in note 38 to the upor discontinued.
A number of non-audit AnnualGeneral Meeting on 10 May 2018 Group accounts on pages 210 and 211. services being provided by Deloitte which when shareholders approved the appointment were expected to continue beyond 1 January Using our Internal Audit function to of Deloitte LLP asthe Companys auditor, 2018 were carefully considered and optimaleffect within the overall context of succeeding KPMGLLP in that role.
individually approved by the Committee.
therisk environment remains a key priority Particular consideration was given to Whilst the audit re-tender process and forus.
I reported last year that an external consultancy work undertaken in relation to subsequent transition spanned quite a lengthy assessment of the function originally the Groups Submarines business which had period, we were keen to ensure that the scheduled to be undertaken in 2017 had been disclosed in the pre-audit qualification incoming auditor had a good understanding beendeferred until 2018 following exercise.
Actions were taken to ensure that of our business that would enable it to identify organisational changes taking effect from independence was successfully managed areas of audit risk efficiently, formulate a 1January 2018.
That assessment has since throughout the regulatory cooling in period risk-focused approach to audit scope, and to been completed and is reported on below.
which commenced on 1 January 2017, as embark on the 2018 audit as well-prepared as Audit Quality Review AQR wellas from 1 October 2017 onwards when possible.
That there has been a smooth The Financial Reporting Councils AQR team shadowing began.
The Committee is satisfied transition has been testament to the ground monitors the quality of audit work of certain that independence was maintained throughout work laid in execution of the transition plan UK audit firms through inspections of a this period.
which included Deloitte shadowing the 2017 sample of audits and related procedures year-end audit conducted by the outgoing Details of fees payable to the auditor are atindividual audit firms.
Deloitte have taken auditor, KPMG.
We are also pleasedthat setout on page 154.
In 2018, non-audit fees usthrough their latest AQR report of which Deloitte have commented favourably on the for Deloitte represented 30% of the audit the period under review preceded their constructive engagement with management, fee.
The principal non-audit services provided appointment as the Companys auditor both centrally and across the Group, during by Deloitte related to its review of the andoutlined actions being taken to address the transition period.
half-yearly financial report and completion the issues raised.
in2018 ofconsultancy work that was already The section on the Audit Committees year Audit independence underway prior to Deloittes appointment onpage 86 provides an overview of the work We reviewed in detail the confirmation asourauditor.
that we have undertaken in the last 12 months andinformation received from KPMG on and I will comment here on several aspects thearrangements that they had in place ofthat activity.
tosafeguard auditor independence and objectivity, including specific safeguards in place where they were providing permissible non-audit services to the Group.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2018 83 Audit Committee report continued Financial statements Going concern and viability statements The Committee reviews all significant issues concerning the financial statements.
The principal The Committee also agreed the parameters matters we considered concerning the 2018 financial statements, in addition to the going of, andreviewed the supporting report for, concern and viability statement reviews referred to opposite, were: the going concern statement see page 82 and the statement on the Boards assessment Recognition of revenue, profit Goodwill of the prospects of the Company the viability andprovisioning Impairment testing of goodwill on the statement on page 81 over the five-year From 1 January 2018 the Group adopted balancesheet is underpinned by the value period used in the Integrated Business Plan.
IFRS15 Revenue from Contracts with ofthe future prospects of the related The Committee considered the period covered Customers.
businesswhich have to be estimated.
by the viability statement and continues to be of the view that a five-year period remains the The Committee reviewed the Groups We considered the level of goodwill held most appropriate timespan in this regard.
implementation and processes for the onthe Groups balance sheet and whether, adoption of IFRS 15.
In addition, the given the future prospects of the acquired Internal control and risk Committee reviewed key estimates and businesses, the value of goodwill held on The Board has delegated to the Committee judgements applied in determining the thebalance sheet remains appropriate.
responsibility for reviewing in detail the financial status of the more significant Themethodology for impairment testing effectiveness of the Companys risk programmes including UK aircraft carrier usedby the Group is set out in note 8 to the management and internal control system.
programme, Astute, OPVs, Radford, Group accounts on page 161.
No goodwill TheCommittees review of the effectiveness SaudiBritish Defence Co-operation impairments were identified as a result of of internal controls has encompassed a review Programme and Saudi Typhoon.
of the reports relating to the six-monthly Operational Assurance Statements OAS, which Pensions Taxation are submitted by each business or function Accounting for pensions and other postComputation of the Groups tax expense asa mandated policy under the Group-wide retirement benefits involves making estimates andliability, the provisioning for potential Operational Framework, controls reports, and when measuring the Groups retirement taxliabilities and the level of deferred tax asset reports from both internal and external auditors.
These estimates require recognition are underpinned by management assumptions to be made about uncertain judgement and estimation of the amounts A key focus for the Committee is the controls events such as discount rates and longevity.
environment surrounding the Companys Lifecycle Management LCM process, the Recognising the scale of the Groups pension Whilst tax policy is ultimately a matter for bedrock of our programme execution and obligation, we reviewed the key assumptions theBoards determination, we reviewed the management.
LCM is integral to the successful supporting the valuation of the retirement Groups tax strategy as set out on page 41. execution of the Groups projects and benefit obligation.
This included a comparison Twice during the year, we reviewed the programmes, and of particular importance of the discount and inflation rates used against Groupstax charge, tax provisions and the inthe early identification of programme risk externally-derived data.
We reviewed the basis of recoverability of the deferred tax and the determination of profit recognition or methodology used to allocate a proportion assetrelating to the Groups pension deficit.
provisioning which, you will see from above, ofthe retirement benefit obligation to equity tend to be areas where we are required to accounted investments and concluded that exercise judgement.
We have discussed the this was appropriate with reference to outputs of financial, IT and LCM controls agreements between the Company and those testing, and any required improvement companies.
We also considered the adequacy actions, with management, andinternal and of disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of external audit, with a view toensuring the the deficit to changes in these key assumptions ongoing robustness of programme execution see note 22 to the Group accounts on pages and risk mitigation.
We have reviewed the ongoing effectiveness The Committee also reviewed the disclosures of the Companys risk management processes set out in note 37 to the Group accounts on as part of our wider review of internal controls.
pages 205 and 206 in relation to the correction The Groups principal risks are set outon of a prior year error in the value of pension pages 68 to 71. scheme assets regarding the treatment of experience collateral in the accounting For a number of years it has been part of the valuation of a longevity swap.
Committees remit to oversee the effectiveness of the whistle-blowing facility with particular reference to matters of financial concern.
How we ensure that the Groups financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, Under the new UK Corporate Governance balanced and understandable and provide information necessary for shareholders Code effective from 1 January 2019, to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy responsibility for oversight of an anonymous whistle-blowing facility rests with the Board, The process is: and we have therefore taken the opportunity, comprehensive guidance issued to all the contributors at operational level: with the agreement of the Board, to re-align a verification process dealing with the factual content of the reports: the Committees Terms of Reference to reflect comprehensive reviews undertaken at different levels in the Group that aim to ensure the new Code provision.
consistency and overall balance: and comprehensive review by the directors and the Executive Committee.
BAE Systems 84 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Internal audit An External Quality Assessment EQA of How the effectiveness of the external Internal Audit plays an integral role in the theInternal Audit function was undertaken in audit process and audit transition Companys governance structure and provides 2018 by Ernst & Young LLP EY.
The objective wasassessed regular reports to the Committee.
These of the EQA was to independently assess the include an overview of the work undertaken quality and effectiveness of Internal Audit, Who we surveyed: in the period under review, individual reports inline with the International Standards for Executive directors on audits conducted and progress against theProfessional Practice of Internal Auditing.
Operating group sector and line theagreed internal audit plan, as well as During the assessment, EY interviewed a ofbusinessmanagement theoutputs of the twice-yearly OAS process sample of Internal Audits stakeholders across Internal Audit Director and the tracking of remedial action in the business and reviewed working papers thecaseofany control failures.
Specific Other senior executives, including and outputs related to a sample of internal attention hasbeen paid during the year keyfinanceroles audits that had been conducted in 2017. totheorganisational changes effective Based on their work, EY concluded that Areas we covered: from1January 2018. withinBAE Systems the Internal Audit Transition process The annual Internal Audit programme is functionis respected and trusted, is clear Understanding of the Groups risks agreed jointly by the Audit and Corporate onits role and remit in the organisation, has Audit plan Responsibility committees to ensure that access to the majority of skills and capabilities theoverarching programme covers not only that it needs to deliver its current programme Robustness of audit processes financial risk, but also the assessment of of audits, and has many strong operational Objectivity theeffectiveness of key areas of ethical and processes in place which enable it to deliver Quality of communications reputational risk.
The assurance programme onits mandate.
Ability to provide a seamless comprises a broad range of audits covering Recommendations were made by EY to serviceacross differing jurisdictions areas such as mandated governance, OAS supplement the continuous improvement outputs, risk register findings, change aswell as interaction with the Committee activities already under way, which will be programmes, structural and business changes, members.
addressed by the function through a number and areas relating to responsible behaviour of workstreams over the next two years.
The output of the review was positive and non-financial risk.
Internal Audit may also Theareas of improvement include the use of with a strong transition and the fromtime-to-time undertake other work technology and tools specifically in connection incomingauditor demonstrating a good within the context of the risk environment.
with data analytics, embedding cultural understanding of key business risks, During the year under review, and separate assessments into audit activities, and working andproviding robust and constructive from the normal regular sessions we hold with the business to improve integrated challenge.
It was recognised that a key withthe Internal Audit Director without assurance across the three lines of defence requirement going forward would be management present, we held a separate see below.
toretain continuity of the audit team session with him, his heads of internal inorder to develop the knowledge base We have had the opportunity to hear direct auditand the external auditor, after we and level of experience.
from the VP, Internal Audit, on internal audit hadhad the benefit of Deloittes output work undertaken within the US businesses On the basis of the review following ontheir controls testing.
At this session aswell as from the Head of Audit Risk, the2018 year-end audit, the Committee wecontinued our discussions around inrespect of optimising impactful internal has proposed to the Board that it i themandated control environment, audit reporting and risk-based approaches recommend that shareholders support e. g. finance and exportcompliance controls: todeveloping and executing the annual there-appointment of Deloitte LLP at the and ii other risk-based assurance priorities, internal audit plan.
e. g. general IT, quality, project management and engineeringcontrols.
Nick Rose Chairman of the Audit Committee Three lines of defence model Endorsed by the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors, the three lines of defence model comprises: First line of defence Operational management has ownership, responsibility and accountability for assessing, Competition and Markets controlling and mitigating risks.
AuthorityAudit Order Second line of defence The Committee has complied with Activities covered by certain components of internal governance e. g. compliance, quality, theprovisions of the Competition and project management, engineering etc.
Markets Authority Audit Order in respect Third line of defence of committee responsibilities and audit Internal audit function and other independent assurance.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2018 85 Audit Committee report continued The Audit Committees year February June December Committee Committee Committee London, UK Baltimore, US London, UK Considered the accounting, financial Agreed audit strategy and scope.
Considered the external auditors controland audit issues reported by the controlsreport.
Reviewed external auditor independence auditor that flowed from the audit work.
Considered output of the Internal Reviewed the financial statements and AuditDirectors report.
specific disclosures, including viability Received a presentation from Considered output of the Internal andgoing concern, for recommendation HeadofAudit Risk.
Received a presentation from VP, Audit Reviewed the effectiveness of the fortheUS businesses.
Received a report on export control externalaudit process.
Received a report from the Group Reviewed the Non-Audit Services Policy.
Discussed the first iteration of the annual Considered output from the six-monthly July Internal Audit programme.
Committee Set the parameters for work supporting Reviewed the procedures and outputs London, UK theviability and going concern statements.
forthe identification, assessment and Considered the accounting, financial Received briefing on IFRS 16 Leases.
controland audit issues reported by the Review of the Committees Terms Reviewed the effectiveness of the auditor that flowed from the half-year ofReference.
Companys helpline procedures in reviewwork.
1 respectofthe reporting of accounting Regular quarterly items.
Reviewed the financial statements and .
specific disclosures, including going concern, Meeting 1 Regular quarterly items.
for recommendation to the Board.
London, UK Joint session with the Corporate Received a report from the Group Taxation Informal meeting with the Internal : Director.
AuditDirector and external auditor Agreed final iteration of the annual Considered output from the six-monthly todiscuss the balance between InternalAudit programme.
mandatedaudits and other risk-based assurance processes.
Reviewed the procedures and outputs forthe identification, assessment and May reporting of risk.
Committee Considered output from the external quality Farnborough, UK assessment of the Internal Audit function.
Agreed the AGM Trading Statement.
Received a report on the Groups .
2 Agreed the audit engagement letter.
Committee composition and evaluation The breadth of experience of the AuditCommittee members is set out onpage 79.
The performance evaluation oftheCommittee is undertaken as part ofthe wider Board evaluation and the 1.
The Committee reviews the nature and level of non-audit services including independence safeguards from the Board believes the Committee to have incumbentauditor where it provides such services, and holds a separate session with the Internal Audit Director theappropriate composition, skills and andexternal auditor without management present.
The Audit Committee Chairman also meets separately with experience to discharge its responsibilities.
internalandexternal audit on an ad hoc basis.
Subject to Deloitte LLP being appointed as auditor at the 2018 AGM.
Audit Committee timeline February May June July December Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Meeting BAE Systems 86 Annual Report 2018
