This is an overview of how the directors have Directors performed their duty to promote the success oftheCompany.
duties The directors of BAE Systems Shareholders Employees Customers | | andthose of all UK companies Suppliers Community and Environment must act in accordance with a | setof general duties.
These duties A board should communicate effectively with its shareholders and understand theirviews, and also act fairly as between different members.
Employees are are detailed in the UKs Companies centralto the long-term success of a company, as such, a board should Act and include a duty to promote consider their interests, and, to assist in doing so, have means of engaging with the success of the Company, and understanding their views.
Fostering business relationships with key stakeholders, such as customers and suppliers, is also important to a companys whichis summarised below.
A board should have visibility of these relationships so that it is able As part of their induction, the directors are totake stakeholder considerations into account when making decisions.
In their briefed on their duties and they can access decision-making, directors need to have regard to the impact of a companys professional advice on these either through operations on the community and environment.
the Company or, if they judge it necessary, from an independent provider.
Overview of how the Board performed its duties Typically, in largeandcomplex companies Shareholders Members of the Board, including the chairs of the principal board committees, held a suchas BAE Systems, the directors fulfil their governance event with major shareholders in 2018.
This allowed directors to liaise directly duties partly through a governance framework with shareholders on the Companys governance arrangements, including the important thatdelegates day-to-day decision-making workundertaken by the committees.
The feedback received was positive and the Board toemployees of the Company.
intends to continue such events at regular intervals.
The Board recognises that such delegation Employees needs to be much more than simple financial The Company has a well-developed structure through which it engages regularly with trade authorities and, in this section of the report, union officials to discuss and understand matters concerning UK employees.
During the year, we have summarised our governance one of the non-executive directors, Ian Tyler, joined the Chief Executive when engaging with employee representatives through this forum.
structure, which covers: the values and behaviours expected of our employees: the Also, in terms of employee engagement, a number of Board meetings were held on standards they must adhere to: how we operational sites throughout the year which provided an opportunity for all directors to engage directly with employees on a variety of topics.
This included town hall meetings engage with stakeholders: and how the Board withgroups of employees at our Rochester, UK and San Diego, US sites.
It is proposed looks to ensure that we have a robust system thatdirectors will attend further such meetings at Company sites during 2019. of control and assurance processes.
Customers For more detail on our governance structure, The Chief Executive and the President and Chief Executive Officer of our US business are see pages 76 and 77. inregular contact with our principal customers, and at all scheduled Board meetings they briefthe Board on our performance in delivering on our commitments to customers and thequalityof these critical relationships.
The Chairman also maintains close links with many ofourcustomers and regularly briefs the Board on the feedback he receives.
In addition, inorder to help directors to develop their understanding of the Companys performance andrelationship with key customers at first-hand, a number of informal meetings were heldin2018 with senior customer representatives.
Such meetings are an integral part oftheBoardsannual programme and similar events will take place during 2019.
Suppliers Section 172 of the UKs Companies Act The Board met with the leadership of the Companys Procurement function to understand In summary, as required by Section 172 more about how they are developing deeper relationships with companies in our supply ofthe UKs Companies Act, a director chains and developing strategic relationships with key suppliers.
The Board will continue tofocus on supplier management in 2019. ofacompany must act in the way he considers, in good faith, would most likely Community and environment promote the success of the company for The Board recognises the importance of leading a company that not only generates value the benefit of its shareholders.
In doing forshareholders but also contributes to wider society.
Through the Operational Framework the Board has mandated that our businesses implement the requirements of our Community this, the director must have regard, Investment Policy, which looks to ensure that we build and nurture mutually beneficial amongst other matters, to the: relationships between our business, our people and local stakeholders.
likely consequences of any decisions As a major manufacturing company, we recognise that environmental and climate risks inthe long term: couldimpact us directly, and we are committed to reducing the environmental impact ofouroperations and products, and minimise our environmental footprint.
Through interests of the companys employees: theOperational Framework the Board has mandated that our businesses implement the requirements of our Environmental Policy, which details our commitment to high standards need to foster the companys business ofenvironmental management.
relationships with suppliers, customers and others: Compliance with the above policies is monitored through our Operational Assurance Statement process, the output from which is reviewed regularly by the Audit and Corporate impact of the companys operations Responsibility committees.
Also, community and environmental matters form part of the onthe community and environment: Boards annual review of corporate responsibility matters.
companys reputation for high Group strategic Our Chairmans Board standards of business conduct: and 18 24 72 76 framework people governance letter governance need to act fairly as between members ofthe company.
Corporate Responsibility 87 Committee report BAE Systems 74 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Decision-making Governance and Culture, values and standards | performance oversight Risk Culture, values and standards underpin how a company creates | and sustains value over the longer term and are key elements Boards of large companies invariably delegate day-to-day ofhow it maintains a reputation for high standards of business managementand decision-making to executive management.
They also guide and assist in decision making and Directorsshould maintain oversight of a companys performance thereby help promote a companys success, recognising, amongst and ensure that management is acting in accordance with the other things, the likely consequences of any decision in the long strategy and plans agreed by a board, and its delegated authorities.
term and wider stakeholder considerations.
The standards set The culture, values and standards that underpin this delegation byaboard mandate certain requirements and behaviours with should help ensure that when decisions are made their wider impact regards to the activities of its directors, employees and others has been considered.
A board should also reserve certain matters associated with it.
for itsown consideration so that it can exercise judgement directly when making major decisions, and in doing so promote the success Overview of how the Board discharged its duties of the company whilst having regard to all necessary matters.
The Board is supporting the Chief Executive in embedding a culture that A board needs assurance that a companys financial reporting, risk willhelp deliver long-term success.
To assist with this work, during the year management, governance and internal control processes, including theCompany undertook an employee engagement survey.
The results of thishave been reviewed by the directors, together with the subsequent policies mandating procedural requirements and standards, are actionstheChief Executive will be taking to reinforce the Companys values operating effectively.
andensurethat we have the right culture to meet the strategic needs of the business.
Further work on this will be undertaken during 2019.
Overview of how the Board discharged its duties The Board sets the values and standards required of all employees through Each year, the Board undertakes an in-depth review of the Companys strategy, itsOperational Framework, which contains our Code of Conduct.
In 2018, including the business plan for the following five years.
Once approved by the thisdocument was reviewed and amendments agreed by the Board.
Board, the plan and strategy form the basis for financial budgets, resource In overseeing the effectiveness of the Companys processes for dealing with plansand investment decisions, and also the future strategic direction of the employees whose behaviour falls short of required standards, the Corporate Company.
In making decisions concerning the business plan and future strategy, Responsibility Committee has continued to monitor the nature of issues the Board has regard to a variety of matters including the interests of various reported through the Companys Ethics Helpline.
Also during the year, the stakeholders, the consequences of its decisions in the long term and its Boardreviewed the processes in place for the investigation of complaints long-term reputation.
concerning inappropriate behaviour by employees.
The integrity of these In 2018, the Boards review of strategy included presentations from the processes is an important part of our governance arrangements and the GroupHuman Resources Director and the leaders of our Procurement function.
Boardwill review these processes again in 2019 to ensure they remain effective.
The Chief Executive is responsible for delivering the plans and strategy agreed bythe Board, with authority delegated to executive directors but subject to Operational Operational Assurance Corporate Responsibility alldecisions being made on the basis of the values and standards mandated 76 77 87 framework Statement Committee report intheCompanys Operational Framework and underpinned by the culture setbythe Board, Chief Executive and senior management.
The Board has approved the Groups Risk Management Policy, which aims to ensure that risks are managed effectively across the Group.
It also has overall responsibility for determining the nature and extent of the risk the Company iswilling to take.
During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed output fromthe Companys risk management processes.
Also in 2018, the Corporate Responsibility Committee reviewed the output from the Companys processes formanaging significant non-financial risks, including those arising in respect ofbusiness conduct, health and safety, and the environment.
Both committees reported their findings to the Board following such reviews.
Risk is also an important consideration for Board members when reviewing major bids and contracts.
Last year the Board undertook such reviews in respect of the Mobile Protected Firepower programme, Qatar Typhoon sales financing, APKWS production, Astute Boat 7 and the Hunter Class Frigate programme see below.
The Board has reserved certain matters for its own decision, including the approval of major bids and contracts.
For example, in 2018 the Company signeda contract with the Commonwealth of Australia for its Hunter Class Frigate programme.
Following extensive reviews by the Chief Executive and thebusiness team, the initial bid and the subsequent contract were referred tothe Board for its review and approval.
In reaching its decisions on this, theBoard had regard to a number of matters, including the business case andfinancial returns, technical and programme management matters, risk management, workforce matters and the long-term reputation of the Company in dealing with various aspects of a complex international programme.
The Board has adopted a revised Board Charter, which incorporates governance principles that are aligned with the requirements of the revised UK Corporate Governance Code.
Also, revised terms of reference have been adopted by the Boards principal committees to recognise the Code changes.
How we Operational Board 66 76 80 manage risk framework information BAE Systems Annual Report 2018 75
