Governance Report Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee consists of all Directors with the exception Financial Reporting of Mr NAC Bannerman for the year to 31 August 2018.
Mr JKR The Committee considers that the most significant areas of risk Falconer is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The members of likely to impact the Financial Statements are the existence and the Committee consider that they have the requisite financial skills valuation of investments, as they represent 96.7% of total assets.
and experience to fulfil the responsibilities of the Committee.
The Another area of risk considered by the Committee is the accuracy Committees authority and duties are clearly defined within its and completeness of income from investments.
written terms of reference which are available on request from the All of the investments are quoted securities and market prices are Company Secretaries and at www.
The readily available from independent external pricing sources.
The terms of reference are reviewed annually.
Committee reviewed the Managers Report on Internal Controls The Committees effectiveness is reviewed on an annual basis as which details the controls in place regarding recording and pricing part of the Boards performance evaluation process.
of investments, accurate recording of investment income and the reconciliation of investment holdings to third party data.
At least once a year the Committee meets with the external Auditor without any representative of the Manager being present.
The value of all the investments at 31 August 2018 were agreed to external price sources and the portfolio holdings agreed to Main Activities of the Committee confirmations from the Companys Custodian.
The Committee met twice during the year and KPMG LLP, the The Managers and Auditor confirmed to the Committee that they external Auditor, attended both meetings.
Baillie Gifford & Cos were not aware of any material misstatements in the context of Internal Audit and Compliance Departments and the AIFMs the Financial Statements as a whole and that the Financial permanent risk function provided reports on their monitoring Statements are in accordance with applicable law and accounting programmes for these meetings.
The matters considered, monitored and reviewed by the Committee during the course of the year included the following: Internal Controls and Risk Management The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys risk the preliminary results announcement and the Annual and management and internal controls systems as described on Interim reports: pages 24 and 25.
No significant weaknesses were identified in the the Companys accounting policies and practices: year under review.
the regulatory changes impacting the Company: External Auditor the fairness, balance and understandability of the Annual To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence and Report and Financial Statements and whether it provided objectivity of the external Auditor, the Committee reviewed: the information necessary for shareholders to assess the the audit plan for the current year: Companys performance, business model and strategy: a report from the Auditor describing their arrangements to the effectiveness of the Companys internal control manage auditor independence and received confirmation of environment: its independence: and the appointment reappointment, remuneration and terms the extent of non-audit services provided by the external of engagement of the external Auditor: Auditor.
The Auditor will not provide any non-audit services whether the audit services contract should be put out to unless approved by the Committee.
There were no non-audit tender: fees for the year to 31 August 2018 or 31 August 2017. the policy on the engagement of the external Auditor to supply To assess the effectiveness of the external Auditor, the Committee non-audit services: reviewed and considered: the independence and objectivity of the external Auditor and the Auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan: the effectiveness of the audit process: feedback from the Secretaries on the performance of the the need for the Company to have its own internal audit function: audit team: and the internal controls reports received from the Managers and the Audit Quality Inspection Report from the FRC.
Custodian: and To fulfil its responsibility for oversight of the external audit process the arrangements in place within Baillie Gifford & Co whereby the Committee considered and reviewed: their staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible the Auditors engagement letter: improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
the Auditors proposed audit strategy: Internal Audit the audit fee: and The Committee continues to believe that the compliance and internal control systems and the internal audit function in place a report from the Auditor on the conclusion of the audit.
within the Investment Managers provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal control, which safeguards shareholders investment and the Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal audit function, specific to the Company, is therefore considered unnecessary.
26 Annual Report 2018 Governance Report Following a competitive tender process, KPMG LLP were appointed as the Companys Auditor at the Annual General Meeting held on 30 November 2017.
The audit partner responsible for the audit will be rotated at least every five years in accordance with professional and regulatory standards in order to protect independence and objectivity and to provide fresh challenge to the business.
Mr Waterson, the current partner, will continue as audit partner until the conclusion of the 2022 audit.
KPMG LLP have confirmed that they believe they are independent within the meaning of regulatory and professional requirements and that the objectivity of the audit partner and staff is not impaired.
Having carried out the review described above, the Committee is satisfied that the Auditor remains independent and effective for the purposes of this years audit.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Committees choice of external auditor.
Accountability and Audit The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the Auditor in connection with the Financial Statements are set out on pages 30 to 34.
On behalf of the Board JKR Falconer Audit Committee Chairman 24 October 2018 The Baillie Gifford Japan Trust PLC 27
