Nominations Committee report Dear Shareholders, Board composition One of the Companys strategic objectives is The Nominations Committee was active Sir Roger Carr to develop a diverse workforce to drive success throughout 2018 dealing with both executive Chairman of the at all levels.
Against this background, I am and non-executive succession planning.
pleased to report that we have continued to Nominations Committee With Charles Woodburn now well established make progress in refreshing and strengthening as Chief Executive, the Committee has been the Board, and in doing so we have become working with him in researching the strength increasingly more diverse in terms of gender, and depth of the executive pipeline below the ethnicity and nationality.
Our policy on Board Board and what we are doing to develop this gender diversity is aligned to the target set by further.
With regard to non-executive director the Hampton-Alexander Review, i. e. 33% membership, last year we welcomed Revathi representation of women on FTSE 350 boards Advaithi who, with her global industrial sector by the end of 2020.
We are performing well business experience, has been a valuable against this target, with women representing addition to the Board.
The need to refresh 36% of Board membership at present.
theBoard but at the same time maintain In terms of other aspects of board diversity, aknowledgeable and experienced team our policy is to continue, over time, to create ofnon-executive directors is essential, and aBoard that not only brings together thisis something that the Committee has individuals with the right skills, knowledge continued to address in our succession Members andexperience, but one that also has a management discussions.
Further details diversity that reflects the multi-national nature ofthis and the other principal responsibilities Sir Roger Carr Chairman of the business world in general.
We will of the Committee are detailed below.
continue to engage with search consultants Revathi Advaithi Executive succession toidentify candidates in a manner that is With effect from the beginning of 2018, our consistent with achieving these objectives.
Elizabeth Corley Chief Executive implemented his plans for a Non-executive succession new organisational structure for the Company.
Harriet Green The need to refresh the Board is central to This was an important matter for the Board, theremit of the Nominations Committee.
Chris Grigg and in the months prior to it the Committee Onpage 80, you will see the analysis of the engaged with Charles in understanding his Paula Rosput Reynolds length of time that individual non-executive plans, ambitions and resource requirements.
This shows that we have We were particularly interested in how he Nick Rose a reasonable spread ofterms, ranging from intended to use this opportunity to refresh Revathi Advaithi, whojoined the Board just themanagement team and create Ian Tyler over a year ago, toNickRose who has just opportunities for high-potential individuals completed his ninth year on the Board.
One of the Boards principal objectives agreed with the In 2018, the Committee recognised the Chief Executive is to ensure that the Company needto recruitup to two new non-executive is making best use of the many highly talented directors, including a suitable candidate to individuals we employ and that we use such jointhe Board and succeed Nick Rose as Chair individuals to create a culture that supports of theAudit Committee.
However, recognising adiverse and inclusive working environment.
that we haveanew auditor this year and the This is vital to the long-term health of the level of geopolitical uncertainty facing the Company and is fundamental to the effective Company at present, the Board considered it management of executive succession at all was in the Companys and shareholders best levels, and blends seasoned experience with interests that we extend Nick Roses tenure as fresh thinking.
Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Audit Committee beyond the nine-year period During the year, the Committee spent time to 31December 2019. with the Chief Executive and our Group Human ResourcesDirector hearing about I recognise that the provisions of the UK thework they haveunder way to ensure Corporate Governance Code state that a thatwe have effective executive succession termof office in excess of nine years is one planning processes in place.
This included the ofthe factors that is likely to impair, or could presentation of data analysing all executive appear to impair, a non-executive directors grade positions across the Group and the independence.
However, if a board believes succession candidates for these roles.
This that such an individual remains independent, analysis has been one of the key inputs to the Code requires it to clearly explain why thework currently under way to actively ittakes that view.
Having worked with him manage our succession planning performance forsome years, his fellow Board members across all executive grades.
The oversight of andIcertainly take the view that Nick Rose this workwill remain a priority for the remainsindependent.
He has been an Committee in 2019. excellent non-executive member of the Board, and our annual board evaluations evidence the quality of his contribution andthe effective manner in which he BAE Systems 90 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements discharges his responsibilities in chairing Board evaluation theAudit Committee and acting as our Period of evaluation SeniorIndependent Director.
I have also December January with feedback and review taking place at aBoard meeting engaged with a number of our principal held on 20February 2019. shareholders on this matter and they were very helpful in giving me the opportunity Evaluation process toexplain the above, and were supportive Internally evaluated using a questionnaire developed by the Company using best ofthe decision.
practice guidance, including the FRCs Guidance on Board Effectiveness.
Questions covered the performance of theBoard, its committees and individual The recruitment consultants, Spencer Stuart, directors.
In addition, feedback was requested on the Boards performance and other sources were used to identify against the objectives agreed following theprevious years evaluation, and possible candidates for the non-executive directorswere also asked to identify theirpriorities for the Board in 2019. director succession requirements identified bythe Committee in 2018.
As reported in my Facilitator opening letter, this has resulted in the recent The Company Secretary, with guidance from the Chairman.
appointments of Nicole Piasecki and Stephen Feedback Pearce as non-executive directors, effective The Company Secretary produced a report for the Board analysing the from 1 June 2019.
Stephen will succeed Nick responsesto the questionnaire, including any additional comments made Rose as Chairman of the Audit Committee bydirectors.
Also, where the same questions had been used for previous surveys, with effect from thebeginning of next year.
the trend in performance relative to past years was provided.
The report formed I am pleased to report that Elizabeth Corley, the basis of a discussion at aBoard meeting, following which it agreed anumber who joined us three years ago, has agreed of objectives for 2019.
Reports were also produced analysing the responses toserve for a further three years.
I am also toquestions concerning the performance of the Boards committees, which appreciative that Ian Tyler and Chris Grigg havebeen provided to committee chairs and will be considered by the haveeach agreed to serve for an additional individualcommittees.
three-year period when their current six-year Feedback from the survey concerning individual directors has been provided terms come to an end later this year.
tothe Chairman and he will use this as partof an annual review process with Asevidenced by our annual performance eachboard member.
Feedback on the Chairmans performance has been evaluation, all three continue to be highly provideddirectly to the Senior Independent Director who, following discussion engaged and valuable non-executive with hisfellow non-executive directors, will discuss this with him.
membersof the Board and its committees.
Resulting actions Harriet Green will step down from the The Board has agreed the following actions in response to the evaluation: Boardin November this year having been avaluable contributor for nine years.
Her facilitate the use by executives of the competences, knowledge engagement, knowledge and experience andskillsoffered by individual non-executive directors: willbe much missed.
further develop the Boards strategy review process: Finally, the Boards most recent annual provide further opportunities for Board members to engage directly performance evaluation is detailed opposite.
withstakeholders: With regard to the Nominations Committee complete non-executive director succession planning actions: and its remit and duties, the evaluation drive best practice executive succession planning across the Company: and specifically asked directors about the provide further opportunities for directors to undertake deep-dive reviews effectiveness of succession planning, in terms intomajor programmes.
of both executive and non-executive directors, and also senior management.
Overall, it was believed that good progress had been made on this issue in 2018 but it was agreed that the Board would continue to work with the Chief Executive in ensuring that our executive succession planning processes fully support our strategic objectives and make best use ofthe talented people we employ.
Sir Roger Carr Chairman of the Nominations Committee Nominations Committee timeline March May July September November December Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee BAE Systems Annual Report 2018 91
