Strategic report Governance Financial statements Governance disclosures Risk management and internal a geographically diverse business with UK Corporate Governance controlstatement ahigh proportion of sales to governments Code theCode compliance and other major prime defence contractors.
The Board is responsible for the Companys In 2018, 28% of sales were to the US risk management and internal control systems.
Department of Defense, 21% to the UK It has delegated responsibility for reviewing in The Company was compliant Ministry of Defence and 13% to the Kingdom detail the effectiveness of these systems to the withthe provisions of the of Saudi Arabia Ministry ofDefence and Audit Committee, which reports to the Board Codethroughout 2018 and the Aviation.
Major new business wins in the on its findings so that all directors can take a Middle East, Australia and Canada provide Board hasapplied its principles view on the matter.
astrong foundation forfurther market initsgovernance structure An overview of the processes used to identify, diversity and growth: evaluate and manage the principal risks can be andoperations.
The following long-term visibility of sales and future found on pages 66 and 67.
These processes statements are made in saleprospects through a substantial are an integral part of our governance orderbacklog 2018 48.4bn and compliancewith the Code.
framework, the Operational Framework, incumbent positions on major defence details of which can be found on page 76. programmes: and TheOperational Framework mandates the market positions underpinned by a highly Operational Assurance Statement process, skilled workforce, intellectual property which is owned by the Companys Internal assetsand proprietary know-how, which Audit function and is one of the principal aresafeguarded and developed for the processes used by the Board in monitoring future by customerand Company-funded theeffectiveness of the Companys internal investment.
Such investment is focused on control systems.
awell-developed understanding of future The risk management and internal control technologies and the threat environment systems detailed in the Operational Framework shaping the long-term defence and were in place throughout the year and the aerospace market.
Board, having reviewed their effectiveness, Assessment believes they accord with the Financial The Boards assessment of the Companys Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk prospects was informed by the following Management, Internal Control and Related business processes: Financial and Business Reporting.
Risk management process the Company Viability statement has developed a structured approach to the As required by the provisions of the Code, management of risk seeabove and emerging theBoard has undertaken an assessment of and principal risks identified are considered the future prospects of the Company, taking aspart of the Boards annual review of the into account the Companys current position Integrated Business Plan.
This assessment considered both the Companys long-term prospects Integrated Business Plan IBP the IBP andalso its ability to continue in operation represents a common process with standard and meet its liabilities as they fall due over outputs and requirements that produces an itsfive-year business planning period.
integrated strategic and business plan for the Company and also for each of its businesses Analysis of business prospects over the following five years.
The use of a Whilst recognising the geopolitical five-year period provides a robust planning environment in which the Company operates tool against which long-term decisions can andwith due regard to the principal risks bemade concerning, amongst other things, setout on pages 68 to 71, the Board has strategic priorities, funding requirements alsoconsidered the long-term prospects of including commitments to the Companys theCompany based on our strategy, markets pension schemes, returns made to and business plan as outlined on pages 18 shareholders, capital expenditure and resource to34 of this report.
In its strategic review planning.
Longer-term strategic inputs also ofthe Company, the Board recognised the form part of the IBP process and, where importance of certain factors that underpin activity is required to meet such long-term itslong-term prospects and viability.
In priorities, this is provided for in the plan.
summary, these are: The detailed plan is reviewed each year a diverse portfolio of businesses based on bytheBoard as part of its strategy review well-established market positions, providing process.
Once approved by the Board, the both complex, high technology products IBPprovides the basis for setting all detailed and programmes, and differentiated technical financial budgets and strategic actions across services and support.
In 2018, 30% of group the businesses, and is subsequently used sales were product programme related and bythe Board to monitor performance.
70% services and support: BAE Systems Annual Report 2018 81 Governance disclosures continued Liquidity analysis the Board regularly Going concern statement In addition to being a non-executive director reviews an analysis based on the financial of the Company, Ian Tyler is chairman of Accounting standards require that directors output from the IBP, looking at the forecast twolisted FTSE 250 companies, Bovis Homes satisfy themselves that it is reasonable for working capital requirements, cash flow, Group and Cairn Energy, and also two them to conclude whether it is appropriate andcommitted borrowing and other funding non-listed companies, AWE Management, toprepare financial statements on a going facilities available to the Company over the aprivate company owned by three joint concern basis and the Code requires that, if five-year period covered by the IBP.
This venturepartners, and Amey, a subsidiary appropriate, this report includes a statement analysis includes stress testing of the ofFerrovial, S. A. a Spanish listed company.
Following review, the directors Companys liquidity under severe, but The Chairman has reviewed Ian Tylers other have concluded that it is appropriate to plausible, scenarios as developed from the commitments and is satisfied that they do adoptthe going concern basis for these IBP, including the following: notimpinge on his ability to discharge his financial statements and have not identified responsibilities to BAE Systems effectively.
any material uncertainties concerning the the Company being unable to access debt Hewill keep this matter under review.
Companys ability to do so in the 12-month markets to renew term debt facilities: period from the date of approving them.
an unfavourable change to the terms of In addition to being a non-executive trade the Company enjoys with certain directorof the Company, Paula Rosput Forthis reason, they continue to adopt the principal customers: Reynolds is currently a director of four other going concern basis in preparing theaccounts.
However, it has been the Company failing to win certain major Directors announced that she will shortly be standing export contracts: All directors undertake astructured induction down from the board of CBRE Group, Inc. potential change of UK government policy: programme when they first join the Board, and As detailed in the Nominations Committee thereafter they regularly update and refresh report see pages 90 and 91, the Board the loss of a major export market.
their knowledge of the Company.
believes that, despite having served as a The scenarios tested included the impact In compliance with the Code, all directors are non-executive director for more than nine ofmultiple adverse factors.
subject to annual election by shareholders.
years with effect from 8 February 2019, The Chairman has confirmed that, based on NickRose remains independent for the Conclusion the formal performance evaluations undertaken purposes of the Code.
In undertaking its review of the IBP in 2018, in 2018, all remain committed to therole and the Board considered the prospects of the The Company considers that all of the the individual performance of alldirectors Company over the five-year period covered non-executive directors identified on pages continues to be effective.
On the basis of this and other 78and 79 of this report are independent with the Code, the Company ensures that matters considered and reviewed by the inaccordance with Code provisions.
non-executive directors have sufficient time Board, the Board has reasonable expectations tofulfil their obligations.
This isassessed when that the Company will be able to continue in a director is appointed and also in the event operation and meet its liabilities as they fall ofthere being a material change to an due over the following five years.
recognised that such future assessments are subject to a level of uncertainty that increases Elizabeth Corley, anon-executive director with time and, therefore, future outcomes ofthe Company, is a non-executive director cannot be guaranteed or predicted with ofMorgan Stanley, a US listed company.
Also, this assessment was made Oneof its UK subsidiary companies provides recognising the principal risks that could have corporate broking services to the Company an impact on the future performance of the and, consequently, an assessment has been Company see pages 68 to 71. undertaken to determine whether this relationship has a bearing on her independence for the purposes of provision B.
After review, it was determined that this was not a material business relationship given the relatively low value of the contractual arrangements and the nature of the relationship, i. e. broking services are provided by a UK subsidiary of Morgan Stanley and her appointment is to the board of the US parent company and non-executive in nature.
Should there be any change to either ElizabethCorleys role with Morgan Stanley ora material change in the services its UK subsidiary provides to the Company, this decision will be reconsidered.
