Board of directors Sir Roger Carr Charles Woodburn Peter Lynas Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Appointed to the Board: 2013 Nationality: UK Appointed to the Board: 2016 Nationality: UK Appointed to the Board: 2011 Nationality: UK Skills, competence and experience Skills, competence and experience Skills, competence and experience Having joined the Board in 2013, Sir Roger was Charles joined BAE Systems in May 2016 as Chief Peter, a qualified accountant, was appointed to the appointed Chairman in 2014.
He is an experienced Operating Officer and became Chief Executive on Board as Group Finance Director in 2011.
His role company chairman with a wealth of knowledge 1July 2017.
Prior to joining the Company, he spent hassince been expanded to include responsibility gainedacross a number of business sectors.
With over 20 years in the oil and gas industry, holding forUK Shared Services, Procurement and Group overtwo decades of boardroom experience, Sir Roger anumber of senior management positions in the Mergers & Acquisitions.
has a deep understanding of corporate governance FarEast, Australia, Europe and the US.
He joined Peter previously served for a number of years as and what is required to lead an effective board.
theCompany from the oilfield services business, Director, Financial Control, Reporting & Treasury.
ExproGroup, where he served as Chief Executive Sir Roger is a Senior Advisor to KKR and Chairman of Hejoined GEC-Marconi in 1985 having previously Officer.
Prior to that, he spent 15 years the English National Ballet.
In 2018, he was appointed worked for other companies in the UK and Europe.
as co-chair of the Industrial Infrastructure and After progressing through a number of positions, Manufacturing Council, an advisory council to the hewas appointed Finance Director of GECs Marconi Non-executive appointments Prime Minister.
Electronic Systems business, which was subsequently None.
acquired by British Aerospace in 1999 to become He has previously held a number of senior BAESystems.
appointments including Chairman of Centrica plc, ViceChairman of the BBC Trust, Deputy Chairman and Non-executive appointments Senior Independent Director of the Court of theBank Non-executive director of SSE plc and chairman of of England, President of the Confederation of British itsaudit committee.
Industry, Chairman of Cadbury plc, Chairman of Chubb plc, Chairman of Mitchells & Butlers plc, Chairman of Thames Water plc and Chief Executive of Williams plc.
Throughout his career he has served on a number ofexternal committees including the Prime Ministers Business Advisory Group, the Manufacturing Council ofthe CBI, The Higgs Committee on Corporate Governance and Business for New Europe.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Society for the encouragement ofArts, Manufactures and Commerce, a Companion ofthe Institute of Management, and an Honorary Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
He is also a Visiting Fellow of Sad Business School, University of Oxford and holds an Honorary Doctorate in Business from Nottingham TrentUniversity.
He was knighted for Services to Business in the QueensNew Years Honours list 2011.
Jerry DeMuro Revathi Advaithi Committee membership Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
President and Chief Executive Officer Non-executive director ofBAESystems, Inc.
Appointed to the Board: 2018 Nationality: US Appointed to the Board: 2014 Nationality: US Skills, competence and experience Revathi brings extensive operational experience Skills, competence and experience andadeep understanding of digital technology Appointed to the Board on 1 February 2014 as President andinternational markets to the Board, gained from and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. her leadership of multinational engineering and Jerryis an experienced US executive who has worked manufacturing businesses.
In February 2019, in the national security, technology and aerospace Revathiassumed the role of Chief Executive Officer industry for over 30 years.
Prior to joining the Company, andbecame a member of the board of directors at he served as executive vice president and corporate FlexLtd, a global manufacturing company.
Prior to vice president of General Dynamics Information thisappointment, Revathi was president and chief Systems and Technology Group.
Earlier in his career, operating officer forthe Electrical Sector business he spent almost a decade as an acquisition official at atEaton, a power management company.
She joined the USDepartment of Defense.
Eaton in 1995 and led the Electrical Sector in the Jerry has been actively involved with several Americas and Asia-Pacific, with a three-year associations and non-profit organisations, including assignment in Shanghai.
Between 2002 and 2008, the Aerospace Industries Association, where he is Revathi worked at Honeywell, where she held currently a member of its Executive Committee, leadership roles spanning manufacturing, procurement, theAssociation of the United States Army, the supply chain and sourcing, including a role as general MILCOM Conference Board, and AFCEA International, manager, Automation and Control Solutions.
Revathi where heserved on the Board of Directors as an returned to Eaton in 2008 as vice president and general Executive Committee member and as chair of the manager of the Electrical Components division.
Other non-executive appointments Non-executive appointments None.
Chairman Committee membership Executive directors Corporate Responsibility Committee and Nominations Committee.
Non-executive directors BAE Systems 78 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Elizabeth Corley CBE Harriet Green OBE Chris Grigg Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed to the Board: 2016 Nationality: UK Appointed to the Board: 2010 Nationality: UK Appointed to the Board: 2013 Nationality: UK Skills, competence and experience Skills, competence and experience Skills, competence and experience Elizabeth brings investor, governance and boardroom Harriet is a transformative business leader with As chief executive of a FTSE 100 company, Chris experience to the Board.
She is currently a Senior international operational and boardroom experience.
bringsmanagement and boardroom experience Advisor at Allianz Global Investors.
She has served She is currently Chief Executive Officer and Chairman totheBoard.
He is currently Chief Executive of asChief Executive Officer of Allianz Global Investors, of Asia-Pacific at IBM.
Harriet has extensive global TheBritish Land Company PLC, a position he has initially for Europe then globally, from 2005 to 2016. business leadership experience.
Prior to that, she worked for Merrill Lynch Investment as Chief Executive Officer and executive director of Chris has more than 30 years experience in the Managers.
Elizabeth is active in representing the Thomas Cook plc.
Prior to that, she was Chief Executive banking and real estate industries.
Prior to joining investment industry and developing standards within Officer and executive director of Premier Farnell plc.
British Land, he was Chief Executive of Barclays it.
She is a member of the CFA Future of Finance Previously, she was also a non-executive director of Commercial Bank.
Before that, he was a partner Advisory Council and the AQR Institute of Asset Emerson Electric Co.
In 2017, Harriet was named as atGoldman Sachs.
Chris is currently a member Management at the London Business School.
one of the Fast Companys 100 Most Creative People oftheexecutive board of the European Public Elizabethis currently chair of the industry Taskforce inBusiness and in 2018 she was again placed by  and the board of the fortheUK government on social impact investing.
TheFinancial Times in the top ten of their HERoes .
In2017, she stepped down from the board of the ranking: Champions of Women inBusiness list.
Other non-executive appointments UKFinancial Reporting Council after completing In2016, shewon the Women in Technology Institute None.
hersecond three-year term of appointment.
WITI Award and, in 2014, she received the Veuve Clicquot Business Woman Award.
Harriet is a member Elizabeth is also an acclaimed writer, a Fellow Committee membership of the Singapore Economic Development Board.
oftheRoyal Society for the encouragement of Arts, Corporate Responsibility Committee and Nominations Manufactures and Commerce and atrusteeofthe Committee.
Other non-executive appointments Committee membership Non-executive director of Pearson plc and Corporate Responsibility Committee and Nominations MorganStanley.
Committee membership Nominations Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Paula Rosput Reynolds Nick Rose Ian Tyler Non-executive director Non-executive director and Non-executive director SeniorIndependent Director Appointed to the Board: 2011 Nationality: US Appointed to the Board: 2013 Nationality: UK Appointed to the Board: 2010 Nationality: UK Skills, competence and experience Skills, competence and experience An experienced company director in both the UK Ian brings considerable financial and long-term Skills, competence and experience andNorth America, Paula is currently Chief Executive international contracting experience to the Board.
Nick brings to the Board considerable financial Officer and President of the business advisory group Having qualified as a chartered accountant, Ian expertise and boardroom experience.
subsequently held a number of senior finance and ChiefFinancial Officer of Diageo plc for over ten years operational positions within industrial companies Starting her career as an economist, she spent over until 2010.
In this role, he was responsible for supply, before being appointed Finance Director of Balfour 20years in the energy sector, culminating in her procurement, strategy and IT on a global basis.
He was subsequently appointed appointment as President and Chief Executive Officer financial experience was developed during his time as asChief Executive in2005.
He is currently Chairman ofAGL Resources in 2002.
She served as President and group treasurer and group controller at Diageo, and ofBovis Homes Group PLC and Cairn Energy plc.
Chief Executive Officer of Safeco Corporation before also in his earlier career at Ford Finance.
He is a former becoming Vice Chairman and Chief Restructuring Chairman of the engineering technology company Ian is a former non-executive director of Mediclinic Officer of American International Group, overseeing International plc, Cable & Wireless Communications Edwards Group Limited and former non-executive itsdivestiture of assets and serving as chief liaison with director of Mot Hennessy SNC and Scottish Power plc.
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
She received the Nick is currently an adviser to CCMP Capital Advisors, LLC.
Other non-executive appointments National Association of Corporate Directors National Chairman of Amey plc, a subsidiary of Ferrovial, S. A.
Other non-executive appointments Lifetime Achievement Award in 2014. and AWE Management Limited.
Chairman of Williams Grand Prix Holdings PLC: Past roles include non-executive directorships at non-executive director and senior independent Committee membership Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. Anadarko Petroleum director of BT Group plc: and non-executive chairman Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, Corporation, Delta Air Lines Inc. Air Products and of Loch Lomond Group.
and member of the Audit Committee and Nominations Chemicals Inc. and Siluria Technologies, Inc. Committee.
Committee membership Other non-executive appointments Chairman of the Audit Committee, and member of the Non-executive director of BP p. l. c. CBRE Group, Inc.
Nominations Committee and Remuneration Committee.
General ElectricCompany and TransCanada Corporation.
Committee membership Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, and member of the Audit Committee and Nominations Committee.
