Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our partners and key relationships Our strategy in action UK: Movement Partners We engage regularly with to Work We continue to work with peers across ourpartners and listen and thedefence industry to improve ethical standards.
During 2018 we continued to inform in equal measure participate in the International Forum on through formal mechanisms Business Ethical Conducts Council and BAE Systems is a founder worked with the Institute of Business Ethics and ongoing dialogue.
supporterofthe Movement toset up a UK Defence Practitioners Group.
toWork MtW initiative in the This group met several times in 2018 to share Suppliers experiences and best practice on ethical UK, anemployer-led initiative We create best-in-class products and services issuesof particular concern to the industry totackleyouth unemployment.
through extensive collaboration with more andto receive expert briefings.
MtW is designed to help provide a pathway The BAE Systems, Inc. business continued into work for young people by providing them We work with suppliers and their supply strong support of the Defense Industry with quality work experience and employability chainsto provide fully compliant, cost-effective Initiative by participating in the Working skills training, and our funding and support equipment, goods, services and solutions.
Group, webinars and the annual Best Practices provides 98 new placements per year.
Oursupplier relationships are often long term Forum.
In addition, BAE Systems, Inc. is on So far, we have provided 431 placements due to the length of our product lifecycles, so thegoverning board for the Capital Area and259 young people have gone on to full we aim to work with suppliers who share our Business Ethics Network CABEN.
CABEN employment or further education as a direct values and who embrace standards of ethical provides members who are professionals result of this programme.
Of these, 113 have behaviour consistent with our own.
succeeded in gaining an apprenticeship with inethics, compliance and corporate BAE Systems.
socialresponsibility fields, in the greater Our policy is to identify and select suppliers Washington, D. C. area, with a forum for who meet our standards, and to support them sharing best practices and networking by managing risks throughout the lifecycle Our approach opportunities toexchange information.
We manage Pursuant to our Community Investment Policy, risk with our suppliers in accordance with our BAE Systems, Inc. also contributed to our Global Community Investment Strategy Procurement Policy, our Lifecycle Management aBestPractices Paper with Ethics and aims to build and nurture mutually beneficial Framework and our Supplier Principles Compliance Initiative on Using Your relationships between our business, our Organizations Performance Evaluation Guidance for Responsible Business.
Our people and local stakeholders.
We partner Systemto Drive Ethical Conduct.
business leaders and the Global Procurement with organisations that align to our strategy Council oversee compliance with the policies which allows us to support initiatives that Community investment and principles, and our Procurement teams havemeaning and impact to our business Giving back to the communities in which assesssuppliers against the Principles, andemployees.
weoperate, and to charities that have including anti-corruption criteria.
meaning to our business is vitally important Our strategy outlines primary focus After selection, we continue to engage with toour Company and our employees, areas, where measurable impact can be our suppliers for ongoing assurance at all stages allowingus to make a positive difference demonstrated and these are defined as: of a project.
Our key supplier and procurement andhave an impact where it counts.
Armed forces supporting active service policies are compliant with national and During 2018 the Group contributed personnel, veterans and their families: international laws.
In 2018, we reconfirmed our 3 morethan11m to local, national and commitment to the enhanced UK Government Education and skills inspiring young international charities and not-for-profit Prompt Payment Code and were one of the people to consider Science, Technology, organisations through our community inaugural signatories to the Australian Small Engineering and Maths STEM subjects investment programme.
This includes Business Supplier Payment Code.
andcareers: and charitable sponsorships, donations, Local community working to support employeefundraising and volunteering.
thecommunities in which we operate.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2018 31 Our partners and key relationships How our business works continued Our strategy in action Australia: Soldier On Each market develops its own programme skills and time.
Our communications team also which is in support of the Global Community supports awareness-raising efforts, promoting Investment Strategy, and is relevant to their projects and community causes through our lines of business, charitable needs, culture website, social media channels, intranet and andlocal communities.
Community investment is not paid tothirdWe have strong ties with armed forces In 2018, we announced an enhanced party fundraisers or directly to individuals.
charitiesacross a number of our markets, partnership to support the health, Aspart of our due diligence procedures, andan important strand of our strategy is employment and rehabilitation of priorto a charitable sponsorship or donation support for organisations that assist active Australias veterans and their families.
being committed, the charity is vetted service personnel, veterans and their families.
Our commitment will support the expansion througha recognised external organisation In the UK we have Gold Award status in ofSoldier Ons health and wellbeing, education, toensure that the funding will be used for theEmployer Recognition Scheme, managed employment and social programmes, and charitable purposes.
by the UK Ministry of Defence.
The scheme, willcomplement BAE Systems employee first run in 2014, is the highest accolade To avoid the risk of conflicts of interest, fundraising and volunteering activities.
These fororganisations that have signed the programmes are vitally important to the anycommunity investment activity is tested ArmedForces Covenant and demonstrated veterancommunity, with one in four veterans against the principle that it does not place, or outstanding commitment to active and experiencing a mental health issue each year.
does not appear to place, actual or potential formerservice personnel.
As a winner, we Soldier Ons programmes focus on the customers, suppliers or government officials demonstrated a proactive commitment to prevention and treatment of these issues under any obligations.
byproviding physical and mental health advocate and support our armed forces, a rehabilitation, education, employment and The Global Community Investment positive attitude towards service personnel career transition support, as well as creating Committeereports to the Executive during recruitment and full support of meaningful connections and a sense of Committee on all community investment employee reservists.
In the US, we partner belonging.
Together, BAE Systems Australia activities, including employee fundraising with The Mission Continues, which empowers andSoldier On are creating and supporting activities.
All such expenditure and any veterans to continue their service in alegacy for Australias service community associated employee fundraising is reported transformative ways within their communities andtheir families.
through an online system and validated and supports their transition to new careers byanexternal assurance provider.
that draw upon their military service.
Our impact Volunteering remains an important part of We collaborate with organisations that can ouremployees career journey and can be demonstrate a positive impact locally and pursued as a personal development goal.
encourage our employees to volunteer in Inthe Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the UK, support of their work.
These include not-forour education ambassadors have offered profit organisations and education providers.
theirtime to encourage school age children topursue STEM subjects and careers.
We use the London Benchmarking Group methodology to define the value of our Based on local practices, we apply support and its impact on our community matchedfunding and offer volunteering partners, in comparison with our peers and opportunities during company time for other organisations.
anumber of our employee groups, encouraging them to support our charitable As well as donations, sponsorship and partners and communities in alignment with employee fundraising, we develop and our Community Investment strategy and support structured education programmes focus areas.
and enable our employees to volunteer their BAE Systems 32 Annual Report 2018
