GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK The Chairman of each Committee reports to the Board on the matters discussed at Committee meetings.
Reports from each Board Committee Chair, including information on the Committees respective composition and activities in the year, can be found in the sections relating to each Committee within this report.
THE BOARD CHAIRED BY SIMON BURKE Accountable to shareholders for the long-term sustainable success of the Group.
This is achieved through setting out the strategy, monitoring the strategic objectives and providing oversight of the implementation by the management team.
AUDIT AND RISK NOMINATION REMUNERATION DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE CHAIRED BY CHAIRED BY CHAIRED BY CHAIRED BY JANE LODGE TODD KRASNOW DENIS HENNEQUIN SIMON BURKE The Audit and Risk The Nomination Committee The Remuneration The Disclosure Committee Committees role is to reviews the structure, size Committee recommends comprises the Chairman, assistthe Board with and composition of the the Groups policy on the Chief Executive Officer, thedischarge of its Board.
It is also responsible Executive remuneration, the Chief Financial Officer responsibilities in relation for reviewing succession determines the levels of and the General Counsel & tofinancial reporting, plans for the Directors, remuneration for Executive Company Secretary.
Other including reviewing the including the Chairman and Directors and the Chairman, Directors, representatives Groups annual and Chief Executive Officer and and prepares an annual from the Companys half-year Financial other Senior Executives.
The remuneration report brokers, members of the Statements and accounting Nomination Committee will forapproval by the Companys Senior policies, risk management normally meet not less than shareholders at the Annual Management and other and internal and external twice a year.
external advisers may audits and controls.
The The Remuneration attend meetings in whole Audit and Risk Committee Committee will normally orin part, if invited.
The will normally meet not less meet not less than three Disclosure Committee than four times a year.
oversees the Companys compliance with its disclosure obligations.
THE MANAGEMENT BOARD CHAIRED BY AGUST GUDMUNDSSON The Management Board implements the strategic objectives set by the Board and delegates to management thedetailed planning and implementation of those objectives and policies, in accordance with appropriate riskparameters.
com 53 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED LEADERSHIP THE ROLE AND THE MANAGEMENT BOARD COMMITTEES RESPONSIBILITIES The Board is supported by the The Board has established three Management Board, which implements BoardCommittees which comprise: OF THE BOARD the strategic objectives set by the Board, the Audit and Risk Committee, The Board provides guidance and and determines investment policies and the Nomination Committee and the entrepreneurial leadership of Bakkavor delegates to Senior Management the Remuneration Committee, comprising by setting the strategic direction of the detailed planning and implementation of only Non-executive Directors.
Each Group and overseeing managements those objectives and policies in accordance Committee has agreedTerms of implementation of the strategy.
Reference which were approved by the It is collectively responsible for the Board and are available on our website: The Management Board monitors long-term success of the Group www.
com investor-relations compliance with policies and throughthe creation and delivery governance.
achievement against objectives ofsustainable shareholder value.
byholding Senior Management These Committees assist with the Inexercising this responsibility, the accountable for its activities through detailed oversight of Bakkavors financial Board takes into account the needs monthly and quarterly performance reporting, risk management and internal of all relevant stakeholders.
and external audit work, establishing It is accountable for ensuring that, as theRemuneration Policy and overseeing The responsibilities delegated to acollective body, it has the appropriate its implementation, and establishing theManagement Board cover the skills, knowledge and experience to appropriate succession and contingency following areas: perform its role effectively.
The Board is plans for the Directors and Senior provided with timely and comprehensive Management, including undertaking Preparing strategic proposals, information to enable it to discharge its corporate plans, and budgets appropriate searches for new responsibilities, to encourage strategic Directorsas required.
Executing the strategy agreed upon debate and to facilitate robust, informed bythe Board The Board has also established a and timely decision-making.
The Board Executing actions in relation to key Disclosure Committee which comprises also receives regular presentations Board decisions such as investments, the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, fromkey Group heads of functions.
mergers and acquisitions Chief Financial Officer and the General Decisions reserved for the Board Opening bank accounts and Counsel & Company Secretary.
includeapproval of strategic plans authorising financial payments TheDisclosure Committee oversees andannual budgets, acquisitions, theCompanys compliance with its Signing of contracts audited accounts and the appointment disclosure obligations under the Signing of regulatory documents ofadditional Directors.
External communication The Schedule of Matters Reserved Staff recruitment and remuneration for the Board is available for review Establishing a system of internal on the Companys website at control and risk management www.
com investor-relations Monitoring performance and governance.
evaluation of health and safety Management Board members attend Board meetings as required to present and discuss matters relating to their business areas and functions.
54 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report KEY ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES Chairman The Chairman, Simon Burke, is responsible for leading the Board and creating the right conditions to ensure the Boards effectiveness in all aspects of its role, including its membership and that of itsCommittees.
The Chairman sets the Boards agenda, in consultation with the Chief Executive Officer and theGeneral Counsel & Company Secretary, taking full account of Board members issues and concerns and the need to allow sufficient time for robust and constructive discussion and challenge.
Heis responsible for encouraging and facilitating active engagement by all Directors, drawing on their skills, knowledge and experience.
The Chairman is also responsible for promoting effective communication between the Board, SeniorManagement, shareholders and other major stakeholders.
The Chairman has a close working relationship with the Chief Executive Officer and the General Counsel & Company Secretary to ensure that the strategies and actions agreed by the Board are implemented.
At least annually, the Chairman meets with the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors present to discuss, amongst other matters, the Executive Directors, the Board as a whole, the Committees and the interaction between the Executive and Non-executive Directors.
Chief Executive Officer The Chief Executive Officer, Agust Gudmundsson, has specific responsibility for recommending the Groups strategy to the Board and for implementing the strategy once approved.
In undertaking such responsibilities, the Chief Executive Officer takes advice from and is provided with support by the Management Board and his Senior Management team.
Together with the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Executive Officer monitors the Groups operating and financial results and directs the day-to-day business of the Group.
The Chief Executive Officer is also responsible for recruitment and development of the Groups Senior Management team below Board level.
Chief Financial Officer The Chief Financial Officer, Peter Gates, is responsible for the financial reporting of the Group, for monitoring the Groups operating and financial results and for management of the Groups internal financial risk management and financial control systems.
He supports the Chief Executive Officer inimplementing the Groups strategy and, in relation to the financial and operational performance ofthe Group, is also responsible for the Group Treasury, Tax, Legal, Corporate Affairs, and Information Security systems.
Non-executive Directors The role of the Non-executive Directors is to offer guidance and advice to the Board as a whole andthe Executive Directors in particular, drawing on their wide experience across many industries.
They also provide scrutiny, constructive challenge and oversight of the Executive Directors and Senior Management.
Senior Independent Director Denis Hennequin is the Senior Independent Non-executive Director and in this capacity he acts as a sounding board for the Chairman.
He serves as a trusted intermediary for the other Directors when necessary.
He is also available to shareholders if they are unable to resolve their concerns through communication with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or other Executive Directors, or when shareholders prefer to speak directly to him.
He is responsible for evaluating the performance of theChairman on behalf of the other Directors.
General Counsel The General Counsel & Company Secretary, Simon Witham, supports and works closely with & Company Secretary theChairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Board Committee Chairs in setting agendas for meetings of the Board and its Committees.
He supports the accurate, timely and clear flow of information to and from the Board and its Committees, and between Directors and Senior Management.
The General Counsel & Company Secretary also advises the Board on corporate governance issuesand is responsible for administering Bakkavors Share Dealing Code and organising the AGM.
com 55 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED BOARD ACTIVITIES KEY ACTIVITIES TOPIC AND DISCUSSIONS IN 2018 KEY PRIORITIES IN 2019 Discussed and agreed the forward-looking Consider acquisitions and divestments Strategy strategicpriorities for the UK, including new for the UK, US and China as identified Agreed the strategic plan .
and determine appropriate course forthe UK.
Reviewed and approved the acquisition of ofaction.
Reviewed the Groups HaydensBakery and the sale of Anglia Crown.
Establish detailed implementation International operations in planstaking account of strategic Reviewed financial Key Performance Indicators theUS and China and set KPIs.
importance andcapital allocation, and thestrategy for the future.
ensure there are robust processes in Reviewed and approved key investment projects Discussed the Groups capital in theUK.
place to manage and monitor their structure and financial delivery.
Discussed and agreed the forward-looking strategy, including capital strategicpriorities in the US, including new business Keep financial KPIs under review.
investments, shareholder Keep the Groups dividend policy opportunities and important expansion projects.
returns and the dividend policy.
Discussed and agreed the forward-looking underreview.
Continue diligent management of costs.
strategicpriorities in China, including new business opportunities and important expansion projects.
Reviewed the Groups cash flow position and theGroups dividend policy in the context of the widermarket and the Groups agreed capital allocationpriorities.
Reviewed and agreed the payment of an interim dividend of 2 pence per share in line with the Groups current dividend policy.
Discussed the continuation of investing in the businessfor growth, underpinned by strong investment principles.
Discussed the balance sheet strategy, capital efficiencyand the leverage position of the Group.
Reviewed financial performance in the UK, Continue to review the financial Financial performance, US and China.
performance, business operational business, operational Received updates on performance against the prior highlights and trading throughout highlights and year and against the budget.
Received reports from the Carried out a comprehensive review of the fresh Chief Executive Officer and prepared food FPF market, environment, Chief Financial Officer and andimpact on consumers and customers.
business updates from Reviewed Group Treasury Management.
Approved the introduction of a supplier invoicefinancing scheme.
Encouraged strong engagement with investors and Continue to work actively to engage with Stakeholders other stakeholders.
the Groups stakeholders throughout Engaged with investors and Discussed investor relations, including feedback theyear.
following investor roadshows, and presentations Review the level of institutional holdings updates from the Companys brokers.
and consider actions to broaden the Engaged with individual shareholders at the AGM.
56 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report KEY ACTIVITIES TOPIC AND DISCUSSIONS IN 2018 KEY PRIORITIES IN 2019 Carried out a robust assessment of principal key Continue to review key risks and ensure Risk and risk management risks see pages 25 to 29, monitored and reviewed that the Group remains at the forefront Carried out a risk assessment theinternal controls process, and assessed the Group of developing and embedding best and reviewed the Group Risk risk profile by identifying where the businesss key practice for risk management.
Register and the technical risks lay, aligning them with the businesss risk issues affecting the UK.
appetite and highlighting how to target and mitigatethose risks effectively.
Reviewed the potential impact of Brexit to the business.
Received monthly Technical updates for the UK, USand China, monitoring health and safety and food safety issues.
Carried out an in-depth review of the Technical issues affecting the UK, covering food safety, health and safety, the environment and a review of the Groups Crisis Management System.
Reviewed the Groups supply chain management and discussed the systems in place to mitigate supply risks.
Discussed the impact of cyber risk, following a robustreview of this area conducted by the Audit andRisk Committee.
Considered the new regulations affecting the Ensure that the Company remains Governance Company, such as changes to the Governance Code, attheforefront of developing Considered governance and the annual Modern Slavery Statement and compliance andembedding best practice in regulatory changes.
with the General Data Protection Regulations GDPR.
Reinforced compliance with Received governance updates and training Further understanding and planning theGroups Code of Conduct.
throughoutthe year including Market Abuse actions in relation to new regulations Regulation MAR training.
Reinforced compliance with Bakkavors Code of Maintain and enhance Bakkavors Conduct, a document which sets out the Groups culture and values and key policies and culture and values, as well as its key policies and procedures and ensure these are rolled procedures, all in accordance with the principles out to acquired businesses.
Continue to strengthen internal controls Reviewed and approved the 2017 and 2018 Annual and reporting.
Report and the 2018 half-year results.
The Board agreed that, taken as a whole, the 2017 and 2018 Annual Reports were fair, balanced and understandable.
com 57 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED BOARD ACTIVITIES CONTINUED KEY ACTIVITIES TOPIC AND DISCUSSIONS IN 2018 KEY PRIORITIES IN 2019 Received regular updates from the Group Human Continue to focus on general succession Leadership and employees Resources Director highlighting issues throughout planning and talent development.
Group Human Resources theGroup such as the National Living Wage increase, Undertake a comprehensive review Director updates.
gender pay disparities, employee turnover and ofsuccession planning and talent Succession, talent development whistleblowing.
development among Senior Management and diversity.
Discussed specific programmes to support EU during the year, with clear development Employee engagement.
employees in preparation for Brexit.
Discussed the effective and sustainable management Evaluate the results of the annual of general talent pipeline and retention for the UK, Employee Engagement Survey.
Discussed Senior Management development andsuccession.
Evaluated the results of the annual Employee Engagement Survey from colleagues across the business, and discussed areas for improvement.
Continued to focus on the composition, balance and Continue to support and encourage Board development effectiveness of the Board.
theprofessional development of Composition, balance Reviewed the Board composition and discussed and Board members to provide them with andeffectiveness.
acted on the recommendations of the Nomination therelevant skills needed.
Committee, including the appointment to the Board Use visits by the Board to operational ofJane Lodge and Patrick Cook.
sites to promote understanding of Approved a Board diversity policy.
Undertook an internal evaluation of the Board, its Carry out an annual evaluation Committees and the Chairman and developed an oftheBoard, its Committees and action plan following constructive suggestions theChairmans performance.
Annual General BOARD AND COMMITTEE Board Meeting MEETING ATTENDANCE Total number of meetings in 2018 9 1 In 2018, the Board held nine Scheduled Scheduled meetings eligible meetings Annual General regular meetings.
In addition, to attend attended Meeting the Board will meet when Executive Directors necessary between scheduled Agust Gudmundsson 9 9 1 meetings to discuss important 1 ad hoc issues that Peter Gates 9 8 1 requireconsideration.
Non-executive Directors 2 Robert Berlin 5 4 1 Each Director commits to Simon Burke 9 9 1 dedicating an appropriate 3 amount of time to their duties Sue Clark 9 8 1 during the financial year, 4 Patrick Cook 4 4 N A anditis expected that the Lydur Gudmundsson 9 9 1 Non-executive Directors will Denis Hennequin 9 9 1 meet the time commitment 5 Todd Krasnow 9 8 1 reasonably expected of them, 6 Jane Lodge 7 7 1 pursuant to their letters ofappointment.
Peter Gates was unable to attend the Board meeting in March 2018 due to illness.
Robert Berlin resigned from the Board in July 2018, and was therefore only eligible to attend five Board meetings.
Sue Clark was unable to attend the Board meeting in June 2018 due to prior commitments which had been booked prior toattend meetings, they are to the meeting being rescheduled for this date.
Patrick Cook was appointed to the Board in July 2018 and was therefore only eligible to attend four Board meetings.
encouraged to give the Chairman 5.
Todd Krasnow was unable to attend the Board meeting in January 2018 due to prior commitments.
their views in advance on the 6.
Jane Lodge was appointed to the Board in April 2018 and was therefore only eligible to attend seven Board meetings.
58 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report EFFECTIVENESS BOARD COMPOSITION DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE INSIDE INFORMATION AND SECURITIES DEALINGS The Board currently comprises a NonThere is an appropriate combination of executive Chairman who was independent Executive Directors and Non-executive Bakkavor has a formal Inside Information on appointment, two Executive Directors, Directors such that no individual or small Disclosure Policy, a Group Securities two Non-independent Non-executive group of individuals can dominate the Dealing Code and a Persons Discharging Directors and four Independent NonBoards decision-making.
Managerial Responsibilities PDMR executive Directors, supported by the Securities Dealing Code setting out Bakkavor is considered to be fully compliant General Counsel & Company Secretary.
dealing restrictions and procedures with the Governance Code, which requires to ensure PDMRs and other relevant The Board operates a clear division of that at least half of the Board, excluding the Senior Managers seek clearance for responsibilities between the Chairman Chairman, should comprise Non-executive dealing in Bakkavor shares.
Directors who are determined by the Board to be independent.
It is a core feature of good corporate SUCCESSION PLANNING AND governance that the Board and its The independence of the Non-executive APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD Committees have an appropriate balance Directors was considered by the Board Succession planning will ensure that ofskills, experience, independence and aspart of the Board effectiveness review.
Executives with the necessary skills, knowledge to enable the effective discharge Indetermining whether they remain knowledge and expertise are in place to of their duties and responsibilities.
independent, the Board considered factors deliver Bakkavors strategy, and that the such as length of tenure and relationships Board has the right balance of individuals Part of the role of the Chairman and or circumstances which are likely to to be able to discharge its responsibilities.
theNomination Committee is to keep affector appear to affect a Directors The Board reviews Senior Management thebalance of skills and expertise on the judgement.
With the exception of Lydur performance and actively seeks to ensure Board and its Committees under review Gudmundsson formerly the Chairman of they are mentored.
The Board regularly andmake recommendations to the Board Bakkavor and Patrick Cook representative reviewsits own composition.
where changes are appropriate to maintain of the Baupost Group, all of the Nonthat balance.
The Board considers that the executive Directors are considered to be INDUCTION range of skills, experience and background independent in character and judgement of each of the Directors is sufficiently Following appointment, each Director and there are no relationships that might relevant and complementary to allow receives a comprehensive and formal prejudice this independence.
appropriate oversight, challenge and induction to familiarise them with their reviewof Bakkavors progress in duties and Bakkavors business operations CONFLICTS OF INTEREST achievingits corporate goals.
and risk and governance arrangements.
Directors have a statutory duty to avoid Theinduction programme, which is A summary of the experience and situations in which they may have interests co-ordinated by the Group HR Director background of each Director is set out that conflict with those of the Company, andthe General Counsel & Company onpages 50 to 51. unless that conflict is first authorised Secretary, includes briefings on industry bythe Board.
Directors are required to It is Bakkavors policy, in line with and regulatory matters relating to disclose both the nature and extent of theGovernance Code, that proposed Bakkavor, as well as meetings with Senior anypotential or actual conflicts with appointments to the Board follow an open Management in key areas of the business.
and transparent recruitment process and that candidates are assessed on merit In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, against objective criteria.
the Companys Articles of Association allow the Board to authorise potential conflicts DIVERSITY that may arise and to impose such conditions or limitations as it sees fit.
During the year, The Directors recognise the importance ofdiversity and understand the significant any potential conflicts were considered andassessed by the Board and approved benefits that come with having a diverse Board.
More information on this and the where appropriate.
Groups diversity statement can be found inthe report of the Nomination Committee on page 63. www.
com 59 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED process of meetings, the timeliness ONGOING PROFESSIONAL BOARD EVALUATION and quality of the information it receives DEVELOPMENT The Governance Code recommends that and overall Board behaviours and activities.
theBoard should undertake a formal In order to facilitate greater awareness and andrigorous annual evaluation of its own understanding of Bakkavors business and The results of the review were considered performance and that of its Committees the environment in which it operates, all by the General Counsel & Company and individual Directors.
The Boards Directors are given regular updates on Secretary, the Chairman and the evaluation of its own performance changes and developments in the business.
Nomination Committee, following which provides an opportunity to consider Directors will continually update and they were discussed at the subsequent waysof identifying greater efficiencies, refresh their skills and knowledge, Board meeting.
A number of key actions maximising strengths and highlighting andindependent professional advice were identified following the evaluation, areas for further development.
The Board conducted an internal review The Board Committees were also reviewed ANNUAL RE-ELECTION OF ledby the Chairman with the support of and were found to be highly regarded in THEBOARD theGeneral Counsel & Company Secretary terms of effectiveness and decision-making.
In compliance with the Governance Code, during the year.
The review was conducted The Chairman is highly regarded and all Directors will retire and offer themselves by means of an online questionnaire.
It was considered to exhibit a leadership style for re-election at each years AGM.
At our carefully structured and designed to enable which promotes effective decision-making, first AGM, held on 23May 2018, each the Board to comment on all aspects of the constructive debate and ensures the Board Director offered himself or herself Boards performance, as well as assist in works as a team.
identifying any potential for improvement in Having considered the findings of the review, the process of the Board and its Committees.
the Directors were satisfied that the Board The questionnaire also focused on, amongst operated effectively in 2018 and there were other matters, the Board composition, the no areas of concern.
Recommendations arising from the 2018 review Agreed actions for 2019 Review the annual Board and Committee meetings calendar.
Following discussion with the Directors and the General Counsel & Company Secretary to canvass views, it was decided that the schedule of meetings would remain the same but would be reviewed again in the following year.
Review the Board papers to ensure greater consistency and The General Counsel & Company Secretary will work with ensure Board members have sufficient time to review the colleagues on guidance to ensure greater consistency of Board papersin advance of meetings.
papers and will ensure they are circulated in a timely manner.
Non-executive Directors visibility around the business.
Further site visits for Non-executive Directors to be scheduled during the year.
Review of the Board agenda.
Board agenda items will be varied to ensure sufficient time for presentations from management.
Increased focus on Senior Management succession planning and An in-depth discussion on Senior Management succession talent development.
planning will be included in the Board agenda during theyear.
60 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report ACCOUNTABILITY FINANCIAL AND INTERNAL CONTROLS OVER SHAREHOLDER AND BUSINESSREPORTING FINANCIAL REPORTING STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT The Groups financial reporting process It is the role of the Board to promote The Strategic Report from page 4 describes the business model and strategy and how hasbeen designed to provide assurance thelong-term success of the Company regarding the reliability of the financial andto ensure that its obligations to its Bakkavor generates and preserves value over the long term and delivers its reporting and preparation of its Financial shareholders and other stakeholders are Statements, including Consolidated met.
Therefore, the Group gives priority to strategicobjectives.
Financial Statements, for external purposes effective dialogue with stakeholders and A Statement of Directors Responsibilities in in accordance with International Financial shareholders.
Further information is respect of the Financial Statements is set Reporting Standards IFRS.
Theannual availableon page 10. out on page 94 and a statement regarding review of the effectiveness of the Groups the use of the going concern basis in The Board recognises the importance system of internal controls included reviews ofmaintaining good and constructive preparing these Financial Statements is of systems and controls relating to the provided in the Directors Report on page 93. communication with the Companys financial reporting process.
shareholders and has in place a RISK MANAGEMENT AND Internal controls over financial reporting comprehensive programme to facilitate include procedures and policies that: thiseach year.
INTERNAL CONTROL The Board has responsibility for ensuring Pertain to the maintenance of records The Annual Report is an important medium the maintenance of the Groups risk that, in reasonable detail, accurately and for communicating with shareholders, management and internal control fairly reflect the transactions of the Group setting out detailed reviews of the business systemsand reviewing them annually.
and its future developments in the Strategic Provide reasonable assurance that Report section.
transactions are recorded as necessary The framework under which risk is to allow the preparation of Financial managed in the business is supported by In order to ensure that the members of Statements and that receipts and asystem of internal controls designed to theBoard develop an understanding of expenditures are being made only embed the effective management of the theviews of shareholders, there is regular inaccordance with authorisations of keybusiness risks throughout the Group.
dialogue with institutional investors and management and respective Directors The risk management and internal control shareholders, presentations by Senior Provide reasonable assurance systems are designed to manage rather Management and investor roadshows regardingprevention or timely than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve around the time of the Groups year-end detectionof unauthorised acquisition, business objectives, and can only provide and half-year results announcements.
useor disposal of Group assets that reasonable and not absolute assurance Bakkavor also responds to ad hoc could have a material effect on the against material misstatement or loss.
Groups financial and operational Through reports from the Audit and Risk Throughout the year, the Chairman, controls and compliance with laws Committee, the Board regularly reviews Chief Executive Officer, Senior Independent andregulations and monitors the Groups risk management Director, Chief Financial Officer and Head REMUNERATION and internal control systems and the of Corporate Affairs met regularly with effectiveness with which it manages Bakkavors largest institutional and The responsibility for determining theprincipal risks faced by the Group.
remuneration arrangements for the marketanalysts to discuss governance developments including the Remuneration Chairman and Executive Directors has been The Directors confirm that the Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee.
Policy, business strategy and carried out a robust assessment of the key financialperformance.
Information on the Remuneration Committee risks facing the Group, including those that and the Directors Remuneration Report would threaten its business model, future and Remuneration Policy can be found performance, solvency and liquidity.
The onpages 70 to 89. risks to which the Group is exposed and the framework under which risk is managed, and its system of internal control, is outlined in the Risk Management section on pages 25 to 29 and in the Viability Statement onpage 30. www.
com 61 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED AGM MAJOR INTERESTS IN SHARES Bakkavors AGM provides the Board with The Group has been notified in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA the opportunity to communicate with private Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTRs, or was otherwise aware, that the and institutional investors and it sets aside following held, or were beneficially interested in, 3% or more of Bakkavors issued time at the meeting for shareholders to ordinaryshares: askquestions.
Date of publication 29 December 2018 of Annual Report At the AGM, the Chairman provides a % of % of briefsummary of the Companys activities Number voting Number voting Name of Ordinary shares rights of Ordinary shares rights during the previous year.
All resolutions at Carrion Enterprises Limited the 2018 AGM were voted on by a show of corporate holding structure of hands.
As recommended by the Governance Agust Gudmundsson 145,333,130 25.1 145,333,130 25.1 Code, all resolutions were voted on separately and the final voting results, Umbriel Ventures Limited which included all votes cast for, against corporate holding structure of and withheld, were released to the London Lydur Gudmundsson 145,333,130 25.1 145,333,130 25.1 Stock Exchange as soon as practicable after BP-PE5 L. L. C the meeting.
corporate holding structure of theBaupost Group 143,832,928 24.8 143,832,928 24.8 Our next AGM will be held on Thursday 23May 2019.
Full details are contained inthe Notice of Meeting available on our website and, where applicable, posted withthis Annual Report.
62 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR The Nomination Committee consists of the Appointments to the Board Chairman, two Independent Non-executive During the year, Jane Lodge was appointed Directors, and one Non-Independent as an Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director, who together and Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee.
bringa diverse and complementary Patrick Cook was appointed as a Nonrangeof backgrounds, personal attributes executive Director after being proposed and experience.
The biographies of the bythe Baupost Group as their nominee Committee members are set out on director and objectively assessed and pages50 to51.
approved by the Nomination Committee.
Together they bring skills, experience ROLE OF THE NOMINATION andbehaviours that will complement COMMITTEE theexisting members of the Board.
The principal role and responsibilities of the Following these changes, the Board Committee include: consists of a Non-executive Chairman, two Reviewing the composition of the Board The Nomination Committee Executive Directors and six Non-executive and Board Committees to ensure that Directors, four of whom are independent.
has the key role of ensuring they are appropriately balanced in Appointments to the Board are made on we have the right skills on termsof skills, knowledge, diversity merit against objective criteria and with andexperience the Board to deliver the dueregard to the benefits of diversity Ensuring that there is a formal, rigorous Groups strategy and deal ontheBoard.
The Committee leads the and transparent procedure for the process for recognising the need for Board with changes in the appointment of new Directors appointments and for the recommendation business environment.
Identifying and nominating for approval to the Board of candidates for their by the Board suitable candidates to fill subsequent appointment.
When considering Board vacancies as and when they arise CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW the appointment of Non-executive Keeping under review the leadership I am pleased to take this opportunity as Directors, the Committee takes into needs of the Group, with a view to Chairman of the Nomination Committee to account independence and the provision of ensuring the continued ability of the outline the objectives and responsibilities an effective and constructive relationship organisation to compete effectively of the Committee and activities in 2018. withthe Executive Directors.
initsmarketplace Bakkavors Nomination Committee was Overseeing succession planning at setup in October 2017 in anticipation Boardand Senior Management level of the IPO, and its first meeting was on The Terms of Reference of the Committee 28 March 2018. are available on Bakkavors website.
The Nomination Committee plays a pivotal role in appointing Directors to the Board.
It Scheduled meetings Scheduled meetings is important that the Board sets the correct Member Member since eligible to attend attended tone from the top and that our Directors Todd Krasnow Chair 20 October 2017 2 2 lead by example and ensure that good Sue Clark 20 October 2017 2 2 standards of behaviour flow throughout Lydur Gudmundsson 20 October 2017 2 2 the organisation.
Denis Hennequin 20 October 2017 2 2 1 Robert Berlin 20 October 2017 1 1 1.
Robert Berlin resigned from the Board of Bakkavor Group plc and as a member of the Nomination Committee on 11 July 2018. www.
com 63 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Nomination Committee considers Board evaluation process Succession planning that the membership of the Board and its The Nomination Committee regards the Succession planning for the Board and Committees is well balanced in terms Board evaluation process as an important Senior Management is focused on ensuring of skills, effectiveness, experience means of monitoring the composition and the right mix of skills and experience.
Full details of the have been positive discussions about talent Board evaluation process and the resulting management, succession planning and the Board diversity action plan are on page 60.
The Nomination shape of the Board during the year.
Further As a business, we are committed to Committee is satisfied that the Board work will be undertaken in the year ahead maintaining a diverse workforce at all levels operated effectively in 2018 and that to extend the Nomination Committees work, across the Company and how we do this therewere no areas of concern.
specifically around contingency planning for isset out in our equal opportunity policy Executive Directors and succession and andCode of Conduct.
During the year, the Nomination Committee evaluation development insight, with a view to Company also adopted a Board diversity further strengthen succession planning The Nomination Committees performance policy which sets out the Boards ambitions for the Executive Directors and was considered as part of the overall Board and objectives regarding diversity at Senior Management.
It is the responsibility of the wasbased around the 12 questions for Nomination Committee to implement and nomination committees posed by the EY monitor the objectives set out in this policy and ICSA 2016 report, The Nomination and periodically to review it.
Committee: coming out of the shadows.
The report, which was based on a series The Directors recognise the importance TODD KRASNOW ofroundtable discussions with industry ofdiversity and understand the significant Chair, Nomination Committee leaders, focused on the role of the benefits that come with having a diverse nomination committee and how boards Board.
The Board believes that diversity 5 April 2019 could improve this work.
The evaluation is a wider issue than gender, and includes concluded that the Committee was variations in experience, skills, personal fulfillingits duties effectively.
We have recently published our first gender pay report identifying the areas on which we willfocus.
Further details of this can be found on page 45.
We will continue to appoint on merit, basedon the skills and experience required for the proper discharge of responsibilities as a member of the Board, while giving consideration to gender and other forms ofdiversity when the Committee reviews theBoards composition.
For appointments to the Board, Bakkavor uses executive search firms who have signed up to a voluntary code of conduct setting out the key principles of best practice in therecruitment process.
These principles include a recommendation that search firms should consider gender diversity and Bakkavor insists that both male and female candidates are considered for positions.
64 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report REPORT OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE Recommending to the Board, ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE for approval by shareholders, the The Committees Terms of Reference are appointment, reappointment or removal available on the investor section of the of the External Auditor: including the Bakkavor website.
agreement of the terms of engagement The Audit and Risk Committee provides an at the start of each audit, the audit scope independent overview of the effectiveness and the External Audit fee of the Groups internal financial control Reviewing the effectiveness and systems, financial reporting processes objectivity of the External Audit and and risk management.
Its principal theExternal Auditors independence: responsibilities are: including consideration of fees, audit scope and terms of engagement and Monitoring and reviewing the theprovision of non-audit services effectiveness of the Groups Internal Monitoring the effectiveness of Bakkavors Audit function and its activities whistleblowing, anti-bribery and business Reviewing Bakkavors Financial ethics procedures Statements, including annual and The Audit and Risk half-year results and announcements, HOW THE COMMITTEE OPERATES and reporting to the Board on significant Committees remit covers To ensure the Committee discharges its financial reporting issues and judgements accounting and financial responsibilities appropriately, an annual Monitoring and reviewing and, where reporting, internal controls forward calendar, linked to the Committees appropriate, making recommendations Terms of Reference and covering key tothe Board on the adequacy and and the External Audit.
events in the financial reporting cycle, effectiveness of Bakkavors internal Aparticular focus during isapproved by the Committee.
control and risk management systems theyear was the tender Ensuring a robust assessment is Following each Committee meeting, a forthe External Audit.
conducted of the principal risks facing verbal report is made to the Board in which Bakkavor, including those that would I describe the proceedings of the Committee threaten its business model, future CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW meeting and make recommendations to the performance, solvency or liquidity Board as appropriate.
I am pleased to present the report of the Reviewing in detail the identified risks Audit and Risk Committee for the year The Committee discharges its responsibilities and the actions taken to minimise risks, ended 29 December 2018.
This report through a series of scheduled meetings the policies in force and the other describes the Committees responsibilities during the year, the agendas for which sources of assurance upon which and key activities over the year.
include risk management processes, the reliance is placed to mitigate risk programme of Internal Audit and assurance In advance of Bakkavors IPO, the Audit Reviewing the content of the Annual work, in-depth discussions on key financial and Risk Committee wasset up and chaired Report and advising the Board whether and other risk areas, and work related by the Company Chairman, Simon Burke.
itis fair, balanced and understandable toevents in the financial calendar of I was appointed tothe Board on 3 April 2018 theCompany.
and I assumed the role of Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee.
At the same time, The biographies of the Committee members are set out on pages 50 to51.
Simon Burke stepped down from the Audit and Risk Committee ensuring full Scheduled meetings Scheduled meetings Member Member since eligible to attend attended compliance with the Governance Code 1 Jane Lodge Chair 3 April 2018 3 3 provision C. 3.1 that theCompany 2 Simon Burke 20 October 2017 2 2 Chairman may not chair theAudit and 3 Risk Committee.
Denis Hennequin 20 October 2017 5 4 Sue Clark 20 October 2017 5 5 COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP 1.
Jane Lodge was appointed to the Board and as Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee on 3 April 2018, and The Audit and Risk Committee comprises was therefore only eligible to attend three meetings.
Simon Burke was the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee until the appointment of Jane Lodge on3April 2018, and was therefore only eligible to attend two Audit and Risk Committee meetings.
including myself as Chair, who provide the 3.
Denis Hennequin was unable to attend the Audit and Risk Committee meeting in June 2018 due to illness.
range of financial and commercial expertise necessary to meet its responsibilities in a robust and independent manner.
I spent 25years at Deloitte & Touche LLP, and have significant financial experience in the UK listed environment, enabling me to fulfil myrole as Audit and Risk Committee Chair.
com 65 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Members of Senior Management are invited honest and open dialogue with the beginning of the 2019 financial year.
to attend Committee meetings as and when ExternalAuditor about its performance, Toensure a smooth transition, Deloitte their specialist technical knowledge is theobjectives of the process were to assess remained as the Companys External required.
The Committee also meets each phase of the audit process against a Auditor for the financial year ended 29 privately, without management present, quality framework and discuss with the December 2018.
PwC observed Deloitte on andseparate private sessions attended by External Auditor what areas had worked the audit and is taking full responsibility for the lead audit partner from the Companys well and what could be improved.
the audit with effect from the beginning of External Auditor are held at the time of the 2019 financial year.
The findings of the assessment were eachmeeting.
As Committee Chair, I also discussed at a Committee meeting, with The Committee confirms that there are no regularly meet on a one-to-one basis with theCommittee concluding that the audit contractual obligations which restrict the the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Head process was robust, challenging and choice of External Auditor.
of Risk, representatives from the Internal appropriately targeted to focus on the Audit function and other members of Senior Non-audit services are provided in keyareas of audit risk.
Scheduling meetings in this accordance with the Groups policy and in way enables me better to understand any light of the detailed understanding of the External Audit tender process key issues and areas of concern, and allows Group and expertise in the relevant areas.
As advised last year, Bakkavor became sufficient time to facilitate meaningful Further details can be found in Note 6 to aconstituent of the FTSE 250 at the end discussion during the subsequent meeting.
ofFebruary 2018, and became a Public The Committee has four scheduled Interest Entity PIE as defined under Internal Audit meetings a year and will additionally theCompanies Act 2006.
As a PIE, and The Internal Audit services have meetifand when required.
inaccordance with the Governance Code beenoutsourced to RSM, with overall and EU legislation, Bakkavor is required to responsibility and direction for the Groups AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE comply with all requirements regarding Internal Audit function being retained by the EVALUATION auditor tendering every 10 years and Head of Risk who reports to the Audit and rotation after 20 years.
The Committee carried out an internal Risk Committee.
The Internal Audit function evaluation of its own performance which Bakkavor had not run a competitive audit provides assurance over the effectiveness was also considered as part of the overall tender process in the last 10 years and was of key internal controls as identified as part Board evaluation.
The findings concluded therefore required to carry one out for its of the risk assessment process and reports that the Committee was fulfilling its first audit after it became a PIE.
to the Head ofRisk throughout the year and duties effectively.
to the Committee at least four times a year.
During the year, the Committee undertook afull tender process in respect of External During the year, a review of the services ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR Audit services in compliance with legislation provided by RSM was undertaken to widen External Audit and FRC guidance on best practice, in the scope of the Internal Audit function and The Committee has primary responsibility particular ensuring independence in improve the focus and effectiveness of the for overseeing the relationship with, and respect of potential audit rms.
A decision was performance of, the External Auditor.
made to run a competitive tender process Interested firms were subsequently Thisincludes making the recommendation and firms including RSM were invited to requested to complete a detailed response on the appointment, reappointment and tender for this business.
Firms provided to a Request For Proposal RFP, and removal of the External Auditor, assessing detailed proposals and had the opportunity following this a full tender process of its independence on an ongoing basis and to meet Senior Management to firmsshortlisted based on the responses negotiating the audit fee.
The tendering Deloitte LLP Deloitte was appointed as firms were judged on objective criteria The Committee considered the submission the External Auditor of Bakkavor in 2005. determined in advance of the process, from KPMG LLP KPMG to be particularly The current lead audit Partner, William together with the findings and conclusions strong with a robust approach to risk-based Smith, was appointed in September 2016. of published inspection reports on the audits.
It therefore recommended that KPMG auditfirms.
be appointed to provide Internal Audit Effectiveness of the External support to the Company with effect from Whilst the Committee appreciated thebeginning of the 2019 financial year.
Auditprocess thequality of the proposals presented During the year, an assessment of the by all thetendering firms, it considered Risk and internal controls quality and effectiveness of the External thatthe submission and team from During the year, we continued to enhance Audit process was undertaken.
The primary  LLP PwC our risk management and internal control purpose of this assessment was to gain bestmet the predefined criteria it had set.
framework, particularly around the focus of assurance that the External Auditor had Ittherefore recommended to the Board risk discussions both at operating company conducted a comprehensive, appropriate thatPwC be appointed as the Companys and Board level.
In order to support the and effective audit.
Through a constructive, External Auditor with effect from the Boards robust assessment of the principal 66 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report risks, the Committee reviewed the Group challenged both Internal Audit and Senior Committee during the year, with a number Register identifying the top risks faced by Management on the effectiveness of of presentations on this topic at Committee the Group, and discussed the quantification controls in place and it is satisfied that meetings.
Considerable time has also been spent discussing cyber security risk, with a of these risks and mitigating actions.
It has measures are being taken to minimise been important for the Committee to gain theGroups vulnerability to these risks.
growing focus on the handling of personal data we hold on our customers and our agood understanding of the risks and There has been an increasing focus on emerging risks for the Group and our colleagues, which the Committee Information Security IS risks and cyber recognises is an evolving and complex industry, in addition to the measures security over recent years, and this has beingtaken to address potential areas riskarea for many businesses.
continued to be a key area of focus by the ofvulnerability.
The Committee has The following table sets out the reporting issues the Audit and Risk Committee considered during the year, and how the Committee discharged its responsibilities: Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Principal risks and viability The Directors are required to make The Committee evaluated a report from Taking into account the assessment by astatement in the Annual Report as management that set out the view of management, the Committee agreed to to the longer-term viability of the Group.
recommend the Viability Statement to the Board for approval.
For further information on the Viability Statement see page 30.
Fair, balanced and understandable reporting The Group is required to ensure that At the request of the Board, the Committee Having assessed all of the available itsexternal reporting is fair, balanced assessed, through discussion with and information and the assurances provided andunderstandable.
challenge of Senior Management, whether by management, the Committee disclosures in the Groups published Financial concluded that the processes underlying Statements were fair, balanced and the preparation of the Groups published understandable.
It received papers on key Financial Statements were appropriate in judgemental areas setting out managements ensuring that those statements were fair, accounting treatment and also sought and balanced and understandable.
obtained confirmation from the Chief Financial Officer and his team that they considered the disclosures to be fair, balanced and understandable, and discussed this evaluation with the External Auditor, who took this into account when conducting its audit.
It also established through reports fromSenior Management that there were noindications of fraud relating to financial reporting matters.
Risk management and internal control The Committee agreed to recommend to The Committee is required to assist The Committee received a report and theBoardin the annual review of the assessment of those risks that might the Board the Annual Report statements relating to the effectiveness of the risk effectiveness of the Companys risk threatenthe Groups business model, management process and internal futureperformance, solvency or liquidity.
management process and internal controlsystems.
Itconsidered and challenged management onthe overall effectiveness of the risk management process and internal control systems.
The Committee reviewed the relevant disclosures within the Accountability section on page 61 of the Corporate Governance Report within the Annual Report.
com 67 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Whistleblowing and anti-bribery The Committee considers the adequacy The Committee reviewed the Groups The Committee concluded that of the Groups arrangements by which whistleblowing policy and anti-bribery and whistleblowing and anti-bribery processes employees may in confidence raise business ethics policy which were updated were in place and would be kept under concernsabout improprieties in matters aspart of the pre-IPO work on governance review for potential improvements.
offinancial reporting or other matters.
Following developments and changes introduced to the corporate governance landscape in 2018, the Committee recognises that, going forward, whistleblowing will be regularly monitoredby the Board.
Internal Audit The Committee is required to oversee the The Companys Internal Audit services The Committee reviewed the effectiveness performance, resourcing and effectiveness areoutsourced to an external provider.
of the Internal Audit function and approved ofthe Internal Audit function.
Theexternal provider has the skills and the risk-based audit plan.
TheCommittee experience required to carry out Internal Audit is actively engaged in strengthening the reviews across the Companys operational Internal Audit function and scope during business units with overall responsibility and 2019 and, following an Internal Audit tender direction being retained by the Head of Risk.
process during 2018, the Companys The Committee reviewed the effectiveness Internal Audit services will be provided ofthe Groups Internal Audit function in byKPMG from 2019 onwards, with overall theoverall context of the Groups internal responsibility being retained by the Head controls and risk management systems.
It reviewed and assessed the risk-based Internal Audit plan.
It reviewed and monitoredmanagements responsiveness tothe findings and recommendations of theInternal Audit function.
The Committee received all Internal Audit reports and, in addition, received summary reports on the results of the work of the Internal Audit function on a periodic basis.
Oversight of External Auditor The Committee is required to oversee the The Committee met with the key members The Committee approved the audit plan work and performance of Deloitte as External of the Deloitte audit team to discuss the and the main areas of focus, including Auditor, including the maintenance of audit 2018audit plan and agree areas of focus.
valuation of customer deduction accruals quality during the period.
and impairment reviews for goodwill and It assessed regular reports from Deloitte intangible assets.
The Committee reviewed on the progress of the 2018 audit and any and discussed with Deloitte its Audit and material issues identified.
It debated the Risk Committee report on the 2018 draft audit opinion for the 2018 year end.
Financial Statements which highlighted The Committee was also briefed by Deloitte any matters arising from the audit work on critical accounting estimates, where undertaken by the External Auditor.
The Committee undertook a thorough assessment of the quality and effectiveness of Deloitte as External Auditor and, following the review, the Committee was satisfied that the External Audit had provided appropriate focus on those areas identified as the key risk areas to be considered by the Committee.
68 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Audit and audit-related fees To approve audit and audit-related fees During the year, the Committee reviewed The Committee considers the 2018 audit which include the statutory audit of andapproved a recommendation from fees to be in line with those expected given theGroup and its subsidiaries.
management on the Companys audit the complexities of the business and the andaudit-related fees.
external reporting requirements of a listedcompany.
Non-audit fees To prevent the objectivity and independence The Committee reviewed and approved During the year, non-audit fees of of the External Auditor becoming allarrangements for non-audit services 0.1million were paid to Deloitte, as compromised, the Committee has a formal to be provided by the External Auditor.
The discussed in Note 6 to the Consolidated policy governing the engagement of the Committee ensured that firms other than Financial Statements.
External Auditor to provide non-audit theExternal Auditor had been considered, The Committee continues to follow the services.
The policy is reviewed on an annual following a competitive tender process, for statutory guidance to seek to reduce basis and this year the Committee reviewed the provision of a wide range of services.
thereliance on the External Auditor the Groups policy governing non-audit TheCommittee ensured there were no fornon-audit work.
workagainst details of regulations on the exceptions to fee limits and approval statutory audit of public interest entities.
processin accordance with the policy duringthe year.
The Group has updated its internal process on the engagement of auditors and review of non-audit services to ensure that its policy isin line with new regulation.
Issues that were considered most significant in preparing the Annual Report and Financial Statements: Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets The Group had significant amounts The Committee reviewed a paper prepared The impairment review indicated that ofgoodwill and intangible assets as at bymanagement that set out the basis and noimpairment provisions were required 29December 2018 that are subject to an assumptions for the annual impairment for the year ended 29 December 2018. annual impairment review under IFRS.
The paper set out the determination TheCommittee reviewed and approved ofcash-generating units CGUs, the cash theassociated disclosure in the flow forecast used and the discount rate FinancialStatements.
tobeapplied for the purpose of the value-in-use calculation.
Customer deduction accruals The Group has arrangements in place with The Committee reviewed a paper prepared The Committee challenged management its customers to provide volume-related bymanagement that set out the rationale for on the logic that had been applied to rebates and is required to make estimates the calculation and timing of the accruals determine the level of accruals held in determining the value and timing of held at 29 December 2018 under these at 29 December 2018 under these accruals for these customer deductions arrangements.
The Committee due in respect of sales.
summary of the key agreements in acknowledged that this was a highly place and the level of accruals held subjective area that required a significant acrossthe business.
level of estimates to be made, but concurred with the rationale applied by management to determine the value ofthese accruals.
JANE LODGE Chair, Audit and Risk Committee 5 April 2019 www.
