GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE STATEMENT Governance Code Provision B.
1.2 at least half the Board, excluding the THIS REPORTS Chairman, should comprise Non-executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
KEY FEATURES Over the next few pages we look at The Group achieved full compliance with this provision following the appointment theBoard: its role, performance and of Jane Lodge, an Independent Non-executive Director, on 3 April 2018. oversight.
We provide detail on Board Governance Code Provision C. 3.1 in smaller companies, the Company activities and discussions during the year Chairman may be a member of, but not chair, the Audit and Risk Committee pages 56 to 58, the actions arising from inaddition to the Independent Non-executive Directors, provided he or she these and the progress made against wasconsidered to be independent on appointment as Chairman.
We also provide insight on Director independence, effectiveness and our The Group achieved full compliance with this provision following the appointment Board evaluation.
of Jane Lodge, an Independent Non-executive Director, who assumed the role of Chair ofthe Audit and Risk Committee on 3 April 2018.
At the same time, the In line with last year, we have used the Company Chairman, Simon Burke, stepped down from the Audit and Risk key themes of the Governance Code to Committee.
articulate the Boards activities during the year: Since 3 April 2018, and to the date of this report, the Company has complied in full with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in April 2016.
The Code is publicly available on the website of the Financial Reporting Council at www.
LEADERSHIP GOVERNANCE SUMMARY The Board rigorously challenges Our compliance with key areas of the Governance Code is summarised strategy, performance, responsibility asfollows: andaccountability to ensure that every decision we make is of the highest Independence: Over half of our Board comprises Independent quality.
Non-executive Directors and the composition of all Board Committees complies with the Code.
Senior Independent Director: Our Senior Independent Director is DenisHennequin.
EFFECTIVENESS Accountability and election: There is clear separation of duties between the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer roles and all the Directors are The Board continuously evaluates the to stand for annual re-election.
balance of skills, experience, knowledge Evaluation: An internally facilitated performance evaluation of the Board and independence of the Directors.
and its Committees was undertaken during the year.
Experience: The Audit and Risk Committee Chair met the specific requirements with regard to recent and relevant financial experience throughout 2018.
Auditor tenure: Deloitte LLP Deloitte is our current External Auditor.
ACCOUNTABILITY Bakkavor has not run a competitive audit tender process in the last All Board decisions are taken within the 10years and was required to carry one out after becoming a Public context of the risks involved.
Effective Interest Entity as defined under the Companies Act 2006.
Following a risk management is central toachieving competitive audit tender process,  LLP PwC our strategic objectives.
Seepage 61. will be appointed as External Auditor for the 2019 financial year.
Non-audit services policy: Details on the non-audit services policy are provided within this report.
Internal Audit: Details of the Internal Audit function are provided within REMUNERATION this report.
Having a formal and transparent Performance-related pay: Our reward framework is simple, transparent procedure for developing policy on and designed to support and drive our business strategy.
remuneration for Executive Directors is crucial.
Bakkavors Remuneration Policy aims to attract, retain and motivate bylinking reward to performance.
48 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report FRESH DEDICATION TO GLOBAL FRESH AMBITIONS Donna-Maria Lee, Group HR Director WE ARE PROUD THAT WE HAVE Since joining Bakkavor this year, Ive had ADIVERSE WORKFORCE ACROSS thefantastic opportunity to visit many of our OUR GLOBAL BUSINESS.
THEY sites and importantly to meet many of our ARE THE SPECIAL INGREDIENTS people.
Their passion for what they do and THAT MAKE US A SUCCESS.
their commitment to our values is inspiring.
Iwant to harness this enthusiasm to develop a culture that is forward-looking, that positively embraces change, and where innovation isthe work of everybody, all of the time.
