GOVERNANCE GROUP BOARD Board Committees: PETER GATES TODD KRASNOW AGUST SIMON BURKE GUDMUNDSSON NC Chief Financial Officer Independent Independent Nomination Committee Non-executive Director Chief Executive Officer Non-executive Chairman Report on page 63 NC RC AC Appointment: Peter joined Appointment: Todd has served Appointment: Agust is one of Appointment: Simon has Bakkavor in2010 as Chief as a Non-executive Director of the founders of Bakkavor and served as a Non-executive Audit and Risk Committee Financial Officer and was Bakkavor since January 2016. has served as Chief Executive Director of Bakkavor since Report on page 65 appointed tothe Group Officer of Bakkavor since May February 2017 and was Skills and experience: Todd Boardin 2017.
He served as Executive appointed as Chairman RC holds a Bachelors degree from Chairman of Bakkavor from inOctober 2017.
Skills and experience: Prior to Cornell University and an MBA 1986, the year the Bakkavor Remuneration Committee joining Bakkavor, he was Group from Harvard Business School Skills and experience: Simon Group was founded, through Report on page 70 Treasurer at Avis Europe plc.
and has been a senior executive is a chartered accountant with toMay 2006.
As a chartered accountant, at a number of multi-national over 30 years experience in Peter has responsibility for companies, with extensive Skills and experience: theretail and food sectors.
Finance as well as Treasury, experience in the retail and Agustreceived his education Following a decade in financial Tax, Legal, Communications consumer services sectors.
from the College of rmli and advisory roles, he was and Information Technology.
appointed CEO of Virgin Retail External appointments: Peter holds a Bachelor UK in 1988, and following a Toddcurrently serves on the External appointments: of Science from turnaround of that business, boards of Carbonite, Tileshop, Agustcurrently has no Southampton University.
held increasingly senior roles C&S Wholesale Grocers externalappointments.
until appointed CEO of the External appointments: andEcentria, Inc.
He has also global Virgin Entertainment Petercurrently has no served on the boards of a Group in 1996.
number of companies in the was appointed Chairman and past, including OnForce, Inc. Chief Executive of Hamleys and Piedmont Limited.
plcwhere he completed a successful restructuring andsubsequent sale of the company in 2003.
Simon then specialised in value creation roles in both quoted companies and private equity backed businesses.
He has chaired many well-known consumer businesses, including Majestic Wine, Mitchells & Butlers, Bathstore.
External appointments: Simonis Senior Independent Director of the British Broadcasting Corporation and a Non-executive Director of the Co-operative Group Limited.
He is also Chairman of The Light Cinemas Holdings Limited and Blue Diamond Limited.
50 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report JANE LODGE DENIS HENNEQUIN SUE CLARK LYDUR GUDMUNDSSON PATRICK L. COOK Independent Independent Independent Non-Independent Non-Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director  Non-executive Director Non-executive Director AC AC NC RC AC NC RC NC Appointment: Patrick Cook Appointment: Jane has served Appointment: Denis has served Appointment: Sue has served Appointment: Lydur is has served as a Non-executive as a Non-executive Director of as a Non-executive Director of as a Non-executive Director of oneofthefounders of Bakkavor.
Director of the Bakkavor Group Bakkavor since April 2018.
He served as Chief Executive since July 2018.
Officer from1986 to 2006 and Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Denis Skills and experience: Sue Non-executive Chairman from Skills and experience: Janespent 25 years at Deloitte has extensive leadership holds a Master of Business 2006 to 2017.
He served as Patrickreceived his education & Touche LLP, the audit, tax, experience within the retail Administration from Heriot Chairman of Exista from from Vanderbilt University in consulting, enterprise risk sector, spending the majority of Watt University and a Bachelor 2006 to 2010.
Tennessee, United States andfinancial advisory services his career with the McDonalds of Science from Manchester and is a senior investment provider, progressing to a Corporation in a variety of University.
She was formerly Skills and experience: professional with significant Senior Audit Partner working senior financial and operational Managing Director of SABMiller Lydur has unique expertise direct investing experience for major corporates.
She roles before becoming Europe from 2012 to 2016, andinsight into the Companys in food companies.
served as the first female President and Chief Executive where she returned the region business as a founder of the Partner to sit on the Deloitte Officer of McDonalds Europe, to growth.
Sue was a member Bakkavor Group.
He received his External appointments: UK Board, overseeing where he was responsible of the SABMiller executive education from the Commercial Patrick is currently a Principal management strategy, forchanging the image and team from 2003 that built the College of Iceland.
acquisitions, performance concept and securing its business into a top five FTSE External appointments: against plan and admission market-leading position.
company and was involved in Lydurcurrently has no ofnew partners.
She was also Deniswas appointed Chairman major corporate transactions externalappointments.
the manufacturing and industry and Chief Executive Officer of and business transformations, lead Partner, providing best Accor in 2011 where he was particularly in the Americas, practice and insights across responsible for an estate Africa and Asia.
theDeloitte businesses of tax, spread across over 90 External appointments: auditing, consulting, and countries.
He left Accor in Sue is currently a Noncorporate finance.
Jane left 2013to pursue an advisory executive Director on the Deloitte in 2011 to build a andportfolio career.
boards of Akzo Nobel, Tulchan Non-executive portfolio.
External appointments: Denis Communications LLP, Imperial External appointments: Jane is currently a Non-executive Brands plc and Britvic plc, is currently a Non-executive Director of Eurostar International where she also chairs the Director and Chair of the Audit Limited and a founding partner Remuneration Committee.
Committees at Costain plc, of investment fund French Food DCC plc, Devro plc and Capital since 2017.
