Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 77 Board Committees Group and to reach their full potential.
Nomination Committee report Development of talent at all levels of the business remains a key focus forthe Group In 2018, Philip Aiken served as Chairman and the Committee seeks to apply this oftheCommittee.
Other members were approach in respect of appointments to non-executive Directors StephenBillingham, the Board.
StuartDoughty and IainFerguson, andtheGroup Chief Executive, Leo Quinn.
Appointment of new non-executive The full terms of reference for the Director Committeeare available on our website In securing the appointment of Anne https: www.
com investors Drinkwater as a new independent nongovernance board-committees.
executive Director, an external search agency, Ridgeway Partners was engaged Activities during 2018 inorder to identify suitable candidates.
During 2018, the Committee considered Philip Aiken AM Ridgeway Partners has supported the Board succession planning, the balance Chair of the Nomination Committee Boardin previous selection processes ofskills and experience on the Board, fornew Board members but has no theappointment of a new non-executive otherconnection with the Company.
Directorand the renewal of existing Boardmembers terms of appointment.
During 2018, the Committee The Committee was keen to ensure thatafairprocess was undertaken to Detailed reviews of internal talent and hasconsidered a range of identifycandidates on the basis of merit succession plans for executive Directors matters, most notably leading andobjectively determine the strengths andsenior leaders were presented to the andskills that would complement those of onthe process to appoint a fullBoard during 2018 including a focus existing Board members.
Annes considerable onUSleadership during the Boards visit newnon-executive Director, experience working at BP plc on multiple toDallas, Texas.
large capital expenditure projects with The succession of the executive Directors infrastructure considerations makes was discussed at a meeting of the nonherastrong addition to the Board.
executive Directors without the executive Her knowledgeof doing business in the Directors present.
The Committee also UKand US also reflects the Groups considered the impact and associated focusonthese jurisdictions.
succession planning required in light of IainFerguson completing nine years of Renewal of terms of appointment serviceas a Board member.
This was In reviewing existing Board members particularly significant given Iains roles termsof appointment, Phil Aiken, Stephen asSenior Independent Director and Billingham and Stuart Doughty each reached chairofthe Remuneration Committee.
the end of their initial three-year term as The Committee made its recommendations Board members during 2018. in respect of these appointments to the full The Committee considered the individual Board for approval.
performance and contributions made by eachof these Directors over the past three Diversity and inclusion years.
The Committee was satisfied that Diversity and inclusion remain central each of them would continue to be effective toBalfour Beattys people strategy.
in their roles and offered each a further The Committee recognises that it is not only three-year term inaccordance with the Code.
right to ensure that people of all genders and Each of the Directors recused themselves backgrounds are able to access fulfilling from the discussion where his own careers in the construction industry: but that a appointment wasconsidered.
For the business which reflects the society it serves consideration oftheChairman Philip Aikens will be better placed to continue to deliver for renewal ofappointment, the Senior its stakeholders.
By encouraging people of all Independent Director chaired the meeting.
backgrounds to join the Group, and enabling them todo their best, the Group is able to Focus for 2019 help bridge the skills gapthis industry With the introduction of the 2018 Code, the continues to face.
Committee will review its terms of reference In the UK, in order to promote the inclusivity to ensure its scope is expanded to formally of people of all backgrounds, the Company address new requirements, particularly in has developed four employee affinity theareas of diversity across the Group.
networks across key areas of protected Succession planning will remain a key priority characteristics which all employees are for the Committee to ensure that the pipeline encouraged to join regardless of gender, race, of the Groups leadership remains aligned ability or sexual orientation: LGBT, Gender with the strategic direction of the business.
Equality, Multi-Cultural BAME and Ability The balance of skills and experience at Board which seeks to identify and remove barriers level will also continue to be monitored.
to enable people with disabilities to join the balfourbeatty.
com AR2018 78 Board Committees continued During 2018, the Committee has overseen Safety and Sustainability improving trends in safety performance Committee report across the Group excluding international joint ventures with increasing levels of safety During 2018, Stuart Doughty has continued observations indicating a greater workforce tochair the Committee.
The Committee has continued during the year included the Chairman to support the sharing of best practice across PhilipAiken, independent non-executive geographies on learnings from incidents and Directors Stephen Billingham and Iain also innovation opportunities between the UK Ferguson, and the Group Chief Executive, andUS businesses and with Gammon, Leo Quinn.
Anne Drinkwater was appointed theGroups 50:50 joint venture operation to the Committee on 1 January 2019. based in Hong Kong.
A drive towards treating health like safety was also progressed this Committees duties year withmental health being a key priority.
Among the Committees duties are to review Stuart Doughty the strategies, policies and performance of In relation to sustainability, the Committee Chair of the Safety and the Group in relation to health, safety, reviewed environmental incidents and  environment and sustainability, and to drive environmental performance, discussed a improvement in these areas.
Safe is one number of innovations that are being used ofthe Groups four Build to Last goals and toreduce energy and associated carbon Among the Committees duties theCommittee, on behalf of the Board, emissions and deliver significant cost savings isresponsible for reviewing the Groups and examined how data was being used to are to review the strategies, strategies, policies and procedures in drive positive behaviours, reduce fuel policies and performance of relationto health and safety.
In addition, the consumption and associated emissions and Committee reviews and approves targets and costs as well as improve safety.
theGroup in relation to health, key performance indicators on health and safety, environment and Committee members were active in visiting safety and monitors performance against sites throughout the year, where they were sustainability, and to drive those targets.
With regard to sustainability, able to reference the health and safety the Committee reviews the environmental improvement in these areas.
calendar for monthly focus areas and see at and social performance of the Group, first hand the safety and sustainability including but not limited to carbon emissions, measures being implemented at site level.
energy, resource efficiency and compliance.
The full terms of reference for the Areas of focus for 2019 Committeeare available on our website In 2019, the Committee will continue to https: www.
com investors promote a strong safety culture and support governance board-committees.
the initiative to treat health like safety including an ongoing focus on mental Activities during 2018 health activities.
The Committee met three times during 2018.
In addition to receiving routine In line with the Groups 25 by 2025 vision, reportson matters relating to both safety reducing the volume of materials, associated andsustainability, detailed briefings were carbon and waste across project sites will provided on significant incidents that had also be a priority.
The Committee is keen to occurred including high potential events review Our Blueprint the Groups thatcould under other circumstances sustainability strategy and an update on the havecaused serious harm.
United Nation Assemblys Sustainable Development Goals will be provided to assist As reported on page 69, sadly during this this review.
Overseeing progress on targets year, the Committee received in-depth to reduce carbon emissions will also be key reports on two fatalities that occurred in 2018 and consideration will be given to the due to third party incursions into Balfour development of appropriate metrics with the Beatty work sites.
Detailed briefings were Science Based Targets initiative on corporate received on the investigations carried out climate change action.
There will also be a following each incident and learnings and continued focus on subcontractor improvements identified.
engagement and supply chain engagement.
Our Blueprint can be accessed at: https: www.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 79 Group Tender and Investment Finance and General Purposes Committee report Committee report The Committee is chaired by Leo Quinn as The Committee is chaired by Leo Quinn as the Group Chief Executive, or in his absence, the Group Chief Executive, or in his absence, the Chief Financial Officer, or in his absence by the Chief Financial Officer.
by any one of four senior business unit leaders.
The Committee is responsible for agreeing Those business unit leaders arenot permitted the Groups borrowing and banking to chair any meeting whichreviews proposals arrangements, management of foreign from those areas ofthe business for which he exchange exposures, contract financing, or she has executive responsibility.
bonding and leasing arrangements and The Committee has overall authority and various matters relating to the issued responsibility for the content, maintenance sharecapital of the Company.
and operation of the Gated Business Leo Quinn A summary of all the business conducted at Lifecycle.
The Committee meets regularly Group Chief Executive the meetings is provided to all Directors.
throughout the year to discuss proposed projects at the various stages of their development and review all major proposed tenders with projected values above specified levels, witha specific focus on risk.
Those contracts which are considered to be of a significant size and risk to the overall Group are reviewed by a committee of theBoard.
Any member may convene a meeting oftheCommittee to discuss any of the tender reviews in more detail.
Key members of the team involved with the project being considered and their strategic business unitleaders attend each meeting in addition to Committee members.
Minutes of all meetings are made available toall Directors.
