82 Audit and Risk Committee Main responsibilities at the Boards request, whether the Annual The terms of reference for the Committee are Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, based on the Guidance on Audit Committees isfair, balanced and understandable and issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
provides the information necessary for The main responsibilities of the Audit and shareholders to assess the Groups RiskCommittee are summarised below: position and performance, business model and strategy review the integrity of the financial the clarity of disclosures and compliance statements of the Group and any formal with financial reporting standards and announcements relating to the Groups relevant financial and governance financial performance  and guidelines, review the Groups internal controls including the European Securities and established to identify, assess, manage Markets Authority Guidelines on andmonitor risks, and receive reports  Measures frommanagement on the effectiveness Stephen Billingham discussing the critical accounting policies ofthe systems it has established and the Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee and use of assumptions and estimates conclusions of any testing performedby including key contract judgements, as internal audit and the external auditor noted on pages 126 and 127 of this Annual monitor and review the effectiveness of Among the Committees Report, and concluding that the estimates, theinternal audit function, including its judgements and assumptions used were dutiesare to review significant work programme reasonable based on the information accounting judgements, make recommendations to the Board in available and had been used appropriately relation to the appointment of the external in applying the Groups accounting policies reviewthe effectiveness of auditor and approve the remuneration and assessing the Groups implementation of riskmanagement and internal terms of engagement of the thenew leasing standard, IFRS 16 Leases.
external auditor controls and assess the external In particular, the Committee focused on assess the independence, objectivity and therobustness of the implementation and internal audit functions.
effectiveness of the external auditor and project led by the Group team and the develop and implement policy on the impact assessment of the new standard on engagement of the external auditor to the Groups results.
The Committee also Audit and Risk Committee report supply non-audit services reviewed, assessed and endorsed the review the integrity of the statement in Groups proposed internal accounting During the year the Committee comprised theAnnual Report on being fair, balanced policies to reflect the requirements of the Stephen Billingham as Chairman, Stuart and understandable, as required under new standard, which was adopted by the Doughty, Michael Lucki and Barbara theCompanies Act 2006 Group on 1 January 2019.
All members are independent the impact of the adoption of IFRS 16 can review the procedures for the Groups non-executive Directors with further details be found on page 121. helplines and other mechanisms used by oftheirskills, experience and qualifications employees to raise concerns confidentially reviewing the going concern and viability of setout on page 71. including any whistleblowing facilities the Group over thelonger term as part of Dr Stephen Billingham, formerly group finance andtheir effectiveness.
its assessment ofthe Groups risks see director CFO of British Energy Group plc and pages 54 and 67. of WS Atkins plc, has been identified by the Summary of activities in 2018 The Committee is able to question Board as having recent and relevant financial In 2018, the Committees core work management at both Group and business experience.
He is supported by Committee programme focused on a number of significant unitlevels to gain further insight into the members with varied industry andcommercial issues and other accounting judgements issuesaddressed in these reports.
experience relevant to the construction sector.
where the Committee believed the highest level of judgement was required and with The key significant financial reporting issues Partners from the external auditor, the Group thehighest potential impact on the Groups and other accounting judgements are set Risk and Audit Director, the Chairman, the financial statements.
Further information is outinthe table on page 83.
Group Chief Executive, the Chief Financial setout on page 83.
Officer and the Group Financial Controller regularly attend meetings.
The Committee Financial reporting also invites divisional leaders and specialists The Committee reviewed and evaluated relevant to the Committees agenda.
theappropriateness of the interim and annualfinancial statements including the announcements thereof to the London Stock Exchange with both management and the external auditor, including: Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 83 Significant issues and other accounting judgements Revenue Given the nature of the Groups operations, these elements are central to how it values its work.
Having reviewed detailed and margin reports and met with management, the Committee considered contract and commercial issues with exposure to both recognition revenue and margin recognition risks.
As a key area of audit focus, the Committee also received adetailed written report from the external auditor setting out the results of its work in relation to key contract judgements.
Carrying value The judgement largely relates to the assumptions underlying the value in use of the cash-generating units, primarily of goodwill and the achievement of the three-year strategic plan and the macroeconomic assumptions such as discount rates other intangibles underpinning the valuation process.
The Committee received reports from management outlining the impairment model and the assumptions used: in addition, the external auditor provided detailed written reports in this area.
Going concern In order to satisfy itself that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future and viability and that there are no material uncertainties that could lead to significant doubt as to the Groups ability to continue statement as a going concern, the Committee considered the Groups viability statement, cash position both existing and projected, bank facilities and covenants including bonding lines and the borrowing powers allowed under the Companys Articles of Association.
The Committee subsequently recommended to the Board the adoption of the going concern statement and the viability statement for inclusion in the Annual Report.
More details on going concern and the viability statement are contained on pages 54 and 67.
Non-underlying The key judgement is whether items relate to underlying trading or not and whether they have been presented in items accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
The Committee conducted a review of each ofthe non-underlying items, receiving written reports from management and the external auditor as to their quantum andnature.
Provisions The Committee reviewed the significant judgements relating to provisions, including litigation and other risks.
TheCommittee received detailed reports, including relevant legal advice.
Retirement The key judgement relates to the assumptions underlying the valuation of the retirement benefit obligations.
benefits TheCommittee received reports from management outlining the assumptions used, including input from the Groups actuaries, in particular in relation to discount rates, inflation and mortality which were evaluated against external benchmarks and, in relation to which, the external auditor also provided reports.
Deferred tax The Committee reviewed the Groups considerations on future profitability to evaluate the judgement that assets itisprobable the deferred tax assets are recoverable.
Directors valuation The Committee assessed the methodology used to value the assets in terms of the discount rates applied.
of the Investments Italsocritically appraised the output of the Directors valuation exercise.
portfolio Other matters In addition to its key role in the financial reporting process, the Audit Committee also considered the following as well as developments in regulation: Items discussed Mar May Aug Nov Internal biannual assessment of risk and internal control audit approval of the Groups internal audit plan review of the effectiveness of internal audit review of findings from internal audit activities and updates External audit report on 2017 financial results audit review report on 2018 interim results approval and review of the proposed audit strategy plan and procedures transition of lead audit partner review of the provision of non-audit services provided by the external auditor including fees review and assessment of the effectiveness of the planned audit strategy review process and control issues identified during the audit andrecommendations to management Other assessment of the Groups insurance strategy and programme matters assessment of the robustness of the Groups procedures on Business Integrity and review of its findings review and discuss the Groups update to the Committee on its ERP system standardisation review of the Groups management of its tax affairs including its approach to the new UK corporate criminal offence of failure to prevent tax evasion review regulatory and other third party correspondence assessment of Business Integritys report on identification of fraud and deception annual review of the Committees terms of reference balfourbeatty.
com AR2018 84 Audit and Risk Committee continued the opportunity for open dialogue and FRCs Audit Quality Review Non-audit work feedback on the audit process, the During the year, the FRCs Audit Quality The objective set out in the Groups policy responsiveness of management and the Review team carried out a review of KPMG isto ensure that the external auditor is not effectiveness of individual internal and LLPs audit work for 2017.
There were placed in a position where its independence externalaudit teams.
nofindings in their report to the Committee is, or might be seen to be, compromised.
andconsequently no changes were made Under no circumstances will any assignment A detailed assessment of the external tothe 2018 external audit process other be given to the external auditor, if it results in: auditprocess, the effectiveness of the thangeneral process enhancements.
external auditor as well as KPMGs level of audits of its own work professional scepticism, together with any making management decisions Areas of focus in 2019 identified improvement recommendations, onbehalfof the Group In 2019, the Committee will continue to ispreparedeach year.
address the topics described on pages 82 acting as advocate for the Group and 83 including continuing to undertake a mutuality of interest being created.
External auditor rotation reviews of the risk management and The Group undertook an external audit The Groups policy identifies the various types assurance practices across the Group on a tendering process in 2015 and KPMG was of non-audit services and determines the rolling programme.
The Committee will also selected as the Groups auditor for the year analysis to be undertaken, and level of continue to receive any necessary training in ended 31 December 2016, replacing Deloitte authority required, before the external auditor order to broaden and refresh the skills and as the incumbent for the last 14 years.
can be considered to undertake such services.
For any non-audit services which are not Paul Sawdon is the lead partner on the audit excluded under the policy, the policy provides for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Risk management and internal control for approval by the Chief Financial Officer of He replaced Stephen Wardell who retired as The Board has ultimate responsibility for the expenditure below 250,000, and approval by the lead partner on the audit after completing Groups risk management systems and the chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee his second year for the year ended internal control.
The risk management and internal control also submitted to the Committee of any The external auditor is required to rotate the framework now comprises a number of non-audit services carried out by the external lead partner every five years.
Such changes approval and review gates that cover the auditor, irrespective of value.
The aggregated are carefully planned to ensure business business lifecycle from initial project pursuit spend on non-audit services with the external continuity without undue risk or inefficiency.
through to delivery and completion.
auditor will not exceed 60% of the Group audit fee, unless exceptional circumstances exist, The EU Audit Directive on audit tendering These processes are underpinned by with a three-year rolling average not exceeding took effect from June 2016 and its key common minimum standards in project 70%of the Group audit fee.
aspects include: andcommercial management and are underconstant review to ensure their During 2018, there were fees of 0.4 million audit firms will have a maximum tenure effectiveness and compliance.
2017: 0.5 million paid to the external auditor of10 years, although the UK Government for non-audit services.
2018 non-audit services proposes to allow an extension of i up to Internal auditor effectiveness primarily related to the half-year review.
Audit anadditional 10 years where a public tender The Committee reviews the effectiveness fees for 2018 were 2.6 million.
Further is carried out after 10 years: or ii by an ofthe internal audit function on an ongoing details are included in Note 6.2 on page 134. additional 14 years where more than one basis.
This is achieved, in part, by reviewing audit firm is appointed to carry out the audit There is no inconsistency between the and discussing the reports presented to it at Financial Reporting Councils ethical audit firms are to be prohibited from each meeting, setting out the functions work standards and the Groups policy.
providing certain non-audit services and and findings, but also through a formal annual where non-audit services are provided assessment.
An independent periodic review The Committee considers that the Group theywill be subject to a fees cap of the internal audit function, as well as a receives particular benefits, including those a restriction in any contract limiting a thorough self-assessment scorecard drawn relating to cost, quality and consistency, from groups choice of auditor will be prohibited.
upin accordance with best practice the advice provided by its external auditor, guidelines, also helps contribute to given its wide and detailed knowledge of The Group has therefore adopted a policy that theCommittees evaluation.
theGroup and its international operations.
no external auditor appointed after June 2016 There can also be savings in management can remain in post for longer than 20years External auditor independence time and accelerated delivery of work in and there will be a tendering process every andeffectiveness situations where rapid turnaround is required.
10 years, and that KPMG, as the currently The Committee carries out a formal review appointed external auditor, may remain so 98% by value of non-audit related work each year to assess theindependence and until the completion of the 2025 annual audit.
provided by international accounting firms effectiveness of the external auditor, KPMG.
However, the Committee will continue to in2018 was carried out by firms other The Committee has satisfied itself as to consider annually the need to tender the than KPMG.
The Committee took auditfor audit quality or independence into consideration the following matters: Annual assessment of the audit process reasons.
There are no contractual obligations In addition to receiving written reports from in place that restrict the Groups choice of the auditor both internal and external and statutory auditor.
management, the Committee also conducted The disclosures provided above constitute the separate private meetings with the external Companysstatement of compliance with the requirements of The Statutory Audit Services for auditor and with management.
These provide LargeCompanies Market Investigation Mandatory UseofCompetitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018
