Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 75 Composition, succession and evaluation Composition All Directors are subject toannual re-election The induction programme provides As set out on pages 70 and 71, theBoard by shareholders at the AGM where terms of thefoundation for the ongoing training consists of nine members, comprising the appointment for each non-executive Director anddevelopment of Board members.
Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Chief are available for inspection.
Set out in the The Chairman maintains a dialogue with Financial Officer and six independent Notice of AGM is information on the skills individual Directors to identify any specific non-executive Directors.
With the retirement andexperience of each Director seeking training needs.
Where appropriate, such of Iain Ferguson in May2019, the Board will re-election or election.
During 2018, terms of training is delivered by the topic being revert to having eight members, including appointment were renewed for the Chairman, included at a future Board meeting so that fiveindependent non-executive Directors.
Stephen Billingham and Stuart Doughty, each allDirectors can benefit.
Otherwise, training The Board considers this to be an appropriate for a second three-year term and further isdelivered by way of formal presentations, size to manage the requirements of details are set out on page 77. individual meetings and visits to sites in the business.
orderto learn more about a particular Set out below is the current length of tenure initiativeor project.
All Board members for the Chairman and each non-executive Independence of Directors areencouraged to visit site and project Director as at 31 December 2018: By the criteria set by the Code, the locations throughout the year and Directors Chairmanwas independent at the time of his are invited to provide verbal reports of appointment.
As referenced above, all of the suchvisits at eachBoard meeting.
Director Tenure non-executive Directors are considered to be Philip Aiken 3 years 9 months independent under the Code.
This includes Information and support Iain Ferguson 9 years Stephen Billingham notwithstanding his During the year, the Company Secretary Barbara Moorhouse 1 year 7 months directorships at companies that have a advised the Board on matters related to Stephen Billingham 3 years 7 months business relationship with the Group, asthe governance, ensuring Boardprocedures Stuart Doughty 3 years 8 months value of such relationships is not considered werefollowed and relevant statutory and to be material more detail relatingto value Michael Lucki 1 year 6 months regulatory requirements were complied isset out in Note 36 on page 177. with.
The Company Secretary has Anne Drinkwater 1 month responsibility for facilitating the timely Stephen is also a member of the Companys distribution of information between Induction, training and development pension scheme from his time asan theBoardand its Committees and the Following the appointment of new Board employee of the Group 15 years ago.
members, the Company Secretary in The Board are all apprised of this and afresh conjunction with the Chairman prepares declaration is made by Stephen and recorded The Directors have direct access to the atailored induction programme.
The new in the minutes at any meetings where there Company Secretary for advice and he is Director is consulted to ensure that areas of isdiscussion relating to the Groups pension abletoarrange, at the Companys expense, particular interest to him or her are prioritised scheme.
Iain Ferguson has served on the fortheDirectors to receive independent or emphasised as necessary.
This approach Board since January 2010 and has remained professional advice where appropriate.
wastaken in arranging the induction of independent throughout his tenure.
Iain has AnneDrinkwater, appointed in December now reached nine years of service on the 2018.
Meetings were held for Anne to Board and has informed the Board of his speakdirectly to all members of the intention to retire asa Director following Executive Committee and other senior theAGM in May 2019.
More details are leaders across the Group, and visits to available on page 77. officeand site locations across the UK andthe US were arranged.
Succession and tenure On behalf of the Board, the Nomination In addition, Anne was provided with access to Committee reviews succession planning a suite of induction materials via the electronic ofDirectors.
Further information on the work Board portal.
These materials are also available ofthis Committee is set out on page 77. to all other Board members as a continuing point of reference.
Included in the pack are key In December 2018, Anne Drinkwater was internal governance documents, information appointed to the Board as an independent relating to the business of the Company and non-executive Director.
The search process policies and procedures relating to the was led by the Nomination Committee and operation of the Board.
allBoard members were kept updated ofprogress.
Further details are set out onpage 77. balfourbeatty.
com AR2018 76 Composition, succession and evaluation continued Evaluation Stage 1 In accordance with the Code, the Board undertakes an annual evaluation of its Completion of a detailed personality performance and that of its Committees.
An external evaluation is undertaken every three years, with internal evaluations carried out in the intervening years to consider Stage 2 theperformance and effectiveness of the Board and its Committees, as well as the 1:1 meetings conducted by Dobson Chairman andindividual Directors.
Lylewith each Director based on the 2018 evaluation outcome of his or her personality profile.
An externally facilitated evaluation of the Boardwas undertaken in2018 by Dobson Lyle.
The Company has previously engaged Stage 3 Dobson Lyle to provide services to review andassess the capability of senior leaders.
Preparation of report for the wholeBoardand individual Directors.
In considering the feedback from Directorsand senior management from thetwo previous years internal reviews, Stage 4 itwas considered that the Board and itsCommittees were functioning in Results presented to and reflected accordance with their respective charters.
External facilitation was not needed to confirm this and therefore the approach adopted was to focus on the interpersonal Stage 5 effectiveness and performance of each Boardmember inthe context of his or her 1:1 meetings with the Chairman and personality profile andhow thisaligned individual Directors toreflecton outcomes.
withthe profiles of otherBoard members.
This focus on thespecific skillsand operatingstyle of eachBoard member sought to identify the relative strengths Key conclusions from the evaluation ofeach Director thereby ensuring that each This process was considered Director is appropriately andfully utilised effectiveinimproving the depth inlight of their capabilities.
By profiling each ofunderstanding ofhowthe Board Board member in this way, the overall operatesandinteracts throughits efficacy and communication dynamics constituentmembers and opportunities oftheBoard could beimproved.
The evaluation was conducted through Appreciation of individual styles thecompletion of personality profiles andtheimpact this has on effective foreachDirector individually, followed up communication and decision making by1:1interviews.
An overarching report hasledto an improvement in the setting out the findings was prepared and operationoftheBoard, raising the presented to the Board by Dobson Lyle standardofdebate atmeetings and forfurther review.
In addition to the full theBoards performance overall.
Boardreport, anindividual review was prepared and provided to each Board Having reviewed all the materials member.
Following this, the Chairman anddiscussed the findings at some held1:1 meetings with each Director length, theDirectors re-affirmed that togather feedback on the outcome theBoardandits Committees are ofthe evaluation.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018
