70 Board leadership Board of Directors During 2018, there were no changes made to the composition of the main Board committees.
The Board has a collective Anne Drinkwater was appointed to the Board on 1 December 2018 and appointed to the responsibility for promoting Safety and Sustainability Committee and the Remuneration Committee on 1 January 2019. thelong-term success of the Iain Ferguson, Senior Independent Director and chair of the Remuneration Committee Company which is achieved willstep down from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM in May 2019. byhaving members with a Stephen Billingham will be appointed as Senior Independent Director and Anne Drinkwater balanced range of individual will be appointed as chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Both of these appointments will be effective from the conclusion of the AGM in May 2019. skillsand experience.
Set out below are some key metrics relating to theBoard as at 31 December 2018.
Board balance Chairman 1 Executive 2 1 2 Directors Non-executive 6 Directors Board tenure 3 4 0-2 years 3 2-4 y ears 5 6 years 1 Board gender 5 6 Male 7 F emale 2 7 8 Board geography Key for committee membership: AR Audit and Risk Committee Rem Remuneration Committee UK 7 Nom Nomination Committee North America 2 SS Safety and Sustainability Committee GTIC Group Tender and Investment Committee FGPC Finance and General Purposes Committee 9 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 71 1 Philip Aiken AM 4 Iain Ferguson CBE 7 Stuart Doughty CMG Chairman Non-executive Senior Independent Non-executive Director Date of appointment: 26 March 2015 Director Date of appointment: 8 April 2015 Date of appointment: 1 January 2010 Age at 12 March 2019: 70 Age at 12 March 2019: 75 Committee membership: Nom Chair Rem SS Age at 12 March 2019: 63 Committee membership: SS Chair AR Nom Committee membership: Rem Chair Nom SS Experience: Philip has over 45 years of board-level Experience: Stuart has over 54 years experience in the experience including extensive international business civil engineering, construction and infrastructure sectors.
Experience: Iain has considerable remuneration expertise, principally in the resources sectors.
experience and brings significant leadership and Stuart was chief executive of Costain Group PLC Philip was a non-executive director of National Grid plc, strategic oversight skills to the Board.
This followed executive chairman of Robert Walters plc and a non-executive positions in Welsh multi-utility Hyder plc, Alfred Iain spent 26 years at Unilever in a succession of roles and senior independent director of Kazakhmys plc McAlpine plc and Tarmac Construction, where he culminating in his appointment as senior vice-president, andEssar Energy plc, and a senior adviser at Macquarie represented the company on the Channel Tunnel corporate development.
Following this, Iain joined Tate Bank Ltd.
Prior to that, he was Group President Energy board, following 21 years with John Laing Construction.
& Lyle in 2003 as chief executive, serving in that role BHP Billiton and President BHP Petroleum, chief He has also served as a senior non-executive director forsix years.
executive of BTR Nylex, and held senior roles in BOC ofScott Wilson Group plc, and as chairman of Alstec He was also formerly chairman of Berendsen plc Group.
Philip was awarded a Member of the Order of Ltd, Somero Plc and Beck and Pollitzer Limited.
andofWilton Park, an independent and non-profit Australia in June 2013.
He isaChartered Engineer and a fellow of both making Executive Agency of the British Foreign and theInstitution of Civil Engineers and the Institute of During 2018, Philip served as thechairman of Gammon Commonwealth Office.
Iain also previously held the Highway Engineers.
Stuart was honoured in 2004 China Ltd, the 50:50 joint venture between Balfour roles of non-executive director of Sygen International bythe Queen with a CMG and also received an Beatty and Jardine Matheson, and its subsidiary and of Greggs plc.
honorary doctorate from Aston University in2018.
Gammon Construction Holdings Ltd. Philip now serves External responsibilities: Iain is non-executive as a non-executive director of the Gammon business.
External responsibilities: Stuart is the chairman chairman of Stobart Group Limited, Hallmarq Veterinary oftheFinance and Major Projects Committee for External responsibilities: Philip is non-executive Imaging Limited and a non-executive director of Aston University.
chairman of Aveva Group plc and a non-executive Personal Assets Trust plc.
Iain is also a council director of Newcrest Mining Limited.
memberof Cranfield University and governor 8 Michael Lucki emeritusof the British Nutrition Foundation.
Non-executive Director 2 Leo Quinn Group Chief Executive 5 Barbara Moorhouse Date of appointment: 1 July 2017 Date of appointment: 1 January 2015 Non-executive Director Age at 12 March 2019: 62 Date of appointment: 1 June 2017 Age at 12 March 2019: 62 Committee membership: AR Rem Committee membership: Nom SS GTIC Chair Age at 12 March 2019: 60 Experience: Over 35 years of business and FGPC Chair leadershipexperience in the US and internationally Committee membership: AR Rem intheengineering and construction sector.
Experience: Leo has strong leadership expertise Experience: Barbara has extensive leadership andhassignificant experience of successfully Michael has held a number of leadership and finance experience across the private, public and regulated  strategies for large multiroles, including chief financial officer, executive vice sectors.
She was group finance director at Morgan national companies.
president and board member at CH2M Hill.
He was Sindall plc, regulatory director at South West Water formerly an audit partner at Ernst & Young LLP Leo is a civil engineer and began his career at Balfour andchief finance officer for two international listed IT andappointed as their Global Industry Leader for Beatty.
He was educated at Portsmouth University and companies Kewill Systems plc and Scala Business Infrastructure, Construction and Engineering Practices.
Imperial College, London where he completed his MSc Solutions NV.
Subsequently, Barbara was Director Latterly, he has acted as a strategic advisor to in Management Science.
Before being appointed as General at the Ministry of Justice and the Department companies and private equity firms in the Group Chief Executive at Balfour Beatty, Leo spent four forTransport.
Her most recent executive appointment engineeringand construction industry.
years as group chief executive of QinetiQ Group plc and was as chief operating officer at Westminster City prior to that, five years as chief executive officer of fide Council.
She is a fellow of the Chartered Institute External responsibilities: Michael is currently a La Rue plc.
Before this, he spent almost four years as ofManagement Accountants and an Associate boardmember at Psomas and also serves as an chief operating officer of Invensys plcs production Memberof the association of Corporate Treasurers.
advisory board member at Anchor QEA, LLC.
He is management business, headquartered in the US and 16 atrustee of the California State University Foundation External responsibilities: Barbara is currently chair years with Honeywell Inc. in senior management roles Board and a member of the Investment Advisory oftheRail Safety Standards Board, a non-executive across the UK, Europe, the Middle East and Africa, Committee of The California State University System.
director of Microgen Plc and Agility Trains, and a including global president of H&BC Enterprise Solutions.
trusteefor Guys and St Thomas Charity.
Leo was previously a non-executive director of Betfair 9 Anne Drinkwater Group plc and Tomkins plc.
6 Dr Stephen Billingham Non-executive Director External responsibilities: Leo is the founder of The Non-executive Director Date of appointment: 1 December 2018 5% Club, a UK employer led initiative focused on Date of appointment: 1 June 2015 Age at 12 March 2019: 63 creating momentum behind the recruitment of apprentices and graduates into the workforce.
Age at 12 March 2019: 60 Committee membership: Rem SS Committee membership: AR Chair Nom Experience: Anne has significant experience in heavy industry including multiple large capital expenditure Experience: Stephen has significant recent and relevant 3 Philip Harrison projects with infrastructure considerations and financial experience and has worked in the construction, knowledge of doing business in the UK and US.
Chief Financial Officer infrastructure and support services industries for over Anne was at BP plc for over 30 years, holding a number 30 years.
Date of appointment: 1 June 2015 of senior strategic and operational roles across multiple Stephen was group finance director CFO of British Age at 12 March 2019: 58 jurisdictions including the US, Norway, Indonesia, Energy Group plc FTSE 100 power generator and theMiddle East and Africa culminating in the role Committee membership: GTIC FGPC WSAtkins plc FTSE 250, and the UKs largest ofpresident and CEO of the Canadian business.
Experience: Philip has considerable financial engineering consultancy and ran Punch Taverns plc Annehaspreviously held non-executive director roles expertiseand extensive experience of working in large theUKs second largest pub owner as executive atAker Solutions A. S. A. and UK listed Tullow Oil plc multi-national manufacturing and services businesses.
He played instrumental roles in the financial where she served on a number of key board and operational turnarounds of all three companies.
Philip was appointed as Chief Financial Officer in committees.
She was previously oil and gas He also spent 11 years with Balfour Beattys June2015 having previously served as group finance advisortothe Falkland Islands Government.
predecessor company BICC plc in corporate finance director at Hogg Robinson Group plc, and as group External responsibilities: Anne is a non-executive andother roles.
He is a fellow of the Association finance director at VT Group plc.
Prior to that, he director of Equinor A. S. A. ofCorporate Treasurers.
wasVPFinance at Hewlett-Packard Europe, Middle East andAfrica region and was a member of the External responsibilities: Stephen is currently EMEAboard.
Philips earlier career included senior non-executive chairman of Anglian Water Group Ltd and internationalfinance roles at Compaq, Rank Xerox Urenco Ltd.
He chaired the Urenco Ltd Audit Committee andTexas Instruments.
Philip is a fellow of the from 2009 to 2015 and was a member of the Anglian Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Water Audit Committee from 2014 to 2018. balfourbeatty.
com AR2018 72 Board leadership continued Corporate governance framework Additional attendees are invited to attend Group financial performance including annual and interim financial statements The Board has a formal schedule of matters Board and Committee meetings at the reserved for its decision and separate terms discretion of the relevant chair e. g. the Group bid and contract updates of reference for each of its Committees.
Financial Controller and Group Head of Risk legacy contract out-turns As referenced in the preceding pages, there and Audit are invited to attend all Audit and pipeline of significant projects are four main Board Committees Audit and Risk Committee meetings together with Risk, Nomination, Remuneration and Safety representatives of the Companys auditor health and safety performance andSustainability.
In addition, there is a KPMG LLP.
significant human resources issues, Group Tender and Investment Committee including succession planning and During the year, the Chairman met with and a Finance and General Purposes diversity matters thenon-executive Directors without the Committee, which are led and managed executive Directors present.
consideration of issues relating to major bythe executive Directors with reports on disputes, proceedings or other matters their activities being made to the Board as Where Directors have not been able to with a potentially adverse effect on the appropriate.
Verbal reports on meetings of attendpart of a Board or Committee meeting, Groups reputation themain Board Committees are provided they have reviewed the papers circulated for results of employee engagement surveys.
ateach full Board meeting by the relevant that meeting and provided their comments Committee chair.
directlyto the Chairman or theCommittee Speak up chair, as appropriate.
Each Committee reviews its own terms The Group provides a service, Speak Up, ofreference annually and these are then which enables colleagues to report, Board and Committee agendas reviewed by the full Board together with the anonymously if they choose, their concerns A forward agenda is established for matters reserved to the Board.
The matters relating to unethical conduct affecting all theBoardand each of the main Board reserved to the Board cover points affecting areas of the business.
Reports on the Committees to ensure that items are the Group as a whole including its strategy operation of this are provided to the Board scheduled at the appropriate time during the and budget, risk, high value investments biannually by the Group Head of Business year.
Capacity is maintained on the agenda expenditure and approval of the Group Integrity.
Further details of the service can for each meeting to allow for the timely financial statements and dividends.
befound on page 36. consideration of matters as they arise during The fullterms of reference for all Board the year.
Regular deep dive presentations Committeesare available on our website Conflicts of interest form part of the annual meeting cycle https: www.
com investors The Board has established formal procedures focusing on particular business areas or major governance board-committees.
for the declaration, review and authorisation projects of strategic importance to the Group.
of any conflicts of interest of Board members.
Responsibility for the day-to-day running of A non-exhaustive list of matters considered Conflicts are considered by the full Board theGroup is delegated to the Group Chief by the Board during 2018, includes: onan annual basis.
The Board was satisfied Executive who in turn delegates particular that none of the Directors had any conflict responsibilities to different individuals and progress with Phase Two of the Build ofinterest during the year which could not toLasttransformation programme functions through his Executive Committee beauthorised by the Board.
Group strategy and budgets To ensure that decisions are taken at therightlevel within the Group by those bestplaced to take them, the Group Audit Safety and Delegated Authorities set out in detail Director Board and Risk Sustainability Nomination Remuneration theauthority afforded to each function Philip Aiken 8 8 3 3 2 2 4 4 andseniorindividuals across the UK and Leo Quinn 8 8 3 3 2 2 US.
Having thiscentral point of reference Philip Harrison 8 8 forallcolleagues ensures there is a Iain Ferguson 7 8 2 3 2 2 4 4 consistency of approach across the Barbara Moorhouse 8 8 4 4 4 4 UKandUS and allows the business tooperatewithout creating bureaucratic Stephen Billingham 8 8 4 4 2 2 andburdensome processes.
Stuart Doughty 7 8 4 4 3 3 2 2 Michael Lucki 8 8 4 4 4 4 During 2018, the Group Delegated Anne Drinkwater 1 1 Authoritieswere thoroughly refreshed tore-align them with changes to the I ain Ferguson both absences were for meetings that were held on the same day and were due to unavoidable external commitments.
Groupsbusiness structure leading Stuart Doughty absence due to illness.
The number shown in brackets is the total number of meetings the Director could attend during the year includingasaresult of changes to Committee memberships.
Board and Committee meetings Set out in the table opposite are details of All serving Directors attended the AGM held on 24 May 2018.
In addition to the information reported above, theChairman, Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer routinely attend meetings of the Audit and Risk individual Directors attendance at meetings.
The Group Chief Executive also routinely attends meetings of the Remuneration Committee, except The Chairman encourages all Directors to whenmatters relating to his own remuneration are discussed.
attend all Committee meetings unless conflicted e. g. where an individuals termofappointment, performance or remuneration is being considered.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 73 Annual General Meeting Shareholder engagement Relations with stakeholders The AGM is an important event in the The Board places great importance Boardcalendar and all shareholders are onhavingpositive relationships with all The Board has a responsibility to a range encouraged to participate whether by shareholders and seeks to ensure that ofstakeholders including the Groups attending in person, asking questions thereis an appropriate level of dialogue customers, key subcontractors and suppliers orcasting their vote in advance of the withinvestors.
and to the environment and the communities meeting.
All resolutions continue to be in which the Group operates.
Set out below The Groups website is an important puttoa poll rather than a show of hands are details of the Boards engagement with resourcefor the Company to communicate toensure that the votes of all shareholders two key stakeholder groups: employees toall stakeholders and in particular provides are counted even if they are unable and shareholders.
Further engagement activities are set Employee engagement Each substantially separate issue is out below.
Although the Group people plan has its proposedvia a separate resolution and Institutional investors foundation in the Build to Last transformation proxyforms provide for shareholders As part of the Groups investor relations programme, the Board recognises the tovotefor, vote against or withhold programme, the Chairman and executive importance of itsown role in ensuring theirvoteoneach resolution.
Directors met with institutional shareholders constructive employee engagement All Board members attend the AGM and throughout 2018.
Other Board members, tobuildasustainable business.
areavailable to answer questions during including the Senior Independent Director, Meet the Board theformal part of the meeting as well also met with shareholders.
In 2018, a Meet the Board event was held asbeing present for informal discussion Details of meetings held were shared for staff at the Companys office in Canary overrefreshments after the AGM.
withthe rest of the Board during the year.
The event was publicised internally 2019 Annual General Meeting and Class In addition to these 1:1 meetings, group and via the Canary Wharf office social events Meeting of Preference Shareholders sessions were held with current and committee and was open to all employees The 2019 AGM will be held at Painters Hall, prospective shareholders in attendance.
toattend whether or not they were based 9LittleTrinity Lane, London EC4V 2AD Board members also attended and inCanary Wharf.
onThursday 16 May 2019 commencing spokeatinvestor conferences.
An annual detailed review of investor followed by a Q&A session.
The other Immediately following the AGM, aClass relationsactivities, including shareholder Boardmembers were also available Meeting of the holders of the Companys meetings and conferences, was provided toanswer questions.
Further informal cumulative convertible redeemable tothe Board by the Head of Investor discussion continued over tea and coffee.
preference shares will be held.
Relations together with a summary of The intention of this session was for analystresearch briefings and an overview Shareholders are encouraged to attend theBoard to have the opportunity to ofthe Companys share price movement.
thesemeetings and ask any relevant engagewith a wide range of employees.
Proxy advisory firms Members ofthe Board discussed roles Together with the Head of Investor Relations andresponsibilities and also heard directly and the Deputy Company Secretary, the fromthose in attendance about issues Chairman met with proxy advisory firms thatmatter to them.
todirectly communicate the Companys The event was a great success with strategic priorities and governance practices.
over90employees attending and a large Verbal reports of proxy advisory meetings numberof questions being asked.
were provided to thefull Board.
A further session was held in March 2019 Retail shareholders inthe Canary Wharf office with other office An event was hosted for the UK locations also being reviewed as locations Shareholders Association at the Canary forfuture events.
Wharf office, attended by the Head of Investor Relations and the Deputy Company Further employee engagement Secretary.
The event was well attended The Board has historically received updates withapproximately 30 retail shareholders and presentations on people related matters hearing apresentation from the Chairman and routinely receives reports on theresults ontheGroups performance followed by of employee engagement surveys.
The discussion continued Notwithstanding this, plans are informallyover a light lunch.
underwaytofurther develop and formalise Following the success of this event, the Boards engagement programme with afurthersession is planned for April 2019. employees which will be detailed in the 2019Annual Report.
