74 Division of responsibilities The Board has a collective responsibility Non-executive Directors Company Secretary asset out above.
Notwithstanding this, All of the non-executive Directors are The Board is supported by the Company thedivision of responsibilities across all considered to be independent under the Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Boardmembers is clear with each having Code.
They are each responsible for providing the Board is able to function effectively and adefined role with individual duties.
strategic guidance and scrutinising and efficiently.
In addition to making all logistical A distinction is made between the challenging the performance of management.
arrangements for meetings, the Company leadershipof the Board which is the In addition, all the non-executive Directors Secretary manages the policies and Chairmans responsibility and theexecutive serve on at least one of the main Board processes relating to the Board and ensures leadership of the Companys business committees, each of which is chaired by thatthe Board receives information in a whichis the Group Chief Executives role.
The balance of responsibilities at Board committees but also through the main Board, With the retirement of David Mercer, a new levelis set out below and demonstrates the non-executive Directors ensure that the Company Secretary, Jonathan Lagan was thatno one individual has unfettered integrity of financial information and financial appointed in February 2019.
controls and systems of risk management are with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer robust and defensible.
They also determine and Chief Financial Officer as part of the Group Chief Executive appropriate levels of remuneration and are selection appointment process and had The Group Chief Executive is responsible involved in succession planning 1:1 meetings with all other Board members forthe day-to-day management of the and appointments.
Groupand the delivery of the strategy assetby the Board.
Time commitment of Directors The Board recognises the importance of Chairman individual members having sufficient time The Chairman leads the Board and ensures available to discharge their duties effectively.
itseffectiveness in directing the Company.
Additional commitments of Directors are The Chairman achieves this through promoting carefully reviewed on appointment, before a culture of open and constructive debate new directors are accepted onto the Board.
among all Board members, both executive Each Director declares his or her external andnon-executive.
The Chairman encourages appointments and commitments to the Board high standards of corporate governance, on an annual basis as part of their conflict of meeting with investors throughout the year interest declaration.
In addition, a new policy toactively communicate with them.
has been implemented in 2019 to ensure that any new external responsibilities being Senior Independent Director considered by Directors are notified to the The Chairman is supported by the Chairman who can arrange for full Board SeniorIndependent Director who acts as a approval if necessary.
Before approval is sounding board for the Chairman and as an given, an internal review is conducted to intermediary for the non-executive Directors identify any potential conflicts of interest.
The Senior Independent Director leads the appraisal of the The Chairmans significant commitments are Chairmans performance.
set out in his biography on page 71 and have not changed during 2018.
Neither of the executive Directors holds any non-executive board positions at a FTSE 100 company.
Leo Quinn holds the chairmanship of the 5% Club of which he was a founder more details are set out on page 71.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018
