80 Audit, risk and internal control Risk management and internal control The Board is committed to meeting the itsagreed strategic objectives and drives an Risk management relevant requirements of the UK Corporate effective risk management culture.
The Board The Board recognises that successful Governance Code and has applied the directs the level of risk that can be taken by deliveryof the Groups strategic and day principles ofthe Code in establishing Group, strategic business unit and individual today objectives is underpinned by a procedures to manage risk, oversee the business unit management without specific comprehensive and consistent assessment internal control framework, and determine approval.
Group policies, procedures and of relevant risks.
Effective, agile and thenature and extent of the principal risks delegated authority levels set by the Board universally applied risk management theGroup is willing to take in order to provide the structure in which risks are principles enable the Group to accurately achieveits long-termstrategic objectives.
reviewed and escalated to the appropriate examine its risk profile against its accepted level within the Group, up to and including Roles and responsibilities attitude and appetite, limit its exposure to theBoard, for consideration and approval.
The Board is responsible for the unacceptable risk and ensure long-term implementation and oversight of Balfour The roles and responsibilities of the Board, viability.
Once key risks to delivering value to Beattys risk management framework and itsCommittees, strategic business unit the Group and itsstakeholders are identified a examining and verifying the internal control andindividual business unit management decision is made to treat, tolerate, terminate environment.
It sets the Groups appetite areset out below.
For more forand attitude towards risk in pursuit of information, refer to pages 55 to 66.
Responsibilities Actions undertaken 1 Board Responsible for the Groups systems of Issues and reviews the Group risk riskmanagement and internal control managementpolicy Determines Group appetite for and attitude Annually reviews effectiveness of Group risk toriskin pursuit of its strategic objectives.
management and internal control systems Reviews the Groups risk landscape, principal risks and risk responses.
Audit and Risk Reviews significant accounting judgements Receives regular reports on internal and Committee Reviews the effectiveness of Group internal externalaudit and other assurance activities controls, including systems to identify assess, Annually assesses Group risk management manage and monitor risks andinternal control systems Agrees the Group Internal Audit Plan.
Reviews effectiveness of the Groupshelpline and other channels forraising concerns about Code of Conduct breaches.
Safety and Reviews management of non-financial risks Receives regular reports on implementation Sustainability suchas health and safety, and sustainability.
ofGroup policies and procedures on nonCommittee financialrisks.
Group Tender Reviews and approves tenders and Critically appraises significant tender proposals and Investment investments, triggered by certain financial and investment divestment opportunities, Committee thresholds or other risk factors.
2 Group management Strategic leadership Strategic plan and annual budget process Responsible for reviewing and implementing Produces and tracks Group Risk Register theGroup risk management policy Reviews risk management and assurance Ensures appropriate actions are taken to activities and processes managestrategic risks and other key risks.
Monthly quarterly finance and performancereviews.
3 Strategic business Responsible for risk management and Reviews key risks and mitigation plans unitmanagement internalcontrol systems within its business Reviews and challenges business units Ensures that business units responsibilities internalcontrol environment aredischarged.
Reviews results of internal control testing Escalates key risks to Group management andthe Board.
4 Business unit Maintains an effective system of risk Maintains and regularly reviews project, management management and internal control within functionaland strategic risk registers itsbusiness unit and projects.
Reviews mitigation plans Plans, executes and reports on internal controltesting.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 81 reviews and authorising of proposed Risk management process notabsolute assurance against material investment, divestment and capital Mandated by the Balfour Beattys risk misstatement or loss.
In addition, not all the expenditure through the Board and management policy, all business units are material joint ventures in which the Group is Board Committees responsible for ensuring that effective involved sit wholly within Balfour Beattys arrangements, and management controls, internal control environment.
Where this is regular reporting, monitoring and review areestablished and implemented for the the case, separatesystems of internal control ofthe effectiveness of health, safety, management of risk.
The Groups hierarchy and riskmanagement are applied as agreed environment and sustainability processes.
ofrisk management is to prioritise reduction between the joint venture partners.
These processes are subject to in the likelihood of risk events occurring, independent audit and certification to Central to the Groups systems of internal mitigate the adverse impact where this is internationally recognised standards control are its processes and framework notpossible and identify opportunities where as appropriate forrisk management.
These align with the taking risks might benefit the business.
legal and regulatory compliance risks Financial Reporting Councils Guidance Balfour Beatty is relentless in ensuring whichare addressed through specific onRisk Management, Internal Control and thatapositive risk management culture policies and training on such matters Related Financial and Business Reporting remains embedded at all levels.
asethics, competition and data andwere in place throughout 2018 and up protectionlaws When pursuing new opportunities, an tothe date of signing this report.
The Group assessment of risk forms a key part of the has a thorough understanding of its risk promotion of a culture of compliance work winning process within the Gated exposures and has mapped out its assurance withethics and integrity responsibilities Business Lifecycle.
Risks are continuously network accordingly.
Topics covered by tohelp manage legal and reputational assessed throughout the lifetime of each Policies, Standards and Expectations risksacross the Group.
An ethics helpline project to ensure potential exposure includebut are not limited to: encourages staff to raise concerns, in remainswithin an accepted tolerance.
confidence, about possible breaches a fully revised and reissued system of oftheCode of Conduct.
Additionally, the Board issued updated and delegated authorities from the Board more detailed delegated authority levels in tomanagement with certain matters There is also an independent internal 2018 which act as triggers for the escalation reservedby the Board auditfunction that executes a risk-based of matters requiring approval.
In relation monthly financial reporting against programme of audit throughout the entire towork winning, this means projects above budgetsand the review of results and Group.
All audit reports are shared with acertain value, or those with unusual forecasts by executive Directors and relevant business leaders in addition to characteristics, such as a move into new management, including particular areas beingreviewed by the Audit and Risk markets, require approval by the Group ofbusiness or project risk.
This is used Committee see pages 82 to 84.
Tender and Investment Committee or the toupdate managements understanding It is the expectation and requirement of Board, as appropriate.
ofthe environment in which the Group theBoard that business leaders ensure this operates and the methods used to Escalation and reporting structures ensure comprehensive internal control environment mitigateand control identified risks that risk oversight is rigorously applied at including internal audit is embedded within annual review of the strategy and plans alllevels of the business from operational their business units.
ofeach business and of the Group as a review through to scrutiny by the Executive The Boards assessment of the risk whole to identify risks to the achievement Risk Steering Group and the Board.
management processes and internal controls of objectives and, where appropriate, To be effective it is vital that the Groups during 2018 is based on reports it received anyrelevant mitigating actions approach to risk management remains and those presented to the Audit and Risk a comprehensive suite of policies, reflective of the shape and direction of the Committee and the Safety and Sustainability manualsand instructions setting out business and the wider industry.
In 2018 Committee, including: therequirements of the Group Finance theGroup Risk Register was completely function covering the financial the results of the internal audit functions refreshed, recategorised and reassessed and management of the Group, including reviews of internal financial controls a key risk and control statement was drafted butnot restricted to arrangements with a Group-wide certification that effective for review by the Group Chief Executive.
theGroups bankers and bond providers, internal controls had been maintained or, To ensure a consistent application of the controls on foreign exchange dealings where any significant non-compliance or Groups risk management expectations the andmanagement of currency and interest breakdown had occurred with or without links between the central risk team and rate exposures, application of accounting loss, that appropriate remedial action has business units were strengthened and a policies and financial controls been or is being taken bespoke risk assessment and escalation risk management expectations which toolwas developed with extensive input a paper prepared by management areembedded throughout the Group fromthe wider business.
onthenature, extent and mitigation enhanced systems for the management ofsignificant risks and on the systems Internal control and reporting of risk which have been ofinternal controls.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for deployed throughout the Group theGroups risk management systems and Principal risks reviews and tests by the internal audit internal control and regularly reviews their The principal risks that could adversely function of critical business financial effectiveness.
The Groups systems and impacton the Groups profitability and ability processes and controls and specific controls are designed to ensure exposure to achieve its strategic objectives are set out reviews in areas of perceived high tosignificant risk is both understood and on pages 58 to 66. business risk appropriately managed.
The Board recognises that any system of internal control is designed to identify and control rather than eliminate risk and can only provide reasonable and balfourbeatty.
