The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Report of the Audit Committee In accordance with the September 2014 Competition and Markets consideration of the appropriate level of dividend to be paid by Authority Order, the Audit Committee presents its Report.
theCompany for recommendation to the Board: consideration of the internal controls in place at the Manager and Composition BNP as administrator and the Managers policies in relation to The membership of the Audit Committee comprises all of the Directors cyber risk and business continuity, meeting with representatives of except the Chairman of the Board, and from 21 February 2018 was the Managers internal audit and risk departments periodically: chaired by Isobel Sharp who is a chartered accountant.
The other two Audit Committee members were joined during the period by Richard consideration of the key risks, risk management systems in place Huntingford who is also achartered accountant, have a combination and the Companys risk map: offinancial, investment and other experience gained throughout their careers and the Board issatisfied that at least one of the Committees consideration of the Companys anti-bribery policy and review of members has recent and relevant financial experience.
All members of the Companys gifts and hospitality register the Audit Committee the Audit Committee are independent and have competence relevant was satisfied that the Company was in compliance : to the sector in which the Company operates.
The biographies of the Audit Committee members are shown on page 26. consideration of the Companys anti-tax evasion policy and was satisfied that the Company was in compliance: Meetings consideration of the nature and scope of the external audit and the The Audit Committee met three times during the year under review.
findings therefrom: TheCompanys Auditor is invited to attend meetings as necessary.
Representatives of Janus Henderson and BNP Paribas Securities annual consideration of whether there is a need for an internal Services BNP may also be invited.
audit function, in order to make a recommendation to the Board as described on page 40 : Role and Responsibilities consideration of the appointment of the external Auditor, their The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in applying the effectiveness and their performance and remuneration: financial reporting and internal control principles and to maintain an appropriate relationship with the Auditor.
The responsibilities are set consideration of the external Auditors independence and objectivity out in formal terms of reference which are regularly reviewed.
In the and the provision of any non-audit services as explained further on year under review the main duties undertaken were: page 45 and the reporting of the external Auditor: consideration of the appropriateness of the Companys the Audit Committee Chairman met with the Auditor to discuss the accountingpolicies: audit plan and audit results: a review of the half year results and the Annual Report, including the consideration of the whistle blowing policy that the Manager has disclosures made therein in relation to internal controls and risk put in place for its staff to raise concerns about possible management, viability statement, going concern and related parties improprieties, including in relation to the Company, in confidence.
and consideration of whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced The policy includes the necessary arrangements for independent and understandable and provides the information necessary for investigation and follow up action: and shareholders to assess theCompanys position and performance, business model and strategy in order to make recommendations to consideration of the management fee and the calculation of the the Board.
In assessing whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced management fee.
and understandable, each Director reviewed the disclosures made, applying their respective knowledge and expertise.
The internal controls over financial reporting were also considered together with feedback from the Companys Auditor, Fund Manager andthe Corporate Secretary: consideration of the Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee: consideration of the quality and effectiveness of the accounting records and management information maintained on behalf of the Company, relying on meetings with and reports from the Manager: 44 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Report of the Audit Committee continued Annual Report for the Year Ended 31 October 2018 In relation to the Annual Report for the year ended 31 October 2018 the following significant issues were considered by the Committee: Significant issue How the issue was addressed Valuation and The Directors have appointed Janus Henderson to perform the valuation of the assets of the Company in accordance with its ownership of responsibilities under the AIFMD rules.
As required under the AIFMD rules, Janus Henderson has adopted a written the Companys valuation policy, which may be modified from time to time.
Actively traded investments are valued using stock exchange investments prices provided by third party pricing vendors.
The portfolio valuation is regularly reviewed by the Committee.
Ownership of listed investments is verified by reconciliation to the Custodians records.
Investments that are unlisted or not actively traded are valued using a variety of techniques to determine their fair value: all such valuations are reviewed and approved by the Directors.
Recognition of Income received has been accounted for in line with the Companys accounting policies as set out on page 56 income andwas reviewed by the Committee at each meeting to confirm it is in compliance with IFRSs.
The Board reviews at least four times per annum Janus Hendersons revenue forecasts in support of the Companys future dividends.
For special dividends where Janus Henderson is required to allocate between revenue and capital, the Committee reviews the rationale provided and approves the treatment.
Maintaining The Committee has received regular reports on internal controls from Janus Henderson and BNP and their internal controls respectivedelegates and has had access to the relevant personnel of Janus Henderson who have a responsibility forrisk management and internal audit.
The Committee noted the service auditors qualifications in respect of the Janus Henderson assurance report which covered controls during the reporting period.
The Committee sought additional clarification in respect of the report and is satisfied that none of the exceptions impacted the Company for the year ended 31 October 2018 and that appropriate actions have been taken to address the issues identified.
The Committee has considered regularly the controls in place to ensure that the regulations for ensuring investment trust status are observed at all times, receiving supporting documentation from Janus Henderson and BNP.
Audit Tendering Policy on Non-Audit Services As a Public Interest Entity listed on the London Stock Exchange, the The provision of non-audit services by the Companys Auditor is Company is subject to the mandatory auditor rotation requirements considered and approved by the Committee on a case by case of the European Union.
It will put the external audit out to tender at basis.
The policy set by the Committee, which is kept under review, least every ten years, and change auditor at least every 20 years.
ensures that consideration is given to the following factors when considering the provision of non-audit services by the Auditor: The last tender process concluded in September 2016 resulting in Ernst& Young LLP EY being appointed as the Auditor.
The next the level of non-audit fees paid to the audit firm in relation to the tender will be required no later than 2026. statutory audit fee: whether the audit firm is the most suitable supplier of the relevant External Audit, Review and Auditor non-audit services: Reappointment the impact on the Auditors independence and objectivity and The Committee discusses the audit process with the Auditor what safeguards can be put in place to eliminate or reduce any  of the Manager present and considers the threat in this regard: and effectiveness of the audit process after each audit.
This is the third the cost-effectiveness of the services.
year EY have audited the Companys Annual Report at which Matthew Price has been the audit partner.
The Board has determined that the Auditor will not be considered for the provision of services related to accounting and preparation of the During the audit, the Committee Chairman liaised with thepartner, financial statements, internal audit and custody.
Non-audit services Matthew Price, to receive progress updates and reviewed EYs audit during the year related to additional testing of the Companys results prior to the Committee meeting to consider the financial compliance with its debenture covenants for which the Auditor was statements.
EY attended this meeting to present their report and paid 1,500 2017: 1,500.
There were no other non-audit services.
observe the Committees review of the financial statements and internal controls reporting by the Manager.
Based on the Committees review of EYs reporting, interactions with the audit team throughout the process and our discussions with representatives of the Manager, the Committee is satisfied with the effectiveness of the audit provided by EY and that they are independent of the Company.
The Auditor is required to rotate Isobel Sharp partners every five years and it is proposed that the current audit Audit Committee Chairman partner will serve until the AGM in 2021.
