The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance Statement holding office at the date of this Annual Report, which are set out Applicable Corporate Governance Codes onpage 26, demonstrate the breadth of investment, commercial and The Board is accountable to shareholders for the governance of professional experience relevant to their positions as Directors.
As an investment company, the Companys day-to-day responsibilities are delegated to third parties, the Responsibilities of the Board and its Committees Company has no employees and the Directors are all nonDuring the year six scheduled Board meetings were held to deal executive.
Therefore not alltheprovisions of the UK Corporate with the important aspects of the Companys affairs.
The Board Governance Code the UK Code issued by the Financial has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its Reporting Council FRC in April2016 are directly applicable to decision approval, which are categorised under various headings the Company.
The Board has therefore considered the principles including strategy, management, structure, capital, financial and recommendations of theCode of Corporate Governance reporting, internal controls, gearing, asset allocation, share price published by the Association ofInvestment Companies in July premium discount, contracts, investment policy, finance, risk, 2016 the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate investment restrictions, performance, corporate governance and Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all theapplicable principles set out in the UK Code as well as setting The Board is responsible for the approval of the annual and half year outadditional principles and recommendations on issues that are results and other public documents and for ensuring that such of specific relevance to investment companies.
TheFRC has documents provide a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of confirmed that, by following the AIC Guide, boards of investment the Companys position and prospects.
The Directors confirm that they companies should fully meet their obligations inrelation to the are satisfied that the Annual Report for the year ended 31October UKCode and paragraph 9.8.
2018, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Copies of the AIC Code, the AIC Guide and the UK Code can be Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
found on the respective organisations websites: www.
At each meeting the Board reviews the Companys investment performance and considers financial analyses and other reports The Board has noted the new UK Corporate Governance Code ofanoperational nature.
The Board monitors compliance with the published by the FRC in July 2018 the 2018 Code which the Companys investment objectives and policy and is responsible for Company will report against for the year ending 31 October 2020. setting asset allocation, investment and gearing limits within which Itis not anticipated that this will result in any significant changes for the Manager has discretion to act.
The Board has responsibility for the Company.
the approval of any investments in in-house funds managed or advised by the Manager.
Italso has adopted a procedure for New Zealand Listing Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional adviceat the expense of the Company.
To enable them It should be noted that the UK Code of Corporate Governance may to discharge their responsibilities, all Directors have fulland timely differ materially from the New Zealand Stock Exchanges corporate access to relevant information.
governance rules and principles of the Corporate Best Practice Code.
Internal Control Statement of Compliance The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of The Directors believe that during the year under review they have internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
complied with the provisions of the AIC Code, insofar as they apply to the Companys business, and with the provisions of the UK Code, The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, except as noted below: evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Company.
the role of chief executive: The process accords with the FRCs guidance on Risk Management, executive directors remuneration: and Internal Control and Related Business and Financial Reporting published in September 2014.
The system was in operation the need for an internal audit function.
throughout the year and up to the date of this report.
The system is As the Company has no chief executive and it delegates to an designed to meet the specific risks faced by the Company and takes external investment manager which has its own internal audit account of the nature of the Companys reliance on its service function its day-to-day operations and has no employees, the Board providers and their internal controls.
The system therefore manages does not consider these provisions to be relevant to the Company rather than eliminates the risk of failure to achieve the Companys and has notreported further in respect of these provisions.
business objectives and provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board The key components of the internal control framework include: Board composition The Articles of Association provide that the total number of Directors Clearly defined investment criteria, specifying levels of authority and shall not be less than three nor more than eight: the Board currently exposure limits.
The Board reviews reports on investment consists of five non-executive Directors.
The biographies of the Directors performance against and compliance with the criteria at each meeting.
39 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance Statement continued Regular financial reporting which allows the Board to assess the TheArticles of Association require all Directors to retire at each Companys financial position.
The management accounts and AGM, in accordance with the corporate governance policy adopted.
forecasts are reviewed by the Board at each meeting.
Richard Killingbeck will not be offering himself for re-appointment and will retire from the conclusion of the AGM.
Allthe remaining Contractual agreements with the Manager and all other third party Directors, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-appointment at service providers.
The Board reviews performance levels and the AGM.
adherence to relevant provisions in the agreements on a regular basis through reporting to the Board and conducts a formal Sue Inglis will succeed Richard Killingbeck as Chairman from the evaluation of the overall level of service provided at least annually.
Julian Chillingworth will succeed Sue The review of controls at the Manager and other third party Inglis as Senior Independent Director at the same time.
The Board receives quarterly reporting from the Manager and Depositary, and reviews annual assurance reports The contribution and performance of each Director excluding on the effectiveness of the control environments at the Companys Richard Huntingford was reviewed by the Nominations Committee key service providers.
at its meeting in September 2018, which recommended to the Board the continuing appointment of each of the Directors.
Review of additional reporting provided by: the Managers Enterprise Risk team on the control environment Under the Articles of Association, shareholders may remove a in operation at the Manager and their view of the control Directorbefore the end of his or her term by passing an ordinary environments in place at the third party service providers used resolution at ameeting.
by the Company: and the Managers Internal Audit team on areas of operation which Independence are relevant to the Company.
All Directors have a wide range of other interests and are not dependent on the Company itself.
At the Nominations Committee The Board noted the service auditors qualification in respect of the meeting in September 2018, the Committee considered each of the assurance reports of one of the Companys third party service providers Directors other appointments and commitments, as well as their which covered controls during the reporting period.
The Board is aware tenure of service and any connections they may have with the that the Audit Committee sought additional clarification in respect of the Manager.
The Directors confirmed that all Directors remain wholly exceptions which resulted in the qualification and is satisfied that the independent of the Manager.
There were no contracts in existence matter has been considered in sufficient detail and did not constitute during or at the end of the year and up to the date of this Annual amaterial weakness in internal controls.
Report which aDirector of the Company is or was materially interested and which isor was significant in relation to the The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system of Companys business.
internal control for the year ended 31 October 2018.
During the course of its review the Board has not identified or been advised of any failings Induction and ongoing training or weaknesses that have been determined as significant.
When a new Director is appointed he or she receives an induction seminar which is held by the Manager at the request of the Chairman.
Directors are also provided on aregular basis with key Internal Audit Function information onthe Companys policies, regulatory and statutory Systems are in operation to safeguard the Companys assets and requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting Directors shareholders investments, to maintain proper accounting records responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
Directors and to ensure that financial information used within the business, or also regularly participate in relevant training and industry seminars.
The Companys management functions are Directors individual training requirements are considered as part delegated to third parties and the Board monitors the controls in ofthe annual evaluation process which is led bythe Chairman place with support from the Managers Internal Audit department.
Assuch the Board has determined that there is currently no need forthe Company to have its own internal audit function.
The Board Directors insurance and indemnification will continue to review this on an annual basis Directors and officers liability insurance cover is in place in respect ofthe Directors.
Under the Companys Articles of Association and, Directors subject to the provisions of UK legislation, a qualifying third party provision indemnity may be provided to Directors in respect of costs Terms of appointment and retirement which they may incur relating to the defence of any proceedings The Board may appoint Directors to the Board and any Director so brought against them arising out of their positions as Directors in which appointed must stand for appointment by the shareholders at the they are acquitted or judgment is given in their favour by the Court.
Annual General Meeting AGM following appointment, in accordance Noindemnity was given during the year or up to the date of this report.
with the Articles of Association.
Richard Huntingford, who was appointed to the Board on 26 September 2018, will stand for appointment by shareholders at the 2019 AGM.
40 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance Statement continued whether any training was required by the Directors: Committees of the Board the tenure of each of the Directors, giving consideration as to The Board has three principal Committees, the Audit Committee, theNominations Committee and the Management whether the Board retained a sufficient balance of length of Engagement Committee.
The terms of reference for these service without becoming ossified: Committees are available on the Companys website the independence of the Directors taking account of the www.
com or via the Corporate Secretary.
guidelines established by the UK Code and AIC Code as well as the Directors other commitments: The Company has also established an Insider Committee to assist inmeeting the disclosure requirements of the Market Abuse Regulation.
the time commitment of the Directors and whether this had been sufficient over the course of the year: Audit Committee succession planning for appointments to the Board taking The Audit Committee is chaired by Isobel Sharp.
TheReport of the account of the provisions of the Companys articles regarding the Audit Committee can be found on pages 44 and 45. retirement and rotation of Directors, the tenure of the current Directors and recommendations of the 2018 Code: and Nominations Committee the performance and contribution of the Directors standing for The Nominations Committee is responsible for ensuring the Board re-appointment at the 2019 AGM.
retains an appropriate balance of skills, experience and diversity, hasa formal, rigorous and transparent approach to the Following completion of its reviews, the Committee was satisfied appointmentof Directors and maintains an effective framework that, having considered each Directors experience and the nature forsuccession planning.
of, and anticipated demands on his orhertime by, his or her other business commitments including otherinvestment trusts, that each Richard Killingbeck, Sue Inglis, Julian Chillingworth and Isobel Sharp Director isable to commit the timerequired to fulfil his or her are the members of the Nominations Committee.
The Chairman responsibilities as a Director of theCompany.
Taking account of the ofthe Board acts as Chairman of the Committee, but did not chair performance ofindividual Directors, the Committee recommended theCommittee when his successor was being considered.
After tothe Board that it shouldsupport the re-appointment of those consideration Sue Inglis was proposed and approved to succeed Directors seeking re-appointment at the 2019 AGM.
Other than as Richard Killingbeck as Chairman, she did not participate in the described above no changes to the composition of the Board were discussion regarding her proposed appointment, likewise Julian required at present.
Chillingworth did not participate in the discussion regarding his proposed appointment as Senior Independent Director.
Performance evaluation The Directors recognise the importance of the AIC Codes In discharging its duties over the course of the year, the Committee recommendation in respect of evaluating the performance of the considered: Board as a whole, the Committees and individual Directors.
During theyear the Directors undertook a review of the Board structure the composition of the Board and each of its committees, taking including an evaluation of the performance of the Board, the account of the skills, experience and knowledge of each director Committees and of individual Directors including the Chairman.
and whether the diversity of these continued to contribute to the success of the Company.
However, given the size of the Board, it The Company is obliged to engage an external facilitator for Board is not considered appropriate for the Company to have set targets evaluation every three years.
An external review was first carried in this regard: candidates will be assessed in relation to the out by Lintstock Limited in 2013 and has been undertaken each relevant needs of the Company at the time of appointment.
The evaluation for the year under review was also a decision is made to recruit additional Directors to the Board, a undertaken by Lintstock Limited who are independent of the formal job description will be drawn up.
The committee may use Company.
The evaluation concluded that the Board has a good external agencies as and when the requirement to recruit an balance of skills and experience relevant to the Companys additional Board member becomes necessary: objectives and operations.
the appointment of Richard Huntingford was made using the services of the independent external recruitment consultancy Management Engagement Committee NuRole: The Management Engagement Committee is responsible for formally evaluating the overall performance of the Manager and other the outcomes of the Board performance evaluation with a view as to whether adjustments should be made to the number of third-party service providers engaged by the Company to consider Directors or knowledge and skills represented on the Board.
whether their continuing appointment is in the interest of Theresults of the annual performance evaluation are detailed below: shareholders as a whole.
The Committee is chaired by the Chairman 41 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance Statement continued of the Board.
All of the independent non-executive Directors are The Board receives and considers regular reports from the Manager and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as members of the Committee.
In addition, the Chairman is able to attend meetings of all the chairmen of the investment trusts and companies managed by In discharging its duties over the course of the year, the Committee Janus Henderson which provide a forum to discuss industry matters considered: which are then reported to the Board.
the investment performance of the Company, taking account of the benchmark and performance of competitors in the closed-ended The Manager takes decisions as to the purchase and sale of sector, the share price, level of premium discount and gearing: individual investments.
The Manager also ensures that all Directors receive, in atimely manner, all relevant management, regulatory and the quality and experience of the team involved in managing all financial information.
Representatives of the Manager attend each aspects of the Companys business: Board meeting enabling the Directors to probe further on matters of the fee structures of its closed-ended competitors and other, concern.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of similar sized investment companies: theCorporate Secretary through its appointed representative who isresponsible to the Board for ensuring that Board and Committee the key clauses of the investment agreement, how the Manager had procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations fulfilled these and whether these continued to be appropriate: and arecomplied with.
The proceedings at all Board and Committee the performance and fees of the Companys other third-party meetings are fully recorded through a process that allows any service providers, including the brokers, depositary, registrar, Directors concerns to be recorded in the minutes.
The Board and marketing and research providers, legal counsel and the Janus Henderson operate in a supportive, co-operative and open Companys accountants.
The Corporate Secretary, Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, Meeting attendance isa subsidiary of Janus Henderson with its own reporting lines The table below sets out the number of formal Board and Committee andaudited internal controls.
There are processes and controls in meetings held during the year under review and the number of place to ensure that there is a clear distinction between the two meetings attended by each Director.
All serving Directors attended the entities particularly when dealing with any conflicts or issues AGMin February 2018. between the Company and Janus Henderson.
Any correspondence from shareholders addressed to the Chairman or the Company Board AC NC MEC received at Janus Hendersons offices is forwarded to the Chairman Number of meetings 63 2 1 of the Company in line with the audited procedure in place.
Any Richard Killingbeck 6 n a 2 1 correspondence is also submitted to the next Board meeting Julian Chillingworth 6 3 2 1 fordiscussion.
1 Richard Huntingford 1 n a n a 1 Sue Inglis 6 3 2 1 Janus Henderson and BNP Paribas Securities Services, which Isobel Sharp 6 3 2 1 provides Janus Henderson with accounting and administration 2 services, have arrangements in place by which their staff may, in Matthew Thorne 32 2 confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in relation David Wild 32 tofinancial reporting or other matters.
AC: Audit Committee NC: Nominations Committee MEC: Management Engagement Committee Continued Appointment of the Manager Notes The Board considers the arrangements for the provision of 1 Appointed to the Board on 26 September 2018 2 Retired from the Board on 21 February 2018 investment management and other services to the Company on anongoing basis.
The principal contents of the agreement with the The Insider Committee did not meet.
Manager and the fees payable are contained on page 4.
The Directors and Committees of the Board also met during the year The Board reviews investment performance at each Board meeting as needed to undertake business such as the final approval of the and a formal review of the Manager is conducted annually.
As part of Companys results.
the annual review in September 2018 the Directors discussed the quality and continuity of the personnel assigned to handle the Companys affairs, with particular reference to performance and Accountability and Relationship with results achieved to date.
In addition, they reviewed other services JanusHenderson provided by the Manager to the Company, such as accounting, The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the company secretarial and administration services and the Managers Financial Statements is set out on page 36, and the Viability activities in promoting and marketing the Company.
TheBoard Statement on page 29. notedthe Managers resources and experience in managing and 42 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance Statement continued administering investment trust companies.
As a result of their meeting, or raise issues or concerns at any time, are invited to do so annualreview it is the opinion of the Directors that the continued by writing to the Chairman at the registered office address given on appointment of the Manager on the terms agreed is in the interests page 27 of this report.
ofthe Companys shareholders as a whole.
General presentations to both shareholders and analysts follow thepublication of the annual results and also take place throughout Bribery Act the year.
Meetings between JanusHenderson, including our Fund The Company has no employees.
The Board has reviewed the Manager, and shareholders arereported to theBoard.
The Chairman implications of the Bribery Act 2010 and confirmed its zero tolerance is also available to meet with shareholders as appropriate.
to bribery and corruption in its business activities.
It has received assurances from the Companys main contractors and suppliers, By order of the Board listed on page 27, that they will maintain adequate safeguards to protect against any potentially illegal behaviour by their employees and agents.
Henderson Secretarial Services Limited Corporate Secretary Criminal Finances Act 2017 15 January 2019 The Board has also considered the changes made by the Criminal Finances Act 2017, which came into effect in September 2017, and which introduced a new corporate criminal offence of failing to take reasonable steps to prevent the facilitation of tax evasion.
The Company has received assurances from the Companys main contractors and suppliers that they maintain a zero tolerance policy towards the provision of illegal services, including the facilitation of tax evasion.
Share Capital Please see the Report of the Directors on pages 34 and 35.
Relations with Shareholders Shareholder relations are given high priority by the Board.
The prime medium by which the Company communicates with its shareholders is through the half year results and Annual Report which aim to provide shareholders with a clear understanding of the Companys activities and their results.
This information is supplemented by the daily calculation and publication of the NAV pershare at the London and New Zealand Stock Exchanges.
Janus Henderson also provides amonthly fact sheet which is available on the website, and information on the Company and Fund Manager videos are on the website, via various social media channels and through its HGi content platform, more details of which are included on page 27 of this report.
The Board considers that shareholders should be encouraged to attend and participate at the AGM.
Shareholders have the opportunity to address questions to the Chairman of the Board, the Chairman of the Audit Committee and all other Directors at the meeting and the Fund Manager will make a presentation to shareholders.
A summary of the proxy votes received on the resolutions proposed is displayed at the meeting and each substantial issue is dealt with in a separate resolution.
It is the intention of the Board that the Annual Report and Notice of AGM be issued to shareholders so as to provide at least 20working days notice of the meeting.
These documents are also included on the website.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance of the 43
