78 Audit Committee report Statement from the Chairman of the In performing our duties during the year, we ii g oodwill and intangible assets impairment have complied with the requirements under review remains a significant critical Audit Committee the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code and judgement due to its materiality and the I am pleased to present to you our Audit followed the best practice guidance set out judgements that are required as part Committee report for the year ended by the FRC.
We work closely with both the ofthe annual impairment review: and 30 June 2018. internal and external audit teams.
This helps iii i nventory valuation and margin us to ensure that our internal control recognition is a significant critical Committee membership processes remain robust, our financial accounting judgement due to the reporting remains clear and concise and our We are pleased to have welcomed Sharon estimation of the costs to complete that is accounting judgements are appropriate.
White to the Audit Committee on 1 January required as part of the valuation process.
Sharon has received a tailored The Audit Committee has had a full Further details on our significant critical induction that also covers the specifics of her agenda.
We have held a number of in-depth accounting judgements can be found on role as an Audit Committee member.
We have discussions, which have strengthened page 82. also worked closely with Jessica White and our processes around the monitoring and In the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, provided her with support in her first full management of risk.
In our discussions Ioutlined what our main areas of focus would year as CFO.
In addition, after nine years of we have considered the risks from Brexit, be for FY18.
I am pleased to update you on service Tessa Bamford stepped down from the effects of the changing housing market progress to date in each of these areas.
I would like across the regions in which we operate and During FY18, we have to take this opportunity to thank Tessa for her the implications of selling price sensitivities.
Changes in regulation and valuable contribution to the Audit Committee The Audit Committee has requested and continued our focus on risk accountingstandards during her tenure.
reviewed a thorough sensitivity analysis to management including provide assurance for the viability statement The Audit Committee has continued to that is included on page 56 of this report.
cyber security and GDPR Role and responsibilities oversee developments of the Groups processes and reporting to ensure it will be We have also spent time understanding and compliance processes, The Audit Committee is given its authority by compliant with the requirements of IFRS 15 where necessary encouraging improvement the Board and we act in accordance with our inaddition to maintaining Revenue from Contracts with Customers, of internal controls and auditing processes.
An important part IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS16 We have also undertaken an external review the quality of our financial of our role is to monitor the integrity of the Leases, as and when they become of our internal audit function to ensure it Groups financial reporting and management.
IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 will impact continues to provide appropriate assurance In performing this role, we scrutinise the theGroup in FY19, IFRS 16 from FY20.
to the Audit Committee in an environment full and half yearly financial statements where risks continue to change and the and review in detail the work of the external The Audit Committee has received detailed Jock Lennox requirements of internal audit are increasing.
auditor and any significant financial updates on preparations and estimates Audit Committee Chairman More information on this review is contained judgements made by management to ensure of the effect of the implementation of on page 86. they are appropriate.
Another important part these standards on the Groups financial of our role is to review the risk management reporting and challenged management We reviewed our significant critical and internal control framework operating onassumptions where necessary.
The Audit accounting judgements and key sources of across the Group to ensure that risks are Committee has discussed and agreed estimation uncertainty and concluded that: being carefully identified and assessed and adoption dates and methods for each of these i d ue to the progress made in trading that sound systems of internal control are accounting standards.
through our legacy assets and the vast in place.
The Audit Committee is in the process of majority of our land bank now being at considering how the requirements of the normal gross margins, the carrying New Code will apply to it.
Details on how value of land and work in progress is we have applied, or will seek to apply, the no longer considered to be a significant new requirements will be fully disclosed at accounting judgement: the latest in the report for the financial year ending 30 June 2020.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 79 Cyber security Principle risks and uncertainties iv c ontinue our focus on systems development and the cyber risks facing We recognise that security of the Groups Risk management continues to be a key focus the business to monitor the cyber security IT infrastructure is a key priority for the for the Audit Committee.
We not only review risks for the business and ensure that the Group.
A successful cyber attack could our principle risks and uncertainties, but business is in a position to defend itself as affect the Groups operational ability and also: the process for identifying, assessing the types of cyber attacks evolve: and has the potential to put our data at risk.
and managing risks: the Groups risk appetite v f urther ensure the link between Risk Given that we are operating in a time where and tolerance: the operations of the Risk Committee and Audit Committee cyber attacks are prevalent, we have been Committee: and policies relating to insurable processes is effectively managed.
closely monitoring actions taken by the Group risk amongst other aspects of our risk to minimise the risks of the Group being management system.
We have engaged with affected by a cyber attack.
To gain a better management on areas of key importance Set out in the following pages is more detail understanding for how other companies and have continued to challenge and support of how we have discharged our duties in are approaching cyber security, the Audit as necessary.
respect ofthe financial year under review.
Committee received external presentations on cyber risks.
The Group has undertaken Areas of focus for FY19 active penetration testing and the Audit When drafting our annual Audit Committee Committee is monitoring the steps taken Jock Lennox calendar, we take into account the external toimprove the defences.
Chairman of the Audit Committee environment, internal operations of the 4 September 2018 business and regulatory changes to ensure EU General Data Protection Regulation that all the main areas that we need to We have also actively monitored the prioritise are included.
preparations for compliance with the Our areas of focus for FY19 are to: EU General Data Protection Regulation, i c onsider the implications of the New which came into force on 25 May 2018.
UK Corporate Governance Code issued Amendments have been made to the Groups on 16 July 2018 and applicable to the Policies and Procedures and a thorough Company from FY20 and recommend review of data processes, information and updates to the terms of reference assets has been undertaken to ensure that as necessary: the data of our stakeholders is treated with the utmost care and in line with the new ii c ontinue to monitor the potential impact regulations.
Our data retention policies of changing sales prices on the Groups have also been reviewed and training rolled finances and operations: out across the organisation to ensure iii c ontinue to develop processes and each employee dealing with data has an reporting in respect of IFRS 16 Leases, understanding of the new regulation and their which will impact the Group in FY20: responsibilities under it.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 80 Audit Committee role and activity FY18 Main role and activities undertaken during the financial year The main role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its corporate governance obligations relating to the Groups financial reporting practices, internal control and risk management framework.
It follows an annual work programme to ensure that its roles and responsibilities are completed throughout the year.
The Audit Committees responsibilities asdelegated by the Board are formally set out in its written terms of reference which are available from www.
Going concern and viability statement Assessed the Groups available facilities, headroom and banking covenants.
Reviewed and challenged managements detailed analysis, which included forecasts and scenarios considering potential downturns in the Integrity of Financial Statements housing market.
Satisfied itself, and recommended to the Board, that and announcements the going concern basis of preparation continues tobe appropriate page 81.
Analysed drafts of half and full year results announcements.
Committee effectiveness Assessed the long term prospects of the Company, Reviewed and addressed key accounting judgements and significant and agreed the timescale to be covered by, the issues see pages 81 and 82.
Progressed actions arising from the FY17 external evaluation.
viability statement fordisclosure in the FY18 Report Reviewed and approved the Financial Statements for FY17 and agreed Undertook an internal evaluation of its performance in FY18 and devised and Accounts page 83. theformat for the Financial Statements for FY18.
an action plan to address the issues identified page 68.
Reviewed the adequacy of availability of finance Reviewed the process established for ensuring that and opined tothe Group.
on whether the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced andunderstandable page 82.
Governance Considered and approved material accounting policies, estimates and judgements.
Considered and recommended for approval the proposed corporate Assessed and approved pension assumptions and reviewed funding governance disclosures for the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts levels of the defined benefit pension scheme.
including fair, balanced and understandable page 82.
The Audit Committee Received updates on the implications of new accounting standards Received updates on general corporate governance requirements.
Reviewed preparation for compliance with the General Data Reviewed the tax strategy of the Group.
Reviewed and updated its terms of reference.
Internal control and risk management systems External audit Monitored and regularly reviewed the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management systems including Environment, Social and Considered the external auditors reports on half and full year Governance ESG risks in the context of the Companys appetite for risk.
Considered regular updates from the Risk Committee which included Met with the external audit partner without management being present.
reports on the Executive and divisional risk workshops, risk registers Assessed the effectiveness and performance of the external audit and residual risk, including ESG risks.
Considered regular updates from the Chief Internal Auditor on Assessed and confirmed the independence of the external auditor Internal audit whistleblowing and suspected fraud reports and related investigations page85.
Agreed external audit terms of reference, fees and scope for the half Received regular updates from the Chief Internal Reviewed and updated the policy framework and the policies specifically andfull year ends.
Auditor on matters arising from the internal audits allocated to it including the delegation of authority matrix.
Regularly reviewed the ratio between audit and non-audit fees page85.
Received updates on the Groups disaster recovery policies and Reviewed and updated the policy on auditor independence and non-audit Met with the Chief Internal Auditor without processes including impact of cyber security risks.
fees accordingly page 85. management being present.
Reviewed, and recommended to the Board for approval, the principal Reviewed and agreed the Internal Audit plan risk disclosures for inclusion in the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts.
for FY19 with due regard to the principal risks of the Company.
Assessed the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function during FY18 page 86.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 81 Membership and attendance at Audit Committee meetings Significant issues considered during the financial year In compliance with the Code, the Committee is comprised exclusively of Non-Executive The significant issues considered by the Audit Committee during the financial year were Directors and each member is considered to be independent by the Company.
John Allan is addressed as set out below and on page 82.
The Audit Committee considers each of not a member of the Audit Committee.
The Board is satisfied that, Jock Lennox has recent and these items as being significant due to their potential impact on the performance of the relevant financial experience to Chair the Audit Committee.
Jock is a chartered accountant Groups activities.
and chairman of another listed company Audit Committee and is therefore well qualified to 1.
Significant critical accounting judgements undertake this role effectively.
As part of the effectiveness review, the Nomination Committee was satisfied that the Audit Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the sector See table on page 82. in which we operate.
There were four scheduled meetings during the year.
Going concern members and attendance at each of the meetings is shown in Table 8 and the biographies and qualifications of the members are shown on pages 58 and 59.
The Audit Committee: Table 8 Audit Committee membership and attendance to 30 June 2018 assessed the Groups available facilities, headroom and banking covenants: Member Role Number of meetings attended reviewed managements detailed analysis, which included forecasts and scenarios considering potential downturns in the housing market: Jock Lennox Chairman Member 4 4 satisfied itself, and subsequently the Board, that the going concern basis of preparation Richard Akers Member 4 4 continues to be appropriate in the context of the Groups funding and liquidity position: Nina Bibby Member 4 4 considered the going concern requirements of the Code to ensure compliance: and 1 Sharon White Member 2 2 continued to monitor market conditions to ensure any appropriate adjustments are made 2 Tessa Bamford Member 4 4 tothe Groups strategic and financial planning.
Further details on the Groups going concern assessment can be found on pages 117 and 130.
1 Sharon White became a member of the Audit Committee on 1 January 2018.
2 Tessa Bamford stepped down from the Audit Committee on 30 June 2018.
Land and work in progress Note: The Audit Committee: X Number of meetings attended whilst a Director.
reviewed the composition and duration of the Groups land bank: and X Number of meetings whilst a Director.
considered the Groups land and work in progress net realisable value reviews at its August In addition to the Company Secretary, Tina Bains, the Chief Internal Auditor, George Dobie, and 2017, February and August 2018 meetings.
representatives from Deloitte LLP attended each of the Audit Committee meetings.
The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and other members of Senior Management also attended 4.
Financial reporting meetings or parts thereof, by invitation.
Members of Senior Management included, amongst others, the Group Commercial Director, the Head of Mortgage Lender Relations, the Group The Audit Committee reviewed the integrity of the Financial Statements of the Group and the Company and all formal announcements relating to the Groups and Companys financial IT Director and the Group Sales and Marketing Director.
After each meeting, the Chairman reports to the Board on the business undertaken by the Audit Committee.
This process included the assessment of the following primary areas of judgement and took into account the views of Deloitte LLP.
The Audit Committee met the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Internal Auditor and Deloitte The Audit Committee required Senior Management to consider various scenarios and LLP independently of management and the Chairman of the Board.
sensitivities relating to each of the above significant issues.
The information presented set out how the Groups activities would be affected under each scenario and the potential mitigations available in each case.
Based on this information, the Audit Committee concurred with managements conclusions that the Group is operating within an appropriate range of sensitivities.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 82 Audit Committee report continued Significant critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty for FY18 remained unchanged from FY17 and comprise: Significant financial estimates for FY18 Inventory valuation and margin recognition Goodwill and intangible assets impairment review In order to determine the profit that the Group is able to recognise on its developments in a specific period, the Group has The Group has 792.2m of goodwill and 100.0m of intangible assets which arose upon the acquisition of Wilson Bowden to allocate site-wide development costs between units built in the current year and in future years.
It also has to estimate see note 4.2 to the Financial Statements.
The Group reviews the carrying value of these assets on an annual basis to costs to complete on such developments and make estimates relating to future sales price margins on those developments ensure that the present value of the future cash flows that the housebuilding business is expected to generate is greater and units.
In making these assessments there is a degree of inherent uncertainty and the Groups key control is the site than the carrying value of these assets.
This review includes a number of judgements around the estimation of future cash valuation process in which these assessments are determined.
flows and the determination of an appropriate rate with which to discount these cash flows.
How the Audit Committee addressed those estimates Inventory valuation and margin recognition Goodwill and intangible assets impairment review The Audit Committee received a presentation on valuations from the Group Commercial Director at its meeting in February The Audit Committee considered a paper on goodwill and intangible assets accounting estimates at its August meeting.
This provided the Audit Committee with an overview of the valuation process, the controls around it, the risks Thisoutlined the assumptions made, the sources for these assumptions, and the resulting valuation.
Deloitte LLP reported associated with valuations and the mitigations in place, and the proposed new valuation system.
The Audit Committee upon goodwill and intangible assets valuation also at the August meeting in the context of the year end audit.
Following also reviewed the results of: i an audit, by a large accounting firm, of the way the Barratt internal audit team audits the detailed consideration of the Material Accounting Policies, Estimates and Judgements paper and the findings of Deloitte valuation process: ii independently sourced internal audits of the valuation process in eight divisions undertaken by a large LLP, the Audit Committee agreed with the estimates made by management and concluded that the valuation of goodwill surveying firm: and iii the results of the Groups internal audit reviews in all other divisions.
Based on the results of the and intangible assets remains appropriate.
internal audits and the presentations received, the Audit Committee was comfortable with the process and controls adopted by management around the estimation of future income and costs to complete, and thus the process by which the Groups inventory is valued and margin recognised.
Following detailed consideration, the Audit Committee concluded that the 2018 Annual Report 2018 Annual Report and Accounts: fair, balanced and understandable and Accounts: The Audit Committee undertook a detailed review of the process undertaken in drafting the Annual Report and Accounts to support its deliberations on whether the 2018 Annual accurately reflected the Companys performance in the year under review: Report and Accounts were fair, balanced and understandable.
The process involved various contained an accurate description of the business model: parts of the Group including, the Group Finance team and Company Secretariat with support correctly reflected the Companys strategy: and advice from other functions and the Companys advisers.
This collaborative approach enabled a clear link between the Strategic Report, the Governance section and the Financial included consistent messaging between each of the sections of the Report and Accounts: Statements.
The Audit Committee received an early draft of the 2018 Annual Report and and Accounts including the risk management statement and principal risks disclosure to allow included KPIs which were consistent with the business plan and remuneration strategy: itself sufficient time to review the disclosures therein.
The Audit Committee then assessed, at its meeting in August 2018, whether the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts were fair, balanced and therefore the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts were fair, balanced and understandable and understandable.
In reaching its decision, the Audit Committee reviewed: and contained sufficient information for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy and recommended as such to the Board.
the feedback provided by shareholders in respect of the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts: the assurances provided in respect of the financial and non-financial management information: the balance between statutory and adjusted performance measures: the internal processes underpinning the Groups reporting governance framework and the reviews and findings of the Groups external legal advisers and the auditor: and a report from the Company Secretary which confirmed that: i the Annual Report and Accounts had been reviewed by the Executive Directors: and ii the Company had received confirmation from its external advisers, that the Annual Report and Accounts adhered to the requirements of the Code and relevant rules and regulations.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 83 Long term viability statement The effectiveness of internal controls iv a ssessment of compliance with the These forecasts are further stress tested at internal control and risk management a Group level on a regular basis to ensure and the risk management process In accordance with provision C. 2.2. systems.
This assessment is supported that adequate headroom within facilities of the Code and the FRC guidance on Risk The Audit Committee plays a vital role by the Groups Internal Audit team which and banking covenants is maintained.
Management, Internal Control and Related in reviewing the effectiveness of internal is responsible for undertaking an annual In addition, the Group has in place a risk Financial and Business Reporting, the Audit controls and the risk management processes audit plan, ad-hoc audits and reporting to management programme that seeks to limit Committee revisited the timescale over on behalf of the Board.
The key aspects of the the Audit Committee, and if necessary, the the adverse effects of the other risks on its which it could sensibly assess the Companys Groups system of internal control and risk Board, on the operation and effectiveness financial performance, for example using ability to continue to trade, taking into management framework are as follows: of those systems and any material fixed rate debt to manage interest rate risk.
account the Companys business model and failings.
The planned programme of audit The Group does not use derivative financial i a c lear organisational structure prospects.
The Audit Committee assessed appraisals across Group operations, instruments for speculative purposes.
with defined levels of authority and the Groups resilience to the principal risks which is approved by the Audit Committee, Activities are delegated, by the Board, to a responsibility for each operating division: and uncertainties by stress testing forecasts is set with reference to the principal centralised Treasury Operating Committee.
through the application of a number of ii financial and management reporting risks of the Group including those risks The Treasury department operates in adverse scenarios.
These scenarios would systems under which financial and associated with culture, safety, health and accordance with the guidelines contained ultimately result in a fall in the private selling operating performance is consistently environment and other business process within approved treasury policies that are price, impairment of land and a reduction reviewed against budget and forecasts areas.
It includes full divisional audits established by the Board and the Treasury in volume.
The scenarios considered were atdivisional, regional and Group levels and targeted audits of key risk areas Operating Committee.
severe representations of the potential ona monthly basis: such as land acquisition and sale, cost Specifically, in relation to risk management risks, applied over a full three-year period.
controls, WIP, Treasury, payroll and HR.
iii i dentification and review of principal The testing highlighted potential covenant and internal control, the Audit Committee, Where the Internal Audit team does not operational risk areas to ensure they during the year: breaches and funding requirements in have the expertise or resources required are embedded in the Groups monthly excess of the Groups facilities.
However, monitored and reviewed the effectiveness to conduct complex audits they obtain management reporting system.
This on application of the mitigating actions of risk management and internal controls: external assistance.
embeds the identification and control of available, the Group would be able to operate risk as routine aspects of managerial placed focus on key controls in The Groups operations and financing within its current facilities and meet its responsibility.
Details of the management arrangements expose it to a variety of operation in the business including financial covenants.
The Audit Committee of risk system utilised and the principal thevaluations process: financial risks that include the effects was therefore comfortable that the Group risks and uncertainties and their ofchanges in borrowing and debt profiles, would maintain resilience in the event such reviewed a number of process relevance to the operations and financial Government policy, market prices, credit scenarios occurred and concluded that improvements and confirmed that the risk performance of the Group are set out in risks, liquidity risks and interest rates.
there was a reasonable expectation that management and internal control systems the Risk management section on pages 48 The most significant of these to the Group the Group would continue to operate and had been in place and had operated to 56 of the Strategic Report: and isliquidity risk.
Accordingly, there is a meet its liabilities over a three-year period.
effectively throughout the year ended regular, detailed system for the reporting and Accordingly, the Audit Committee agreed 30 June 2018: forecasting of cash flows from the operations that the long term viability assessment held a discussion with the external auditors to Group management to ensure that risks should continue to be performed over on the effectiveness of IT controls within are promptly identified and appropriate athree-year timespan.
This conclusion the Group: mitigating actions taken.
wascommunicated and recommended to the Board for approval.
The long term viability statement is shown on page 56 of the Strategic Report.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 84 Audit Committee report continued provided regular reports to the Board in considered all whistleblowing and Review of accounting policies The Audit Committee concluded that respect of the findings of its monitoring suspected fraud reports and actions: the audit process as a whole had been The Audit Committee considered the ofthe effectiveness of the internal controls conducted robustly and that the team reviewed all internal audit results and accounting standards applied in the year and risk management process, in order selected to undertake the audit had done so action plans and the effectiveness of the and reviewed the Groups progress on to assist the Board with its assessment thoroughly and professionally.
Deloitte LLPs Group Internal Audit function: projects to consider the impact of IFRS 9 that sound risk management and internal performance as auditor to the Company Financial Instruments, IFRS 15 Revenue received regular reports from the Risk control systems had been maintained during FY18 was therefore considered to from Contracts with Customers and IFRS Committee in respect of the work it had throughout the year to safeguard be satisfactory.
16 Leases upon the Groups accounting undertaken to review the effectiveness shareholders investments as well as policies and Financial Statements.
The Audit ii Interaction with the FRC of the Groups procedures for the the Groups assets in accordance with Committee approved the adoption of identification, assessment and reporting principle C. 2 of the Code : assisted the We can confirm that, during the financial year IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 for the financial year of risks: Board to determine the nature and extent under review, the Company had no interaction ended 30 June 2019.
Further information of the principal risks that are appropriate with the FRCs Corporate Reporting Review reviewed the concurrency of the principal on the impact of accounting standards for the Group to take in order to achieve Team or its Audit Quality Review Team.
risks and the risk management framework isonpage 131. its strategic objectives and to be assured to determine if the descriptions of their We have received, reviewed and taken note that Executive Directors and Senior operation were up to date, the system of of the Financial Reporting Councils Audit External Auditor Management continue to implement and internal control remains effective and Quality Inspection report on Deloitte LLP, maintain the Groups internal control and reported their findings to the Board when i Audit performance and effectiveness published in June 2018. risk management systems within the considering the draft half year and full The Audit Committee assessed the governance and policy framework approved year Financial Statements: assisted the performance of the external auditor and by the Board: Executive Committee to prioritise the the effectiveness of the external audit for risk framework by identifying the risks carried out a robust assessment of the FY18.
In coming to its conclusion the Audit considered most significant to the Group principal risks including those that could Committee reviewed amongst other matters: and assessed their potential impact on the threaten the business model, future feedback on the effectiveness and business of any risks identified: and performance, solvency and liquidity and performance of the external audit from agreed with managements assessment robustly assessed the structure deployed Group, divisional and regional management that they are being appropriately managed: by the Group when assessing risks.
This is and the Chief Internal Auditor who were set out in the Risk management section on had in-depth discussions around a number closely involved in both the half year and full pages 48 to 56 of the Strategic Report.
of risks and internal controls throughout year reporting processes: the business including: valuations, Group The Audit Committee recognises the recent Deloitte LLPs fulfilment of the agreed audit IT, cyber risk, General Data Protection progress the Risk Committee has made to plan for FY18: Regulations and mortgage availability: embed further risk management into the business.
The further planned development reports highlighting the material issues and reviewed in detail the output of the six accounting judgements that arose during will be assessed during FY19.
monthly control self-certification process the conduct of the audit: and from each of the divisions: Deloitte LLPs objectivity and independence during the process.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 85 iii Non-audit services iv Auditor independence and Deloitte LLP do not provide services to the External audit tender Group that are prohibited under the Policy.
non-audit fees policy The Committee has approved a policy on Deloitte LLP were first appointed as Auditor Where the auditor does provide non-audit the use of the external auditor for non-audit to the Group in 2007.
The Group therefore, In FY18, the Committee reviewed the policy services, independence and objectivity purposes and continually monitors the ratio put the office of external auditor out to a on Auditor Independence and non-audit is maintained as they are managed by a of non-audit to audit fees to ensure that it competitive tender process in FY17, which fees to ensure it remains appropriate.
partner with no involvement with the Audit does not exceed the 1:1 ratio prescribed by was fully reported in the 2017 Annual Report The Policy sets out the duties of the Audit ofthe Group.
that policy, further details of which are set and Accounts.
Two firms were recommended Committee with respect to protecting the Under the Policy the Company is required to out in section iv.
During FY18 47,000 was to the Board by the Audit Committee for objectivity and independence of the auditor annually obtain written confirmation from paid to the auditor for non-audit services consideration noting that Deloitte LLP and codifies: the limited range of services Deloitte LLP that they remain independent.
including audit related services out of a total were the preferred choice.
Following due which have been pre-approved by the Audit For FY18 Deloitte LLP provided a fee paid for all services of 412,000, non-audit consideration, the Board, unanimously Committee: permitted services which must comprehensive report to the Audit Committee fees therefore represented 11.4% of audit agreed to re-appoint Deloitte LLP to take be approved by the Audit Committee before verifying that they have performed their fees.
Further details of the audit and noneffect from the FY18 audit.
Having conducted being provided: and those services that the audit and audit-related services in line audit fees incurred by the Group can be found this competitive tender, the Company has Auditor will not be permitted to provide under with independence requirements and on page 134. complied with the provisions of The Statutory any circumstances.
The policy is available explaining why they believe that they remain Audit Services for Large Companies at www.
co. uk The majority of the non-audit fees related independent within the requirements of Market Investigation Mandatory Use of investors corporate-governance.
The Audit to review of the interim report and other the applicable regulations and their own Competitive Processes and Audit Committee Committee monitors non-audit fees services which comprised advice provided professional standards.
The report also Responsibilities Order 2014 issued by the paid to the Auditor by the Group at each on land acquisitions and disposals and explains why the ratio of audit to non-audit CMA on 26 September 2014.
other transactions in the normal course of fees and the extent and type of non-audit with the FRC Guidelines, upon Deloitte business.
Accordingly, the Audit Committee The review confirmed that the Policy services provided by them is appropriate.
LLPs re-appointment, the serving lead audit was satisfied that the work performed remains fit for purpose and has been partner, Mark Goodey, having served five Following receipt of such confirmations by Deloitte LLP was appropriate in the drafted in line with the requirements of years, stepped down at the end of the FY17 context of ensuring their independence as and the completion of their own review, theEthical Standard.
Claire Faulkner took over as the lead the Audit Committee endorsed Deloitte auditor, particularly given that the auditaudit partner for the FY18 external audit.
As per the previous year, the Policy continues related assurance services, relating to the LLPs conclusions that the Policy had been to include restrictions on the recruitment appropriately complied with throughout review of the Groups half year report, is Under current regulations the Company of employees from Deloitte LLP, so that no usually conducted by the Groups auditor.
the year under review: there were no items is not due to re-tender its audit until employee at whatever level of seniority that may affect the independence of the This safeguard will be applied to any non- 2027, however the Audit Committee will involved in the Companys audit for a two-year audit work that the auditor may be asked to auditor: and non-audit fees were of an continue to monitor the performance of the preceding period can be hired without the appropriate level.
Consequently, External Auditor during this time and make pre-approval of each of the Chairman of the the Audit Committee concluded that the recommendations accordingly.
Company: the Chair of the Audit Committee level of non-audit fees was justified and did On the recommendation of the Audit and the Chief Financial Officer.
not raise any concerns in terms of Deloitte Committee the Board is recommending LLPs independence as auditor to the Group.
a resolution at this years Annual General Taxation compliance and advisory services Meeting that Deloitte LLP be re-appointed were put to a full competitive tender in fora further year.
As a result, PwC was appointed as the Groups tax adviser and has continued to provide such services throughout FY18.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 86 Audit Committee report continued Internal Audit function Audit Committee effectiveness The Whistleblowing Number is available to all employees together with subDuring the year, the Audit Committee The 2017 internal performance evaluation of contractors and suppliers 24 hours a day, received reports from the Chief Internal the Audit Committee was generally positive seven days a week.
Any issues reported to Auditor on the findings of internal audits and actions have been taken with regards to the Whistleblowing Number, such as on conducted throughout the business, together each recommendation as set out on page 67. corruption, human rights, safety, bullying or with details of the proposed actions to rectify This year the Audit Committees evaluation harassment, that require urgent attention are any issues identified.
The Internal Audit was also performed internally along with the notified to the Group immediately, all other function is fully independent of business Board effectiveness review.
The outcomes issues are notified within 24 hours.
The Chief operations and has a Group-wide mandate.
and actions arising from this review are Internal Auditor reviews and investigates the The Chief Internal Auditor attends all Audit described in more detail on page 68. issues and, at his sole discretion, can seek Committee meetings.
In addition, the guidance from appropriate individuals within Audit Committee monitors and reviews Whistleblowing the Group, such as the Company Secretary, the systems and processes adopted by the as and when necessary.
The Chief Internal Auditor updated the Internal Audit function to ensure that they Audit Committee at each meeting on This report forms part of the Corporate remain fit for purpose.
During the year, PwC new whistleblowing incidents, ongoing Governance report and is signed on behalf undertook an external evaluation of the investigations and the outcome of any ofthe Audit Committee by: effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
On the back This effectiveness review confirmed that of these updates, the Audit Committee the Internal Audit team continues to operate assessed the adequacy of the Groups independent from management and that Jock Lennox whistleblowing policy in accordance with the feedback was positive as to the coverage Chairman of the Audit Committee requirements of the Code.
It reviewed the of the Audit Plan.
Following the results of 4 September 2018 whistleblowing procedure adopted by the the external review, the Audit Committee Group, including steps that can be taken to confirmed that in its opinion, Internal Audit enhance awareness of the process, to ensure had operated effectively and provided an it remains appropriate and available to those appropriate level of independent scrutiny who need to raise concerns.
The procedure of the operations of the Group throughout allows individuals who become aware of FY18.
To further improve the effectiveness possible improper, unethical or even illegal of Internal Audit, the Chief Internal Auditor behaviour to raise the matter with their will look to implement the recommendations manager or alternatively refer the matter made by PwC, in respect of further enhancing to a confidential and independent telephone the risk based approach by Internal Audit and number the Whistleblowing Number.
co-sourcing some of the more technical audit areas to specialist audit firms.
This will be done as part of the audit plan for FY19.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC
