60 Corporate governance report Introduction and Overview See pages 61-62 Leadership Your Board is collectively responsible for the long term success of your This section details: Company.
The Executive Directors manage the business on a day to day basis the structure and composition of the Board and its Committees: whilst the Non-Executive Directors provide an appropriate level of scrutiny, how responsibilities are divided amongst the Board, its Committees constructive challenge and support to all proposals including those relating andindividual Directors: to strategy, performance, responsibility and accountability.
This enables Board decisions to be well considered and justified.
Appropriate Board the main activities of the Board in FY18: processes are in place to ensure adequate oversight of the implementation its main focus areas for FY19: and ofthose decisions.
the recruitment and induction process for new Directors.
See pages 67-69 Effectiveness Your Board continuously reviews its composition to ensure it retains a This section outlines: balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge which enables it the process and outcomes of the internal evaluation for FY18: and to discharge its duties and responsibilities effectively.
The Board undertakes the progress made on the actions arising from the internal evaluation an annual evaluation of its own effectiveness and that of its Committees as for FY17.
well as that of individual Directors.
Good corporate governance is the foundation of strong See page 69 Accountability corporate performance.
Your Board is mindful of the risk environment in which it operates when This section details: Itprovides a solid base for a making any decisions.
It maintains sound risk management and internal the work undertaken by the Audit Committee: control systems and regularly reviews the principal risks impacting the healthy organisational culture: the Boards approach to risk management, its internal control and risk business.
The Board assesses the appropriate appetite for risk in striving effective strategic leadership: management systems: and toachieve the Companys strategic objectives.
its processes for evaluating whether the Annual Report and Accounts and dynamic decision ofthe Company are fair, balanced and understandable.
makingtaking into account various stakeholder views See pages 70-73 Ensuring effective engagement with our stakeholders andinterests.
Your Board recognises the importance of maintaining open dialogue with This section summarises: its various stakeholders.
A number of events and communications take John Allan how the Board and individual Directors engaged with stakeholders place throughout the year to maintain regular contact with stakeholders and Chairman throughout FY18: and receive feedback on all areas of the business including but not limited to how stakeholders can communicate with the Company.
governance, operational processes and Executive Directors remuneration.
See pages 89-111 Remuneration The Board, through its Remuneration Committee, has established a This section sets out: formal and transparent procedure for developing its policy on executive a summary of the Groups Remuneration Policy: remuneration.
Shareholders approved the Groups current Remuneration how the policy operated during FY18: Policy at the 2017 AGM, which is designed to promote the long term success of the Group.
No changes are proposed to the Policy for FY19.
how it will be applied in FY19: and the remuneration outcomes for FY18 based on the Companys performance.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 61 Corporate governance report Leadership Board composition, diversity and experience as at 30 June 2018 Non-Executive Director tenure Gender split Board composition including the Chairman including the Chairman Chairman 11% Male 56% Executive Directors 33% Female 44% 2 2 2 Independent Non-Executive Directors 56% 0-3 years 3-6 years 6 years Experience Business Finance Retail development Public Sector Housebuilding Marketing Commercial Construction development See page 77 for details on Board diversity See page 39 for details on diversity in the workforce Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 62 Corporate governance report Leadership continued Corporate Governance Statement public policy experience.
Full details of the his duties to the Company.
John Allan has In addition, in accordance with the recruitment process can be found on page 76. demonstrated this throughout the year requirements of the Code, the Chairman The Board confirms that during the year by ensuring full attendance at each of the met at least once with the Non-Executive The names, responsibilities and other details ended 30 June 2018, and as at the date of this Board and Committee meetings, being Directors independently of the Executive of each of the Directors of the Board are set report, the Company has fully applied the available to Board members whenever Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors meet out on pages 58 and 59 with the composition main and supporting principles of the Code required and spending time in the business regularly without the Executive Directors of the Board on page 61. issued in 2016 a copy of which is available and within the Groups corporate office being present usually prior to or immediately from www.
This report, together in London.
John Allan continues to show following Committee meetings.
with the other statutory disclosures and the Board independence dedication to his role and commits the time Details of the Directors interests in shares reports from the Audit, Nomination, Safety, The Company recognises the importance necessary to discharge his duties effectively ofthe Company are contained in Table 25 Health and Environment and Remuneration of its Non-Executive Directors remaining and completely.
onpage 105 of the Remuneration report.
Committees, provide details of how the independent throughout their appointment, Company has applied the main principles as it enables them to provide objective advice and complied with the provisions of the Code and guidance to the Executive Directors and during the year under review pages 60 to Senior Management.
The Board has continuously kept abreast allows the Non-Executive Directors to of the consultation on the revisions to the Membership and attendance at Board meetings constructively challenge and scrutinise the Code and welcomes the changes introduced performance of the Executive Directors Members of the Board throughout the financial year and attendance at each of its scheduled by the New Code published on 16 July 2018 and provide an independent perspective meetings are set out in Table 1. to enhance long term success and trust in on business strategy, performance and businesses.
The Board, together with its Table 1 Board Membership and attendance to 30 June 2018 the integrity of the financial information advisers, is assessing its position under the considered by the Board and disclosed to New Code.
It will disclose its compliance the Companys shareholders and other with the New Code at the latest in its report Member Role Number of meetings attended stakeholders.
Their independence is of for the financial year ending 30 June 2020. the utmost importance when considering John Allan Chairman 7 7 The Company has also complied with the appointment or removal of Executive the requirements under the Disclosure David Thomas Chief Executive 7 7 Directors and in the determination of Guidance and Transparency Rules, the succession planning for Board positions and Steven Boyes Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Operating Officer 7 7 Listing Rules, Directors Remuneration other Senior Management roles within the Reporting regulations and narrative reporting Jessica White Chief Financial Officer 7 7 Group.
All Non-Executive Directors remained requirements, as applicable.
independent in character and judgement Richard Akers Senior Independent Director 7 7 during the financial year, and as confirmed, Nina Bibby Non-Executive Director 7 7 Board balance as part of the conflict of interests review Jock Lennox Non-Executive Director 7 7 The Board believes the balance of Executive process, none of the Non-Executive Directors have business or other relationships with the and independent Non-Executive Directors 1 Sharon White Non-Executive Director 3 3 remains appropriate having regard to the Group or other outside interests that might 2 Tessa Bamford Non-Executive Director 7 7 influence their independence or judgement.
size and nature of the business.
In addition, the combination of the experience, diverse John Allan was considered to be independent 1 Sharon White joined the Board on 1 January 2018. backgrounds, length of service and calibre on appointment to the Board and on taking 2 Tessa Bamford stood down from the Board on 30 June 2018. of the Non-Executive Directors further up the role of Chairman.
As part of the enhances this balance and the ability FY18 annual review of the Chairmans Note: to deliver the Groups strategy whilst effectiveness, the Non-Executive Directors X Number of meetings attended whilst a Director.
mitigating against the risk of group think.
led by Richard Akers, as Senior Independent X Number of meetings held whilst a Director.
Following a review of its composition, Director, considered Johns other significant theBoard appointed Sharon White to provide commitments and confirmed that they do not impinge upon his availability to fulfil Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 63 Board Committees and delegation to Committees Decisions, matters reserved to the Board and delegated authorities The Board takes decisions on strategy and in relation to items set out in the matters reserved for the Board.
It has also delegated various operational decisions to several Board and Management Committees see below.
The Schedule of matters reserved to the Board and the Terms of Reference of the Board Committees are available on the Companys website atwww.
Board Committees Group Management Committees Audit Committee Risk Committee Monitors the integrity of the Groups Financial Statements and Reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal control policies and procedures for the identification, assessment and reporting of risks.
itssystems for internal control and risk management.
Assesses individual key risks on a rolling basis together with the Monitors the independence, objectivity and tenure of the external auditor.
Considers whether the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balancedand understandable.
Assesses the long term viability of the Company.
Land Committee See page 78 for full report The Board Reviews and approves all land acquisition and disposal proposals across the Group.
Refers proposals to the Board for approval depending on the value of the Remuneration Committee land acquisition or its complex nature, e. g. high rise apartments or joint venture arrangements.
Designs and implements the Groups overall remuneration strategy and policy.
Sets the remuneration of the Executive Directors and Treasury Operating Committee Senior Management.
Reviews the Groups funding requirements and approval of new Determines remuneration outcomes for Executive Directors debt facilities.
Obtains Board approval for certain types of funding and where the See page 89 for full report level of funding is over and above the levels delegated to the Treasury Operating Committee.
Chief Executive Nomination Committee Allotment Committee Monitors the composition and balance of the Board to ensure progressive refreshing of the Board and its Committees.
Executive Committee Approves the allotment of shares within dilution limits and the authority Reviews succession plans of Board and Senior Management roles.
Oversees the diversity policy of the Board.
Supports the Chief Executive in carrying out the day to See page 74 for full report day management of the activities of the Group.
Operations Committee Disclosure Committee Manages operational performance.
Chief Operating Officer Ensures that the Company remains compliant with the requirements ofthe Market Abuse Regulation.
Safety, Health and Environment Operations Committee Safety, Health and Environment Committee Develops the health and safety strategy for the Group.
Oversees the SHE issues impacting the business including, but not Ensures that health and safety policies and procedures are adequately limited to, the Groups compliance with theSHE management system.
Monitors any significant SHE risks and exposure to the business and the Monitors the effectiveness of the Groups health and safety systems.
steps taken to mitigate against these.
Keeps informed of changes in legislation surrounding safety, health and See page 87 for full report the environment.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 64 Corporate governance report Leadership continued Board roles and their responsibilities Chairman Leads and manages the Board in the achievement of its objectives, sets its agenda and chairs its meetings.
John Allan Responsible for the effectiveness of the Board and its governance.
Facilitates the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and constructive relations between Executive and NonExecutive Directors.
Responsible for the identification and provision of continued development needs of each Director.
Ensures effective communication with shareholders and other stakeholders and participates in corporate relations activities as appropriate.
Chief Executive Develops the Groups strategy for the enhancement of long term shareholder return taking into account the needs of the David Thomas Groups stakeholders.
Leads the implementation of Group Strategy approved by the Board.
Responsible for the day to day leadership and management of the operational activities of the Group in accordance with overall strategy and policy as determined by the Board.
Chairs the Executive Committee through which he carries out his duties.
Overseas corporate relations with shareholders and other stakeholders.
Responsible for sustainability policies and practices of the Group.
Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Operating Officer Responsible for the Groups housebuilding operations including day to day responsibility for safety, health and the environment Steven Boyes ensuring stakeholder requirements are appropriately addressed.
Chairs the Operations Committee meetings, the other members of which include the Regional Managing Directors.
Chief Financial Officer Devises and implements the Groups financial strategy and policies.
Jessica White Manages Group Finance, Tax, Internal Audit, Treasury and Investor Relations functions.
Supports the Chief Executive with his corporate relations responsibilities with shareholders and other stakeholders.
Manages the Companys relationship with the external auditor.
Senior Independent Director In addition to his role and responsibilities as an Independent Non-Executive Director, the Senior Independent Director, Richard Akers is available to shareholders, when required, to: i address any material issues or concerns which the Chairman and or Chief Executive have failed to resolve: and ii listen to their views in order for the Company to gain a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns.
Evaluates the performance of the Chairman, at least annually.
Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and, if necessary, an intermediary for the other Directors.
Independent Non-Executive Directors Support and constructively challenge the Executive Directors using the broad range of their experience and external perspective Tessa Bamford, Nina Bibby, Jock Lennox ensuring the needs of stakeholders are appropriately considered.
andSharon White Develop proposals on strategy.
Monitor the implementation of the Groups strategy within its risk and control framework.
Company Secretary Supports the Chairman and Chief Executive in fulfilling their duties especially with respect to induction and training.
Tina Bains Available to all Directors for advice and support.
Keeps the Board regularly updated on governance matters and best practice.
Ensures Group policies and procedures are maintained and updated on a regular basis.
Attends and maintains a record of the matters discussed and approved at Board and Committee meetings.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 65 Board activity FY18 Main activities undertaken during the financial year including matters reserved The Board provides clear, entrepreneurial, responsible and executive leadership to the Group in order to promote the long term success of the Group whilst ensuring the Group has an appropriate risk and control framework, adequate resources and appropriate values and standards to deliver its strategy.
Risk management and internal controls Robustly reviewed and approved the effectiveness Financial reporting and controls ofinternal control and risk management systems.
Strategy and management Reviewed the Companys appetite for risk and Reviewed monthly reports on performance against budget and forecast.
approved the principal risks and uncertainties Detailed strategy sessions held throughout the year to further develop Reviewed the proposed three-year business plan.
Reviewed and approved half and full year results and announcements.
Received regular updates from the Audit Committee Assessed if the Annual Report and Accounts were fair, balanced Received presentations from business functions on risks and in respect of internal and external audit reviews.
opportunities both strategic and otherwise.
Approved the re-appointment of Deloitte as external Approved the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
Reviewed and approved various material land investments transactions.
auditor on recommendation of the Audit Committee.
Reviewed Group dividend policy and approved payment of an interim Received internal and external presentations on the wider housing Undertook six-monthly in-depth health and dividend and agreed to recommend payment of a final dividend and market, including labour requirements.
special dividend under the Groups Capital Return Plan.
Reviewed and renewed the Groups financing agreements.
Reviewed and approved the budget for FY19.
Reviewed and approved process for satisfaction of awards under share performance schemes, dilution and the admission of further shares to the London Stock Exchange.
The Board Stakeholder engagement Reviewed the long term viability of the Company over a period of three years and approved the long term viability statement to be included in Reviewed shareholder feedback on half and full year results, trading the Annual Report and Accounts following the recommendation of the updates and outcomes from investor roadshows.
Received presentations from the Groups corporate brokers.
Met with shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
Reviewed the 2017 AGM proxy voting figures.
Governance Reviewed and approved the 2017 AGM Notice.
Individual Directors attended various stakeholder events organised Received updates on changes and potential changes in bythe Group.
regulations and assessed their impact, including the General Data Protection Regulations.
Received updates from each of its Committees.
Reviewed and approved the Groups sustainability framework.
Reviewed and approved the Boards principal policies, including Board composition and effectiveness the new Modern Slavery Statement.
Other Reviewed and approved the Groups Gender Pay Gap disclosure.
Considered, approved and implemented the Visited sites within the East and London regions.
Reviewed and approved matters reserved to it, its own terms of appointment and induction of Sharon White.
reference and those for the Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Individual Directors visited various regions to meet management and Considered and approved the re-appointment employees to understand their perspective of the Groups operations.
ofRichard Akers as Senior Independent Director Reviewed the Groups operating structure to ensure it remains fit Individually, Directors attended health and safety site visits with the andasChairman of the Safety, Health and SHE Director.
Reviewed the fees for the Non-Executive Directors.
Reviewed, considered and updated potential conflictof interests at each meeting and conductedan Annual review.
Undertook an internal evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
Discussed and reviewed management and Board succession plans.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 66 Corporate governance report Leadership continued Induction Board visits Sharon White Induction Jessica White Induction On joining the Company, each new Director Each year the Board visits two regions participates in a full and formal induction which are selected on a rotational basis.
The aim of the induction is to assist During FY18 these visits were to the East the Director to familiarise themselves with Region and the London and Southern Region.
the business and its culture, in addition to At each of these regions the Board met the roles and responsibilities of the Board with Senior Management who provided an and each member of Senior Management.
overview of the regional business including Site and divisional functional visits are their business plan, customer service levels, arranged so the Groups business is seen employee turnover and engagement and in operation.
Each new Director is provided other operational matters.
with an induction pack containing general and specific information relating to their role such as a schedule of meetings, copies of Board minutes, terms of reference of the Committees and other Committee specific information, various policies and procedures Q Q and details of their duties and obligations as Describe your induction process on joining How was your promotion to Chief Financial the Board.
Officer received by your colleagues?
During the financial year under review, the Company A A I met with the management team and was The news of my promotion was very well completed the inductions of Sharon White fully briefed on all aspects of the operations received and I have received universal and Jessica White to the roles of Nonof the Group, including Health and Safety, support.
Colleagues were pleased to see Executive Director and Chief Financial investor relations, strategy and build aninternal promotion to the Board.
Q Describe your induction process on joining Q Did you visit various Group offices?
A A I went on a site visit with Steven Boyes in I met with all members of the Senior Board visit to DWH Forest Chase, Leicester Forest East, East Region.
the Yorkshire East division, and met with Management team to discuss their employees both in the office and onsite.
priorities and my priorities for the Group.
Q Q What specific induction did you receive for What aspects of your new role were dealt your role on the Board Committees?
with in your induction process?
A A I met with each of the Chairmen of the A key part of my induction was meeting with Board Committees to understand the our brokers and also investment analysts.
roles, responsibilities and priorities of This gave me further understanding of how each Committee in turn.
For the Audit the business is viewed externally.
Committee I met separately with the Q What have you been most impressed with?
Chief Internal Auditor and the Deloitte A The way the Group holds health and safety Audit Partner.
I am also pleased with the Q Which aspects of your induction did you passion with which we are pursuing the find particularly useful?
diversity and inclusion agenda which will A The site visit helped me understand the enable us to both better understand the issues faced by the business every day and customer for whom we build houses and gave me a true feel of what the Group aims also expand the pool of talented individuals Jock Lennox and Richard Akers talking to Karly Williams, to achieve for our stakeholders.
Regional Sales Director on a Board visit to our Landmark Place development, London and Southern region.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 67 Corporate governance report Effectiveness Board and Committee evaluation In accordance with the Code, the Board is responsible for undertaking a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
For FY18 as per FY17 the Board undertook an internal evaluation.
The last external evaluation was undertaken in FY16 with the assistance of Ffion Hague of Independent Board Evaluation whohad no other connection with the Company.
Progress on FY17 evaluation We reported the outcomes of the internal Board evaluation for the last financial year in the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
Details of progress made on these are set out below.
Table 2 The Board Succession planning Relationship with suppliers and customers Risk, culture and behaviours FY17 outcomes Continue to focus on identifying successors for Executive Directors More interaction with shareholders, suppliers and customers to gain To further develop risk oversight processes and monitor culture and andSenior Management.
abetter understanding of their views and requirements.
Actions for FY18 To build on the assessments undertaken by Spencer Stuart and work Establish a calendar of events that Non-Executive Directors could To continue to focus on the Groups culture, behaviours and appetite with the individuals identified with the potential to progress to Senior attend to meet with shareholders, suppliers and customers.
Progress made in FY18 Two Fast Track development programmes have been put in place for A calendar of events has been issued to the Non-Executive Directors A full review has been undertaken to assess how the Group monitors, Potential Regional Managing Directors and Managing Directors.
As a andwill be updated annually.
identifies and mitigates against risk.
Whilst our processes and controls consequence of these programmes, a number of internal promotions were seen to be robust, the remit of the Risk Committee was extended have taken place.
Work is now underway, with assistance from Spencer to enable it to evaluate risks on a top down and a bottom up basis.
Stuart to integrate an internal objective assessment of development The Risk Committee will continue to report to the Audit Committee, need for those on our succession plan.
which, in turn will update the Board and obtain any guidance or decisionsrequired.
Table 3 The Committees Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee FY17 outcomes All Committees are operating effectively with members understanding what is expected of them to undertake and discharge their responsibilities as well as their regulatory requirements.
FY17 Areas of improvement Increase the focus on succession for Executive Directors and Senior To focus more on risk at a strategic level and reduce the length To reduce the focus on the detail and concentrate more on the bigger Management.
picture to speed up the decision making process.
Actions for FY18 Dedicate more time on the agenda to address this issue.
Establish when and how risks are to be reviewed and agree Establish a statement of intent before or at the beginning of a financial presentations required from which areas of the business.
year to enable management to have longer to consider what is required To build on the assessments undertaken by Spencer Stuart, and work and how it can be achieved.
with the individuals identified with the potential to progress to Senior Better promote the use of Executive summaries to ensure key Management or Board level.
information is highlighted and the detail is available if required.
Progress made in FY18 As per the Board progress detailed above in Table 2.
The Risk Committee has established a schedule of presentations, which The Remuneration Committee has developed and approved it will report on to the Audit Committee three times a year.
This will be reviewed and updated annually Committee will feed this information into the Board as appropriate.
The Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary now challenge the length of papers and encourage the use of executive summaries.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 68 Corporate governance report Effectiveness continued FY18 Board performance evaluation The Chairman of the Board led the evaluation process internally, supported by the Company Secretary.
Board and Committee evaluation process Online questionnaires were issued to the Board and Committee members and to individuals who attend the Committee meetings on a regular basis.
The questionnaire looked at a variety ofareas including, among other matters, the composition of the Board and Committees, the advice and support provided, the focus of meetings and top three priorities for the next year.
The results of the questionnaires were collated and a summary provided to each of the Chairmen.
The results were discussed between Board and Committee members respectively attheir meetings.
FY18 Internal Board effectiveness evaluation outcomes The results of the evaluation were overall positive and showed that the Board is running effectively.
The Board continues to be seen as being cohesive and comprising of the appropriate balance of experience, skills and knowledge to implement the Groups strategy over the next few years.
Board meetings operate in a spirit of openness, fostered by the Chairman, in which Directors are able to challenge and discuss openly ideas of importance to the Group and its strategy.
Table 4 Areas of improvement for the Board Strategy Modern methods of construction Succession planning FY18 outcomes To continue to review and develop the Groups longer term strategy To increase the utilisation of modern methods of construction within To ensure long term succession plans are in place not only for the asrequired by economic and market conditions.
Executive Directors but also for employees throughout the organisation.
Actions for FY19 Undertake research to understand how the business can best meet Continue to assess the viability of modern methods of construction and To continue to engage with the Chief Executive and the HR Director thechanging demands of its customers.
to continue to increase their usage within the business.
todevelop long term succession plans.
Table 5 Areas of improvement for the Committees Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee FY18 outcomes To increase its focus on succession planning.
To enhance further the interaction between Risk Committee and To ensure that the Committee continues to be fully informed of any AuditCommittee processes.
regulatory changes relating to remuneration to be able to assess their impact on the Group.
Actions for FY19 To continue to meet with the Chief Executive to review succession Assess ways in which the relationship between the Committees Utilise the new Remuneration Consultants to provide regular updates plansin detail.
on the wider remuneration environment and its potential impact ontheGroup.
Evaluation of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The evaluation of the effectiveness of the Chairman was conducted by the Senior Independent Director with assistance from the Company Secretary.
A questionnaire was issued to each Board member and the result was unanimous support for the Chairman.
Of particular note was how supportive the Chairman is of other Directors and his willingness to listen to all contributions during the course of a debate.
In addition, Board members found him engaging and encouraging of building Board cohesion through activities outside of formal Board meetings.
The Directors were complimentary of the way in which the Chairman managed his other commitments, always ensuring sufficient time is given to his role with the Company.
The Senior Independent Director shared the feedback with the Board without the Chairman being present before discussing it with the Chairman.
The Chairman held one to one meetings with each Director to assess their effectiveness and to agree any areas of improvement or training and development, including on environmental, socialand governance matters.
There were no issues of any substance arising from this review.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 69 Corporate governance report Accountability Information and support Training Internal controls and risk management The Group operates internal controls to ensure that the Groups Financial Statements The Chairman, with the assistance of the As part of the annual effectiveness review, In accordance with provision C. 2.3. of the are reconciled to the underlying financial Company Secretary, ensures that the the Chairman asks the Board as a whole Code, the Board monitors and regularly ledgers.
A review of the consolidated Board receives accurate, timely and clear and individual Directors for any training reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk accounts and Financial Statements is information.
Each Director is issued with an requirements they deem necessary or management and internal control systems, completed by management to ensure that the agenda, briefing papers and comprehensive appropriate.
He also annually agrees including controls related to the material financial position and results of the Group are operating and financial management reports development needs with each individual financial, operational and compliance appropriately reflected.
for the period under review, generally five Director.
During FY18, training included performance see the Audit Committee report The Board has not identified, nor been working days before any Board meeting.
aspects of Social, Health and Environmental on pages 78 to 86.
A risk framework has advised of, any failings or weaknesses which The Company Secretary attends all issues and various presentations and been developed for all business processes it has determined to be significant.
Therefore, Board and Committee meetings and all updates relating to the Boards Strategy by the Internal Audit function and approved a confirmation of necessary actions has not Directors have access to her advice and, agenda.
Such presentations included by the Audit Committee.
This framework been considered appropriate.
if necessary, to independent professional a focus on market conditions and the forms the basis of the internal control audit advice at the Companys expense to assist economic environment in which we operate, plan for the year ahead, which tests if key with the discharge of their responsibilities Government and regulatory environment, controls are being applied effectively in Fair, balanced and understandable as Directors.
behavioural risk and culture, our customers, each operating division.
Material issues As part of its considerations, the Board diversity and our workforce, sales and identified during internal audits and follow-up All Directors are provided with a rolling reflected upon the feedback shareholders product development, financial updates action plans are reviewed by the Executive two-year schedule of proposed meeting provided in respect of our 2017 Annual Report and planning and modern methods of Directors and by the Board on a quarterly dates.
Any Director who is unable to attend and Accounts.
It also set aside adequate time construction.
In addition, at each Board basis.
Any necessary actions are immediately a meeting is invited to provide their views to to review and discuss significant areas of the meeting, the Company Secretary provides taken to remedy any significant failings in the the Chairman ahead of that meeting, having 2018 Annual Report and Accounts.
an update on any developments in Corporate internal control system.
reviewed the agenda, briefing papers and The Board assessed the tone, balance and Governance on the back of which future management information.
Reasons for nonThe Groups system of internal control is training topics are often identified.
language of the document being mindful of attendance are recorded by the Company designed to manage risks that may impede the requirements of the Code and the need Secretary and either she or the Chairman will the achievement of the Groups business for consistency between the narrative section meet with any absent Director to go through objectives and identify activities where of the Annual Report and the Financial any action points which are of relevance.
there is a high risk of corruption, including Statements in arriving at its conclusion.
Formal minutes of each Board meeting bribery, amongst employees, partners or It also received a paper from the Company are prepared, circulated and submitted for intermediaries, rather than to eliminate Secretary explaining the process that had approval at the next meeting.
The system of internal been undertaken to provide assurance control therefore provides only reasonable, to the Audit Committee that the report not absolute, assurance against material was fair, balanced and understandable.
The system of internal The Boards formal statement on the Annual control does, however, provide reasonable Report and Accounts being fair, balanced assurance that potential issues can be and understandable is contained within the identified promptly and appropriate remedial Statement of Directors Responsibilities action taken.
Further details can be found in on page 118.
The process undertaken by the risk management section of the Strategic the Audit Committee to assist the Board in Report pages 48 to 56. assessing if the Annual Report and Accounts We continue to cooperate fully with the were fair, balanced and understandable Metropolitan Police on the ongoing can be found on page 82.
After considering investigation we instigated regarding possible the paper from the Company Secretary and misconduct in the London business.
As stated its own reflections, the Board was happy in October 2016, Barratt does not anticipate to endorse the recommendations of the any material adverse financial effect and our Audit Committee.
London business is operating well.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 70 Corporate governance report Ensuring effective engagement with our stakeholders The Board recognises the importance of Shareholders having an open and transparent relationship with its shareholders and other stakeholders.
Throughout the year, the Board and Senior Management have actively engaged with various stakeholderson items of importance to them.
Our engagement programmes aim to ensure that our operations have a Investor relations Annual General Meeting positive impact on stakeholders through its The Executive Directors and investor relations team manage and develop The Chief Executive updates shareholders on the Groups performance the Groups external relationships with institutional investors and and activities during the year.
Shareholders are also given the strategic priorities of customer first, great analysts.
They follow a comprehensive programme of investor meetings opportunity to meet Board members and air any issues or queries particularly following the release of annual and half year results and they may have about the business.
The Chairman and each Board places, leading construction and investing trading updates.
Committee Chair are also available throughout the AGM to answer In FY18, the Executive Directors, supported by Senior Management, shareholder questions.
attended 137 investor meetings 112 one to one meetings and 25 group The Notice of AGM is circulated to all shareholders at least 20 business meetings.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee Chairman consulted days prior to the meeting and all resolutions are voted on by way of a poll with major shareholders to understand their views on the revised as the Board believes that this is more representative of shareholder Remuneration Policy proposed for adoption at the 2017 AGM.
The Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors are given the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders at the request ofeither party.
Trading updates The Senior Independent Director is also available to meet with major shareholders, as and when required, to gain an understanding of any The Company is fully aware that the Disclosure Guidance and issues and concerns.
Transparency Rules have removed the requirement for companies to publish interim management statements to the market in between the full and half year results.
We, however, continue to believe that we should Investor feedback to the Board keep our shareholders fully informed of the performance of the business on a regular basis.
That said, we reviewed our reporting frequency In order to ensure that all Directors are aware of, and have a clear in FY18 and, given the feedback from some of our investors, we have understanding of, the views of major shareholders, the Chief Financial decided that we will no longer publish a trading update in January of Officer or in her absence, the Chief Executive, reports regularly to the each year.
We will instead publish our half year results in early February as opposed to the end of February.
Accordingly, in FY19, we will publish Board on the Companys investor relations activities, including updates from the Companys brokers.
three trading updates as well as the half and full year announcements.
Additionally, the Companys brokers provide an analysis of investor and analyst feedback during the year under review and the investor relations team regularly circulate updates to the Board.
Examples of outcomes of engagement with shareholders Agreed minor modifications to the Remuneration Policy prior to Retail shareholders submitting for approval at the 2017 AGM.
Reviewed and amended the timing of dividend payments for FY18 The Company Secretarial team, together with the Companys Registrars, regularly engage with our retail shareholders in respect of their and thereafter.
Reduced the number of trading updates to the market during the year The Company Secretary informs the Chairman and the Chief Executive from six to five.
of any areas of concern or importance raised by retail shareholders to ensure that they are kept aware of the views of our retail shareholder base.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 71 Employees Banks and analysts Health and safety Internal communications Meetings and webcasts The health and safety of our employees, as well as that of our customers, We are keen to ensure that our employees are kept informed of The Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer attend various events suppliers, sub-contractors and all other visitors to our sites and offices developments and important issues.
These are cascaded throughout with the Companys finance providers and analysts throughout the year is of paramount importance to us.
The SHE Director provides an update thebusiness through a variety of channels including the Groups intranet, to keep them fully informed of the performance of the business and to on key SHE matters to the Board twice a year and sits on the Safety, emails and newsletters.
understand any concerns that they may have.
Health and Environment Board and operational committees.
The Chief In addition, Senior Management are invited to attend a conference twice Operating Officer updates the Board on health and safety matters at each a year at which the performance of the Group, key areas of focus and Board meeting.
issues are discussed in detail.
Middle management are invited to attend Mortgage lender relations a conference annually so that they are made aware of the key messages and initiatives that they need to inform their teams of.
We are aware that many of our customers will require mortgage finance to purchase their new home from us.
Our Head of Mortgage Lender Employee forum Relations ensures that we are fully informed of the financial products During the year, we established an employee forum which comprises Regional divisional site visits that are available for our customers and where they can obtain such individuals from across the business including Managing Directors, assistance from.
site operatives and office based employees.
The purpose of the forum The Board collectively and individually carry out site visits across the The Head of Mortgage Lender Relations regularly engages with lenders is to gain closer engagement with our workforce and for employees to business.
During these visits the Board take the opportunity to speak to ensure that they are confident with the security which we offer for the have the opportunity to consult on matters that affect the environment with employees to gain an understanding of the issues challenges they loans they provide and are comfortable with the prices at which we are in which they work.
It will also be utilised to share ideas and initiatives are facing and of how the Board or Senior Management can potentially selling our homes.
In addition, he discusses opportunities to improve prior to rolling them out across the business and as a formal consultation support employees in resolving such issues.
financial products, processes and criteria to enable the Group to be group should the need arise.
more efficient and attract new customers as well understanding their The HR Director will chair the forum.
The Chief Executive or the concerns, their risks and their views on what types of products may be Chief Operating Officer and a Non-Executive Director will also be available in the future and how these will affect our customers.
Examples of outcomes of in attendance.
engagement with employees Reviewed and upgraded our standard Personal Protective Equipment Examples of outcomes of provision to all employees.
Engagement survey engagement with banks and analysts Extended the use of mobile tablets to enable increased site mobility We annually undertake an employee engagement survey to gain insight Understanding of the views of analysts on the Group and the wider sector.
andaccess to information systems whilst on site.
into the issues that matter most to our employees.
Each divisional Extension of the Groups RCF by one year and issuance of 200m sterling Reviewed the employee benefits offering and extended the availability and functional head receives a report setting out the results for their ofannual health screenings to a wider range of employees.
These results are shared with the teams and plans Reviewed and communicated the health and wellbeing benefits offered Barclays introduced Green Home mortgage.
putin place to maintain or enhance employee engagement levels.
Increased mortgage choices available for customers.
Undertook the employee engagement survey earlier in the year and developed detailed action plans throughout the business to deliver on theareas identified for further improvement in the engagement survey.
Reviewed and amended the company cars available to employees.
Increased the number of employees being granted share awards each year to further align their interests with that of shareholders and directors.
Launched a 60th Anniversary share award to all employees except the Senior Leadership of the Group.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 72 Corporate governance report Ensuring effective engagement with our stakeholders continued Customers Local communities Customer satisfaction Customer feedback Volunteering We have achieved HBF 5 Star status for the ninth consecutive year by The Executive Directors, Executive Committee and Senior Management We encourage all of our employees to dedicate one working day per year listening to, and taking on board the feedback that we receive from, our regularly review feedback direct from customers regarding both positive to volunteering in their local communities.
We continue to strive to resolve any defects quickly and have and negative experiences.
the business spent time out in the community, maintaining nature reserves implemented a robust procedure through which our customers can raise Our customer care teams undertake root cause analysis to understand to attract wildlife and helping out at local schools.
and evaluate any issues that are frequently encountered by The Executive Committee has established a robust process for quality our customers.
inspection throughout our business and we have reviewed and updated Output from the ongoing customer insight programme is utilised in our Views of the local community our customer care policies to ensure that our sales and on-site teams have product range and customer experience reviews.
regular contact with our customers throughout the whole customer journey.
We obtain the views of the local community prior to commencing work on any site.
Plans are usually developed based on the feedback received and we ensure that members of the local community are kept fully informed Competitor activity Customer insight of progress throughout the construction of the site.
We monitor the activities of our competitors including their housing Customer insight is embedded within our business.
We have a number ranges and consumer offer.
of research projects running concurrently to get to the heart of the Charitable donations behaviours, attitudes and needs of current and prospective customers.
A continuous brand tracking programme assesses the Barratt Homes We believe that it is important for us, as a business, to support charitable Industry trends and David Wilson Homes brands from a consumer perspective and causes, both locally and nationally.
We have therefore allocated funding benchmarks us against our peers on an ongoing basis.
for each region, support office and division which they can donate to Our association with industry bodies such as the HBF and UK Finance local causes.
In addition, the Group match funds capped monies raised means that we are well informed with industry trends and issues by divisions for their chosen charities.
We have also donated to various and helps us to respond to changes in both market practice and disaster relief support funds to help those affected by events such as the consumer behaviour.
Grenfell Tower fire and the Manchester and London terror attacks.
At a Group level, we have partnered with the RSPB to improve the way inwhich nature and wildlife are incorporated into our new communities.
Examples of outcomes of engagement with customers Further refined the housing ranges for both Barratt Homes and David Wilson Homes.
Examples of outcome of Amended the Customer Choices range of optional extras based on most engagement with local communities popular items.
Identifying ways of making our developments more sustainable and Updated our customer complaint handling procedure.
nature friendly in conjunction with both the RSPB and Group Ecology and Refined internal policies, processes and procedures on an ongoing basis Biodiversity Manager.
to take into account customer feedback.
Re-planning of sites to take into account needs of the community such ascommunal spaces, parks and schools.
Substantially increased the focus on charities and charitable giving.
Increased focus on employee volunteering days and payroll giving.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 73 Major shareholders Sub-contractors and supply chain Government and Regulators In accordance with the UKLAs Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules the DTRs, all notifications received by the Company are published on the Companys website www.
co. uk and via a Regulatory Information Service.
As at 30 June 2018, the persons set out in Table 6 have notified the Company, pursuant to DTR5.1, of their interests Supplier conference Government inthe voting rights in the Companys issued share capital: We annually invite our suppliers to attend a conference at which we The Chief Executive and the Head of Corporate Communications Table 6 Notifiable interests set out our objectives for the forthcoming financial year and how our regularly meet with members of Government and other political parties suppliers can help us achieve those objectives.
It is also an opportunity to provide an overview of the housing industry and to provide feedback on % of total Number of issued Nature of for suppliers to network as well as meet and discuss any areas of potential changes being considered by Government.
The Prime Minister 1 2 Name voting rights share capital holding concern with the Executive Directors and Senior Management.
and other Members of Parliament have visited a number of our sites during the year.
This gives them a better understanding of the challenges FMR LLC 34,579,199 8.24 Indirect we face as an industry.
Ongoing supplier relations BlackRock, Inc. 56,413,704 5.60 Indirect The Chief Executive, Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Operating Officer and Regulators and Local Authorities Direct & Standard Life Investments Ltd 47,711,714 4.94 Group Procurement Director meet with suppliers and sub-contractors on a Indirect regular basis to ensure that i we are receiving the level of service that we, The Board is committed to ensuring that it is open and transparent with and our customers, expect: ii we have contracted on favourable commercial Regulators and take their regulatory responsibilities very seriously.
Woodford Investment 51,396,412 5.07 Direct terms, locally and nationally: and iii any issues or challenges that they are We work closely with Local Authorities to ensure that our developments Management Limited facing can be considered and suitable alternative solutions found.
meet the relevant planning requirements and will enhance the facilities Our divisional management will hold business briefings for new and existing and housing within the local area.
1 R epresents the number of voting rights last notified to the Company by the respective sub-contractors to ensure that they are aware of our business plans and shareholder in accordance with DTR 5.1. also so that we can receive feedback regarding our performance.
2 Based on the Total Voting Rights as at the relevant notification dates.
Voting agencies At 3 September 2018, no change in these holdings had been Research and development The Board is fully aware of the influence that voting agencies such as notified and no further notifications of a disclosable interest the ISS and the IA have on the way in which our investors will vote at the had been received.
We invite all of our supply chain to bring product and service innovations AGM or via proxy.
Every year we write to investors and voting agencies and improvements to our attention.
We hold sand-pit sessions with our to update them in respect of our Remuneration policy and practices The Total Voting Rights of the Company as announced on suppliers on a regular basis and this allows new ideas to be discussed in for Executive Directors.
Any feedback from the voting agencies helps 3 September 2018, are 1,013,903,995. an informal setting.
us to form our Remuneration policy and ensure that our remuneration practices remain satisfactory.
On behalf of the Board Payment terms Examples of outcomes of engagement with We are fully aware of the importance to both the Group and our subJohn Allan Government and Regulators contractors and suppliers of complying with all payment terms.
Chairman We are a signatory to the Prompt Payment Code.
Ability to obtain planning consent more quickly.
We have complied with the requirements to disclose our payment Government aware of challenges the industry is facing resulting 4 September 2018 terms as required by Section 4 of the Small Business, Enterprise and infavourable housing policy.
Favourable votes at the AGM for all resolutions.
Examples of outcomes of engagement with sub-contractors and supply chain Published our payment practices which compare very favourably withthe industry.
Our Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Operating Officer led a visit to European based suppliers to look at the different technologies in use for housebuilding.
Introduced a new supplier evaluation and development programme.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
