74 Nomination Committee report Statement from the Chairman of the Diversity and inclusion Nomination Committee The Company has progressed its diversity and inclusion agenda during the year: I am pleased to present the Nomination instituting a Diversity and Inclusion Forum Committee report for the financial year ended and cascading several initiatives throughout 30 June 2018.
The Nomination Committee the organisation.
Further information of these continues to play a vital role in ensuring initiatives are available on page 39. that not only the Board, but also Senior Management comprises the right individuals Succession planning to plan and implement the strategy of the Group.
A number of recommendations have been made by the FRC and other key organisations Skills and experience of the Board for Nomination Committees to focus on, issues, relating to diversity, including The Nomination Committee annually reviews gender and ethnicity.
The Nomination the skills and experience of the Board and Committee fully supports the aims of these its Committees.
During FY18, it was agreed recommendations and will take appropriate that the Board could potentially benefit from action to continue to promote and strengthen appointing a Non-Executive Director with Board members should diversity within the Company.
experience in the wider housing environment such as in central or local Government, mirror the requirements Housing Association or strategic and of the business we are in.
Accordingly, we embarked John Allan on the recruitment process for a new NonChairman of the Nomination Committee Housebuilding is a long term Executive Director and, on 1 January 2018, 4 September 2018 business.
The experience Sharon White joined the Board.
Details of the recruitment process can be found on page 76. on the Board and at Senior As announced in February 2018, after nine Management level should years of service, Tessa Bamford stood down be sufficient in order that from the Board on 30 June 2018.
I would like to thank Tessa on behalf of the Group experience is retained for her contribution during her tenure.
throughout the long term The Nomination Committee will continue landand economic cycles.
to monitor the composition of the Board and recommend changes as and when John Allan it is deemed appropriate to do so.
Nomination Committee Chairman Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 75 Nomination Committee role and activity FY18 Main role and activities undertaken during the financial year The Nomination Committee met formally on two occasions during the year to fulfil the responsibilities delegated to it by the Board.
The key areas of focus for the Nomination Committee are: to monitor the size and composition and balance of skills on the Board and its Committees: to ensure a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors: and to plan for succession.
Full details of the responsibilities delegated to the Nomination Committee by the Board are set out in the written terms of reference which are available from www.
The main areas of focus for the Nomination Committee during the year were as follows: Board composition and balance Reviewed the structure, size and composition ofthe Board.
Reviewed skills, experience and knowledge of each Board member and of the Board as a whole, against the needs of the Board.
Reviewed the time commitment required from the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors to fulfil their roles.
Considered and recommended to the Board the reappointment of Richard Akers as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Safety, Health and Environment and Remuneration Committees for athird three-year term page 76.
The Nomination Committee Succession planning Governance Assessed the tenure of Board members and held discussions with Considered and confirmed that each Non-Executive Director remained Directors on expected length of service in order to inform the succession independent and committed to their role.
Undertook an annual review of directors conflict of interests and Concluded the external recruitment process and recommended recommended to the Board the renewal of any authorisations theappointment of Sharon White as a new Non-Executive Director previously provided.
Reviewed and approved its annual agenda and terms of reference.
Committee effectiveness Diversity and Inclusion Reviewed and made progress against matters Reviewed the Groups Diversity and Inclusion Policy arising from the annual evaluation for FY17.
and recommended it to the Board for approval.
Undertook an internal evaluation of its own performance and reviewed and devised an action plan to address issues arising page 68.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 76 Nomination Committee report continued During the year, the Nomination Committee Membership and attendance at meetings Re-appointment of undertook a particularly rigorous review  The membership of the Nomination Committee and the attendance at each of its scheduled of the re-appointment of Richard Akers as meetings is set out in Table 7.
In accordance with Code provision B.
2.1. the majority of All of our Non-Executive Directors are Senior Independent Director and Chairman Committee members are considered independent by the Company and their biographies appointed by the Board for an initial threeofthe Remuneration and SHE Committees andqualifications are shown on pages 58 and 59. year term and normally serve a second given that he has concluded six years of three-year term, subject to re-election service.
The Nomination Committee was Table 7 Nomination Committee membership and attendance to 30 June 2018 by shareholders and statutory provisions satisfied that Richard continues to dedicate Member Role Number of meetings attended relating to the removal of Directors.
sufficient time to his duties and Richard Beyond this a third term of up to three John Allan Chairman 2 2 confirmed that he would continue to do so.
years may be served subject to particularly Furthermore, the Committee was satisfied Richard Akers Member 2 2 rigorous review and taking into account the that Richard had no other relationship need for progressive refreshment of the Tessa Bamford Member 2 2 or circumstance that would affect the Board.
The Articles, in accordance with the performance of his role or his independence.
Nina Bibby Member 2 2 Code, require any Non-Executive Director Accordingly, the re-appointment of Richard who has served nine years or more on the Jock Lennox Member 2 2 Akers for a third three-year term was Board continuously to be subject to annual 1 recommended to the Board, which it Sharon White Member 1 1 re-appointment.
Given the long term and fully endorsed.
cyclical nature of our business, it is important 1 Sharon White joined the Board on 1 January 2018. to retain adequate experience on the Board Retirement and re-election of Directors over successive economic cycles.
The length Note: The Articles currently require Directors of tenure of the Board members is shown X Number of meetings attended whilst a Director.
to submit themselves for re-election by onpage 61.
X Number of meetings held whilst a Director.
shareholders at the first AGM following The letters of appointment of all Nontheir initial appointment to the Board and Executive Directors alongside the service interview with John Allan and Richard Akers.
thereafter at intervals of no more than three Appointment and re-appointment contracts for the Executive Directors are A number of candidates then met with each years.
All Board members will, however, ofDirectors available for inspection by any person at of the other Non-Executive Directors and in accordance with the Code, stand for the Companys registered office during Board Appointment the Chief Executive.
As a final stage, the election or re-election, as appropriate, normal office hours or via the Companys preferred final two candidates were invited byshareholders at the 2018 AGM irrespective During FY18, following an evaluation of the website www.
to meet with the other Executive Directors.
of their date of appointment and length balance of skills, experience, independence Copies will also be available at the 2018 AGM The Nomination Committee considered each ofservice on the Board.
and knowledge on the Board, the Nomination for 15 minutes before and throughout the of the remaining two candidates based on Biographical details of each of the Directors Committee began the process to identify meeting.
The letters of appointment clearly the feedback received from members of the and recruit a Non-Executive Director with and supporting statements for their reset out the time commitment expected from Board, and their merit, skills and experience election are set out on pages 58 and 59 of experience in public policy.
A description each Non-Executive Director to ensure and recommended to the Board that Sharon of the roles and capabilities required for this report and in the Notice of the 2018 AGM.
they satisfactorily perform their duties.
White be offered the position of NonDetails of the Executive Directors service the appointment was prepared and Odgers The required time commitment is reviewed Executive Director.
Sharon brings over 25 Berndtson, an independent recruitment contracts can be found in the Remuneration annually by the Board.
Each Non-Executive years experience of public policy experience report on page 95. agency with no other connection to the Director confirms that they are able to to the Board.
The decision to appoint her Company, were appointed to assist with allocate the time commitment required at the Each of the Directors who have served was unanimously supported by the Board the search.
The Nomination Committee time of their appointment and thereafter as throughout the year has been subject to and her appointment was announced on delegated authority to John Allan and Richard part of their individual annual effectiveness aformal performance evaluation process 2 October 2017.
Sharon duly joined the Board Akers to oversee the process and accordingly review undertaken by the Chairman.
including the appropriateness of a particular on 1 January 2018. they have reviewed a longlist of candidates.
Directors experience and the effectiveness Odgers Berndtson compiled a shortlist with which such experience is utilised in from which candidates were selected for furthering the Companys business.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 77 Following these reviews, the Nomination Non-Executive Directors Diversity and Inclusion policy The Parker and Committee, and the Board, are satisfied that  The Nomination Committee reviews annually During the year, the Nomination Committee, each Director continues to be effective in, and the length of service of the Non-Executive and subsequently the Board, reviewed the The Board is pleased to confirm that it already demonstrate commitment to, their respective Directors taking into account the cyclicality Boards policy on diversity and inclusion.
meets the recommendation of the Parker roles.
The Board, in the light of the results of of the business.
Lessons gained through one Our policy remains to identify the most review for all FTSE 100 Boards to have at least the performance evaluation and the breadth property cycle can be useful during the next.
suitable candidate to join the Board one Director of colour on the Board by 2021. of experience of each Director recommends It is therefore helpful to have directors who having regard to the individuals skills, that shareholders approve the resolutions The Nomination Committee and the Board do stay on the Board through successive cycles.
experience, knowledge and potential fit tobe put forward at the 2018 AGM relating recognise the need to ensure that the business In light of this, conversations are held with with the rest of the Board.
However, it to the election or re-election of the Directors reflects a diverse workforce, at all levels of the longer serving members to create a plan also seeks to ensure that, in managing an as applicable.
seniority, whilst always seeking to ensure for the progressive refreshment of the Board appointment and in succession planning, that each post is offered to the best available as necessary.
the Nomination Committee has regard to Succession planning candidate.
Promoting diversity at a Senior the recommendations of the Parker and Management level and more generally across the McGregor-Smith reviews on ethnicity Succession planning is a live topic at the Directors conflict of interests the workforce remains an objective for the Chief Board and Nomination Committee meetings.
and race and the benefits of diversity, The Board has, in accordance with the Executive and HR Director.
A full programme including gender, perspective, background Directors also meet annually with the Chief Articles and best practice guidelines, was unveiled during FY18 including the creation Executive to discuss the succession plans and knowledge.
authorised the Nomination Committee of a Diversity and Inclusion forum to spearhead for the other Executive Directors and Senior A copy of our  to oversee the process for reviewing and the Groups action in this important area.
Policy can be found at: making recommendations to the Board The Group aims to mirror the communities in www.
co. uk concerning any actual or potential conflict Executive Directors which it operates and reflect its customer base.
sustainability our-policies of interests which may arise for any Board During the year, the Board undertook its Further information on the Groups diversity member, including details of any terms Gender diversity and inclusion actions can be found on page 39. annual review of the Groups succession and conditions which it deems necessary plans.
This involved a review of the to impose on any authorisation given.
The Board notes the target of 33% female Use of Recruitment Consultants succession for Executive Directors and other This process was carried out satisfactorily representation on Boards required by Lord anddiversity Senior Management roles below Board during the year in respect of all Directors.
The aim of this review is to identify appreciates the benefits that can be gained In terms of gender diversity the Board will Throughout FY18, the Company Secretary suitable individuals who are capable of filling from gender diversity, it has agreed not to continue to work only with recruitment maintained a register of Directors conflict senior managerial positions on a medium impose a gender balance quota preferring search consultants who have adopted of interests.
A summary of this register and long term basis, whilst ensuring their instead to appoint strictly on merit as it a voluntary code of conduct addressing is reviewed at each Board meeting so development needs are identified and did with the appointment of Sharon White.
It will also, going forward, that it remains accurate and current.
It also seeks to ensure that the At 30 June 2018, 44% of the Board were require recruitment consultants to The full register is reviewed annually and Boards future needs are met.
As part of female, however, with Tessa Bamford leaving identify and present potential candidates recommendations are made to the Board in their development, Senior Managers who the Board on 30 June 2018, this has reduced in accordance with the Parker review and respect of any changes to the authorisations are not of Board level are invited to attend to 38% which is still in excess of this target.
its recommendations regarding the ethnic that may be required.
The Board, when part of a Board meeting to present on their diversity of boards.
authorising any conflict or possible conflict In addition, the Board are aware of the specialist area.
This also enables the Board This report forms part of the Corporate of interests, does not count in the quorum requirements of the Hampton-Alexander to assess the quality of internal talent and for the Director whose conflict or possible review and the details as required by this governance report and is signed on behalf the individual to get a greater understanding of the Nomination Committee by: conflict is being discussed and reserves the review are kept under review and disclosed ofthe workings of the Board.
right to exclude a Director from a meeting on page 39.
The Nomination Committee plays an active whilst a conflict or possible conflict is being See page 39 for further details on part in this process.
The Board may revoke or vary John Allan gender diversity.
any authorisation at any time.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee 4 September 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
