Strategic report Governance Financials AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT The Groups risk management process continues to be a core part of operations in the business.
Risks are identified and reviewed at operational, functional and Group levels culminating in a Group risk register, which identifies the risk area, the probability of the risk occurring, the impact if it does occur and the actions being taken to manage the risk to the desired level.
The Committee has reviewed the risk management process and the risk register in the year and has deemed the process and the risk mitigations to be appropriate.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set out on pages 42 to 45.
In respect of financial reporting, monthly consolidated management accounts provide relevant, reliable and up-to-date financial and non-financial information to management and are summarised in the Chief Financial Officers report to the Board which analyses the differences between actual and budgeted results on a monthly basis.
Annual plans, forecasts, performance targets and long-range financial plans allow management to monitor the key business and financial activities, and progress towards achieving the financial objectives.
The annual budget is approved by the Board.
Dear Stakeholder There are formal policies and procedures in place which ensure I am pleased to present the 2018 Audit and Risk Committee report.
the integrity and accuracy of the accounting records and serve to safeguard the Groups assets.
These have been reviewed and The Audit and Risk Committee acts on behalf of the Board and on updated during the year, aligning the policies and procedures your behalf as stakeholders, to ensure the integrity of the Groups across the enlarged Group.
There are formal procedures by which financial reporting, evaluate its system of risk management and staff can, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties internal control, and to oversee the performance of the internal in financial administration and other matters, under the Groups and external auditors.
The Committee membership continues to comply with the UK The Committee receives regular reports from management Corporate Governance Code and related guidance, with all regarding monitoring of these controls, and assures itself that the members being Non-Executive Directors, and following the internal control environment of the Group is operating effectively.
resignations of Mark Brangstrup Watts and James Corsellis on 22 December 2017, are now fully Independent.
The Committee Internal audit maintains the sound range of financial and commercial expertise The Group has an in-house internal audit function which focuses required to fulfil its role effectively.
During the year, the Committee on operational processes and controls.
Audits and reviews are has met to consider the interim results announcement, the devised to provide assurance based on both a priority and coverage planning of the audit process and its effectiveness, the Groups approach as well as using the Group risk register to provide a relationship with the external auditor, compliance with significant risk-based approach.
A summary of significant findings from new accounting standards and has undertaken regular reviews of internal audit reviews is discussed by the Committee if applicable.
the Groups internal controls and risk management systems.
External support is also available for non-operational specific areas and thematic issues at the request of the Committee.
The internal Internal control and risk management systems in relation audit function continues to be monitored to ensure it remains to the financial reporting process effective, appropriately resourced and focused.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for establishing and maintaining the Groups system of internal controls and delegates Annual Report and Accounts responsibility for monitoring the effectiveness of this to the The Committee met during the year to review and approve Audit and Risk Committee.
The Audit and Risk Committee reviews the Annual Report and Accounts for the prior year, the interim the system of internal controls through reports received from financial statements and the audit plan for this Annual Report management, along with others from the external auditor.
The Committee has also met once since the year end to approve this Annual Report and Accounts.
In reviewing The system of internal controls is designed to manage, rather than the financial statements with management and the auditor, the eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation and provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material uncertainty set out in note 4 to the financial statements have been misstatement or loss.
As a result of our review, the following items have been identified that require particular judgement or have significant potential impact on the interpretation of this Annual Report and Accounts: BCA Marketplace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 65 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT continued Significant issue How addressed Impairment An impairment review is performed annually on a value in use basis, which requires estimation of future net operational of goodwill cash flows, the time period over which they occur, an appropriate discount rate and an appropriate growth rate.
and Consideration has been given to managements assumptions, in particular in relation to future trading and the current intangible discount rate, used to support the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets.
assets The Committee concluded that the future net operating cash flows and growth rates, being based on the Board approved budget and strategic plan, are appropriate.
The Committee were satisfied that no impairment was required.
Significant The Board review significant or non-recurring SONR as defined on page 17 classification within the Chief Financial or nonOfficers monthly report.
recurring Consideration has been given to managements classification of items as significant or non-recurring, in particular in items relation to acquisition and other significant items.
The Committee have concluded that the definition of SONR remains appropriate and is unchanged from the prior year.
Share based Share based payments were valued at inception by calculating the fair value of the share options at the grant date.
The payments Groups defined benefit pension schemes are measured at each reporting period using a number of relevant assumptions.
and pension In conjunction with the advice of relevant specialists, consideration was given to the specific circumstances of the benefits arrangements and the requirements of the associated standards in relation to managements calculation and the presentation of the share based payment and pension arrangements.
The Committee concluded that both have been accounted for on a reasonable basis.
Further details of the accounting policies, judgements, estimates and non-GAAP measures are given on pages 84 to 94.
The Committee has reviewed the judgements made in these areas by management and, after due challenge and debate, was content with the assumptions made and the judgements applied.
External audit The Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for monitoring the performance, objectivity and independence of the Groups auditor  LLP PwC.
PwC have been the external auditor to the Company since its formation in 2014 and were also auditor to the acquired BCA Group.
In assessing the effectiveness of the external audit process, the Committee has considered: the external audit plan, including the key audit risk areas, materiality and significant judgement areas: the terms of the audit engagement letter and the associated level of audit fees: managements feedback on the external audit process: and the independence of the external auditor including a review of the non-audit services provided.
The Committee, in reviewing the re-appointment of PwC as auditor for the forthcoming year, ensured that any decision was compliant with the Competition and Markets Authority Order 2014.
A retender of the external audit firm is required every ten years and the engagement partner has to be rotated every five years.
The Group are not required to retender for a further seven years.
On the basis of this, it was concluded that it was in the best interests of the Company to recommend the re-appointment of PwC as auditor for the forthcoming year.
The resolution to re-appoint PwC will propose that they hold office until the conclusion of the next AGM at which accounts are laid before the Company, at a level of remuneration to be determined by the Board.
The Audit and Risk Committee has reviewed the remuneration received by PwC for non-audit work conducted during the financial period, which is detailed in note 11 to the financial statements on page 98, and note that there were non-audit fees incurred in the year of 0.6m primarily relating to the Premium Listing.
The Groups policy on non-audit services provided by the external auditor requires pre-approval of all audit and permitted non-audit services, with clear guidance on what services are not permitted.
The policy is based on the UK Financial Reporting Councils Revised Ethical Standard 2016 with prohibited non-audit services including but not limited to, the provision of tax services, internal audit, legal services and any activity that involves making management decisions or designing control and risk procedures.
The Group has not received any prohibited services, as categorised by the European Audit Regulation and Directive, from PwC.
Jon Kamaluddin, FCA Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee 27 June 2018 66 BCA Marketplace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
