30 Strategic Report BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Resources and Relationships BBA Aviation is a values-led organisation.
Our Vision, Mission and Values are deeply embedded within our businesses and culture and support our goal of being a responsible company.
Our Values guide each of us every day and describe the approach we take to managing our key resources and our relationships with stakeholders.
A responsible business External benchmarks Good business behaviour drives our reputation with Since 2006, as BBA Aviation plc, we have been a member of the employees and external stakeholders and underpins FTSE4Good index and we participate in the carbon disclosure project.
the sustainability ofourbusiness and our financial ItisBBA Aviations objective, over time, to maintain and improve its performance.
ranking within the FTSE4Good index and to seek further corporate This means taking aresponsible approach to the operation of our responsibility benchmarking to guide our efforts and drive continuous companies and theconduct of our personnel: supporting our people: improvement in performance.
and building strong relationships with our customers, partners, suppliers, and thecommunities in which we operate.
The Board takesoverall responsibility for our company culture, setting direction and determining key policies.
Day-to-day management is then delegated, via the Executive Management Committee, to our businesses and to the functions that support them.
Our Values Performance Integrity We focus on delivery of We earn the trust and long-term and sustainable respectofour stakeholders value, continuous withhonesty, fairness, improvementand reliability.
openness and by honouring ourcommitments.
Safety We are dedicated to safety Responsibility andsecurity, the elimination We are committed to ofhazards and protecting managingour impact on, people, property and our andcontributing positively to environment.
People Service We are committed to We strive continually investingin and empowering toanticipate customer ourpeople through training needs, exceeding their and education and to expectations.
providing them with opportunities for rewardingcareers.
BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report 31 Safety and security Safety performance The safety and security of our teams, our sites, Recordable Incident Rate RIR ourcustomers, and all those that come into contact RIR is our primary health and safety performance metric.
RIR is with us, is our number one concern.
Safety underpins measured as the total number of injuries and illnesses multiplied by our licence to operate and it is our view that our 200,000, divided by the number of actual hours worked by all employees.
employees should expect to leave their place of 2018 2.19 worksafe and unharmed at the end of every day.
Our goal is zero preventable incidents ZIPP and our Health and 2017 2.36 Safetystrategy seeks to promote and instil a proactive safety culture 2016 1.81 atall sites to make ZIPP achievable.
We are three years into the implementation of a formal Safety Management System SMS 2015 2.16 andarecurrently operating at Level 3 Proactive Processes which 2014 2.41 isthefourth of five levels.
Data includes Engine Repair and Overhaul and EPIC.
Data excludes Firstmark which will be included from 2019.
Each of our businesses formulates an annual Safety Business Plan Number of locations achieving zero RIR which is available electronically so that sites can monitor progress 132 of 208 or 63% of BBA Aviation reporting locations achieved zero against targets.
Performance is monitored at site level through our RIR during 2018.
SHEBBA reporting and management tool.
The SHEBBA tool provides critical information on a range of metrics including near misses, 2018 132 hazards and security incidents.
2017 131 Our operational management teams are primarily responsible for 2016 138 health and safety and are supported by a dedicated team of health and safety professionals which reports through a formal health and safety 2015 93 organisation to a senior HSSE Health, Safety, Security, Environment 2014 86 lead at each of our businesses.
Our critical HSSE training programmes Data includes Engine Repair and Overhaul and EPIC.
Data excludes Firstmark which will be included from 2019. are developed and implemented by this group.
The Signature Safety Observation programme uses direct observation of service functions to identify non-compliant behaviour and address safety risk.
The checklist programme went digital in 2018.
32 Strategic Report BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 During 2018 we introduced a number of significant new initiatives tosupport continuous improvement in our safety culture and performance.
These include going mobile with the SHEBBA tool atSignature, enabling our teams to have access to data and record safety-related events in real-time, as well as launching a new Signature safety communications site to connect to key safety related resources, including videos, alerts and Signatures weekly HSE newsletter.
We also put greater focus on safety training compliance through the HSE auditprocess and increased communication with our FBO General Managers.
A number of safety training modules were rolled out toourrecently acquired EPIC business during the year.
Our third annual ZIPP Global Safety Day was held in March with the theme back to basics, encouraging our teams to take a fresh look atsafety and individually commit to making every day a Safety Day.
Our Health and Safety Approach is available to download from the Corporate Responsibility section of the BBA Aviation website.
Key HSE performance data is displayed and updated in real time onan interactive screen inabusy communal area at Ontic Cheltenham.
IS-BAH accreditation Everbridge emergency communication IS-BAH International Standard for Business Aircraft Handling is Our new Everbridge emergency communication tool enables us theonly recognised global safety standard for business aviation.
toquickly connect with, and account for, employees in emergency Accreditation demonstrates a locations compliance with a wide situations such as hurricanes, tornadoes, wildfires and security range of safety protocols and is a positive tool for strengthening incidents.
The cloud-based resource is tied to our HR system relationships with our customers and airport partners.
Over the andcontacts our people automatically via various means email, lasttwo years, Signature has been pursuing a programme of phone, app, enabling our field teams to focus on dealing with the accreditation and, to date, is accredited at 11 locations 9 EMEA, situation at hand.
We are closely monitoring the Security incident exercises benefits of accreditation and expect to continue to grow the In August and September, our Business Continuity Management number of accredited sites over the next few years.
team and PwC directed two table top security incident exercises Safety Observation Programme totest and refine the actions and processes outlined in Signatures Signatures Safety Observation Programme was launched in 2015 Emergency Preparedness and Response Plan.
At Signature and is designed to identify at risk activity and behaviour through Teterboro TEB, working with the local police, we considered an direct observation of our employees, with the goal of addressing incident in which a suspicious package was found in the FBO lounge, safety risk before it materialises as a near miss or incident.
a jet wasboarded illicitly, and the pilot taken hostage, and the airport Theprogramme uses checklists that are activity oriented and shut down and evacuated.
In the second scenario, working with the organised by service function e. g. fuelling, towing, fide-icing, with airport team at Luton LTN, two suspicious packages were found outcomes used to inform our training, mentoring and coaching and identified as explosive material, and an individual with no activities.
In 2018, the programme went digital, with sophisticated credentials was arrested having been seen tampering with an dashboards and reports that enable our teams to work quickly aircraft also leading to evacuation.
Both exercises provided key andactively monitor trends in real time.
learnings that have now been incorporated into the relevant plans.
BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report 33 Our people Recognising that gender is only one form of diversity to which we We are committed to providing a safe, secure arecommitted, we are pleased that women make up 25.5% of our andinclusive environment for all our people and to employee population.
At the date of this report we have four female helping them achieve rewarding and fulfilling careers.
non-executive directors on our Board and one female member on Our people are the foundation of our success.
Their service skills ourExecutive Management Committee.
andtheir functional, operational and engineering expertise are the In 2018 we published our first Gender Pay Gap report for H S Aviation core of our business.
Ensuring that we attract, develop and retain in the UK and, in 2019, will publish reports for both H S Aviation and thebest people is vital to our future success.
Our Human Resources strategy aims to create a workplace that The table below shows the percentage of women employed in various supports our employees to reach their own goals, offering a roles at 31 December 2018: competitive salary in a meritocratic environment, recognition for 1 achievement and contribution, appropriate training and development, Population Total population No.
of women % of women and a culture that is inclusive and embraces diversity.
We aim to engage Board 9 3 33.3% all of our employees in these efforts, and in the strategic goals of the Executive Management Committee 9 1 11.1% Group and our businesses, by empowering individuals and pushing accountability and ownership to the most local level so that Senior management 86 16 18.6% everyonebenefits.
Directors of subsidiaries 2 31 4 12.9%  Leadership and learning We provide every member of our team with specific and relevant All employees of the Group 7,181 1,833 25.5% job-related training and with opportunities to expand their knowledge 1 D ata includes Engine Repair and Overhaul.
and capabilities and give them the tools to reach their potential.
Our 2 T his disclosure includes dormant companies and multiple directorships, and we do not believe it is an accurate indicator of diversity.
recent focus has been on developing the skills of our leaders, so that they may better support the needs of the business and of their teams.
Recognition and communication Recognition is an important part of our culture.
Exceptional performance is highly valued and is recognised and rewarded through programmes such as Tow It Like You Own It at Signature, our Groupwide Above and Beyond cards, and our Vision, Mission and Values Awards.
With locations all over the world, we have developed a range ofmethods to formally communicate with employees these include aregular newsletter, digital updates, shift-briefs at Signature, All Hands meetings at Ontic, and multi-media programmes to support specific initiatives such as our recent Employee Engagement Survey and the launch of our Cyber-Security Toolkit.
Inclusion and diversity We recognise that inclusion and diversity are an important factor underpinning our future success.
Building on work we have done inthepast, in 2018 we partnered with an external specialist to agree our definition of inclusion and diversity and set out a vision and a strategy to achieve tangible and measurable results over the next three years.
This work was informed by findings from our 2018 Employee Engagement Survey, which contained specific questions onthis area and will be supplemented by data from focus groups undertaken inFebruary 2019.
This aims to involveour employees in a variety of local and global cultural events and holidays, thus seeking to celebrate the diversity of our team atagrassroots level.
Our Equal Opportunities and Anti-Harassment Guidelines set outourexpectations of employees in this area and our approach todealingwith issues should they arise.
Ontic has a range of development programmes to support the ongoing needs of its team and thecontinuing growth of the business.
34 Strategic Report BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Listening to employees During the year we made significant progress with the roll out of In October November 2018, working with Gallup, we undertook a ournew global HR information system, which will streamline our formal Employee Engagement Survey, our first since 2014, to gather performance management process, deliver better reporting and quantitative feedback from our team on a range of issues from safety analytics, and give employees better access to key personal data.
and customer service to leadership and recognition.
This work We have developed the next stage of our Signature Manager in followed a separate, more informal process to gather qualitative Training programme which is designed to build a ready now pipeline feedback from the Signature and BBA Aviation Group teams.
71% of oftalent for the critical FBO General Manager role.
our employees participated in the Gallup survey, and the results from Our leaders are being supported by our new LEADS Leadership, both surveys are being used to develop action plans for improvement Education, Action, Development, Success initiative, which offers at a local level during the first quarter of 2019.
Local managers are monthly leadership resources, online access to hundreds of courses, being given access to anonymised data from their areas so that they and quarterly virtual roundtable discussions that all of our leaders can are empowered to drive this process and so that our employees see join.
Ontic is also pioneering new bitesize peer training events where the results of their feedback.
leaders come together to work through a specific management theme, e. g. performance review, and then share their individual experiences.
For the second year in succession, we sent a delegation of young leaders to the One Young World global summit.
The group will make regular presentations to the Executive Management Committee onideas arising from their experience.
Human rights We respect the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organizations core conventions.
We are committed to treating people according to merit and contribution, refraining from coercion and never deliberately causing harm to anyone.
BBA Aviation has not adopted a formal human rights policy aswe believe that our existing adopted policies and our Vision, Mission and Values recognise the importance of how we conduct our business and its impact on a wide range of stakeholders, and therefore our responsibilities in relation to human rights.
The requirement for aspecific human rights policy will continue to be monitored.
We are committed to listening to our employees.
Data from our 2018 Employee Engagement Survey has been provided to managers to empower them to work with their teams to create and deliver local action plans sothat they can see the results of their feedback.
Signature Managers in Training Integration of Firstmark Signatures North America Manager in Training programme takes The acquisition of Firstmark brought more than 70 new employees participants through a rigorous 18-month curriculum in which they into the Ontic team.
Prior to the completion of the acquisition, are trained in all aspects of operating an FBO.
Upon successful adetailed plan was put together to welcome the new team and completion, trainees are assigned a General Manager position integrate them into the Ontic and BBA Aviation family.
An All Hands within the North American network.
Applications to the meeting with the Ontic Senior Leadership Team was held at each programmeare encouraged from FBO employees working site in the two days following the acquisition and a dedicated inarange of service activities.
website portal and email address provided for information and questions.
Reciprocal manager visits have taken place between Ontic Growth Network theOntic Chatsworth and Firstmark sites and Firstmark employees The Ontic Growth Network is a development forum for employees took part in the Employee Engagement Survey at the beginning to learn from the experience of others and debate issues online of2019.
During the first half of 2019, Ontic expects to roll out andthrough special events such as senior leadership team Q&As.
toFirstmark its safety and training programmes and other BBA The forum is currently operational at Ontic Cheltenham and will Aviation resources.
berolled out to the wider BBA Aviation group as the BBA Aviation Growth Network during 2019.
BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report 35 Customers, partners and suppliers conservation of the environment: and provision of high-quality, safe We aim to deliver a customer experience and service products and services.
Our compliance programmes are subject to that goes beyond expectations and develop longcontinuous improvement, including evaluation against best practices term, mutually beneficial relationships with our and external benchmarking, and weperiodically undertake audits airportand OEM partners and our suppliers.
and or request confirmation of compliance from suppliers and other Our customers and partners expect high quality, reliability and parties deemed to be high risk.
Internal compliance with our policies excellent service from our businesses and from our people.
Service ismonitored and reported through our Internal Audit process.
and relationships are at the heart of what we do, whether we are Disclosure of unethical conduct dealing with an arriving VIP and his or her aircraft, negotiating with We are committed to fostering a transparent, open working anairport authority, or planning a product transition with an OEM and environment where concerns can be readily raised and grievances its customers.
We are focused on driving incremental improvements canbe properly addressed in a timely and confidential manner.
every day through the quality of our people, through investment in our OurDisclosure of Unethical Conduct Policy describes our open sites and our infrastructure, through new and efficient ways of working, reporting culture and processes.
Our employees are required and by leveraging technology and data to anticipate customer needs toreportany actual or suspected unlawful or unethical business and support the customer journey.
The policy enables anyone working in or for a BBA Aviation Ethical conduct company who suspects that any unlawful or unethical business BBA Aviations suite of ethical conduct policies embodies our practice is being carried out or is likely to be carried out, by any commitment to ensuring that our business relationships and our BBAAviation employee or by any supplier, or other person providing supply chains are managed in line with our Values and the national services to or acting on behalf of BBA Aviation, to raise the matter andinternational legal frameworks in which we operate.
Retaliation for reporting concerns is strictly prohibited Our Code of Business Ethics is the cornerstone of our compliance asa matter of company policy.
A bi-annual summary of any reports mindset and corporate programmes.
Flowing from the code, our isprepared for the Audit and Risk Committee.
otherpolicies, procedures and internal controls are designed to Our Ethics policies are available to download from the Corporate address specific issues, conduct or risks in a more comprehensive Responsibility section of the BBA Aviation website.
Our policies are manner, including bribery and corruption, for which we have a reviewed on a regular basis and our legal team provides mandatory standalone policy.
The code requires all BBA Aviation employees training on an annual basis to all managers and to employees working toconduct themselves according to the language and spirit of the inroles that require it.
code and to avoid even theappearance of improper behaviour.
Modern Slavery Statement Our Third Party Vetting Policy sets out guidelines and procedures BBA Aviations Modern Slavery Statement is available to download forassessing BBA Aviations business partners through due diligence from the Corporate Responsibility section of the BBA Aviation website.
Depending on the relative risk associated with a third party It details the work done by the BBA Aviation Procurement Council in determined using criteria such as country, proposed relationship, etc.
2017 and 2018 to analyse the entirety of our supply chain spend and we undertake standard or enhanced due diligence on third parties with identify any areas that might be at risk of modern slavery practices.
whom we do business, including suppliers, contractors and service Weexperienced full co-operation from our business partners in this providers.
In addition, our Code of Ethics for Suppliers, Contractors process and believe that the systems of control and compliance we and Consultants clearly sets out our expectations for our business have in place enable us to effectively safeguard against these practices.
partners concerning compliance with all applicable laws: conduct ofbusiness in a fair and ethical manner: respect for human rights: Service with a Leading Edge Ontic value streams Signatures Service with a Leading Edge cultural orientation At Ontic, it is recognised that different market segments and workshop is mandatory for all new Signature employees within different customer groups expect different service standards 90days of joining.
It aims to engage every team member with the andhave different requirements for specialist skill sets.
Ontic Signature Service Promise and give them the knowledge and the therefore organises its business by discrete value streams, with tools to delight the customer, whatever their area of work or level each identified value stream for example Military MRO services ofseniority.
The four-hour programme uses a mix of presentation and Civil OEM parts supply supported by multi-disciplinary teams and discussion to guide participants to understand the value of dedicated to meeting the needs of that particular market or great service and being a positive brand ambassador and drive customer group and their platforms, thus optimising the individual accountability for delivering it.
The workshop is facilitated relationship with Ontic.
by Signature employees who are able to draw on their own experience to enhance the session.
36 Strategic Report BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Environment The table below shows the disclosures in a format that is consistent We are committed to working in ways that limit the with previous disclosures: impact of our business activities on the environment 1 2 Units 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 and to proactively managing environmental resources.
Electricity consumption 37,255 46,308 49,241 50,676 49,206 We aim for continuous improvement in environmental performance KWh $m revenue every year, including the elimination of environmental incidents such GHG emissions 29.04 37.46 38.29 53.41 53.42 CO etonnes $m revenue asfuel spills.
We monitor external developments to ensure that we 2 remain compliant with all environmental legislation local and national Water consumption 121 180 159 203 169 1,000litres $m revenue and watch developing technology for example solar, alternative fuel Revenue $m 2,880.9 2,370.6 2,149.1 2,129.8 2,289.8 vehicles, and sustainable aviation fuel to understand if they might 1 D ata includes Engine Repair and Overhaul.
During 2018 we acquired EPIC Aviation and Firstmark Corp. have practical application at BBA Aviation.
Our real estate investment 2018 energy data was not readily available for reporting and is therefore excluded from the 2018 data.
activities have regard to environmental issues and we aim for best Both companies data will be incorporated in 2019.
2 2 017 recalculated for latest available data.
practicable environmental performance through design, materials andthe inclusion of environmentally friendly systems.
Greenhouse gas emissions reporting data We have reported on all of the emission sources required under Our SHEBBA reporting system collects and records each locations theCompanies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report use of resources such as electricity, natural gas and water.
All of these sources fall within our consolidated within the tool show targets and analyse current performance at each financial statements.
We have used the World Business Council for site to drive awareness and engagement amongst our employees Sustainable Development World Resources Institute Greenhouse whocan make a difference on a daily basis.
GasReporting Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Our Environmental Policy and Approach is available to download from Standard revised edition, and emission factors from the UK the Corporate Responsibility section of the BBA Aviation website.
Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2018, Environmental performance EPA Emission Factors for Greenhouse Gas Inventories 2018 and EPA BBA Aviation has voluntarily reported on environmental metrics for Emissions & Generation Resource Integrated Database eGRID2016.
anumber of years and KPIs are normalised for comparison purposes 1 2 Units 2018 2017 todollars of revenue.
We use the services of an external consultant Combustion of fuel and operation 37,021 36,409 tCO e toreview and provide third party verification of the process for offacilities 2 collecting and consolidating this data.
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling 46,645 52,395 tCO e purchased for own use 2 Total GHG emissions 83,666 88,804 tCO e 2 GHG emissions per $m of revenue 29.04 37.46 tCO e 2 1 See footnote 1 above.
Recorded total greenhouse gas emissions have decreased relative to2017.
The main contributor to this reduction is the use of updated greenhouse gas emission conversion factors for electricity consumption in the United States and the United Kingdom, where there is a decrease in the greenhouse gas emissions per kilowatt hourof electricity.
Electricity consumed by BBA Aviation decreased 2.2% from 2017 to 2018, however greenhouse gas emissions from A Lektro aircraft tug is inspected prior to a tow.
Signatures fleetofground support equipment includes a variety of electricity consumption decreased 11%.
2017 greenhouse gas electric vehicles from electric tugs to belt loaders.
Signature also uses hybrid electric crew cars at a number of locations.
emissions have been restated based on updated data now available.
truck renewal programme which, in the absence of in-production Ground support equipment alternative technology models, is focused on vehicles with low Signature operates a large fleet of ground support equipment emission, efficient diesel engines.
GSE, from fuel trucks to smaller items such as tugs and lavatory and water carts.
Availability and viability of alternative technology Alternative fuels options for lighter equipment has improved significantly and we Signature is currently working with a coalition of airlines, aircraft have many electric items in our fleet such as tugs, towbarless operators and fuel companies on a sustainable aviation fuel tractors and belt loaders, which also have a low cost to operate and initiative at San Francisco International Airport.
At multiple airports in the USA, we are working with the supply of sustainable fuel has been identified and tested and airport authorities and other agencies on strategic plans to convert itishoped that Signature will be able to offer the alternative fully to electric, utilising new state funding.
We have an active fuel tocustomers in the future.
BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report 37 Communities We aim to have a positive impact on our local communities by creating employment, demand for local services, and by encouraging and supporting ourteams to contribute to causes they care about.
We recognise the benefits of working in partnership with the communities in which we operate, and our sites play an active role inlocal projects and local and national organisations by supporting educational initiatives, volunteering, fundraising and taking part inevents.
Our teams are encouraged to focus their efforts on activities and organisations in the fields of aviation, education and STEM Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics and those that benefit their immediate local areas or that have a specific connection with asite or employee.
It is recognised that participating in these efforts engages employees and builds strong teams as well as helping others.
Our local efforts are complemented by the BBA Aviation parent company charitable giving programme which, since its launch in 2010, has donated more than $1.8 million to charities and organisations around the world.
Twice a year, employees are invited to make recommendations for donations, with applications considered Members of the Ontic Cheltenham team clear debris from a local byacommittee of peers.
cycle route as part of a work day with the Sustrans organisation.
California wildfires Girls in Aviation Day Both Signature Van Nuys VNY and Signature Santa Barbara SBA Ensuring that the aviation sector is attractive to women is an were on hand to support rescue and relief efforts during wildfires important part of creating a diverse, inclusive and successful this year.
In the aftermath of Januarys Thomas wildfire and company.
BBA Aviation has strong local links to the Women in subsequent mudflow event in Montecito, SBAs main terminal Aviation International WAI organisation.
Signature is a sponsor became a triage centre for air-rescued residents of the mudflow ofits annual conference and provides a scholarship to support a area and the location supported around 50 helicopter rescue woman pursuing an aviation-related undergraduate or graduate operations.
In the weeks following, with the freeway closed, local degree.
Girls in Aviation Day, held in October, was supported by pilots volunteered their time to transport emergency responders many of our sites, which set up and participated in special activities from other airports to SBA.
Signature donated approximately for girls in their local communities aged 817.
$25kof aviation fuel to support these efforts.
During wildfire season VNY becomes the base of operations and fuelling post forSouthern California Cal-Fire and its amphibious and tactical firefighting aircraft, including the Super Scooper, which has been supported by VNY for many years.
A Canadair CL-215 Super Scooper amphibious In conjunction with the Women in Aviation Palmetto Pride chapter, firefighting aircraft returns to Signature VNY.
Signature Signature Charleston CHS hosted its second Girls in Aviation Day in 2018. supported a range of aircraft operating for Cal-Fire More than 80 girls took part in a range of activities and talks designed to during the demanding 2018 California fire season.
introduce them to the many opportunities available in the aviation sector.
