50 Directors Report BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Chairmans introduction I am pleased to introduce the Corporate Governance Statement for 2018.
The Board is responsible for ensuring the long-term success of BBA Aviation andthe delivery of long-term, sustainable value forallof our stakeholders.
Introduction The Board is committed to ensuring that high standards of ethical behaviour and governance aremaintained throughout the Group.
The Board of BBA Aviation fully supports the Groups values which are entirely consistent with good governance and directors duties.
We take pride in what we do and inthe way we conduct our business and deliver ourstrategic objectives.
The Corporate Governance section of the report includes a report on each of the Committees introduced by the Committee Chair and a section setting out our compliance with obligations under the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The split of responsibilities between the Chairman andChief Executive is documented and available onthe Company website.
We have also set out our expectations for our Committee chairs, our Senior Independent Director SID and our non-executive directors and are adding in expectations for our designated director for the workforce.
The Board hasaformal schedule of matters reserved to it.
Director changes We were delighted that Amee Chande and EmmaGilthorpe joined the Board on 1 January 2018 adding to the range of skills and experience on theBoard.
Both Amee and Emma underwent a comprehensive induction andhave settled into theirroles.
Mark Johnstone was appointed as Group Chief Executive from 1 April 2018.
Wayne Edmunds, who hadbeen Interim Chief Executive from the middle of 2017, completed a handover to Mark and has remained on the Board as a non-executive director.
Wayne is notregarded as independent under the governance Sir Nigel Rudd Chairman code and he is not a member of the Audit and Risk Committee, the Nomination Committee or the BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Directors Report 51 Remuneration Committee but is invited to attend Governance changes these Committee meetings as appropriate.
During the year the Board has reviewed the changes tothe UK Corporate Governance Code that take In September 2018, we started a search process for effect from 1 January 2019.
We have nominated anew non-executive director to add some additional AmeeChande as the designated non-executive accounting and or auditing experience to the Board.
This role will Following a comprehensive process we decided to involve understanding and presenting the workforces appoint two new non-executive directors to the Board.
position to the Board although the director is not On 7 January 2019, we announced the appointments obliged to support such a view if it is inconsistent of Vicky Jarman and Stephen King.
Both Vicky and withduties as a director of the Company.
Stephen are Chartered Accountants and their biographies are overleaf.
Anemployee engagement survey was completed towards the end of 2018 and the Board has time set Susan Kilsby has decided that having served on the The Board is aside during 2019 to hear the results from the survey Board for seven years and given some additional committed to and to review the proposed actions.
The survey also external commitments she will not stand for reensuring that high included a number of questions on inclusion and election atthe AGM in May and will retire from the standards of ethical diversity and again the Board will be reviewing the Board at the end of the AGM.
The Board has decided behaviour and action plans to improve inclusion and diversity within that Peter Ventress will chair the Remuneration governance are the workforce.
Committee and be appointed as the SID.
Stephen King maintained will become the Chairman of the Audit and Risk In 2018 the Board included a number of site visits throughout Committee.
I would like to thank Susan Kilsby for within its meeting programme and intends to do theGroup.
herservice on the Board and her wise counsel.
I am thesame during 2019 to meet a broader cross confident that Peter and Stephen have the right skills sectionof the workforce.
and experience for their new roles.
The Board believes the employee nominated Board matters director, combined with site visits and the results The Board considers that its own continuing ofthe engagement survey, will ensure the workforce effectiveness is vital to the Group delivering its voice is heard in the Boardroom.
The Board will keep strategic objectives.
My role as Chairman has been this under review.
toprovide leadership to ensure that it is possible The Board has approved a number of significant tomake high-quality decisions.
I am responsible for changes to the terms of reference of the Remuneration leading the Board and ensuring ongoing improvement Committee to broaden its scope in light of the new in the Boards effectiveness.
I am supported by all the Corporate Governance Code.
directors, but particularly by Susan Kilsby, as the Senior Conclusion Independent Director.
Susan meets independently Board members appreciate their interactions with with the other directors and is available, if required, shareholders and listen carefully to any comments.
As a Board, and as Iwelcome your comments on this Corporate individual directors, we strive to continuously improve Governance Statement and on the 2018 Annual the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees Report more generally.
insupport of the Groups objective of delivering exceptional long-term sustainable value for all Sir Nigel Rudd, Chairman ourstakeholders.
We conducted a Board effectiveness exercise during 2018.
You can read more about the effectiveness review on page 56.
We keep Group policies and procedures under regular review, bearing in mind the ever-evolving business andgovernance environment that we operate in, aswell asdrawing on the range of experience offered by Board members.
Further information is provided on the work of the Board and its Committees within the body of this Corporate Governance report.
