Strategic report Governance Financials NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Following the resignations of James Corsellis and Mark Brangstrup Watts in December 2017, the Committee considered whether additional Independent Non-Executive Directors should be sought.
Following an objective assessment of the Groups needs and strategy and the Boards current skills and experience, the members of the Committee considered that the Board continued to display a well-balanced array of skills and remains well-attuned to the Groups requirements.
Therefore, the Committee agreed that, at this time, no additional Independent Non-Executive Directors need be sought.
This view was supported by the Board as a whole.
The Committee has also reviewed the composition of the three Committees of the Board.
After some limited changes, again with the support of the Board as a whole, the membership of all three Committees, as shown on page 55, fulfil the requirements of the Code being comprised of wholly Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Board induction and training An induction programme is arranged for new Non-Executive Directors.
This programme includes a comprehensive pack of Dear Stakeholder information on the Group, meetings with senior management I am pleased to provide the report of the Nomination Committee and other Board members, visits to a number of the Groups sites for 2018. and briefings to share the Groups strategy.
Prior to my appointment in October 2017, the Committee was The Directors have access to ongoing training as required.
Prior to chaired by James Corsellis.
Whilst not an Independent Nonthe Companys admission to the Premium List, the Directors Executive Director, James provided continuity of knowledge of the received a training update from the Companys external legal strategic direction of the Group and of the acquired businesses adviser on the requirements and obligations associated with being from its Admission to the Main List and was supported by four a director of a Premium Listed company.
Following James Corsellis resignation in December 2017, the Committee is now comprised of On the recommendation of the Committee all Directors will offer three Independent Non-Executive Directors and is in compliance themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
We have discussed the combined role of Chairman and Chief Executive held by Avril Palmer-Baunack since July 2014.
Although the Code recommends these roles should not be held by the same person, the Committee, with the support of the Board, is satisfied David Lis for the reasons set out on page 55, that it is appropriate for Avril to Chairman, Nomination Committee continue to hold the combined role of Executive Chairman.
27 June 2018 The purpose of the Committee is to ensure that there is a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
Our duties include reviewing the Boards structure, size and composition, including the skills, knowledge and experience the Board has and may need.
Following this review we then make appropriate recommendations to the Board, taking into account succession planning for Directors, the Groups challenges and opportunities with due regard to the benefits of diversity.
Our policy is to ensure that the best candidate is selected to join the Board and this approach will remain in place going forward, without prescriptive or quantitative targets.
The members of the Committee are shown on page 55.
The Committee is comprised of three Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors attend the Committee by invitation where it is appropriate for them to do so.
BCA Marketplace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 57
