Strategic report Governance Financials GOVERNANCE REPORT The role of the Board The Company is controlled by the Board of Directors on behalf of the shareholders and the Board provides leadership.
Matters reserved for the Board include setting strategy, approving budgets and financial statements and setting up key policies.
Other matters are delegated to the Board Committees.
Day-to-day operational matters are delegated to the Executive Directors and the Groups businesses through the divisional leaders.
The Board held ten full meetings in the year to 1 April 2018 and attendance is summarised on page 56.
Board meetings consider business and financial performance, updates on key initiatives, strategy, reports from committees of the Board and shareholder communications and feedback.
In addition, the Board receives regular updates on the performance of the business, operational matters and legal updates from the Executive Chairman and the Chief Financial Officer.
Board composition At the date of this report, the Board consists of four Independent Non-Executive Directors, including the Senior Independent NonExecutive Director, and two Executive Directors, including the Executive Chairman.
Accordingly, the Group meets the Codes requirement that at least half of the Board should comprise Independent Non-Executive Directors.
As referred to on page 54, The Code recommends that the role of Chairman and Chief Executive should not be exercised by the same individual.
Notwithstanding this recommendation, the role of Executive Chairman continues to be held by Avril Palmer-Baunack.
This matter has been considered extensively by the Board and also by the Companys Sponsor in preparation for the move to the Premium List.
Avril has significant and unique expertise, knowledge and industry relationships in the UK and Europe which continue to contribute to the successful acquisition, integration and management of businesses by the Company in accordance with its stated strategy to develop a range of automotive service solutions that enable the Group to add value along the vehicle supply chain.
In light of this proven expertise and depth of knowledge, the Board continues to believe that combining the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive remains the right approach at this stage in the Groups development and is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
Committees of the Board The Board has three Committees, namely the Audit and Risk Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee, to carry out certain tasks on its behalf.
The terms of reference for each Committee are available on the Companys website www.
com under Corporate Governance and from the Company Secretary on request.
Audit and Risk Nomination Remuneration Role and terms of reference Reviews and reports Reviews the structure, Responsible for all to the Board on the size and composition elements of the Groups financial and of the Board and remuneration of the narrative reporting, its Committees and Executive Directors internal controls and makes appropriate risk management recommendations to systems, compliance, the Board.
Considers whistleblowing and succession planning for fraud, internal audit the Executive Directors and external audit Chairman Jon Kamaluddin David Lis Stephen Gutteridge Member Stephen Gutteridge Stephen Gutteridge Piet Coelewij Piet Coelewij Jon Kamaluddin David Lis David Lis Committee report on pages 65 57 58 The Chairman of each Committee provides a report or update of each meeting of the respective Committee to the Board at the subsequent Board meeting.
The structure and the Chairmen of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees were revised on the Companys transfer to the Premium Listing.
BCA Marketplace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 55 GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Board and Committee membership and attendance The attendance of Directors at Board and Committee meetings of which they were members from 3 April 2017 to 1 April 2018 is set out below: Full Board Audit and Risk Remuneration Nomination Total number of scheduled meetings 10 3 2 1 Avril Palmer-Baunack 10 Tim Lampert 10 Stephen Gutteridge 10 3 2 1 Piet Coelewij 10 3 2 Jon Kamaluddin 10 3 1 David Lis 10 3 2 1 1 Mark Brangstrup Watts 6 of 7 2 of 2 2 James Corsellis 6 of 7 2 of 2 1 Mark Brangstrup Watts ceased to be a Director of the Company on 22 December 2017 2 James Corsellis ceased to be a Director of the Company on 22 December 2017 Avril Palmer-Baunack and Tim Lampert may attend these meetings by invitation The Board also held a number of further meetings to discuss and approve procedural matters.
Biographies of all the members of the Board appear on pages 52 to 53.
Advice and support The Directors may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense provided that they give notice to the Executive Chairman.
Board evaluation Knowing where the Board performs well and where it can improve is a key part of ensuring ongoing improvement and effectiveness.
An evaluation of the Board and its Committees was carried out prior to the Companys admission to the Premium List and has also been carried out subsequently as referred to on page 54.
A thorough review of the Boards processes, practice and culture will continue to be conducted on an annual basis.
Relations with shareholders The Board is committed to providing good communication channels with shareholders.
The Executive Directors are in regular contact with our main shareholders to ensure their views on the Company are known and discussed.
We aim to keep shareholders abreast of Group developments through press releases and trading and other statements, together with formal reporting of the interim and full year results.
We host shareholder visits to our operations, to enable shareholders to gain a better understanding of our business, and undertake investor roadshows.
An investor relations report is presented at Board meetings to ensure all aspects of shareholder communication, changes in holdings and price movements are discussed.
The Companys website offers a readily available source of Company information, from trade press releases to formal Stock Exchange announcements and other key financial documents.
The Directors will be in attendance at the AGM.
56 BCA Marketplace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
