com Annual report 2018 Beazley 85 Statement of corporate governance Compliance with Code provisions The board confirms that the company and the group have complied with the provisions set out in the 2016 version of the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code the Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2018.
The new reporting requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 will be fully reported on in the 2019 annual report.
The Code can be viewed on the www.
The governance section, together with the directors and remuneration reports, describes how we have applied the main principles of the Code and complied with its detailed provisions.
The board considers that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable: and that they provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys performance, business model and strategy.
The companys auditors have reviewed the companys compliance to the extent required by the UK listing rules for review by auditors of UK listed companies.
The board is accountable to the companys shareholders for good governance and the statements set out below describe how the main principles identified in the Code have been applied by the group.
Governance framework The company operates through the main board, the managing agent board, the board of the Irish insurance company that accepts non-life reinsurance premiums ceded by the corporate member, Beazley Underwriting Limited, the board of the US admitted insurance company and their board committees.
The group has established properly constituted audit and risk, remuneration, nomination and disclosure committees of the board.
There are terms of reference for each committee and details of their main responsibilities and activities in 2018 are set out on pages 86 to 99.
The board has also appointed an executive committee that is chaired by Andrew Horton and acts under delegated authority from the board.
The executive committee meets on a monthly basis and is responsible for managing all activities of the operational group.
The governance framework of the main board and its committees is shown in the diagram on the following page.
The roles of the chairman and chief executive are separate, with each having clearly defined responsibilities.
They maintain a close working relationship to ensure the integrity of the boards decision making process and the successful delivery of the groups strategy.
The board evaluates the membership of its individual board committees on an annual basis and the board committees are governed by terms of reference which detail the matters delegated to each committee and for which they have authority to make decisions.
The terms of reference for the board committees can be found on www.
com Statement of corporate governance continued Company secretary Shareholders Christine Oldridge Key responsibilities Chairman The company secretarys responsibilities include ensuring good information flows within David Roberts the board and its committees and between Key responsibilities senior management and non-executive The chairman leads the board, managing constructive dialogue directors, as well as advising the board through between executive and non-executive directors.
He is responsible the chairman on all governance matters.
for ensuring that the board discharges its duties effectively.
The board Key responsibilities Leadership, strategic aims, risks, values and standards.
Chief executive Chairman Andrew Horton David Roberts Key responsibilities Members The chief executive is George Blunden Andrew Horton John Sauerland responsible for the Martin Bride Christine LaSala Robert Stuchbery implementation and delivery Adrian Cox Sir Andrew Likierman Catherine Woods of the strategy agreed by Angela Crawford-Ingle the board and the day to day management of the business.
Audit and risk Nomination Remuneration Disclosure Executive committee committee committee committee committee Chairman Chairman Chairman Chairman Chairman Angela Crawford-Ingle David Roberts Sir Andrew Likierman Group finance director Andrew Horton or their nominee Members Members Members Members Members George Blunden George Blunden George Blunden Chief executive officer or their Mark Bernacki Christine LaSala Sir Andrew Likierman John Sauerland nominee Martin Bride Robert Stuchbery Catherine Woods Catherine Woods Chief risk officer Adrian Cox Catherine Woods Company secretary Mike Donovan James Eaton Key responsibilities Key responsibilities Key responsibilities Key responsibilities Ian Fantozzi The audit and risk committee The nomination committee The remuneration committee The disclosure committee Patrick Hartigan assists the board of directors is focused on evaluating the ensures that remuneration has responsibility to oversee Anthony Hobkinson in fulfilling its oversight board of directors, ensuring arrangements support the the implementation of the Dan Jones responsibilities for the an appropriate balance of strategic aims of the governance and procedures Lou Ann Layton financial reporting process, skills, considering and business and enable associated with the Andrew Pryde the system of internal control, recommending board and the recruitment, motivation assessment, control and Jerry Sullivan the audit process and the committee candidates and and retention of senior disclosure of inside information Christian Tolle companys process for considering board succession.
executives while complying in relation to the company.
Tim Turner monitoring compliance with the requirements of Pippa Vowles with laws and regulations and regulatory and governance the Beazley Code of Conduct.
bodies, satisfying the Key responsibilities It also ensures that an expectations of shareholders The executive committee effective risk management and remaining consistent manages all operational process exists in the major with the expectations of the activities of the group and regulated subsidiaries and wider employee population.
acts under the powers that the Beazley group has delegated by the board.
an effective framework It has responsibility for and process for managing proposing strategic initiatives its risks.
and group syndicate business plans to the board as well as for reviewing the risk management framework and oversight of the groups sub-committees and business functions.
The information above is as at 6 February 2019.
com Annual report 2018 Beazley 87 The board The board has a schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
This includes inter alia: strategic matters: statutory matters intended to generate and preserve value over the longer term acquisitions: approval of financial statements and dividends: appointments and terminations of directors, officers and auditors: and appointments of committees and setting of their terms of reference.
It is responsible for: reviewing group performance against budgets: approving material contracts: determining authority levels within which management is required to operate: reviewing the groups annual forecasts: and approving the groups corporate business plans, including capital adequacy and the Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA.
The board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take in pursuing its strategic objectives.
To this end, the board is responsible for the capital strategy, including the groups Solvency II internal model.
The board consists of a non-executive chairman, David Roberts, together with seven independent non-executive directors, of whom George Blunden is the senior independent non-executive director, and four executive directors, of whom Andrew Horton is chief executive.
Following the retirement of Neil Maidment on 31 December 2018, there are now three executive directors.
The non-executive directors, who have been appointed for specified terms, are considered by the board to be independent of management and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
George Blunden has served a term in excess of six years and continues to bring strong challenge and insight to the board and its committees.
His appointment was extended for a further three years at the 2016 AGM, subject to annual reappointment at the AGM.
The nomination committee carried out a rigorous assessment of George Blundens continuing independence, taking into account the length of his tenure on the boards of both Beazley plc and Beazley Furlonge Ltd, and concluded that he remained independent.
As senior independent director George will, if required, deputise for the chairman.
He is available to talk to shareholders if they have any issues or concerns or if there are any unresolved matters that shareholders believe should be brought to his attention.
As George Blunden has served a further three year term, he will stand down at the 2019 AGM.
Christine LaSala has been appointed as the senior independent non-executive director with effect from 21 March 2019.
She will take over the role from George Blunden, who will step down from the board at the conclusion of the AGM.
Christine LaSala had a long and distinguished career in the insurance industry and has already made a significant contribution to the Beazley board.
Neil Maidment retired from the board on 31 December 2018 and Adrian Cox has assumed his executive management responsibilities.
In accordance with the Code, the board has recommended that all directors should submit themselves for election or re-election on an annual basis and as such all directors will stand for election or re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Biographies of current board members appear in the board of directors section of this report.
The biographies indicate the high level and wide range of business experience that are essential to manage a business of this size and complexity.
A well defined operational and management structure is in place and the roles and responsibilities of senior executives and key members of staff are clearly defined.
Board meeting attendance The full board meets at least five times each year and more frequently where business needs require.
In 2018, in addition to the five regular board meetings, there were further meetings to consider the Solvency II annual return and the Q3 2018 interim statement.
There was nearly full attendance at all meetings.
All the directors also attend an annual strategy day.
The remuneration, nomination, and audit and risk committees had additional ad hoc meetings with full attendance.
The chairman holds regular meetings with the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present.
com Statement of corporate governance continued Attendance at the regular board and committee meetings is set out in the table below: Audit and risk Remuneration Nomination Board committee committee committee No.
Director meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended George P Blunden 5 5 7 7 6 6 6 6 Martin L Bride 5 5 Adrian P Cox 5 5 Angela D Crawford-Ingle 5 5 7 7 1 Dennis Holt 1 1 2 2 D Andrew Horton 5 5 Christine LaSala 5 5 7 7 Sir J Andrew Likierman 5 5 6 6 6 6 Neil P Maidment 5 5 John P Sauerland 5 5 6 6 Robert A Stuchbery 5 5 7 7 2 Catherine Woods 5 5 7 7 1 1 1 1 3 David Roberts 5 5 4 4 1 Dennis Holt resigned at a director on 22 March 2018.
2 Catherine Woods was appointed to the remuneration committee and nomination committee on 1 October 2018.
3 David Roberts was appointed to the nomination committee on 22 March 2018.
W here a director joined or stood down from the board or board committee during the year only the number of meetings following appointment or before standing down are shown.
Board discussions during the year At each scheduled meeting the board receives reports from the chief executive and finance director on the performance and results of the group and also receives reports from the chief underwriting officer and the chief risk officer and any board committees following their meetings.
In addition the board receives updates from the group operating functions on major projects and corporate governance matters.
There is an annual schedule of rolling agenda items to ensure that all matters are given due consideration and are reviewed at the appropriate point in the financial and regulatory cycle.
Meetings are structured to ensure that there is sufficient time for consideration and debate of all matters.
During the year, the board has spent time particularly on: review of strategic initiatives: review of the competitive landscape: discussions over prioritisation of investment expenditure: Solvency II reporting: review of risk management framework, including risk appetite: continued monitoring of developments and responding to requirements for Brexit: understanding the General Data Protection Regulation implemented in May 2018: review of the Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA : discussion on capital position and dividends: cyber product development and cyber security: review of developments in corporate governance and receipt of key legal and regulatory updates including the PRA FCA Senior Managers and Certification Regime, gender pay gap, and the new UK Corporate Governance Code 2018: and discussion of the outcome of the board evaluation and effectiveness review and agreement of improvement opportunities.
In July 2018 Beazley backed the Inclusion Behaviours Pledge.
This is a public commitment made by members of the insurance sector, which reinforces Beazleys promise to challenge inappropriate behaviour and create increasingly welcoming and inclusive workplaces in our sector.
In the UK, Beazley has joined the Women in Banking & Finance forum to share best practice and offer networking and development opportunities to our female talent through their programme.
com Annual report 2018 Beazley 89 Beazley is signed up to HM Treasurys Women in Finance Charter.
The aim of the Charter is to help build a more balanced and fair financial services industry, by working together with other signatories to see gender balance at all levels across the sector.
We are also a member of the 30% Club, which further demonstrates our commitment to gender diversity.
The Beazley diversity and inclusion steering group provides diversity and inclusion support for all employees and aims to foster open dialogue about gender, social, ethnicity, LGBT, disability and parental carer inclusion.
Beazley currently has an LGBT network and young professionals network in place.
Beazley continue to work with Stonewall and the Business Disability Forum.
Both organisations work closely with Beazley to identify the best support for our colleagues in the LGBT community, and for those living with disabilities, to help Beazley become a more inclusive and supportive place to work.
Training, information and support New directors receive appropriate induction training when they join the board of Beazley plc.
They are asked to complete a skills and knowledge assessment and the company secretary, in conjunction with talent management, arranges and coordinates the appropriate training.
There are a number of modules available to the directors which are regularly reviewed to ensure they meet best practice and the changing business environment.
Where appropriate, mentoring is provided to new directors by an external provider.
Annual training is provided for all directors.
The training sessions include business and industry specific topics and information on changes to director duties and responsibilities and to legal, accounting, information security and tax matters.
Bespoke training will also be provided if requested by any director.
To enable the board to function effectively and directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all relevant information.
In the case of board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of papers, including regular business progress reports and discussion documents regarding specific matters.
Directors have access to an electronic information repository to support their activities.
During 2018 the board continued to support the maintenance and development of Beazleys information security programme to address changing and emerging cyber security threats.
Director training included sessions on IFRS 17, Senior Managers and Certification Regime and refresher training on Solvency II.
All directors allocate sufficient time to the company to enable them to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
The terms and conditions of appointment for all the non-executive directors set out the expected time commitment and they agree that they have sufficient time to provide what is expected of them.
There is an agreed principle that directors may take independent professional advice if necessary at the companys expense, assuming that the expense is reasonable.
This is in addition to the access which every director has to the company secretary.
The company secretary is charged by the board with ensuring that board procedures are followed.
Board performance evaluation Under the UK Corporate Governance Code, the board is required to undertake formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors, and this should be externally facilitated every three years.
The board and its committees consider their effectiveness regularly.
An assessment was externally facilitated in 2018 by Boardroom Review Limited: The review concluded that the board and its committees continue to operate effectively.
However, it is intended that the recommendations of the Boardroom Review Limited review will be implemented and reported on in the 2019 annual report.
Audit and internal control A comprehensive audit tender was carried out in 2018 details of this process can be found in the audit committee report on pages 94 and 95 and EY have been appointed as the new external auditor for the 2019 accounting year, subject to shareholder approval at the 2019 AGM.
The respective responsibilities of the directors and the auditors in connection with the accounts are explained in the statement of directors responsibilities and the independent auditors report, together with the statement of the directors on going concern in the directors report.
The board confirms that there is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant compliance issues and risks facing the group.
All significant known risks are captured in the Beazley risk register and monitored on a monthly basis.
The risk register and the related internal capital assessment process are subject to review, challenge and approval by the board.
com Statement of corporate governance continued The board agreed the 2018 risk appetite for the group at the end of 2017 and, throughout 2018, the board has considered and acted upon the information presented to it in order to make risk based decisions against the 2018 risk appetite.
Key components of the risk management framework include monthly control self assessments and six monthly risk assessments, with ad hoc risk assessments being conducted when required.
These matters have been considered by the executive risk and regulatory committee each month and the audit and risk committee and board quarterly.
In addition, the board has considered the quarterly Own Risk and Solvency Assessment report in the past year.
This risk management framework has provided the board with an ongoing process for identifying, assessing, monitoring and managing the risks to the company, and accords with the UK Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial Business Reporting document.
The board is responsible for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives within the risk appetite set by the board.
The key procedures that the board has established to ensure that internal controls are effective and commensurate with a group of Beazleys size include: day-to-day supervision of the business by the executive directors: review and analysis by the various group committees of standard monthly, quarterly and periodic reporting, as prescribed by the board: review of financial, operational and assurance reports from management: and review of any significant issues arising from internal and external audits.
The board therefore confirms that it has, during 2018, reviewed the effectiveness of the groups risk management and internal controls including financial, operational and compliance controls, which have been in place throughout the year under review and continue to operate up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
The chairman of the audit and risk committee also had regular contact with external and internal auditors during 2018 and members of the audit and risk committee met individually with the Central Bank of Ireland and the Prudential Regulation Authority.
Further information on the role of the audit and risk committee is set out on page 91 and further information on risk management at Beazley is set out in the risk management report.
Shareholder engagement The company places great importance on communication with shareholders.
The annual report and accounts and the interim report are available from www.
com and, where elected or on request, will be mailed to shareholders and to stakeholders who have an interest in the groups performance.
The company responds to individual letters from shareholders and maintains a separate investor relations centre within the existing www.
com website, as a repository for all investor relations matters.
There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, as well as general presentations attended by executive directors, after the preliminary and interim results.
The board is advised of any specific comments from institutional investors, to enable it to develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put forward questions at the companys annual general meeting.
The company has the authority within its articles to communicate with its shareholders using electronic and website communication and to allow for electronic proxy voting.
com Annual report 2018 Beazley 91 Statement of corporate governance continued Audit and risk committee Membership and attendance Attendance at full Appointment meetings during 2018 Angela Crawford-Ingle 27 March 2013 7 7 George Blunden 1 October 2010 7 7 Christine LaSala 1 July 2016 7 7 Robert Stuchbery 11 August 2016 7 7 Catherine Woods 11 March 2016 7 7 Angela Crawford-Ingle Non-executive director group operates, including recent and The internal and external auditors attend The board has delegated relevant financial experience, as required committee meetings and regularly meet oversight of audit and risk by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
in private with the committee.
In addition matters to the audit and risk Details of the members financial, the chairman of the audit and risk committee which currently accounting and other relevant financial committee has regular contact with the experience are given in their biographies external and internal auditors throughout comprises Angela Crawfordunder board of directors on pages 82 the year and members of the committee Ingle chairman, George and 83.
All committee members are met individually with the Central Bank Blunden, Catherine Woods, independent non-executives.
of Ireland and the Prudential Regulation Christine LaSala and Robert Authority during 2018.
There is regular attendance by plc audit Stuchbery.
and risk committee members at the Responsibilities of the committee groups regulated subsidiary audit and or The committees main audit-related The role of the committee is to assist the risk committees.
The committee also responsibilities are broadly unchanged board of directors in fulfilling its oversight receive regular updates from the audit from the prior year and are detailed in duties for the financial reporting process, and risk committees of the groups the section below.
the system of internal control, the audit regulated subsidiaries.
This further process and the companys process for demonstrates our proactive approach The primary role of the audit and risk monitoring compliance with laws and to understanding our control and risk committee in relation to financial regulations and the Code of Conduct.
environment at all levels of the reporting is to monitor the integrity of This role is unchanged from previous organisation.
the financial statements of the group years and in order to perform this role and any formal announcements relating effectively the committee works with Only members of the committee have to the groups financial performance, management and key stakeholders to the right to attend meetings: however and to review significant financial ensure that the risk and control framework standing invitations are extended to reporting judgements.
The committee within Beazley remains robust and the chairman, chief executive officer, has continued to approach its review of appropriate for the group in the current the group finance director, the chief the annual report as a whole with focus environment.
In addition to assessing underwriting officer, the chief risk officer, on behalf of the board on considering the risk and control framework, in 2018 the head of internal audit and the head the concept of fair, balanced and the committee also considered a number of compliance.
We have challenged of specific topics such as the external may be invited to attend all or part of ourselves to ensure the key messages audit tender process, monitoring any meeting as and when appropriate.
about the performance of the business of changes in regulatory and tax The company secretary acts as secretary are delivered in a manner consistent with environments, and assessing emerging to the committee.
our own understanding and interpretation risks such as Brexit.
of the information we receive.
The audit and risk committee is required As part of the appointments process to meet at least quarterly, with meetings the nomination committee reviewed the scheduled at appropriate intervals in membership of the committee during the the reporting and audit cycle.
Taken as a whole, the committee meetings are held as required.
In 2018 has an appropriate balance of skills there were a total of 7 meetings in the specific to the industry within which the year compared to 6 meetings in 2017, with an additional meeting required for approval of Solvency II returns.
com Statement of corporate governance continued Audit and risk committee continued Specific committee responsibilities are review and approve the annual audit Full details of the terms of reference set out below: plan to ensure that it is consistent with of the committee are available at the scope of the audit engagement, www.
com Audit and financial reporting having regard to the seniority, a Financial and narrative reporting expertise and experience of the audit Principal activities monitor the integrity of the companys team: and The principal activities undertaken by the financial statements and any other review the findings of the audit with committee in discharging its responsibilities formal announcements relating to the external auditor.
in 2018 are described below: the companys financial performance: review the annual report before d Actuaries a Significant financial statement submission to, and approval by, the recommend to the board the reportingissues board, and before clearance by the appointment and termination of any The significant financial statement external auditors.
This covers critical firm of consulting actuaries used for reporting issues, along with the accounting policies, significant the provision of Syndicate Actuarial significant matters and accounting financial reporting judgements, Opinions and or review of insurance judgements that the committee the going concern assumption, reserving: and considered during the year under compliance with accounting standards monitor performance, determine review, are set out below.
and other requirements under independence and approve fees.
applicable law and regulations and i Valuation of insurance liabilities governance codes applicable to the Risk management and compliance As further explained in note 1 to the financial statements: and a Internal control and risk management financial statements, the groups policy advise the board on whether, taken systems is to hold sufficient provisions, including as a whole, the annual report is fair, review the companys internal financial those to cover claims which have been balanced and understandable and controls and the companys internal incurred but not reported IBNR to provides the information necessary for control and risk management systems: meet all liabilities as they fall due.
The shareholders to assess the companys advise the board on the companys reserving for these claims represents performance, business model and risk management framework, which the most critical estimate in the groups strategy.
includes the risk management financial statements.
In both 2017 and objectives, risk appetite, risk culture 2018, we observed a significant amount b Internal audit and assignment of risk management of natural catastrophe activity which recommend the appointment or responsibilities: impacted many lines of business termination of appointment of the review risk reports and management underwritten by Beazley.
While there head of internal audit: information to enable a clear remains uncertainty around the final monitor and review the effectiveness understanding of the key risks and cost of these events to the company, the of the companys internal audit controls in the business: committee notes that Beazley continues function: review any breaches of risk appetite to adopt a prudent approach where receive a report on the results of and the adequacy of proposed action: uncertainty exists as to the final cost the internal auditors work, review review the identification of future of settlement.
internal audit reports and make risks, including considering emerging recommendations to the board on trends and future risk strategy: and The audit and risk committee receives a periodic basis: and review the remit of the risk regular reports from both the internal review and approve the internal audit management function and ensure group actuary and the external audit plan, charter and ensure the function it has adequate resources and team, as the output of independent has the necessary resources and appropriate access to information projections are reviewed at key reporting access to information.
to enable it to perform its function quarters.
In the latter part of the year, the effectively.
group actuary has reported both informally c External audit and formally on the results of the third recommend to the board, to be put b Compliance quarter reserving process, which the to the shareholders for approval, review the arrangements by which committee considers to be a key control the appointment, reappointment employees of the company may, in as this process provides a level of and removal of the external auditors: confidence, raise concerns about informed independent challenge for the oversee the relationship with the possible improprieties in matters reserve position.
To support the year external auditor including planning, of financial reporting or other areas: end view, the committee has received reviewing of findings and assessing review procedures and systems a detailed paper in support of the level overall effectiveness: relating to fraud detection, prevention of margin held within technical reserves approve auditors remuneration of bribery and money laundering: and in the groups statement of financial for audit, assurance and non-audit review the regular reports from the position.
compliance officer and keep under they remain satisfied that the outstanding review the adequacy and effectiveness claims reserves included in the financial of the groups compliance function.
statements provide an appropriate Governance www.
com Annual report 2018 Beazley 93 margin over projected ultimate claims finance and actuarial functions on our No misstatements that were material costs to allow for the risks and estimation process, and the related in the context of the financial statements uncertainties within the portfolio, and the controls, in respect of claims reserves, as a whole were identified and the committee was satisfied that there were premium income estimates and other committee was satisfied with the no errors or inconsistencies that were key financial statement captions.
The approach employed by management in material in the context of the financial committee was satisfied that, based valuing the financial assets at fair value statements as a whole.
on the information provided to them, on the balance sheet at 31 December the estimates used in the financial close 2018.
As with the prior years, the committee process are appropriate.
also considers the report of the external iv Recoverability of insurance receivables auditor following its re-projection of On the basis of the reporting received Following a review of the groups year reserves using its own methodologies.
and reviewed during the last 12 months, end debtor position, the committee is On the basis of the work the auditor the audit and risk committee remains comfortable that the level of insurance undertook, it reported no material satisfied that the estimation and control receivables on the groups balance sheet misstatements in respect of the level processes deployed by the group are are appropriate and do not require of reserves held by the group at the appropriate.
The committee also discussed the likely v Recoverability of reinsurance assets On the basis of the information provided impact of IFRS 17 and in particular the The committee received confirmation by the group actuary throughout the impact that this new standard would have from management that the majority of year and at the year end, the consistent on the current financial close process, Beazleys reinsurance receivables are application of Beazleys reserving including data flows and controls.
The due from highly rated institutions.
Based philosophy, and the review work carried committee expects that this new standard on previous experience, the committee out by our external auditor, the committee will remain a key focus over the next has not noted any instances where poor was satisfied that the reserves held on 3-4 years.
The committee notes that quality reinsurers have led to a material the group statement of financial position there is a proposed delay in the financial loss and is comfortable with the at 31 December 2018 are reasonable.
implementation to 1 January 2022. monitoring processes management have As such the committee will continue to described and put in place to ensure this ii Financial close process monitor the progress for implementing continues.
The audit and risk committee continues IFRS 17 during 2019. to focus on the groups close and Considering management updates estimation processes generally, and iii Valuation of financial assets at and supported by the external auditors the related controls carried out by the fairvalue report on the output of their work over business and specifically the finance As the groups business model is to assessing the recoverability of the groups team.
The close process is particularly predominantly issue insurance contracts, reinsurance assets, the committee was important in the current environment the group have taken the option to defer satisfied that the judgements applied where insurers are being required to the effective date of IFRS 9 until January by management in making provision adhere to increasingly tight regulatory 2021, as per the amendment to IFRS 4. for bad debts are appropriate.
reporting timelines and the audit and As such the group continues to report its risk committee remains committed to financial assets at fair value.
The board vi Dividends, going concern and viability ensuring that the robust nature of our is responsible for setting the investment During key reporting periods, management control environment is not compromised strategy, defining the risk appetite and outlined to the committee in detail their during this period of change.
overseeing the internal and outsourced support for the basis of preparation providers via the chief investment officer.
adopted in the financial statements and During the year and at year end, we The committee notes that the overall any statements around the future viability received updates from management on investment strategy is broadly unchanged of the group.
In addition, the committee the level of estimations used in our close from prior periods.
The committee considers the appropriateness of process and the controls carried out to receives updates from the group finance managements dividend strategy of review these estimates retrospectively.
director and or the chief investment growing the ordinary dividend each year The main areas of estimation and officer and it has reported for 2018 that and the appropriateness of applying this judgement remain materially consistent the investment portfolio is in line with strategy in the current year.
with prior years, with IBNR representing the board approved risk appetite, that the most crucial estimate within the carrying values of the portfolio as at groups financial statements.
The 31 December 2018 are appropriate and committee also reviews the process that the valuation methodologies applied and controls related to actuarial and to each hierarchy level are consistent underwriting estimates of written with the accounting policies.
The committee continued to members are invited to and regularly receive periodic reporting from both the attend the investment committee.
com Statement of corporate governance continued Audit and risk committee continued The committee reviews detailed quarterly reserving and actuarial data: frequency of audits in certain areas projections of future cash flows, profit the consideration of strategic, of the business, and challenging the forecasts and capital requirements under emerging and heightened risks balance between thematic reviews various scenarios, including scenarios identified by management and the and full end-to-end audits: stressed in terms of claims frequency groups risk management team, along reviewed and approved the internal and liquidity.
In the current year, we side the processes and controls audit charter: considered in particular the impact of the in place to mitigate these risks: and reviewed and approved the internal natural catastrophe activity during the the impact of Brexit was discussed and audit budget for 2019: second half of 2018, which compounded monitored during the year.
Potential received information relating to the the impact of the catastrophes seen outcomes were considered and internal audit functions quality in 2017.
We also consider the actions taken to mitigate the impact assurance activities: appropriateness of managements where possible.
The impact on the reviewed how the internal audit, viability statement and the period over estimates and judgements contained risk management and compliance which this analysis is performed.
The within this report were considered and functions contributed information committee was satisfied by the level deemed immaterial.
and assurance relating to the groups of analysis presented during the year, control effectiveness: and the related approach taken and Committee meetings are scheduled to received and reviewed an overall statements made in the groups key ensure that they support the financial and summary assessment of 2018 internal external reporting.
regulatory reporting timetables and the audit activity: internal audit and risk cycle.
monitored the timely implementation vii Tax of agreed management actions and The committee continues to monitor Function updates reviewing the status of the same: the evolving tax environment and in The Beazley plc board has delegated following the resignation of the head of particular considered managements a number of oversight responsibilities internal audit who left in August 2018, approach to Diverted Profits Tax in the to the audit and risk committee in relation representatives from the committee UK.
The committee is of the view that to the risk management framework, interviewed candidates to fill the the approach taken by management, compliance, internal audit and external vacancy.
An appointment was agreed as outlined in note 9 to the financial audit.
subject to regulatory approval required statements, is reasonable.
by Beazleys UK and Irish regulators: The work undertaken and key matters and viii Intangible asset valuation considered during the year in these areas requested and reviewed a report The audit and risk committee received are set out below: regarding the groups control an overview of managements valuation environment as a whole.
The committee was Audit and financial reporting satisfied that managements approach in a Internal audit During the course of 2018 a number respect of the carrying value of all of the The groups internal audit function of internal audit recommendations were groups intangible assets, is reasonable.
reports directly, and is accountable to made to management in relation to the committee, and the head of internal its systems of control which have been b Other updates audit has direct access to the committee subsequently implemented.
Overall During 2018, in addition to the financial chairman.
The committee has reviewed the internal audit function was able to reporting matters mentioned above the effectiveness of the function and report that for those areas it reviewed, the following items were key topics remains satisfied that the internal audit the design and operation of our risk of discussion for the committee: function had sufficient resources during management framework, controls and oversight of the reporting and control the year to undertake its duties.
processes have supported the group processes and procedures relating in operating within its risk appetite.
to the increased Solvency II reporting During 2018, the committee: requirements: considered the results of all internal b External audit overview of key reporting and audit reports, and the findings and i Audit tender regulatory updates, including updates themes emerging from them: As disclosed in the groups annual report on accounting standards, changes in monitored the implementation for the year ended 31 December 2016, tax legislation, changes in regulatory of the 2018 internal audit plan: the board committed to changing group requirements and the implementation reviewed and approved the basis for auditor no later than for the 2019 of General Data Protection Regulation internal audit planning.
in particular: reviewing and approving the groups compliance, financial crime and risk-based audit universe and the During 2017 the audit committee reviewed assurance reporting including risk internal audit plan, and reviewing other managements tender strategy and incident information: business developments which could in 2018 a comprehensive audit tender the groups external audit tender also potentially be the subject of was conducted by a selection panel, discussed further below : internal audit work in the coming year.
acting with delegated responsibility This included challenging the and authority of the audit committee.
com Annual report 2018 Beazley 95 This selection panel included a director of audit process.
Audit quality is assessed The committee receives a report from each of the Public Interest Entities PIEs throughout the year, with a focus on the external auditors three times a year and regulated entities in the group alongside strong audit governance and the quality setting out all non-audit services the group actuary and chief risk officer.
undertaken, so that it can monitor the types of services being provided, and The tender process can be summarised The effectiveness of the audit is the fees incurred for that work.
The aim as follows: assessed through discussion throughout is to limit the total spend on non-audit six firms were invited to participate the year, taking into account services to a maximum of the annual in the tender: this was split evenly considerations such as: audit fee, unless it is deemed that not between the three Big 4 firms not reviewing the quality and scope of the doing so is in shareholders interest from currently providing audit services to audit planning and its responsiveness an efficiency and effectiveness point the group and three mid-tier insurance to changes in the business: of view.
audit firms: monitoring of the auditors three firms confirmed their interest independence: The split between audit and non-audit and independence and moved into considering the level of challenge fees for the year under review is disclosed the first round which included both evidenced in discussions and in note 6 to the financial statements.
a written application outlining the reporting: and In the year the audit fees and audit strength and depth of the firm and discussing the output of the FRCs related services for 2018 were $1.6m a technical case study: Audit Quality Review AQR with our 2017: $1.6m.
Fees for non-audit and the selection panel identified two firms auditor.
assurance services include work related to move into the second round which to the accounts and regulatory reporting required a written response to a These considerations are taken in to of the syndicates managed by Beazley, request for proposal RFP, two case account by the committee when work which would commonly be carried studies, partner interviews and a determining whether to reappoint the out by the external auditor.
presentation to the selection panel: external auditor.
Due to the appointment each firm was assessed by the of EY as the groups external auditor for KPMG is a panel member eligible to selection panel based on the following financial periods on or after 1 January provide services under our cyber breach transparent and non-discriminatory 2019, KPMG is deemed to not be response service to policy holders.
The decision-making criteria: overall audit reappointed by the committee.
committee receives regular updates to quality and service proposition: monitor the level of activity and to ensure coordination and communication: iii Non-audit services conflicts of interest do not occur.
additional value: and capability and The audit and risk committees competence of the lead partner, responsibility to monitor and review None of the non-audit services provided team and the firm: and the objectivity and independence of the are considered by the audit and risk the audit committee received a external auditor is supported by a policy committee to affect the auditors recommendation from the selection that we have developed in relation to independence or objectivity.
panel and arrived at a the provision of non-audit services by recommendation for the board.
During 2018, our non-audit Fair, balanced and understandable services policy was updated, enhanced assessment The recommendation, which has been and reviewed by the committee.
It is a key compliance requirement of accepted by the board, is that EY be the groups financial statements to proposed for appointment at this years The objective is to ensure that the be fair, balanced and understandable.
annual general meeting as Beazleys provision of such services does not The annual report is prepared following external auditor for financial periods impair the external auditors objectivity.
a well-documented process and is commencing on or after 1 January 2019.
The policy specifically disallows certain performed in parallel with the formal A period of knowledge transfer will occur activities from being provided by the process undertaken by the external during the first half of 2019. auditor, such as bookkeeping and auditor.
The committee has reviewed accounting services, internal actuarial a report presenting the approach taken Throughout the tender the committee services and executive remuneration during the preparation of the annual were pleased to receive reassurance that services.
The policy requires consideration report.
Following its review, the the current audit framework within and pre-approval for all other material committee is satisfied that the annual Beazley is aligned with market services such as due diligence report is fair, balanced and expectations.
assistance, tax services and advice understandable, and provides the on accounting and audit matters.
information necessary for shareholders ii Assessing the effectiveness of the and other stakeholders to assess the externalauditor The committee reviews the terms of such companys position and performance, The committee places great emphasis proposed services to ensure they have business model and strategy, and has on ensuring there are high standards of been robustly justified.
quality and effectiveness in the external 96 Beazley Annual report 2018 www.
com Statement of corporate governance continued Audit and risk committee continued Risk management and compliance reverse stress testing: The committee reviewed updates from the money a Risk management has received the results of the reverse laundering reporting officer on the To assist the board, the committee, stress testing exercise, which explores adequacy and effectiveness of the supported by the risk committees of the what would have to happen for the companys anti-money laundering subsidiary boards, receives and reviews group to be unviable and has been systems and controls: reports from the risk management able to provide assurance to the board provided oversight of the progress of function focusing on the following areas: that this work has been performed the business in addressing identified risk appetite: The committee has with the appropriate level of depth enhancements to compliance monitored the actual risk profile and expertise: and requirements: against risk appetite throughout 2018 oversight of the internal model: The approved the group policies and and can confirm that Beazley plc has committee and the risk committees controls in respect of anti-bribery and been operating within risk appetite as of the subsidiary boards have reviewed corruption and anti-fraud: at 31 December 2018.
The committee regular reports associated with the received updates on the structure has also reviewed the proposed 2019 and effectiveness of the companys internal model.
These have included risk appetite: a standing report on internal model compliance function: and risk assessment: The committee received updates on the framework, output, and a validation has performed a review of the groups report featuring both internal and training and policy put in place risk profile to assess its coverage regarding whistleblowing.
independent validation and themed of the universe of risk and that major reviews, for example, on the approach underlying risks are visible and are In reviewing the effectiveness of the used to aggregate risk in individual being monitored: entities which consolidate up to function the audit and risk committee risk profiles: The committee and the remained satisfied that the compliance the group level.
These assessments risk committees of the subsidiary have supported the boards use of function had sufficient resources during boards have reviewed Beazleys the year to undertake its duties.
the internal model: and risk profiles, which are focused risk quarterly ORSA: The committee has assessments of specific topics.
In addition, the risk committees and received a quarterly ORSA report and In 2018, the committee received has reviewed it as part of the quality or boards of the groups regulated a review of cyber risk aimed at subsidiaries receive more locally-focused assurance process before commending ensuring our suite of realistic disaster it to the board.
compliance reports which are specific scenarios are appropriate.
There was to those entities.
also a number of other operational risk b Compliance profiles presented which supported The group head of compliance has Committee effectiveness the committees oversight of the direct access to the committee members The committee considers its on-going business processes: and attends all committee meetings.
An assessment emerging risk: The committee was externally facilitated in 2018. supported the identification of To assist the board the committee Whilst the review concluded that the strategic and emerging risks which receives reports and updates from the committee was operating effectively, were discussed at the board compliance function on various issues a recommendation is being considered meeting in May 2018 and have been including, but not limited to, regulatory regarding the establishment of a separate subsequently monitored and reported developments, routine and non-routine risk committee.
in the quarterly Own Risk and Solvency interactions with the groups regulators, Assessment ORSA : any significant instances of nonCompetition and Markets Authority Order oversight of the control environment: compliance with regulatory or internal 2014 statement of compliance The committee has received a compliance requirements.
The committee confirms that during 2018 quarterly consolidated assurance the group complied with the mandatory report which provides commentary on During 2018, the committee: audit processes and audit committee the status of the control environment monitored the implementation responsibilities provisions of the with perspective from the business, of the 2018 compliance plan: Competition and Markets Authority risk management, compliance and reviewed and approved the 2019 Statutory Audit Services Order 2014 internal audit.
It also includes annual compliance plan, including the as presented in this report.
entries from the risk incident log: compliance monitoring programme: reviewed changes in the regulatory environment applicable to Beazley: received updates on relationships with key group regulators, and oversight of regulatory requests: provided oversight to regulatory responses to corporate developments: Governance www.
com Annual report 2018 Beazley 97 Statement of corporate governance continued Remuneration committee Membership and attendance Attendance at scheduled Appointment meetings during 2018 Sir Andrew Likierman 25 March 2015 6 6 George Blunden 1 January 2011 6 6 John Sauerland 11 May 2016 6 6 Catherine Woods 1 October 2018 1 1 Sir Andrew Likierman Non-executive director recommend the remuneration of the ensured incentives continued to be Currently the membership of chief executive, the other executive appropriate and to align company the remuneration committee directors, the direct reports to the and shareholders: comprises Sir Andrew chief executive, the company secretary reviewed methodology of reporting Likierman chairman, George and such other members of the of bonus disclosures with the objective executive management as it is of improving transparency: Blunden, John Sauerland designated to consider.
No director approved the grant of share awards and Catherine Woods.
or manager shall be involved in any under the groups deferred, retention decisions as to his or her own and LTIP plans: Responsibilities of the committee remuneration: considered the salary and bonus The committees main responsibilities obtain reliable, up-to-date information awards for 2018 for executive are to, inter alia: about remuneration in other directors, heads of control functions, set the remuneration policy for the companies: and material risk takers and other officers: group for approval at the annual appoint and review the performance of approved the gender pay gap report: general meeting.
The objective of such remuneration committee consultants, approved the chairmans fees: policy shall be to ensure that members currently Deloitte LLP.
reviewed the executive director of the executive management of the employment contracts: and company are provided with appropriate Key activities in 2018 considered the effects of the 2018 incentives to encourage enhanced During 2018 the committee: UK Corporate Governance Code performance and are, in a fair and reviewed the key aspects of the requirements on the committees responsible manner, rewarded for their remuneration policy, and oversaw responsibilities.
individual contributions to the success its implementation and application: of the company: satisfied itself that the current Further information on the work of the recommend and where appropriate remuneration structure is appropriate remuneration committee is set out in approve targets for performance to attract and retain talented people: the directors remuneration report.
related pay schemes and seek considered the chief risk officers shareholder approval for any long term report which confirmed that the design incentive arrangements: of remuneration promotes appropriate recommend and approve the risk behaviour throughout the remuneration of the chairman of the organisation.
In addition, the analysis company: considered the performance of the control environment, profit related pay targets, calculation of the bonus pool, share awards, a suite of risk metrics for each Solvency II member of staff and any individual who has created a higher than expected level of risk: 98 Beazley Annual report 2018 www.
com Statement of corporate governance continued Nomination committee Membership and attendance Attendance at scheduled Appointment Resigned meetings during 2018 Dennis Holt 21 July 2011 22 March 2018 2 2 David Roberts 22 March 2018 4 4 George Blunden 1 January 2010 6 6 Sir Andrew Likierman 25 March 2015 6 6 Catherine Woods 1 October 2018 1 1 David Roberts Chairman Responsibilities of the committee Policy on gender, diversity and inclusion The nomination committee The committees main responsibilities We believe having a diverse and inclusive is chaired by David Roberts, are to, inter alia: workplace will support our vision for who took over from Dennis Holt regularly review the structure, size growth and outperforming the market.
in March 2018, and currently and composition including the skills, We continually review our approach to knowledge, experience and diversity diversity and our aim is to have nurtured also comprises George required by the board compared to diverse employees across the business Blunden, Sir Andrew Likierman its current and projected position: who are given the tools and opportunities and Catherine Woods.
give full consideration to succession to progress their career within Beazley.
planning for executive and nonWe believe employing individuals with The nomination committee meets at executive directors and in particular wider perspectives and from a broader least twice annually and at such other for the key roles of chairman and skill base will lead to a more dynamic, times during the year as are necessary chief executive, senior executives innovative, responsive organisation in to discharge its duties.
In 2018 there and any other member of the senior touch with changes and developments were six scheduled meetings, reflecting management that it is relevant to in our business environment.
the workload of the committee during consider whilst considering a diverse the year.
Only members of the committee pipeline of talent: We have a defined policy and strategy have the right to attend meetings: ensure the directors have the required that will enable us to: however other individuals, such as the skills and competencies: nurture diverse individuals across all chief executive and external advisers, review annually the time required areas of the business and encourage may be invited to attend for all or part from non-executive directors: them to grow into senior positions of any meeting.
review the results of the board within our organisation: performance evaluation process that develop plans on how to best support The specific responsibilities and duties relate to the composition and skills diversity in a way that is both locally of the committee are set out in its terms and competencies of the board and relevant and globally impactful: of reference, which were updated in ensure an appropriate response to support, mentor and encourage September 2018 and reflect the new development needs: individuals from diverse backgrounds requirements set out in the UK Corporate recommend to the board to grow and develop within Beazley: Governance Code 2018.
These appointments to the role of senior have leadership and sponsorship of requirements include specific independent director and chairman our vision at the most senior level responsibility to keep under review the as well as membership of board of our organisation: leadership needs of the organisation, committees: and regularly review our employment both executive and non-executive, with recommend, if appropriate, all policies and practices.
We expect a view to ensuring the continued ability directors for re-election by our people to work with us to further of the organisation to compete effectively shareholders under the annual enhance our diversity objectives: and in the marketplace.
The terms of re-election provisions of the UK ensure all employees receive equality reference are available to download Corporate Governance Code.
of opportunity in recruitment, training, from the companys website.
com Annual report 2018 Beazley 99 The committee has agreed the The committee will oversee the consider the board and committee establishment of goals for gender implementation of the resulting action succession plans: diversity for both the board and the plan and will report on the progress made assess the collective skills and broader organisation.
The board achieved in implementing the recommendations competency of the board and consider its goals for gender diversity for the made in the 2019 annual report.
the proposed reappointment of Beazley plc board of two female members Boardroom Review Limited has no other directors: by AGM 2016, and a third female member connection with the company.
ensure that director development by AGM 2017.
Female representation on plans were implemented and that the the board went from zero to three in five In addition to the formal board evaluation, board collectively received relevant years.
The committee reviewed progress the board chairman met with each training: against the groups 2020 goals for there individual director during the year to ensure board members were able to being a minimum of 35% female senior discuss their contribution to the board.
allocate sufficient time to the company managers within the organisation by The senior independent director met with to discharge their responsibilities 2020 and 33% female board members the chairman to discuss his performance.
effectively: at group level by 2021. consider the wider executive Key activities in 2018 management succession: and The 2018 board effectiveness review Tasks which the committee carried consider and approve proposals for was overseen by the committee and out in 2018 were to: individuals to be included in the new was externally facilitated in October The committee commenced the Senior Managers and Certification November 2018 by Boardroom Review search for a successor of Angela Regime.
As part of the review, Boardroom Crawford-Ingle chair of the audit and Review Limited interviewed directors risk committee in accordance with the in one to one meetings: observed board groups policy on director independence and committee meetings: and reviewed and rotation.
Angela will be stepping meeting packs together with corporate down from the board during 2019 information.
Boardroom Review Limited following the conclusion of 2018 provided feedback to each director and accounting year and a full handover to the chair of each committee.
The committee review resulted in a robust board has been assisted by JCA Group, discussion on the areas in which action recruitment consultants, for this should be taken to strengthen the search: boards overall effectiveness.
The key commence the search process for areas of focus will be: a new group finance director with reviewing the governance structure a view to appointing in Q1 2019.
The and information flows between our appointment of Sally Lake as finance regulated subsidiary boards in light director following the conclusion of of the changing business and political 2018 accounting year was announced landscape: in January 2019.
For the recruitment considering whether a risk committee process the committee was assisted should be established, separating out by Russell Reynolds Associates, the risk and audit agendas and recruitment consultants: continued development of the role commence the search for a of internal audit: and non-executive director with expertise continuing monitoring of corporate in technology, operations and data.
culture, and board engagement with It is anticipated an appointment will executive development, diversity and be made in 2019.
process the committee has been assisted by Audeliss Executive Search: review the performance of management by inviting all nonexecutive directors to attend a nomination committee meeting to review the performance of the executive management team:
