Audit Committee Report T he Committee is an important component ofthe governance framework of the Group.
Paul Hampden Smith Chairman of the Audit Committee I am pleased to provide you with an update of the work Membership undertaken by the Audit Committee the Committee during Director Date appointed to Number of meetings the period.
The Committee supports the Board in achieving the Committee attended during its governance framework, with its principal activities the year focussed on the integrity of financial reporting, the quality Paul Hampden Smith 1 August 2013, 3 3 and effectiveness of internal controls, risk management and Chairman appointed Chairman on reviewing the performance of the external auditor.
1 February 2014 John Cuthbert 15 January 2010 3 3 Committee membership and meetings Denise Jagger 1 August 2013 3 3 During the year Jill Caseberry and Ian McHoul were Jill Caseberry 1 October 2017 2 3 appointed to the Committee whilst Mike Toms retired.
Ian McHoul 1 February 2018 1 1 The Committee currently comprises five independent nonexecutive directors shown in the table to the left.
I believe Mike Toms 1 February 2009 1 1 that between them they have an appropriate and relevant retired13 December 2017 combination of experience and knowledge.
Main focus in 2017 18 The Board considers that both myself and Ian McHoul, who F inancial reporting.
currently chairs the Audit Committee of Britvic plc, to have Internal control and risk management.
recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
The Board has also confirmed that they are confident Audit effectiveness.
that the collective experience of the Committee members Assist with the induction of the two new Committee members who joined enables them to act effectively as an audit committee.
In December 2018 I will retire from the Committee and Focus areas for 2018 19 become Chairman of the Board with Ian McHoul replacing me as Chairman of this Committee.
Internal control and risk management.
Further information on the experience and knowledge of the Committee members is included in the directors biographies Audit effectiveness.
Approve annual tax strategy statement.
In line with the terms of reference, there were three Handover of Chair to Ian McHoul from December 2018. scheduled meetings of the Committee during the year and there were no absences from any meeting, apart from Jill Caseberry who missed one meeting.
The Group Finance Director, Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, Group Finance Manager and Head of Risk attend meetings by invitation and were present at all meetings during the year, with the exception of the Head of Risk who did not attend one meeting.
The Committee is supported by the Deputy Group Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the Committee.
Two of the meetings during the year were also attended by representatives from the external auditor, KPMG LLP KPMG, who also met with the Committee independently of management.
No issues were raised during these discussions.
I also had further discussions, independently of each other, with the Group Finance Director, Head of Risk and KPMG, and reported relevant information to other members of the Committee.
Detailed papers are prepared and circulated in advance of Committee meetings by both management and KPMG, thereby allowing informed discussions and decisions to take place.
Bellway p. l. c. 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Responsibilities and terms of reference A comprehensive version of the Committees terms of reference is available on the Groups website at www.
Main activities during the year The Committee met on three occasions during the financial year.
The activities undertaken at the October 2018 meeting concluded the Committees activities in relation to the Companys financial reporting for the year ended 31 July 2018.
The main activities performed by the Committee at these meetings are described below: Meeting date Activities October 2017 The Committee: reviewed the final draft of the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, together with a report produced by KPMG which detailed their findings both on areas of key financial reporting judgement and other areas of audit focus.
reviewed and concluded that the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts presented a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects after considering reports from the external auditor.
The Committee recommended the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts to the Board for approval.
reviewed the draft viability statement to appear in the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
considered and challenged management about the use of Alternative Performance Measures APMs and whether they are appropriate or whether GAAP measures would be more relevant.
considered the outcome of the Financial Reporting Councils FRC review of the audit for the year ended 31 July 2016 that was selected for an Audit Quality Review as part of their routine processes.
As part of the process I had discussions with the FRC and provided feedback to other members of the Committee where relevant.
KPMG produced a report, which was considered by the Committee, highlighting the findings of this review and how they had addressed them during the audit for the year ended 31 July 2017.
The Committee is not aware that any of the findings have resulted in a significant change to KPMGs audit approach.
held a private meeting with KPMG.
reviewed and approved an updated approvals and authority document in relation to the main transactions undertaken by the Group.
considered the performance and effectiveness of the Committee.
reviewed and approved the Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement 2017.
January 2018 The Committee: obtained an update on forthcoming changes in accounting standards and their relevance to the Group.
received a risk management update from the Group Head of Risk and reviewed the Risk Management Policy.
received an update on the Internal Audit activities undertaken in the previous calendar year and provided feedback on the proposed 2018 Internal Audit plan.
received a presentation from the Group IT Director in relation to IT security.
reviewed the Groups policies and procedures in relation to whistleblowing, anti-bribery and corruption, and anti-slavery.
assessed the performance of the external auditor.
reviewed the Independent Auditor Policy.
March 2018 The Committee: reviewed the final draft of the 2018 Interim Announcement.
reviewed KPMGs audit plan, including the proposed Group, subsidiary and divisional materiality for the 2018 audit.
obtained an update from KPMG in relation to the general Annual Quality Review findings the firm had received compared to their peers and understanding the effect, if any, they had on the Bellway audit.
received a Risk and Internal Audit update.
reviewed the updated Data Protection Policy which incorporated the new GDPR requirements.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 53 Audit Committee Report continued Meeting date Activities October 2018 The Committee: reviewed the final draft of the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts, together with a report produced by KPMG which detailed their findings both on areas of key financial reporting judgement and other areas of audit focus.
reviewed and concluded that the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts presented a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects after considering reports from the external auditor.
The Committee recommended the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts to the Board for approval.
reviewed the draft viability statement to appear in the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts.
received a paper on significant judgemental areas prepared by management and provided appropriate challenge to their assumptions.
reviewed a paper which analysed notable one-off items that affected profit during the year.
reviewed a paper setting out progress made on the implementation of the new finance and valuation system across the Group.
considered a paper produced by management setting out managements assessment in relation to potential risks associated with cladding, work that will be performed and whether appropriate provision is included within the financial statements of the Group.
Financial reporting Significant financial reporting judgements The Committee confirmed that they believe the significant financial reporting judgements for the Group continued to be: Profit recognition: and The carrying value of the Groups land and work in progress.
In addition, the Committee consider the carrying value of investments held by the Company a significant financial reporting matter.
The table overleaf sets out the matters considered and the action performed by the Committee during the year in relation to these significant financial reporting matters.
Bellway p. l. c. 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Matters considered Profit recognition Group The carrying value of the Groups land and work The carrying value of investments Company in progress Group Gross profit of 753.4 million has been Land and work in progress are the Investments in joint ventures and recognised on housing and other most significant assets on the Groups subsidiaries investments is a revenue.
Gross profit for completed balance sheet and at 31 July 2018 significant asset on the Companys housing sales is recognised based on had a book value of 3,224.4 million.
balance sheet and at 31 July 2018 the latest whole site phase margin, The carrying value of land and work had a carrying value of 39.7 million.
which is derived as part of the site phase in progress is affected by the profit Investments are held at cost less valuation process.
These valuations are recognition policy of the Group, as set impairment.
The risk surrounds updated frequently throughout the life of out to the left.
In addition, all inventory the judgement about whether an the site phase and include both actual is held at the lower of cost and net impairment is required given the and forecast selling prices, land costs realisable value, which is determined by inherent uncertainty involved in and construction costs.
The forecast the whole site phase margin as set out forecasting future cash flows of an costs and revenues are estimates and in the profit recognition column.
are inherently uncertain due to potential risk is that for any site phase, currently changes in market conditions.
trading or not, that the whole site phase margin may be negative resulting in a net realisable value that is below cost.
Divisional management review all sites phases to ensure any with a forecast negative whole site phase margin have an appropriate provision, and this has been re-assessed at regular intervals during the year.
Action performed by the Committee Profit recognition Group The carrying value of the Groups land and work The carrying value of investments Company in progress Group The Committee understands the Groups The Committee understands the The Committee reviewed a paper revenue and gross profit recognition Groups methodology in reviewing the comparing the carrying value of the policy and the related systems and carrying value of the Groups land and investments held by the Company to controls.
work in progress and the surrounding their associated net assets.
Management provided a During the year the Committee reviewed Following a review of this paper summary of the work undertaken which a paper produced by management and enquiry with management and was considered by the Committee.
setting out the revenue recognition the external auditor, the Committee policy and adherence with this around The external auditor explained to the concluded that the carrying value of reporting periods.
Committee the work they performed investments is appropriate.
in relation to the carrying value of the Management outlined the existing Groups land and work in progress.
systems and controls surrounding gross This included the procedures identified profit recognition and the valuation in relation to profit recognition and a process.
The Committee discussed these review of the latest site phase valuation controls, challenging management for all sites phases active during where appropriate.
the year and those that are yet to The external auditor explained to commence production.
the Committee the work they have Following enquiry with management undertaken in relation to the systems and the external auditor, the Committee and controls surrounding revenue concluded that there are appropriate recognition, gross profit recognition and systems and internal controls in place to the valuation process and provided an assess the carrying value of the Groups explanation of the detailed substantive land and work in progress, and that the testing performed.
The Committee also carrying value of these assets in the reviewed a summary prepared by KPMG financial statements is appropriate.
explaining their findings from their work testing the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of the Groups systems and controls pertaining to revenue recognition and the valuation process.
Following enquiry with management and the external auditor, the Committee concluded that there are appropriate systems and internal controls in place to assess and quantify both actual and forecast selling prices and costs, and that the Groups profit recognition policy is appropriate and has been properly applied in these financial statements.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 55 Audit Committee Report continued Viability statement site phase valuations are produced periodically throughout the life of a site phase, with a summary of In accordance with section C. 2.2 of the Code and the FRC the actual and forecast costs and revenues produced guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related at a divisional level prior to review by the divisional Financial and Business Reporting, the Committee challenged management team and Head Office team.
management on the assumptions, methodology and timespan that the viability statement covers.
regular visits to sites by in-house health and safety teams and external consultants to monitor health and safety A paper by management was considered by the Committee standards and performance.
who concluded that the viability statement and going concern basis of preparation is appropriate.
This was then a central treasury function operates at Head Office recommended to the Board for approval.
ensuring the optimum financing is obtained for the Group as a whole.
Internal control and risk management a number of the Groups key functions are dealt with The Committee is responsible for reviewing and assessing centrally.
These include taxation, pensions, insurance, IT, the Groups internal controls and risk management systems legal, HR, regulatory compliance and company secretarial and providing guidance on these to the Board.
This centralisation ensures a consistent isresponsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the system approach and the appropriate range of skills to manage ofinternal controls.
Throughout the year the risk register for the Group has Where any control recommendations are made by been reviewed and updated by management.
This review the external auditors, these are considered, and where includes ensuring the completeness of risks, assessing their relevant are implemented to further strengthen the likelihood, their impact and the effectiveness of the control control environment.
environment to mitigate the risks.
The Group has a risk function which, in part, performs Risk is considered at each Board meeting, with a full review internal audit reviews.
The Head of Risk has a direct reporting of the risk register taking place at least annually.
The internal line into both the Group Finance Director and myself.
control and risk management process only reduces the risk During the year the Head of Risk undertook a number of of material misstatement or loss, and does not eliminate this internal audit reviews, utilising specialists from within relevant risk completely.
functions, and provided the Committee with a summary of the findings together with recommendations to further The principal risks facing the Group, which are described enhance the control environment.
A register is maintained in the Strategic Report on pages 24 to 25, are regularly centrally which monitors progress against any system and reviewed and cover all aspects of Bellways operations control enhancements to ensure they are implemented including land acquisition, planning, construction, health and appropriately and in a timely and controlled manner.
safety, sales, HR, IT and legal and regulatory compliance.
The continuing role of the Board is, on a systematic External audit and ongoing basis, to review the key risks inherent in Audit effectiveness and reappointment the business, the operation of the systems and controls necessary to manage such risks and their effectiveness The external auditor of the Group is KPMG.
Their performance andto satisfy itself that all reasonable steps are being is regularly reviewed by both management and the takento mitigate these risks.
Committee, and this is done formally on an annual basis.
The key areas of control are as follows: The Committee considered a paper produced by management which used the FRC guidance note titled the Board has agreed a list of key risks which affect the Audit Quality as the basis.
Group, that are reviewed throughout the year and has considered the extent to which the measures taken by This review consisted of: theGroup mitigate those risks.
considering the robustness and appropriateness of the acquisition of land and land interests is initiated by KPMGs approach to auditing the significant risk areas divisional management and reviewed by the appropriate facing the Group.
Regional Chairman prior to submission to Head Office considering whether KPMGs materiality proposal for for approval.
All land acquisitions must achieve minimum the2016 17 financial year, which was the most up to date financial acquisition criteria and are subject to approval information held at the date of the review, was set at an by the executive directors and in certain circumstances, appropriate level for the component parts of the Group.
discussions with management who were involved in the a comprehensive monitoring and reporting system is financial reporting processes.
in place including annual budgets, monthly forecasting and management reporting, incorporating variance an understanding of the findings of the Audit Quality analysis and commentary.
This is produced by divisional Review AQR team of the FRC following their management and reviewed by the Regional Chairmen inspection of audit firms including KPMG.
This included and function heads at Head Office.
Summaries are also understanding whether any of the findings would have provided to the executive directors.
monthly divisional board meetings are held to review an understanding of the AQR and internal KPMG quality divisional performance, which are attended by the review findings specifically in relation to the engagement Regional Chairmen.
The executive directors attend certain partner, Nick Plumb.
divisional board meetings on a regular basis during the considering KPMGs independence, objectivity and year, and this is supplemented with main Board visits professional scepticism.
Bellway p. l. c. 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance reviewing the performance of KPMG against their audit The ratio of non-audit fees for the year to the external audit strategy for the 2016 17 financial year, the most recent fee was 4.4%.
KPMG provide written confirmation on at least fully completed audit cycle, and their interaction with an annual basis that they remain independent.
The Committee confirms there are no independence issues considering where KPMG have added value and in relation to the external auditor and that the policy has demonstrated proactivity.
been adhered to throughout the year.
As part of this review a few small areas of improvement Audit Committee assessment were identified which have been fed back to KPMG who have incorporated them in to their audit for the year ending During the year the Committee assessed both the 31 July 2018. performance of the Committee as a whole and that of its individual members, utilising a questionnaire that was Following this review, the Committee recommended to the internally facilitated.
A couple of minor areas for possible Board, which is in turn recommending to the shareholders, further improvement were identified, and these will be that KPMG be reappointed as the auditor of the Group.
considered in the year ahead.
KPMG has been the auditor of the Group since 1979 when Following a review of these results, I consider the Committee Bellway was listed and it has not been tendered in the to be effective and provide a robust and independent intervening period.
Nick Plumb is the lead audit partner and oversight over the financial reporting, internal control and has just completed his fifth and final year in this role.
It is risk and external audit activities of the Group.
The Committee expected that John Pass will become the lead audit partner has an appropriate and complementary set of skills and once Nick Plumb rotates off following the conclusion of experience that enable it to deliver the aforementioned.
It is the Groups current intention to retain KPMG as auditor, subject to the usual annual review of their Other legislative requirements effectiveness, up to and including the 31 July 2020 year end audit to allow the new accounting and valuation system to Whistleblowing be rolled out across the Group.
The Groups Whistleblowing Policy is well publicised at all locations, and allows all employees to raise concerns in We are aware of the Order of the Competition and Markets confidence to either the Deputy Group Company Secretary Authority in relation to FTSE 350 companies which will or, alternatively, an independent third party.
require the Group to change its external auditor prior to the audit for theyear ending 31 July 2021.
During the year the Committee approved minor changes tothe Whistleblowing Policy.
Auditor independence and non-audit fees The Independent Auditor Policy, which seeks to preserve Bribery Act the independence of the external auditor by defining those The Groups Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and non-audit services which the external auditor may and may procedures are circulated throughout the Group and are not provide, was reviewed during the year and no changes included on the Groups intranet.
Data protection compliance There are clearly defined levels of approval depending on During the year a thorough review was undertaken of the the value of the work to be provided.
Where fees exceed Data Protection Policy in light of the new General Data 100,000 Board approval is required.
This review resulted in The Groups external auditor is not engaged for any of the a number of changes to the previous policy which the following non-audit related services: Committee approved in advance of the GDPR regulations coming in to force.
tax compliance and other tax services.
bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting records or financial statements of the Group.
Paul Hampden Smith Chairman of the Audit Committee financial information system design and implementation.
appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions, or 15 October 2018 contributions in kind reports.
management functions or human resources.
broker or dealer, investment adviser or investment banking services.
legal services and expert services unrelated to the audit.
any other service that is impermissible by regulation.
For an analysis of fees paid to KPMG see note 4 to the accounts.
The non-audit fees are for ad hoc assurance work and an audit of the Groups final salary pension scheme.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 57
