John Cuthbert BOARD OF DIRECTORS AUDIT NOMINATION REMUNERATION BOARD COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE ON NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Pages Pages Pages Page 52 57 50 51 58 77 49 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS GROUP GENERAL HEAD OFFICE REGIONAL COUNSEL AND COMPANY MANAGEMENT TEAM CHAIRMEN SECRETARY DIVISIONAL BOARDS Bellway p. l. c. 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Chief Executive Statement about applying the Principles implementing the strategy agreed by the Board.
ofgood governance leading the executive directors and the senior The Board acknowledges the importance of, and is management team in the day-to-day running of the committed to the principle of, achieving and maintaining Groups business.
ahigh standard of corporate governance and in promoting a positive culture within the Group.
ensuring the effective implementation of Board decisions.
We have applied the Principles of good governance, reviewing the Groups organisational structure and including both the Main Principles and the Supporting recommending changes as appropriate.
Principles, by complying with the Code.
Further explanations supervising the activities of the Regional Chairmen of how the Main Principles and Supporting Principles and divisional senior management, overseeing their have been applied are set out below and in the development and succession planning.
Leadership overseeing the activities of subsidiary companies.
At the date of this report the Board consists of eight directors approving land purchases within specified limits.
whose names, responsibilities and other details appear on pages 42 to 43.
Currently two of the directors are executive overseeing divisional expansion plans.
together with the Chairman, providing coherent leadership The recent and forthcoming changes to the membership of the Company, including representing the Group to of the Board are described in the Nomination Committee customers, suppliers, government, shareholders, financial Report and will result in the composition of the Board after institutions, employees, the media, the community and the the 2018 AGM comprising two executive and four nongeneral public.
keeping the Chairman informed of all important matters.
The Board sets the strategic aims, ensures that the necessary resources including finances, people and materials are in approving the purchase of all strategic land.
place for the Company to meet these objectives and also overseeing the health and safety, sales and marketing and reviews management performance.
It defines the Companys technical departments.
values and standards and ensures that its obligations to its shareholders are understood and met.
Group Finance Director The Board has put in place the following structure which devising and implementing the financial strategy and allows it to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Group policies of the Group including treasury and tax.
and to delegate authority for operational matters through a developing budgets and financial plans.
framework of prudent and effective controls, which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
responsible for the Groups investor relations activities.
Chairman overseeing the CR, finance, IT and risk departments.
promoting the highest standards of integrity, probity Senior independent non-executive director and corporate governance throughout the Group and acting as a sounding board for the Chairman, executive particularly at Board level including ensuring that the directors and the Group General Counsel and correct cultural tone is set from the top.
ensuring that the Company complies with the being available to shareholders.
requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code and adheres to the highest standards of governance.
leading the annual appraisal of the Chairman.
leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
holding meetings with the non-executive directors without the Chairman present.
Non-executive directors ensuring the directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
ensuring effective communication with shareholders.
contributing to the development of strategy.
ensuring the effective conduct of Board meetings and scrutinising the performance of management.
facilitating the effective contribution of all directors and the ensuring integrity of financial information and financial Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
controls and ensuring systems of risk management leading the evaluation of the performance of the Board, its are robust.
determining appropriate levels of executive director overseeing the induction of any new directors and the and Group General Counsel and Company development of existing directors.
ensuring that the views of shareholders are communicated appointing and removing executive directors and to the Board as a whole.
encouraging constructive relations between the executive serving on Board committees.
and non-executive directors and the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
approves land purchases over specified limits.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 47 Corporate Governance Report continued Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Board activity during the year supporting the Chairman and Chief Executive and during The Board meets formally and informally during the year to the current year, the Chief Operating Officer in fulfilling consider strategy, performance, risk, major land acquisitions, their duties.
potential conflicts of interest and reports from senior keeping the Board regularly updated on corporate employees and external advisers.
One meeting a year is devoted entirely to the consideration responsible for legal compliance throughout the of strategy where the Board agrees the way forward and Group including ensuring policies and procedures are ensures that the necessary financial, human, land and other maintained and updated on a regular basis.
resources are in place to meet its objectives.
Areas focussed on during the strategy day were the seven key strategic providing support to the Board and committees.
priorities of: overseeing the legal, company secretarial, HR and Head 1.
Office land and planning departments.
managing the Groups external legal panel.
All directors have access to the advice and services of 5.
Value creation through capital and dividend growth.
the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary and his department.
All of the directors may take independent 6.
Focus on return on capital employed.
professional advice at the Groups expense where they 7.
judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities as directors.
Each year we also hold separate annual conferences for the divisional Managing Directors, Finance Directors, Sales In accordance with the Code, all of the directors will retire Directors, Technical and Commercial Directors and Planning from the Board and offer themselves for re-election or Managers which are attended by the executive directors or election at the forthcoming AGM, apart from John Cuthbert members of the Head Office senior management team.
who retires from the Board on 31 October 2018 and John Watson who is stepping down at the conclusion of the AGM We also host informal Chairmans dinners where senior and will therefore not be seeking re-election.
None of the management meet members of the Board.
The Chairman executive directors hold external directorships.
meets with individual directors on a regular basis outside of Board meetings.
This process allows for two-way discussion The Board, its committees and the individual directors enabling the Chairman to act as necessary to deal with any are subject to annual performance evaluation and all issues relating to Board effectiveness.
directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The Board regularly reviews the directors other interests and The executive directors, Group General Counsel and appointments to ensure that there are no conflicts of interest.
Company Secretary and Chairman regularly visited the divisions during the year.
The Board also received The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and presentations from the Regional Chairmen on the ensuring it operates effectively.
The directors possess an opportunities and challenges they face.
appropriate balance of skills and experience to meet the requirements of the business.
From this year we have changed the way divisional Board visits take place.
Instead of the Board visiting divisions as During the year there were seven Board meetings, a group, in addition to the divisional visits above, each including one meeting dedicated almost entirely to strategy.
non-executive director separately visits at least one division The number of committee meetings are set out in each during the year, independent of the executive directors, committee report.
and reports their key findings and observations at the next The non-executive directors formally met twice during the Board meeting.
year, including once without the Chairman present.
The meetings with operational management ensured Jill Caseberry was unable to attend one Board and one Audit that the Boards standards and values for integrity and Committee meeting during the year due to a commitment honesty are disseminated.
Each of our divisions has its own made prior to her accepting the appointment to the Board.
management team and staff who manage and take pride There were no other absences from any other Board or in the success of their own operational business within the committee meetings, apart from Ted Ayres who was absent strategy set by the Board.
In this way we create a culture during the entire year due to ill health.
that motivates and rewards our colleagues.
We promote a supportive culture that enables our employees to develop The non-executive directors meet to review the their talents and skills.
performance of management and they also meet without the Chairman being present to appraise his performance.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters that are These meetings are chaired by the senior independent nonspecifically reserved for its decision, which includes strategy executive director.
and management, structure and capital, financial reporting and controls, internal controls covering both financial and Conflicts of interest operational areas of the business, land acquisition, contracts and agreements, communication, Board membership and Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 other appointments, remuneration, delegation of authority, relating to conflicts of interest, the Board has put in place a corporate governance matters, Group policies and other register to deal with the notification, authorisation, recording miscellaneous items.
and monitoring of directors interests and these procedures have operated throughout the year.
In addition, it has a series of matters that are dealt with at regular Board meetings including both an operational and a Bellway p. l. c. 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance strategic review, a financial review, major land acquisitions, Following this years evaluation no specific training needs major projects, risk, health and safety, HR, reporting were identified, however, the Board received external health requirements, corporate governance and internal control and safety training.
The induction of the directors who joined the Board during We also receive presentations and reports from Head Office, the year was overseen by the Nomination Committee and regional and divisional management and external advisers organised by the Group General Counsel and Company throughout the year.
The Board also takes regular reports Secretary.
Jason Honeyman received listed company from the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary director and corporate governance training.
Jill Caseberrys on legal, HR, commercial and insurance matters.
and Ian McHouls induction programme included meetings with the Chairman, executive directors, Head Office senior In-between Board meetings the directors receive updates management team and a Regional Chairman, a one-day from the Chairman or the Group General Counsel and divisional visit, meetings with key advisers and training by Company Secretary to advise them of any significant matters Slaughter and May on listed company director obligations.
affecting the Group or its performance.
Non-executive directors attend external training sessions During the year the work carried out by the Board included: designed specifically for non-executives and members of Board committees as and when required.
considering regular reports on KPIs from the Chief Board balance and independence Operating Officer.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, risk and internal control.
with a clear division of responsibilities ensuring a balance of consideration of recommendations from the responsibility and authority at the head of the Group.
The Chairman is not regarded as independent as he was scrutiny of reports from the Chief Operating Officer, Group formerly Chief Executive of the Company.
The Company Finance Director, Group General Counsel and Company considers all of its other non-executive directors, excluding Secretary and senior management at each Board meeting.
the Chairman, to be independent, as defined in the Code.
Each of the independent non-executive directors has, at considering regular reports on health and safety matters all times, acted independently of management and has no from the Chief Operating Officer.
relationship that would materially affect the exercise of his or approval of major land purchases.
her independent judgement and decision-making.
The senior independent non-executive director is John Cuthbert, with whom shareholders may raise any queries or approval of bank facility agreements.
receiving presentations from each of the Regional Whenever any director considers that he or she is interested Chairmen on the performance of the divisions under in any contract or arrangement to which the Group is or their responsibility.
may be a party, due notice is given to the Board.
No such receiving presentations from Health and Safety, CR, instances have arisen during the year.
Procurement, Strategic Land and Technical Head Office departments and from the chair of our Customer The Board committees Experience Committee.
The Board has formally constituted Audit, Nomination and approved the new house type range.
The terms of reference for these committees are available either on request from the Group approval of new or updated Group policies and General Counsel and Company Secretary, at the AGM or on procedures on Board Diversity Policy, Data Protection our website: www.
Policy, Whistleblowing Procedure and Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy.
Other committees of the Board are formed to perform certain specific functions as and when required.
approval of revised terms of reference for Board committees.
The work carried out by each of the Board committees during the year is described in the reports of the committee approval of major IT expenditure.
approval of the Groups insurance programme.
Board Committee on Non-Executive Directors approval of the Groups Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement for 2016 17.
Remuneration approval of the Annual Report and Accounts for 2016 17.
The Board Committee on Non-Executive Directors Remuneration comprises the executive directors and is approval of preliminary announcement, interim results and chaired by the Chief Executive.
This committee meets at least once a year to review and recommending the final dividend for 2016 17 to be recommend the terms, conditions and remuneration of approved by shareholders and approval of the interim the non-executive directors excluding the Chairman.
Last year it met on one occasion to review the fees and Training and development terms of appointment of the non-executive directors and receives advice from the Group General Counsel and The Board receives appropriate training and updates on Company Secretary and external remuneration consultants various matters relevant to its role and responsibilities, as and when required.
Training needs are reviewed as part of the performance evaluation process and on an ongoing basis.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 49
