Nomination Committee Report T his year has seen further successful implementation oftheBoard succession plan and decisions taken on significant changes to be made during the 2018 19 financial year.
John Cuthbert Chairman of the Nomination Committee Responsibilities and terms of reference Membership Director Date appointed to Number of meetings The main areas of the Nomination Committees the Committee attended during the theCommittee responsibilities are: year to review the structure, size and composition of the John Cuthbert 1 November 2009, 2 2 Chairman appointed Chairman on Board, in accordance with the Boards Diversity Policy, 1 February 2013 and recommend to the Board any changes it considers appropriate.
This encompasses membership of the Board John Watson 1 February 2013 2 2 committees and the reappointment, if appropriate, of nonPaul Hampden Smith 1 August 2013 2 2 executive directors at the end of their term of office.
Denise Jagger 1 August 2013 2 2 to consider succession planning not only within the Jill Caseberry 1 October 2017 2 2 Board but also immediately below Board level and ensure Ian McHoul 1 February 2018 1 1 appropriate plans are in place.
Mike Toms 1 February 2009 1 1 to identify candidates to fill Board vacancies and nominate retired 13 December 2017 these to the Board for approval.
Appointments to the Board are made on merit using a formal, rigorous Main focus in 2017 18 and transparent process against objective criteria Boar d succession, in particular for the Chief Executive and the Chairman.
These criteria take into To submit the Boards Diversity Policy for approval by the Board.
account the skills, knowledge and experience of existing members of the Board and the importance of diversity, The induction of the new appointments to the Board during the year.
in all its aspects, within the Board.
The appointment To continue to develop, with support from the executive directors and of a non-executive director is for a specified term and Group Human Resources, the succession plan for those immediately reappointment is not automatic, rather it is made on the below Board level, with a number of senior internal promotions taking place during the year.
Focus areas for 2018 19 to carry out an annual performance evaluation of the Committee and review the results of the Board To monitor the effectiveness of the recent appointments and role changes at Board level.
performance evaluation in relation to the composition of the Board.
To continue to develop, with support from the executive directors and Group Human Resources, the succession plan for those immediately The Committee meets at least  below Board level.
under its own terms of reference.
These havebeenagreed by the Board and are available at www.
The members of the Committee are shown in the table to the left.
Bellway p. l. c. 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Non-executive directors Activities in 2017 18 Jill Caseberry and Ian McHoul both joined the Board during The main focus for the Committee in 2017 18 was succession the year.
Their appointments were part of our succession planning within the Board.
The interim arrangements plan for Mike Toms, who retired at the AGM in 2017 and my implemented during the absence of the Chief Executive own retirement at the end of this month, after having served have been monitored and the Committee has finalised nine years on the Board.
I will be succeeded as Chairman of arrangements for the forthcoming retirements of myself and the Committee by Paul Hampden Smith and Denise Jagger the Chairman later this calendar year.
will take over the role of senior independent non-executive director.
Both Paul and Denise have served on the Board for Executive directors over five years.
As explained in last years report the Committee had to respond to the absence of Ted Ayres from the business due Paul Hampden Smith will pass Chairmanship of the Audit to ill health.
Committee to Ian McHoul when he becomes Chairman of the Board at the conclusion of the AGM in December.
John Watson was appointed as acting Executive Chairman and the appointment of Jason Honeyman to the Board as Chief Operating Officer was brought forward.
Johns John Cuthbert appointment was an interim arrangement during the Chairman of the Nomination Committee absence of the Chief Executive.
Following Teds retirement from the Board on 15 October 2018 31 July 2018, Jason Honeyman was promoted to Chief Executive and John Watson stepped down from his executive responsibilities to resume his position as nonexecutive Chairman.
Chairman John Watson will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the 2018 AGM.
John will have completed 23 years as a member of the Board and over 40 years with the Company.
He will be succeeded as Chairman by Paul Hampden Smith, who currently chairs the Audit Committee.
After considering the recruitment options, and being influenced significantly by the scale of change within the Board, the Committee decided an appointment from within the existing non-executive directors would provide essential continuity.
The Committees decision to propose Paul as Chairman was unanimous as was the final decision by the Board.
Paul took no part in the discussions.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51
