Audit Committee Report Year ended 31 March 2018 INTRODUCTION The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the Non-Executive Directors of the Group.
The Audit Committees terms of reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The terms of reference are considered annually by the Audit Committee and are then referred to the Board for approval.
The Audit Committee is responsible for: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained therein: reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and the Groups internal control and risk management systems, including consideration of the need for an internal audit function: making recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to be put to the shareholders for their approval in general meetings, on the appointment of the external auditor and the approval of the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor: reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: and developing and implementing a policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external audit firm.
The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying any matters on which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and make recommendations on the steps to be taken.
This year the Committee has continued to focus on the narrative reporting and corporate governance disclosures in the Annual Report.
The Committee was asked by the Board to review the statement by the Directors that the Annual report presents a fair, balanced and comprehensive view of the Groups performance, strategy and business model.
Committee Members and Attendance Member Position Number of meetings attended Tim Clark Member Richard Cotton Member Georgina Harvey Member Steve Johnson Member Anna Keay Member from 1 March 2018 Mark Richardson Chairman until 31 May 2017 Vince Niblett Chairman from 1 June 2017 attended absent All Audit Committee members are expected to be financially literate.
Furthermore, the Audit Committee structure requires the inclusion of one financially qualified member as recognised by the Consultative Committee of Accountancy Bodies.
Currently Vince Niblett, as a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales, fulfils this requirement.
The Group provides an induction programme for new Audit Committee members and ongoing training to enable all of the Committee members to carry out their duties.
The induction programme covers the role of the Audit Committee, its terms of reference and expected time commitment by members and an overview of the Groups business, including the main business and financial dynamics and risks.
New Committee members also meet some of the Groups staff.
Ongoing training includes attendance at formal conferences, internal company seminars and briefings by external advisers.
Meetings The Audit Committee is required to meet three times per year and has an agenda linked to events in the Groups financial calendar.
The agenda is predominantly cyclical and is therefore approved by the Audit Committee Chairman on behalf of his fellow members.
Each Audit Committee member has the right to require reports on matters of interest in addition to the cyclical items.
The Audit Committee invites the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Financial Controller, and senior representatives of the external auditor to attend all of its meetings in full, although it reserves the right to request any of these individuals to withdraw.
The Committee may meet with the external auditor without the Executive Directors or senior management present.
Other senior management are invited to present such reports as are required for the Committee to discharge its duties.
86 Overview of the actions taken by the Audit Committee to discharge its duties Since the beginning of the financial year the Audit Committee has: reviewed published financial information including the year end results, Annual Report, half year results and the Interim Management Statements: considered whether the Annual Report provides a fair, balanced and comprehensive view of the Groups performance, strategy and business model: assessed and concluded on the Groups viability statement: considered the output from the Group-wide process used to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks: reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and disclosures made in the annual report and financial statements on this matter: reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be undertaken by the external auditor: agreed the fees to be paid to the external auditor for their audit of the March 2018 financial statements and September half-yearly report: considered and agreed the approach of performing Directors valuations of investment properties for the half-year report: undertaken an assessment of the qualification, expertise and resources, and independence of the external auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process: considered the audit partner and audit firm rotation: undertaken an evaluation of the performance of the external auditor: assessed the effectiveness of the external auditor: reviewed the nature and extent of interaction with the FRCs Corporate Reporting Review team.
The Company received a letter during the year from the FRC with suggestions for minor areas of improvement of disclosure in the financial statements.
These have been addressed in these financial statements.
The FRCs review only covered the specific disclosures relating to this review and provides no assurance that the report and accounts are correct in all material respects: the FRCs role is not to verify the information provided but to consider compliance with reporting requirements: considered the need for an internal audit function: reviewed the arrangements for whistleblowing by employees to ensure that there is a consistent policy in the Group to enable employees to voice concerns particularly in respect of possible financial reporting improprieties.
A whistleblowing policy is included in the employee handbook and during the year an external whistleblowing service was introduced: met the Groups external valuers: met the Groups Store Compliance Manager: reviewed the Audit Committees Report: and reviewed its own effectiveness.
Financial reporting and significant financial judgements The Committee reviews all financial information published by the Group in year end and half-year financial statements, including the presentation and disclosure of the financial information.
It also considers the appropriateness of the accounting policies adopted by the Group and the accounting judgements made by management in the preparation of the financial information.
The Committee has considered whether the Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 provides a fair, balanced and comprehensive view of the Groups performance, strategy and business model and whether it provides the necessary information to enable shareholders and prospective shareholders to assess the Groups performance, strategy and business model.
The Committee is satisfied that the Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 provides a fair, balanced and comprehensive view and includes the necessary information as set out above.
The Committee has confirmed this to the Board, whose statement is included in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 90.
The Committee focuses on matters it considers important in their impact on the reported results of the Group, and on matters where there is a high degree of complexity and or judgement.
The key area of judgement that the Committee focuses on at the reporting date is the valuation of the investment property portfolio.
This is carried out by independent external valuers, but by its nature it is subjective, with significant judgement applied to the valuation, particularly given the lack of transactional evidence for prime self storage assets.
The Chairman of the Committee met the external valuers to discuss the valuations, review the key judgements and discussed whether there were any disagreements with management.
This year the Committee reviewed and challenged the valuers on the cap rates, rental growth assumptions and stabilised occupancy levels, to agree on the appropriateness of the assumptions adopted.
The Committee also challenged the valuers and satisfied itself on their independence, their quality control processes including peer partner review and qualifications to carry out the valuations.
Management also have processes in place to review the external valuations.
In addition, the external auditors use specialists to review the valuations and report their findings and conclusions to the Audit Committee.
The Committee has also considered a number of other judgements made by management in the preparation of the financial statements.
There have been no business combinations in the year.
The Committee has concluded that there is not a significant level of judgements involved, other than the valuation described above.
Management have reported to the Audit Committee that they are satisfied that they are not aware of any material misstatements in the financial statements.
The auditors confirmed in their report to the Audit Committee that they had not found any material misstatements during their audit work.
Based on the above, the Committee concluded that the financial statements appropriately apply the key estimates and critical judgements, in respect of the disclosures and the amounts reported.
The Committee also concluded that the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and comprehensive and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
87 Audit Committee Report continued Year ended 31 March 2018 External auditor The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on external audit.
The policy assigns oversight responsibility for monitoring the independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical and regulatory requirements to the Audit Committee, and day-to-day responsibility to the Chief Financial Officer.
The policy states that the external auditor is jointly responsible to the Board and the Audit Committee and that the Audit Committee is the primary contact.
To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the external auditor, the Audit Committee reviewed: the external auditors plan for the current year, noting the role of the senior statutory audit partner, who signs the audit report and who, in accordance with professional rules, has not held office for more than five years, and any changes in the key audit staff: the arrangements for day-to-day management of the audit relationship: a report from the external auditor describing their arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest: the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditor, in addition to its case-by-case approval of the position of non-audit services by the external auditor: and the past service of the auditor who was appointed in the current financial year.
Audit rotation During the prior year following a robust tender process, the Committee appointed KPMG LLP as auditors.
As part of the tender process, the Committee reviewed KPMGs proposals for the audit and determined that they had an appropriate plan in place to carry out an effective audit.
KPMG confirmed to the Committee that it maintained appropriate internal safeguards to ensure its independence and objectivity.
The Company is in compliance with the requirements of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 and the Code.
Annual auditor assessment The Audit Committee has adopted a formal framework in its review of the effectiveness of the external audit process and audit quality which include the following areas: the arrangements for ensuring the external auditors independence and objectivity: the lead audit engagement partner and the audit team: the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and variations from the plan: the quality of the formal audit report to shareholders: the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor in his handling of the key accounting and audit judgements: and the content of the external auditors comments on control improvement recommendations.
Regard is paid to the nature of, and remuneration received, for other services provided by KPMG LLP to the Group and, inter alia, confirmation is sought from them that the fee payable for the annual audit is adequate to enable them to perform their obligations in accordance with the scope of the audit.
Where nonaudit services are provided, the fees are based on the work undertaken and are not success related.
Non-audit work The Groups policy on external audit sets out the categories of non-audit services which the external auditor will and will not be allowed to provide to the Group, including those that are pre-approved by the Audit Committee and those which require specific approval before they are contracted for, subject to fide minimis levels.
They may not provide a service which places them in a position where they may be required to audit their own work.
Specifically, they are precluded from providing services relating to bookkeeping, financial information system design and implementation, appraisal or evaluation services, actuarial services, any management functions, investment banking services, legal services unrelated to the audit or advocacy services.
In respect of the year ended 31 March 2018, the auditors remuneration comprised 188,000 for audit work and 30,000 for other work, solely relating to the interim review.
Over a three year rolling period, the level of non-audit fees is below the audit fee, with non-audit fees representing 45% of audit fees in 2017 and 61% in 2016, in both cases payable to the predecessor auditor Deloitte LLP.
Risk management and internal control The Committee and the Board reviewed the internal control processes of the business and the Groups risk register during the year.
The risks and uncertainties facing the Group, and its internal control processes are considered in the Strategic Report on page 34.
88 Internal audit The Committee has considered the Boards view that, given the relatively straightforward nature of the Groups business and the control environment in place, no formal internal audit function is required.
The Group has a store compliance team, which effectively carries out an internal audit role for the Groups stores.
Additionally, the Board will appoint external consultants to assess specific business areas of risk and provide a report to the Board and the Committee on this area.
For example, the construction programme was assessed by an external consultant in 2016 with satisfactory results.
Similarly, the Board intends to appoint a consultant to review the Groups tax procedures during the year ending 31 March 2019.
The Committee concurs with managements view that, in view of these arrangements, no formal internal audit function is necessary for the business at this time.
Overview As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference and has ensured the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
Approved by the Audit Committee and signed on its behalf by: Vince Niblett Audit Committee Chairman 21 May 2018 89
