Governance Directors, Officers and Advisers Executive Directors Nicholas Vetch, Executive Chairman, was a co-founder of Big Yellow in September 1998.
Prior to that, he was joint Chief Executive of Edge Properties plc, which he co-founded in 1989, was subsequently listed on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange in 1996 and then sold to Grantchester Properties plc in 1998.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Local Shopping REIT plc and a Trustee of Global Human Rights and Global Human Rights UK.
James Gibson, Chief Executive Officer and co-founder of Big Yellow in September 1998.
He is a Chartered Accountant by background having trained with Arthur Andersen & Co. where he specialised in the property and construction sectors, before leaving in 1989.
He was Finance Director of Heron Property Corporation Limited and then Edge Properties plc which he joined in 1994.
Edge Properties was listed on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange in 1996 and then sold to Grantchester Properties plc in 1998.
He is also a Non-Executive Director and shareholder of AnyJunk Limited, a Non-Executive Director and shareholder of CityStasher Limited, a Non-Executive Director and investor in Moby Self Storage, a Brazilian Self Storage business, and a Trustee of the London Childrens Ballet.
Adrian Lee, Operations Director, was previously a Senior Executive at Edge Properties plc, which he joined in 1996.
Prior to that he was a corporate financier at Lazard for five years, having previously qualified as a surveyor at Knight Frank.
He was appointed to the Board in May 2000.
John Trotman, Chief Financial Officer, is a Chartered Accountant having trained with Deloitte LLP, where he specialised in the real estate sector and self storage.
On leaving Deloitte in 2005, John worked for a subsidiary of the Kajima Corporation.
He joined Big Yellow in June 2007, and was appointed to the Board in September 2007.
He is Chairman of the UK Self Storage Association.
Non-Executive Directors Tim Clark, Non-Executive Director.
He was a partner in Slaughter and May, one of the leading international law firms in the world, for 25 years: initially working as a corporate and M&A adviser to a range of companies and institutions and then for the last seven years as senior partner before retiring in April 2008.
He is the Chair of WaterAid UK, and a Senior Adviser to G3, and to Chatham House.
He is also a member of the International Chamber of Commerce UK Governing Body, the Advisory Board of Uria Menendez, and is the Chair of the HighTide Theatre and is a member of the Development Committee of the National Gallery.
He is Chairman of the trustees of the Economist Trust.
He was appointed to the Board in August 2008.
Richard Cotton, Non-Executive Director, headed the real estate corporate finance team at JP Morgan Cazenove until April 2009, and subsequent to that was a Managing Director of Forum Partners.
Richard is currently the Senior Independent Director of Helical plc as well as a Member of the Commercial Development Advisory Group of Transport for London.
Richard joined the Board in July 2012, and is the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Georgina Harvey, Non-Executive Director, started her media career at Express Newspapers plc where she was appointed Advertising Director in 1994.
She joined IPC Media Ltd in 1995 and went on to form IPC Advertising in 1998, where she was Managing Director.
She was a member of the Board of IPC Media from 2000 and was Managing Director of the Regionals division of Trinity Mirror from 2005 to 2012, overseeing its transition to a digital platform.
She is currently a Non-Executive Director of William Hill plc and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee of McColl's Retail Group plc.
She joined the Board in July 2013 and is Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Dr Anna Keay, Non-Executive Director, has been CEO of the Landmark Trust since 2012, operating a portfolio of 200 historic buildings let for holidays.
She has a PhD from London University, starting her career at Historic Royal Palaces and from 2002 to 2012 she was Curatorial Director of English Heritage.
She was a trustee of Leeds Castle Foundation from 2009 to 2016.
She writes and broadcasts widely, presenting on history and buildings for Channel 4.
She is a member of the National Trust Collection and Interpretation Advisory Group and is a Governor and Chair of the Buildings and Projects Committee at Bedales School.
She joined the Board in March 2018.
Steve Johnson, Non-Executive Director, started his career at Bain in the 1980s before joining Asda in 1993, where he carried out a number of roles, culminating in Marketing Director.
He left Asda in 2000, to join GUS as a Sales & Marketing Director, departing in 2002 to take up his first CEO role at Focus DIY, where he remained until 2007.
He joined Woolworths as part of the final turnaround team in late 2008.
He has most recently been working as an operating executive for TPG, and was also the Executive Chairman of Dreams plc between July 2011 and October 2012.
He is currently Executive Chairman of Poundworld.
He joined the Board in September 2010.
Vince Niblett, Non-Executive Director, was the Global Managing Partner Audit for Deloitte.
He previously held a number of senior leadership roles within Deloitte including as a member of the UK Board of Partners and of the Global Executive Group and the UK Executive Group before his retirement from Deloitte in May 2015.
He was appointed to the Board in June 2017 and is the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Company Secretary and Bankers Financial advisers and stockbrokers Registered office Lloyds Bank plc J P Morgan Cazenove Shauna Beavis HSBC Bank plc Statutory Auditor 2 The Deans Aviva Commercial Finance Limited KPMG LLP Bridge Road M&G Investments Limited Chartered Accountant and Statutory Auditors Bagshot Solicitors Surrey Valuers CMS Cameron McKenna Nabarro Olswang LLP GU19 5AT Cushman & Wakefield LLP Lester Aldridge LLP Company Registration No.
03625199 Jones Lang LaSalle Slaughter and May 56
