Corporate Governance Report INTRODUCTION The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code that was issued in 2014 by the Financial Reporting Council the Code for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
The Board also takes account of the corporate governance guidelines of institutional shareholders and their representative bodies.
At Big Yellow, we aim to create a culture in which integrity, openness and fairness are rewarded.
We continue to review the composition of the Board to ensure that it has the appropriate skills, knowledge and balance for the effective stewardship of the Company.
The Board has overall responsibility for the manner in which the Company runs its affairs.
Statement of compliance with the Code Throughout the year ended 31 March 2018, the Company has been in compliance with the Code provisions set out in section 1 of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Statement about applying the principles of the Code The Company has applied the principles set out in the Code, including both the main principles and the supporting principles, by complying with the Code as reported above.
Further explanation of how the principles and supporting principles have been applied is set out below and in the Nominations Committee Report, the Remuneration Report and the Audit Committee Report.
LEADERSHIP The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Company within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
Chairman and Chief Executive The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive has been agreed by the Board and encompasses the following parameters: the Chairmans role is to provide continuity, experience, governance and strategic advice, while the Chief Executive provides leadership, drives the dayto-day operations of the business and works with the Chairman on overall strategy: the Chairman, working with the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, is viewed by investors as the ultimate steward of the business and the guardian of the interests of all the shareholders: the Board believes that the Chairman and the Chief Executive work together to provide effective and complementary stewardship: the Chairman: takes overall responsibility for the composition and capability of the Board: takes overall executive responsibility for the property development team: and consults regularly with the Chief Executive and is available on a flexible basis for providing advice, counsel and support to the Chief Executive.
the Chief Executive: manages the Executive Directors and the Groups day-to-day activities: prepares and presents to the Board strategic options for growth in shareholder value: sets the operating plans and budgets required to deliver agreed strategy: and ensures that the Group has in place appropriate risk management and control mechanisms.
The Directors believe it is essential for the Group to be led and controlled by an effective Board that provides entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of sound controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board is responsible for setting the Groups strategic aims, its values and standards and ensuring the necessary financial and human resources are in place to achieve its goals.
The Board ensures that its obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders are understood and met.
The Board also regularly reviews the performance of management.
EFFECTIVENESS Composition of the Board The Nominations Committee is responsible for reviewing the Board Composition, and makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Directors.
There are presently six independent Non-Executive Directors on the Board, with Richard Cotton being the Senior Independent Director.
The Company complies with the Combined Code in that at least half of The Board is comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors.
All of the Non-Executive Directors bring considerable knowledge, judgement and experience to Board deliberations.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Companys share option or bonus schemes and their service is non-pensionable.
The Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to communicate directly with Executive Directors between formal Board meetings.
The Non-Executive Directors meet at least once a year without the Executive Directors being present.
The Non-Executive Directors scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance.
They are required to satisfy themselves on the integrity of the financial information and that financial controls and systems of risk management are robust and defensible.
They are responsible for determining appropriate levels of remuneration for Executive Directors and have a prime role in appointing and, where necessary, removing Executive Directors, and in succession planning.
60 EFFECTIVENESS continued Composition of the Board continued The tenure of the independent Non-Executive Directors at 31 March 2018 is set out below: 0.1 Anna Keay 0.8 Vince Niblett 4.8 Georgina Harvey 5.8 Richard Cotton 7.6 Steve Johnson 9.7 Tim Clark 0 1 2 3 45 6 7 8 9 10 years Changes to the Board and its Committees Mark Richardson retired from the Board at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Vince Niblett was appointed to the Board in June 2017, succeeding Mark Richardson as Audit Committee Chairman.
The Board also appointed Anna Keay in March 2018 to serve as an independent Non-Executive Director.
Tim Clark has informed the Board of his decision to retire from the Board with effect from the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES Standing committees of the Board The Board has Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees, each of which has written terms of reference.
They deal clearly with the authorities and duties of each Committee and are formally reviewed annually.
Copies of these terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
Each of these Committees is comprised of Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company who are appointed by the Board on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee.
All of the Committees are authorised to obtain legal or other professional advice as necessary: to secure, where appropriate, the attendance of external advisers at its meetings and to seek information required from any employee of the Company in order to perform its duties.
The Chairman of each Committee reports the outcome of the meetings to the Board.
The Company Secretary is secretary to each Committee.
Attendance at meetings of the individual Directors at the Board Meetings that they were eligible to attend is shown in the table below: Director Position Number of meetings attended Tim Clark Non-Executive Director Richard Cotton Non-Executive Director James Gibson Chief Executive Officer Georgina Harvey Non-Executive Director Steve Johnson Non-Executive Director Anna Keay Non-Executive Director Adrian Lee Operations Director Vince Niblett Non-Executive Director Mark Richardson Non-Executive Director John Trotman Chief Financial Officer Nicholas Vetch Executive Chairman attended absent 61
