Corporate governance statement Chairs message Dear Shareholders On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Bodycotes Corporate Governance Statement for 2018.
The Board is mindful of the 2018 corporate governance code and changes in legislation introduced during the year and that are intended to encourage responsible corporate behaviour.
We understand that these changes are aimed at ensuring that in growing a business for the long-term interest of its shareholders, a board is mindful of the companys broader purpose and its responsibilities to a broader stakeholder group.
These changes also highlight the importance of ensuring that the Companys purpose, strategy, and values are fully aligned and clearly articulated.
The Annual Report provides some information on stakeholder and stakeholder engagement and we expect to report more fully on these matters in the 2019 Annual Report.
An Employee Advisory Committee chaired by one of our Non-Executive directors, Patrick Larmon, was introduced during 2018 and the first meeting has taken place.
A variety of topics were raised by employees at the meeting and these were presented directly to the Board.
A number of these are now in progress to be addressed.
The main Group-wide governance documents are our Core Values and the Code of Conduct, which set out the values and standards that we expect of our employees.
These documents, together with our policies, govern how we conduct our business and set the standards that drive performance.
Compliance training helps to enforce this.
Board oversight, reviews and audits form part of the monitoring and supervision process.
Risk processes are embedded and reviewed on an ongoing basis across the business.
The important governance developments at Bodycote over the last year are detailed in the governance reporting section below.
We are committed to conducting business responsibly.
By maintaining high standards of corporate governance we enhance performance underpinned by our business model.
Our approach to governance is set by the Board and our Executive Committee ensures that the approach is effectively implemented across the business.
Effective and robust governance remains central to the ongoing success of the Group.
My ambitions for the composition of the Board are to maintain and, where applicable, broaden the range of expertise, experience and diversity.
The Board continues to ensure that effective succession plans are in place.
I encourage all shareholders to attend the AGM, which will be held at our Macclesfield head office on 24 May 2019.
This event provides an excellent opportunity to meet the executive and independent Non-Executive directors.
A. C. Quinn Chair Board performance Key activities Strategic Leadership Governance and Risk Regularly discussing strategy at Board meetings during the year Reviewing the three year forecast and other factors to support the Viability Statement Receiving presentations from operational management on future strategic opportunities Reviewing Board and Committee effectiveness and directors conflicts of interest Considering potential acquisition opportunities and other strategic initiatives Reviewing terms of reference of all Committees Considering the proposal to open new Specialist Technologies Reviewing Health, Safety and Environmental updates at each facilities in the United States meeting Considering the 15-year contract with Rolls-Royce Reviewing principal financial and non-financial risks supported by the Audit Committee Considering the new heat treatment facility in Rotherham to support the aerospace and power generation markets Reviewing new corporate governance code and related legislation People and Succession Performance Monitoring Considering proposals on succession planning, when required, Approving the Groups strategy and budget for the Board Approving the Groups tax and dividend strategy Reviewing proposals on senior executive succession planning Recommending the 2018 final dividend, the 2018 special Considering the talent management programme and the need dividend and the 2018 interim dividend to develop the managers and executives for the future Reviewing and approving the Groups annual budget, interim Reviewing the structure, size, composition and diversity results and Annual Report of both the Board and its Committees supported by the Considering whether the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, Nomination Committee balanced and understandable Approving further three year terms as Non-Executive Directors Considering monthly operational reports from the Chief for Patrick Larmon and Ian Duncan Executive and Chief Financial Officer Induction programme for new Non-Executive Director and the Reviewing reports from the Chairs of the Audit, Nomination, Chair Remuneration and Finance Committees Approving capital expenditure proposals in excess of 4m Operation of the Code Taken together with the Report of the Audit Committee, the Report of the Nomination Committee and the Board report on remuneration presented on pages 52 to 77, this statement explains how Bodycote has applied the principles of good corporate governance as set out in the Code.
40 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2018 26332 14 March 2019 3:53 pm Proof 7 Bodycote AR2018 proof 6. indd 40 14 03 2019 15:55:39 Governance reporting Leadership The Board is responsible to shareholders for good corporate governance, setting the Groups strategic objectives, values and standards, and ensuring the necessary resources are in place to achieve the objectives.
The Board met on eight occasions during 2018, including a specific meeting to review the Groups long-term strategy.
The Board of directors comprises seven members, of whom five are Non-Executive directors and two are executive directors, led by the Groups part-time Non-Executive Chair, A. C. Quinn, who also chairs the Nomination Committee.
The Group Chief Executive is S. C. Harris and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is I.
B. Duncan, who also chairs the Audit Committee.
E. Lindqvist is Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
P. Larmon and L. Chahbazi are Non-Executive Directors.
Brief biographical details of all directors are given on pages 38 to 39.
During the year the Board visited a number of UK and overseas facilities, including sites in Germany and the USA.
Such events involved meetings with local management and the workforce to understand more clearly technical and operational performance in countries where Bodycote has a significant presence.
Shareholders The Chair key responsibilities Effective running of the Board Monitors progress of strategy and objectives Guidance to Executive Directors Safeguards the interests of shareholders The Board key responsibilities Oversight of the Groups strategy and the long-term success of the Groups business Employee Audit Nomination Remuneration Finance Advisory Chief Executive Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Responsible for running the Groups business, Monitors the Ensures an Determines Implementation of Assists the Board interfaces with shareholders integrity and effective Board remuneration treasury and tax as a workforce and analysts, and effectiveness of the that consists of policy and senior policies and, within engagement oversees health and Groups financial individuals with executives limits fide ned by mechanism and in safety as well as reporting and the correct balance remuneration the Board, understanding the environmental matters performance of of skills, knowledge packages to authorise capital views of audits and risks and experience expenditure employees and to allot shares Executive Committee Focus on the development and implementation of the Groups strategy, financial structure, organisational development and policies as well as review of financial performance The SHE and Risk Committee reports to the Executive Committee.
In order that necessary actions can be taken promptly, a finance sub-committee, comprising the Chair, the Senior Independent Director, the Group Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer operates between the dates of scheduled Board meetings and is authorised to make decisions, within limits defined by the Board, in respect of certain finance, treasury, tax or investment matters.
com 26332 14 March 2019 3:53 pm Proof 7 Bodycote AR2018 proof 6. indd 41 14 03 2019 15:55:39 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Corporate governance statement continued Individual roles of the Board Chair Group Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer leadership and governance of the overall responsibility and leadership maintains strong financial Board and chairs the Nomination of the Group performance management and implements Committee effective financial controls stewardship of Group assets Board effectiveness provides financial and commercial plans and executes objectives and decision leadership, vision and ensures members receive accurate, strategies support timely and clear information on maintains a close working Board issues ensures the appropriateness of risk relationship with the Chair, ensuring management systems ensures, together with the Group effective dialogue with investors and Company Secretary, comprehensive stakeholders oversees all aspects of accounting induction of new directors finance operations including ensures the leadership and accounting policies and integrity of sets Board agenda, style and tone of development frameworks are financial data and external financial Board discussions developed to generate a positive reporting pipeline for future opportunities for ensures effective communication the Group responsible for corporate finance with shareholders functions, financial planning and has overall responsibility for the budget management Groups sustainability performance supports and advises the senior communicates the vision and values management team of the Group leads the development of manages the senior management investor relations strategy and team communications Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Directors Group Company Secretary acts as a sounding board for the provide constructive challenge secretary to the Board and its Chair committees help develop strategy serves as an intermediary for other ensures efficient information flows ensure financial controls and directors within the Board and its committees systems of risk management are and between senior management is available to meet shareholders if robust and defensible and Non-Executive directors they have concerns which they have determine appropriate levels of not been able to resolve through the facilitates induction of new directors remuneration for the executive normal channels and assists with training and directors development needs as required conducts an annual review of the monitor reporting of performance performance of the Chair and regularly updates the Board on convenes a meeting of the Noncorporate governance matters, scrutinise performance of Executive directors to discuss the legislative changes and regulatory management same regimes affecting the Group are available to meet with major ensures compliance with Board shareholders procedures co-ordinates external Board evaluation and conducts internal Board evaluation 42 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2018 26332 14 March 2019 3:53 pm Proof 7 Bodycote AR2018 proof 6. indd 42 14 03 2019 15:55:39 Board diversity Bodycote is a global business with operations in 23 countries and diversity is an integral part of how we do business.
The Nomination Committee considers diversity when making appointments to the Board, taking into account relevant skills, experience, knowledge, personality, ethnicity and gender.
Our prime responsibility, however, is the strength of the Board and our overriding aim in any new appointment must always be to select the best candidate.
The Nominations Committee also considers capability and capacity to commit the necessary time to the role in its recommendation to the Board.
The intention is to appoint the most suitable qualified candidate to complement and balance the current skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and who will be best able to help lead the Company in its long-term strategy.
The Nomination Committee is advised by international search companies, who have been briefed on our diversity policy and are required to reflect the policy in the long list submitted to the Committee.
We appointed A. C. Quinn on 1 January 2018 as part of our Board refreshment replacing A. M. Thomson, who retired on 31 December 2017 as Chairman of the Board.
L. Chahbazi was appointed Non-Executive director effective 1 January 2018.
The Board currently comprises two executive directors, four Non-Executive directors and a Non-Executive Chair.
As of 2018 female representation on our Board is 43% 2017: 17%.
Females represent 19% 2017: 19% of our total workforce.
Whilst we are above the 33% by 2020 voluntary target recommended by the Hampton-Alexander review, we continue to believe it is difficult to set targets or timescales for increasing the proportion of women, or any other minority group, on our Board and do not propose to do so.
We will increase female and or other minority representation on the Board if appropriate candidates are available when Board vacancies arise.
The Corporate responsibility and sustainability report contains further details regarding the male and female representation within the Group, including Board representation.
Board by T enure 6 4 3 1 1 Anne Quinn Lili Chahbazi Patrick Larmon Eva Lindqvist Ian Duncan Tenure in years Board by Gender 60% 40% 20% Male Female Board evaluation The Board has undertaken its third external Board Evaluation during 2018.
Following a review of proposals from external providers, the Board appointed Independent Audit to facilitate a review of its effectiveness.
The review was undertaken by Catherine Stalker and Veronica Haidar.
Neither of them or Independent Audit have any connection with Bodycote.
The main steps of the process were: Document review one set of Board and Committee papers to understand the Board in context and to assess the way information is communicated Interviews with all Board members, the Group Company Secretary and the Group Head of Risk Observation the Board and a Committee were observed in action to see how information is used, the style of discussions and how the Board and management work together.
Report and presentation the draft report was discussed with the Chair prior to its finalisation and the findings presented at the December Board meeting 43 Stock code: BOY www.
com 26332 14 March 2019 3:53 pm Proof 7 Bodycote AR2018 proof 6. indd 43 14 03 2019 15:55:40 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Corporate governance statement continued The review looked at boardroom dynamics, strategic focus, corporate responsibility, risk oversight, people and culture, secretariat, organisation and chairing of Board and Committee meetings.
The results of the evaluation were considered by the Board at its meeting in December 2018.
The directors discussed the recommendations and considered how they will take them forward.
Some of the topics touched were succession planning, longer-term strategy for safety as well as minor changes to meeting organisation.
The Board is considered to not only be operating well in its oversight role, but also providing valuable input into the strategic development of the Group.
NEDs and Executive Directors engage in a cooperative and constructive relationship and the atmosphere in the boardroom is collegiate with a strong sense of shared values and transparency in discussions.
The overall conclusion is that the Board and committees are well chaired and high governance standards have been adopted.
It is apparent that the Executive is being strongly challenged by the non-executives when appropriate.
As in previous years, the Chair has assessed the performance of each Board member by conducting individual interviews and we can confirm that all directors continue to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to their roles.
The Executive Directors Messrs S. C. Harris and D. Yates will be appraised in March 2019.
Overboarding At our AGM in 2017, Bodycote received a high number of votes against the re-election of Eva Lindqvist.
Eva has reviewed her directorships and during 2018 these were reduced to five including Bodycote.
Independence of Non-Executive directors The Board considers that P. Larmon, E. Lindqvist, I.
B. Duncan and L. Chahbazi are all independent for the purposes of the Code.
The Chair was considered independent upon appointment.
Commitment Attendance of directors at regular scheduled meetings of the Board and its Committees is shown in the table below: Audit Nomination Remuneration Meetings held during the year Board Committee Committee Committee 8 6 2 6 Executive Directors Meetings attended Meetings attended Meetings attended Meetings attended Anne C. Quinn n a n a Stephen Harris n a n a n a Dominique Yates n a n a n a Non-Executive directors Eva Lindqvist Ian Duncan Patrick Larmon Lili Chahbazi All directors attended the maximum number of Board, Audit and Nomination Committee meetings that they were scheduled to attend.
Nonmembers A. C. Quinn, S. C. Harris, D. Yates attended by invitation some parts of the meetings of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Proposals for re-election The Board decided, in line with the Code, that all directors will retire annually and, other than in the case of any director who has decided to stand down from the Board, will offer themselves for re-election at the AGM.
Accordingly, A. C. Quinn, S. C. Harris, E. Lindqvist, P. Larmon, I.
B. Duncan, D. Yates and L. Chahbazi will stand for re-election at the AGM in May 2019.
The Board recommends to shareholders that they re-elect all the directors.
In accordance with the recommendations of the Code, Board members will serve for a period of six years which may be extended in certain circumstances.
The performance of each director was evaluated as indicated above and the Board confirms in respect of each that their performance continues to be effective and that each continues to demonstrate commitment to his or her respective role.
44 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2018 26332 14 March 2019 5:41 pm Proof 7 Bodycote AR2018.
indd 44 14 03 2019 17:42:39 Induction All new directors are subject to a tailored induction programme covering a diverse range of topics including trading, investor relations, organisational and legal matters as well as visits to operational sites.
They also meet all other directors and senior executives.
This facilitates their understanding of the Group and the key drivers of business performance.
Training The Board receives training via ad hoc presentations and papers from advisers and the Group Company Secretary.
External periodic training on important topics takes place and during the year the directors received training on the new requirements in the 2018 Corporate Governance Code, updates on IA, ISS and other voting guidelines, GDPR, The Modern Slavery Act, gender diversity, guidance on strategic report, an economist briefing and other areas of focus for 2018 19.
Other opportunities for ongoing development and support are: a programme of plant site visits throughout the year: reviews with the Chair to identify any training and development needs: advice on governance, relevant legislative changes affecting the business or their duties from the Company Secretary: access to independent professional advice at the Companys expense: and participation in the training and guidance programme for boards and directors offered at the Deloitte Academy.
Succession planning Succession planning ensures that appropriate senior executive leadership resources are in place to achieve Bodycotes strategic objectives.
The plans are reviewed annually by the Nomination Committee.
The Board further develops its knowledge and gains greater visibility of executive talent and management succession by visiting the Groups sites and meeting with key talent and senior executives.
Core values The Board acknowledges its responsibility for determining and maintaining the Groups values and ensures these are reflected in the business practices.
This is monitored by the Board at regular intervals.
Further details are available on page 34.
Compliance reporting In respect of the financial year 2018, Bodycotes obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules is to prepare a corporate governance statement with reference to the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the FRC in April 2016 the Code.
In respect of the year ended 31 December 2018, Bodycote has complied with the provisions of the Code with the exception of provisions E. 1.1.
Regarding E. 1.1, the Board has, in recent years, taken the view that generally it is the responsibility of the Group Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer to manage relationships with institutional investors.
The Chair also meets institutional investors to discuss overall strategy, governance and any concerns that shareholders may have.
Only where these more usual channels of communication have failed would the Board expect the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director SID or other Non-Executive directors to become involved, notwithstanding that the Code specifies attendance of the SID at meetings with major shareholders.
The SID has contacted major shareholders and offered to facilitate meetings with them should they have any concerns they wish to discuss.
Regular feedback from the Groups advisers on investor meetings and results presentations is circulated to all directors.
During the year the Chair met with shareholders to discuss governance matters.
Apart from these distinct areas, Bodycote was in compliance with the provisions of the 2016 Code throughout 2018.
Matters reserved for the Board were reviewed during the year and updated where required.
Certain defined powers and issues reserved for the Board to decide are, inter alia: Strategy: Approval of financial statements and circulars: Capital projects, acquisitions and disposals: Annual budgets: Directors appointments, service agreements, remuneration and succession planning: Policies for financial statements, treasury, safety, health and environment, donations: Committees terms of reference: Board and committee Chairs and membership: Investments: Equity and bank financing: Internal control and risk management: Corporate governance: Key external and internal appointments: and Employee share incentives and pension arrangements.
In advance of Board meetings, directors are supplied with up-to-date information regarding the trading performance of each operating 45 Stock code: BOY www.
com 26332 14 March 2019 3:53 pm Proof 7 Bodycote AR2018 proof 6. indd 45 14 03 2019 15:55:42 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Corporate governance statement continued division and subdivision, in addition to the Groups overall financial position and its achievement against prior year results, budgets and forecasts.
They are also supplied with the latest available information on safety, health and environmental and risk management issues and details of the safety and health performance of the Group, and each division, in terms of severity and frequency rates for accidents at work.
Senior management from across the Group and advisers attend some of the meetings to provide updates.
The exposure to members of senior management from across the Group helps enhance the Boards understanding of the business, the implementation of strategy and the changing dynamics of the markets in which the Group operates.
Where required, a director may seek independent professional advice, the cost of which is reimbursed by the Group.
All directors have access to the Group Company Secretary and they may also address specific issues with the SID.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, all newly appointed directors must submit themselves for election.
All directors stand for yearly re-election.
Non-executive directors, including the Chair, are appointed for fixed terms not exceeding three years from the date of first election by shareholders, after which the appointment may be extended by mutual agreement.
A statement of the directors responsibilities is set out on page 78.
The Board also operates four committees.
These are the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Audit Committee and the Finance Committee.
All Non-Executive directors serve on each Board Committee.
Engagement with shareholders The Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer regularly talk with and meet institutional investors, both individually and collectively, and this has enabled institutional investors to increase their understanding of the Groups strategy and operating performance.
In addition, internet users are able to view up-to-date news on the Group and its share price via the Bodycote website at www.
Users of the website can access recent announcements and copies of results presentations and can enrol to hear live presentations.
On a regular basis, Bodycotes financial advisers, corporate brokers and financial public relations consultants provide the directors with opinion surveys from analysts and investing institutions following visits and meetings with the Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
The Chair and SID are available to discuss any issues not resolved by the Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
On specific issues, such as the review of remuneration packages, the Group has sought, and will continue to seek, the views of leading investors.
Pre-emption rights In line with best practice provisions in the Pre-Emption Group Statement of Principles, the Board confirms that it does not intend to issue more than 7.5% of the issued share capital of the Group on a non pre-emptive basis in any rolling three-year period.
Internal control and risk management The Board recognises that it is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and risk management.
The system in place has been developed to meet the guidance contained in the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial Business Reporting.
The system has been designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has established a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks, including risks arising out of Bodycotes corporate and social engagement.
The Boards monitoring covers all significant strategic, financial, operational and compliance risks.
It is based principally on reviewing reports from management and from Internal Audit IA to consider whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied or indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging these review responsibilities.
The Board believes that the Group maintains an effective system of internal controls and, in the view of the Board, no significant deficiencies have been identified in the system.
The system was in operation throughout 2018 and continues to operate up to the date of the approval of this report.
Key elements of the Groups system of internal control are as follows: The Group prepares a comprehensive annual budget which is closely monitored and updated quarterly.
The Groups authority matrix was reviewed and updated during 2018 and this clearly sets out authority limits for those with delegated responsibility and specifies what can only be decided with central approval.
The Board, with the assistance of EY, who provide co-sourced IA services, monitors the Groups internal control system.
IA reviews are conducted on the basis of a risk based plan approved annually by the Audit Committee.
This includes risk based visits to each division, shared service centres and facility.
The findings and recommendations from IA are reported on a regular basis to the Executive and Audit Committees.
An annual internal control self-assessment, with management certification, is undertaken by every Bodycote facility.
The assessment covers the effectiveness of key financial and compliance controls and was revised at the start of 2018 to include selected operational controls.
The results are validated by IA through spot checks and are reported to the Executive and Audit Committees.
Group Core Values and Group Policies including the Code of Conduct, Group Authority Matrix and Finance Policies are documented and are available to all employees via the Groups intranet system.
46 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2018 26332 14 March 2019 3:53 pm Proof 7 Bodycote AR2018 proof 6. indd 46 14 03 2019 15:55:42 The Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, President and Vice President of Finance for each division sign a letter of representation annually.
This is to confirm the adequacy of their systems of internal controls, their compliance with Group Core Values and Group Policies, relevant laws and regulations, and that they have reported any control weaknesses and actual, or attempted, frauds or thefts through the Groups assurance processes.
A Group-wide risk register and assurance map is maintained throughout the year to identify the Groups key strategic and operational risks.
Any changes to these risks during the year are promptly reported to the Executive Committee and the Board.
During 2018, in compliance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, management performed a specific assessment of its risk management processes for the purpose of this Annual Report.
Managements assessment, which has been reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board, included a review of the Groups key strategic and operational risks.
The review was based on work performed by the Group Head of Risk and the Groups Risk and SHE Committee by means of workshops, interviews, investigations and by reviewing departmental or divisional risk registers.
These risks have been reviewed throughout the year and no new risks have been added in 2018.
The two risks added in 2017, Environmental and Capital Projects, have been subject to specific Board reviews during 2018.
Further information regarding the ways in which the principal business risks and uncertainties affecting the Group are managed is shown on pages 29 to 33.
By order of the Board: U. S. Ball Group Company Secretary 8 March 2019 Springwood Court Springwood Close Tytherington Business Park Macclesfield Cheshire SK10 2XF 47 Stock code: BOY www.
com 26332 14 March 2019 3:53 pm Proof 7 Bodycote AR2018 proof 6. indd 47 14 03 2019 15:55:42 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
