Nomination Committee report The Committee continued to keep the composition of the Board under review during 2018, recommending a non-executive director for appointment to the Board and maintaining its concentration on wider succession planning.
Committee membership and meetings All members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors, with the exception of the Chairman of the Company.
Ian Tyler chaired the Committee during the year and the other members were Alastair Lyons until 23 May 2018, Chris Browne, Ralph Findlay, Nigel Keen, Mike Stansfield and Katherine Innes Ker from 9 October 2018.
Ian Tyler Date of Attendance Name appointment Role at meetings Committee Chairman Ian Tyler 29 11 2013 Chairman 6 6 Overview Alastair Lyons retired 23 05 18 01 10 2008 Member 3 3 During 2018, the Committee focused Chris Browne 01 09 2014 Member 6 6 forward on succession planning, continued to place emphasis on the knowledge, skills Ralph Findlay 07 04 2015 Member 6 6 and experience available to the Board Nigel Keen 15 11 2016 Member 6 6 amongst the non-executive, and reviewed Mike Stansfield 28 11 2017 Member 6 6 and tested plans for senior executive succession below the Board, all against the Katherine Innes Ker 09 10 2018 Member 1 1 context of challenges and opportunities ahead and the considerable progress being In preparation for the new version of the The Committee met six times in 2018, made by the Group.
UK Corporate Governance Code a diversity with focus in the early part of the year and inclusion policy was reviewed and Board composition has continued to be being placed on the recruitment of a approved, noting the actions to be put in a key consideration and the search for new non-executive director and the place supporting the policy and the broader a further non-executive director with formulation of executive succession challenges faced by the industry.
experience across a range of sectors, in planning.
Planning for the retirement of addition to housebuilding experience, A D Lyons at the 2018 AGM continued For all meetings, papers and supporting culminated in Katherine Innes Ker with the review of a non-executive director documentation were circulated in advance, joining the Board in October 2018. competency matrix and a recommendation allowing proper consideration of matters This appointment increases diversity on to the Board on the appointment of a for discussion.
The Chief Executive attended the Board and widens the range of views new Chairman Committee.
The nonsix meetings and the Group Finance Director available in Board debate and the input to executive director recruitment was attended three meetings, both by invitation.
The Committee progressed and monitored and culminated The Group Company Secretary acts as reviewed and approved a policy on diversity in a recommendation to the Board that secretary to the Committee.
and inclusion towards the end Katherine Innes Ker, who has extensive of 2018. non-executive experience including in Responsibilities and terms housebuilding, be appointed.
The Committee will continue to develop and of reference review progress with succession planning Planning for senior executive succession The key responsibilities of the Committee: and monitor the balance and composition was further developed mid-year and was Reviewing the structure, size and of the Board during 2019 as the Group presented to the Committee by the Head of composition of the Board including skills, makes further progress.
Information on the HR for the level below the Board.
knowledge, experience and diversity and Boards skillset is set out on pages 62 to 63, This planning was reviewed and tested making recommendations to the Board.
and it was agreed that it be regularly revisited.
Further discussion took place Considering succession planning towards the end of 2018 on executive for directors and senior executives, director succession planning.
taking account of the challenges and opportunities facing the Company and the skills and expertise needed in the future.
| 106 Our governance Our governance Monitoring the leadership needs of the Company and leading the process for A summary of the Committees activities during 2018 follows: Board appointments, ensuring they are Keeping the structure, size and composition of the Board under review and, having conducted on merit, against objective concluded that the Board balance, composition and diversity should be supplemented criteria, including diversity and inclusion, by an additional non-executive director with strong non-executive experience, using the services of an appropriate commencing the recruitment.
Running the recruitment process for a new non-executive director, using objective Making recommendations to the Board, criteria and the external search services of The Zygos Partnership who have no other including on the re-appointment of nonconnection with the Company, culminating in a recommendation of appointment executive directors, the re-election of to the Board.
directors at the AGM, and membership of Considering and developing succession planning for the executive directors, with a the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
view to future requirements, challenges and opportunities.
The Committee also reviews the results of Reviewing succession planning for senior executives below the Board, including a the Board performance evaluation relating presentation from the Head of HR on the status of planning and future development.
to the composition of the Board.
External Recommending the appointment of Nigel Keen as Chairman of the Remuneration legal or other independent professional Committee with effect from the conclusion of the 2018 AGM.
advice can be obtained at the Companys expense and this facility was not utilised Reviewing and approving a diversity and inclusion policy, together with measures during the year.
The Committees terms of designed to launch and embed the policy throughout the Group.
reference are available on the Companys Recommending the directors to stand for re-election at the 2018 AGM in accordance website www.
co. uk with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Approving the Nomination Committee report for the 2018 Annual Report.
Main activities during the year Reviewing the Committees terms of reference.
The main activities during the early part of 2018 were focused on the recruitment of a new non-executive director and the The policy expresses how the Board seeks With the retirement of A D Lyons at a mix of talented people with a range of development of succession planning for the the 2018 AGM, after considering the experience, skills, vision and independence, executive directors, including alternatives competencies of the non-executive directors recognising the importance of a blend approaches and options for the future.
and their existing commitments, the of abilities, views and social and ethnic A non-executive competency matrix Committee recommended to the Board backgrounds to enable it, as the objective was prepared and agreed and a search that Nigel Keen be appointed Chairman of of the policy, to function effectively.
initiated for an experienced non-executive the Remuneration Committee with effect In implementing the policy, a high emphasis director.
The Committee monitored the from its conclusion.
is being placed on ensuring the development search into the second half of 2018 before Non-executive directors service contracts of diversity in senior management roles recommending the appointment of Katherine are renewed on an annual basis following across the Group by strengthening the talent Innes Ker.
Katherines appointment took the conclusion of a second three year pipeline and through internal promotion and place with effect from 9 October 2018. term, subject to satisfactory performance recruitment.
The policy is being implemented A formal, comprehensive and tailored and there being no need to re-balance the by circulation throughout the Group, regular induction is ongoing for Katherine, including Board, with the third year of the third communication, and publication on the visits to the regional offices, site visits, term extending until the subsequent AGM.
meetings with senior management, and Having served for three years, a briefings on specific topics.
Performance evaluation recommendation was made to the Board Planning for senior executive succession that the service contract for Ralph Findlay An evaluation of the performance of the was further developed in the middle of be renewed for a second three year term.
Committee was completed as part of the 2018, including for senior executives This decision followed rigorous review, internal formal performance evaluation below the Board, which was presented including the contribution, performance and of the Board, completed at the begining to the Committee by the Head of HR, of 2019.
The Committee was found to commitment of Ralph, his appointment as be effective and had expanded its scope, with a summary and analysis being tested the Senior Independent Director, and the and challenged and it being agreed but should continue to develop deeper composition of the Board as a whole.
consideration of board composition relative that progress be kept under review.
The Nomination Committee reviewed and to strategy and succession planning, Planning for senior executive succession approved a new diversity and inclusion policy including diversity.
continued towards the end of the year and in December 2018 which is designed to a series of actions and steps were agreed, promote and support the development of together with responsibilities, resulting a diverse and inclusive culture, both in the in a clear direction in the context of the Ian Tyler boardroom and across the Group.
Groups strategy and anticipated future Chairman of the Nomination Committee challenges and opportunities.
28 February 2019 | Bovis Homes Group PLC 107
