Corporate governance report 2018 was a year of signi cant progress and signalled a step change for the Group in terms of operational and financial performance.
We are reclaiming our position as a leading housebuilder, having transformed our customer service, and returned to consistently delivering quality homes to satis ed customers.
We also launched a new housing range and made signi cant strides in improving our operational capabilities, including investing in people and systems to deliver sustainable success Ian Tyler into the future.
Chairman Our people, subcontractors and suppliers 2018 was also notable for the significant Rebuilding trust continues to be vitally have worked tirelessly to put the Group back operational improvements that have been important in the corporate world and high on track, achieving key objectives in a shorter made, investing in our people and in systems standards of corporate governance help to timeframe than could have been expected.
to allow them to work and contribute more underpin this work.
The Board is delighted with this progress effectively and the Group to function The Board believes that the right culture and and I would like to thank them for cost efficiently.
values play a pivotal role in delivering long their commitment.
The full benefit of these investments will start term success and require continuous focus, In 2018 the Group built on the foundations to bear fruit in 2019 and it is highly positive while the right standards and behaviours that the Group is, once again, seen as an enable the Board to function effectively laid in 2017, when it set out its medium term targets to be achieved by 2020. organisation that quality people want to join.
in supporting and overseeing senior management as they reinforce the Groups These targets were designed to return Bovis Among the many achievements in the year, Homes to being a leading UK housebuilder, culture and values.
We continue with our the programme of balance sheet optimisation improved induction process for all new staff, whilst significantly improving returns to has been a significant success, releasing cash our shareholders.
The progress made against leadership sessions, and the publicising of our from the balance sheet and seeing one of the whistleblowing reporting line, designed to these targets in 2018 has been significant, Groups larger investments placed into a with several already achieved and the Group promote transparency and accountability.
joint venture with a Housing Association.
As noted above, I and the other nonentering 2019 with a clear direction and This programme was demanding and energised to achieve further progress.
executive directors are making personal visits required a high level of commitment from to the regions and sites and holding one to our staff and is directly benefiting Strong leadership has played its part and our one meetings with staff.
Chief Executive has continued to provide shareholders in releasing cash for special dividend payments, the first of which was The Board completed an internal formal a driven hands on operational focus, regularly visiting development sites.
I also made in November 2018. evaluation of its 2018 performance at the beginning of 2019, which followed the made a series of visits to the regions and their Looking ahead, 2019 is set to be an sites during 2018, talking to Division staff, external independent evaluation carried out exciting year for many reasons, including for 2017.
The process adopted has allowed the regional MDs, their teams, and our hard valued customers moving into our new working site staff and sub-contractors.
the Board to assess performance in 2018 and Phoenix range homes for the first time, the progress with the action plan arising from A programme of regional office and site visits and the creation of a land-led Partnership the 2017 external evaluation, whilst looking was also commenced for the non-executive Housing division, building on our improved forward to areas for further development relationships with Housing Associations as directors to better understand the Groups in 2019.
The Board is performing effectively operations and to test the culture and observe key repeat customers, which will help address and the action plan for 2019 has been the shortage in affordable homes.
An independent culture designed to refine many of the areas already review completed during the year further in progress and at the same time focus on The Board has ultimate responsibility for allowed the Board to assess progress in forthcoming challenges and opportunities.
the success of the Company and my task embedding the Groups values of Integrity, The development of structured succession focuses on ensuring that it provides strong Quality and Caring and to temperature check planning will be continued, engagement strategic leadership, monitors the delivery of whether our culture is developing at the right with shareholders will be further developed, strategic priorities and objectives and rises pace for an organisation of our size.
and focus on the monitoring of culture will to challenges along the way, whilst keeping be refined.
Further information is provided an eye on the principal risks.
In doing so, on pages 74 to 75. the Board must ensure that it upholds the highest standards of integrity and promotes effective relationships, communication, openness and accountability in the boardroom, throughout the business and externally with stakeholders.
| 64 Our governance Our governance The main activities of the Board during 2018 are provided in detail in the report and, in addition to regular activities, included three visits to the regions, an in-depth review of strategy at the annual strategy day, a review of succession planning, and receiving reviews and presentations on a range of topics from senior management and the NHBC.
Members of the Board also attended a Capital Markets Day in May 2018 and provided a corporate governance presentation for major shareholders in October 2018.
Our corporate governance practices remain aligned with the version of the UK Corporate Governance Code applicable to our 2018 financial year.
As part of preparations for the new version of the Code, the Board via the Nomination Committee reviewed and approved a new diversity and inclusion policy in December 2018 to promote and support a diverse and inclusive culture, supported by our values, both in the boardroom and across the Group.
I would like to thank my colleagues on the Board for their collective support and strong individual contributions during a progressive and successful year in 2018.
I was delighted to welcome Katherine Innes Ker as a non-executive director in October 2018, bringing as she does strong experience as a non-executive director across a range of sectors, in addition to housebuilding experience, which strengthen the Board.
We value dialogue with all our shareholders, institutional and retail, and have maintained ongoing engagement with our major shareholders during 2018.
The Board has been very cognizant of the vote on the directors remuneration report at the 2018 AGM and was disappointed with the outcome, having made significant efforts to engage with shareholders, institutions and proxy advisors beforehand.
Following the vote, we have sought to better understand the rationale for the dissent and, as noted above, held a corporate governance presentation in October 2018, which was well attended by major shareholders, and allowed discussion to further explore and answer specific concerns.
Looking forward, our 2019 AGM will be held on 22 May 2019 and you will find the Notice at the end of this Annual Report.
This report has been approved by the Board and I can confirm that your Company was compliant with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code during 2018.
Ian Tyler Chairman || Bovis Homes Group PLC Bovis Homes Group PLC 65 65 Corporate governance report Mildenhall, Sherborne | 66 Our governance Strategic report | Business over Our governance view Corporate governance report Introduction This report sets out the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council publicly available at www.
uk and also describes how the governance framework, explained in our corporate governance policy guidelines, available on the Companys website bovishomesgroup.
co. uk investors corporate-governance, is applied.
The Board is pleased to report that the Company has, throughout 2018, complied with and applied the provisions of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code.
| Bovis Homes Group PLC 67 T Corpor itle ate governance report These activities are carried out within finance support.
The Divisions report Our leadership structure an approved risk appetite and with through the Divisonal Chairmen to the The Board is responsible to the regular monitoring of internal controls CEO and the ELT.
Companys shareholders for the and risk management.
long-term success of the Group The Group currently has seven regions, and its values, strategy, business The Board has a schedule of matters each operating within a specified reserved for its decision, which is reviewed geography and run by a regional board model and governance.
and approved on an annual basis.
A copy comprising directors responsible for It sets and reaffirms the Groups culture, is available on the Companys website specific disciplines.
Standardised operating provides leadership and direction and www.
co. uk investors procedures and systems have been determines strategy and strategic corporate-governance.
adopted and their implementation and objectives.
The implementation of strategy consistent application is monitored to Below the Board, the Executive Leadership is monitored and business plans, budgets provide an effective method of operating Team ELT is responsible for the day and forecasts are reviewed and challenged, across the Group, which reduces risk and to day operations of the Group and the applying independent judgement via the supports the delivery of forecast outcomes.
CEO and Group Finance Director report in non-executive directors.
The regional MDs report in to the to the Board, with the other members of Divisonal Chairmen.
The monitoring of overall performance and the ELT attending meetings and reporting progress with operations against business on operations within their remit at various Group functions provide support to the plans, using KPIs and coupled with site and points during the year.
Board, the executive directors, the ELT, regional office visits, allows the Board to the Divisions and the regions.
In total, the Operations are managed in two Divisions, test the collective capabilities of the Group leadership team comprises approximately which are responsible for the collective and its ability to deliver quality homes, on 85 members of staff.
The leadership and management of the regions within their time and on budget to satisfied customers.
governance structure in 2018 and for 2019 operating areas.
Division staff provide is shown below.
leadership, operational direction and Bovis Homes Group PLC Board Responsible for leadership, strategy, values and governance Audit Committee Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Oversees financial Reviews balance and statements and reporting Sets and reviews composition of the Board remuneration policy Monitors internal controls Maintains focus on Ex Execu ecutiv tive e Leader Leadershi ship T p Team eam E ELT LT and risk management Determines remuneration succession planning and incentives of the Monitors reporting and Leads recruitment process Bovis Homes Limited Board executive directors and effectiveness of external for the Board the Chairman Responsible for the operations of the Group and internal auditors Recommends appointment Sets performance criteria of directors for incentive plans Sets diversity policy West Division board East Division board Responsible for the operational Responsible for the operational management of the East Division management of the West Division Northern Home Mercia region West Midlands South East region Counties region board region board board board Western region South West Southern Counties board region board region board | 68 Our governance Strategic report | Business over Our governance view These visits also provide opportunity for the housebuilding experience to the Board.
Our culture non-executives to engage in a way The provision of a comprehensive and The Groups values have been defined as that models and reinforces the Groups tailored induction is ongoing for Katherine Integrity, Quality and Caring.
We arrived values, supporting the message from and includes site visits, visits to the regional at our values after consultation with executive management.
offices, meetings with senior management, employees and other stakeholders, ensuring and briefings on specific topics.
that they are a natural fit with what Bovis Together with KPIs and other data, Homes is all about.
All staff receive an this engagement allows the Board to Biographical details for the directors are induction which explains the importance of periodically assess whether culture is as provided on pages 62 to 63.
Their dates of culture, how our values feed through into expected and reflects that set by the Board appointment, length of service to the end the right behaviours, and our expectations and to influence where necessary.
As an of 2018 and attendance at Board meetings of them as they go about their daily additional step in 2018, a culture review are shown below.
The Board held eight working lives.
Our leadership teams model was completed in the middle of the year main board meetings and all members our values, our internal messaging to staff by Grant Thornton and Internal Audit to attended the AGM and a strategy day in reflects them, and all staff presentations further understand the extent which the accordance with its scheduled calendar and events carry reminders of who we Groups culture was embedding.
are and how we go about what we do.
concluded that culture was positioned as We provide support to staff to underpin The Board has a broad range of expertise expected, given the considerable change the right behaviours, including an open and experience and a strong blend of that had taken place in the Group, and was and accessible management style, people skills, which has allowed it to perform consistent with other large businesses that functions which provide advice when effectively during a period of significant had been through a similar turnaround.
needed, and our whistleblowing reporting forward progress for the business.
line, which allows concerns to be raised.
The non-executive Chairman brings a strong The Board track record of commercial experience in During the majority of the year the Board The Board maintains a focus on culture construction and infrastructure related comprised the non-executive Chairman, and uses discussion in Board meetings industries, which benefit the Group in five independent non-executive and two to hear the views of senior management the delivery of its strategy and oversight of executive directors.
on the continuing progress in embedding its business plans and performance.
Coupled with visits to regional Ralph Findlay, Senior Independent Director, Alastair Lyons retired from the Board at offices and sites, which allow the directors has strong commercial, financial and the 2018 AGM, having completed nine to talk to staff at all levels and hear general management expertise from a years service since his first election at an their views, the Board can get a real consumer facing industry and Chris Browne AGM.
Katherine Innes Ker was appointed sense of how our culture is developing brings a strong commercial and operational an independent non-executive director on and the underlying behaviours and background, again from a consumer 9 October 2018, returning the number of attitudes being portrayed.
non-executives to five and bringing further Date of Tenure in Attendance at The Board keeps a focus Name appointment Current role current role meetings on culture, supporting the Ian Tyler 29 11 13 Chairman 5.1 years 8 8 message from executive management Chris Browne 01 09 14 Non-executive 4.3 years 8 8 Ralph Findlay 07 04 15 Non-executive 3.75 years 8 8 Nigel Keen 15 11 16 Non-executive 2.1 years 8 8 Mike Stansfield 28 11 17 Non-executive 1.1 years 8 8 Directors names and Katherine Innes Ker 09 10 18 Non-executive 0.25 years 2 2 functions are listed on pages 62 to 63 Greg Fitzgerald 18 04 17 Chief Executive 1.75 years 8 8 Notice of the 2019 Annual General Meeting Earl Sibley 16 04 15 Group Finance Director 3.75 years 8 8 pages 154 to 159 || Bovis Homes Group PLC Bovis Homes Group PLC 69 69 Corporate governance report Nigel Keen has an in-depth construction provide details explaining why their senior management report in to the level and property background and experience individual contributions are and continue below the Board.
A high emphasis is also of running property strategy and portfolios, to be important for the Groups long term being placed on ensuring the development once again from a consumer facing sustainable success.
of diversity in senior management roles industry, and Mike Stansfield brings a across the Group by strengthening the In accordance with the Companies Act strong housebuilding industry background, talent pipeline and through internal 2006 and as permitted by the Companys spanning three decades.
Katherine Innes promotion and recruitment.
There are no Articles of Association, the Board has Ker is a highly experienced non-executive particular considerations, applicable to the authorised actual and potential conflicts director across a range of sectors and Board or senior management, concerning of interest and conflicts are reviewed has extensive experience of the City, in aspects such as age, gender, or educational annually.
The Board is satisfied that powers addition to housebuilding experience.
and professional backgrounds, beyond to authorise actual and potential conflicts the requirement for qualified professional The five non-executive directors have are operating effectively.
staff to hold certain positions.
All staff been determined by the Board to be received diversity and inclusion training The Board, via the Nomination Committee, independent in character and judgement during 2018 and the policy is being reviewed and approved a new diversity with no relationships or circumstances implemented by circulation throughout and inclusion policy in December 2018 likely to affect, or that could appear to the Group and publication on the Groups to promote and support a diverse and affect, their judgement.
website and has incorporated the Groups inclusive culture, supported by our long-standing equal opportunities policy.
All the directors will be offering themselves values, both in the boardroom and Gender metrics are contained in the for re-election at the forthcoming AGM, across the Group.
The Board seeks a corporate social responsibility report on in accordance with the Code.
The Board mix of talented people with a range of page 42. strongly supports all the individual experience, skills, vision and independence, directors re-elections, taking account of recognising the importance of a blend All the directors have service agreements the balance of skills and expertise and the of abilities, views and social and ethnic or contracts and the details are set out in performance of the Board as a whole.
backgrounds to enable it, as the objective the current remuneration policy, available The directors biographies provided on of the policy, to function effectively.
investors pages 62 to 63 and the notes to the The Board has two female non-executive corporate-governance.
AGM Notice on pages 154 to 159 together directors and three female members of The Boards site visit to the Groups Wellington development A tour of the construction site was conducted by the site In October 2018, the Board visited Mercia team, which provided the opportunity for discussion and regions Haygate Fields development in feedback on progress with the build programme, specific Wellington, Shropshire.
elements of the development, which features mature tree preservation, training and support to site teams, welfare, and Our Haygate Fields development opened in May 2018 and health and safety performance.
is located on the edge of the Shropshire market town of Wellington, just a few miles from the famous landmark, Viewing of the sales office was then coupled with discussion The Wrekin.
Wellington offers a range of shops, schools and with regional management and site and sales staff on the leisure facilities and is a short drive from the M54, which local market, production, sales rates and customer satisfaction, provides easy commuting to Telford and Shrewsbury.
followed by a tour and inspection of the show homes.
The development features 3, 4 and 5 bedroom homes, to Discussion summarising the sites overall performance and include those from our new Pheonix housing range.
objectives for 2018 and 2019 concluded the visit.
| 70 Our governance Our governance Board meetings The main activities at Board meetings in 2018 were as follows: and main activities the Chief Executive provided reports reviewed progress with margin There were eight scheduled meetings and updates spanning the Groups initiatives and received a presentation during 2018. activities, including progress with on the launch of the Groups new implementation of the strategy, Phoenix housing range.
The Board maintains and reviews a customer satisfaction, health and rolling agenda plan, which ensures a presentation was given by the safety, HR matters, investor feedback, that all key issues and matters reserved NHBC, which provided feedback on trading performance, land acquisitions to the Board are discussed at the the Groups performance across a sales, affordable housing, partappropriate time, and any requirement range of KPIs, followed by a question exchange, and progress with key for additional meetings is identified by and answer session.
the Chairman, in conjunction with the the 2017 results and the 2018 interim Chief Executive, Group Finance Director the Group Finance Director presented results were reviewed and approved, and Company Secretary.
the 2018 Budget for approval and including release to the London provided a regular finance report.
The Chairman reviews meeting Stock Exchange.
The finance report includes, at various agendas with the Chief Executive and times, rolling forecasts, Group KPIs, actions arising from the 2017 Company Secretary and the Company budgets, results, projections, leading Board performance evaluation were Secretary maintains a rolling schedule market indicators, analyst consensus progressed and monitored and the of matters arising, which tracks data, an analysis of share price approach to the internal formal progress with actions and is reviewed valuation and movements, as well evaluation for 2018 was approved and at each meeting.
as progress reports from disciplines the evaluation process commenced.
reporting to the Group Finance The Board receives a comprehensive Director and project updates.
succession planning reviews were electronic meeting pack a week in presented by the Head of HR for the advance of each meeting plus other the Budget for 2019 was the ELT and for the leadership team below information required to enable it to subject of debate, challenge and the ELT.
conducted in an atmosphere of open progress with the recruitment of and free flowing discussion and debate, the Divisional Chairmen presented on a new non-executive director was with a questioning approach which the performance of their Divisions and monitored, appointing Katherine Innes enables the non-executive directors explained the progress made across Ker with effect from 9 October 2018. to challenge and test the strategy, the range of their operations and progress made with implementation the challenges experienced and assessed the requirements of the new and delivery, and proposals put forward lying ahead.
UK Corporate Governance Code by the executive directors.
Members of and put in place and monitored an the Board received regular reports the ELT attended a number of meetings action plan.
covering health and safety and in 2018 and this widens debate and discussed performance against increases the range of views and input considered the possible impact of KPIs, areas for improvement and available to the non-executive directors.
Brexit on the Groups activities.
monitored actions taken, including the effectiveness of engagement with site teams and subcontractors.
a presentation on the new approach to behavioural health and safety was also received and discussed.
monitored customer satisfaction performance and HBF survey scores, including a presentation from the Group Customer Experience Director.
The Board also reviewed principal risks and mitigation, regulatory announcements, major shareholdings, litigation, the process for the longer-term viability statement, and plans for the 2018 strategy day.
|| Bovis Homes Group PLC Bovis Homes Group PLC 71 71 T Corpor itle ate governance report Two of eight scheduled meetings were The Board considers stakeholders in its Feedback from customers is monitored held in London and six were held in the deliberations and takes into account the on a continual basis, both in terms of regions, providing opportunity to interact views of and feedback from shareholders, customer satisfaction and the HBF survey, with regional management teams, tour employees, subcontractors, suppliers, but also through feedback from sites, regional offices and active sites and and customers.
updates on individual cases, the Groups meet staff at all levels.
Three regional Homebuyers Panel, and input on the The Board held a Capital Markets Day for management teams provided presentations Groups product range.
major shareholders and analysts in May to the Board in informative open discussion 2018 at our Wootton site in Bedfordshire, The annual strategy day held in July and in question and answer sessions.
which illustrated the progress being made provided the Board with the opportunity These followed site visits to view by the Group, and the feedback was for an in-depth review of the strategy construction activities, show homes extremely positive.
Following the vote for the Group and progress with and sales offices.
All sessions concluded on the remuneration report at the 2018 implementation.
Brokers provided a with an evening meeting with regional AGM, the Board engaged with major presentation giving housing market management and members of the ELT, shareholders by holding a corporate context, before moving on to the allowing more informal discussion to take governance presentation on 2 October competitive and political landscape and place, including individual interaction with 2018, which the Chairman, Senior perceptions regarding UK housebuilders.
Independent Director and Chairman of An operational strategy update was the Remuneration Committee attended.
provided covering the range of the Groups The regional management Feedback from all those attending was activities, followed by sessions on people positive further information on this event and succession planning, long term capital teams presented to the is provided under Shareholder Engagement structure, a risk assessment update and Board in open discussion on page 77. the risk appetite.
Operational and financial and question and plan targets were also discussed.
answer sessions The Board has considered the most suitable approach for workforce engagement from A programme of informal non-executive the begining of 2019 and has selected visits to the regions was commenced, a non-executive director to lead, which which allows them to learn more about method will operate alongside other the Groups activities and receive a range feedback channels.
In 2018 the views of of views on the Group progress from staff The Board considers employees were received, via the executive at all levels.
Importantly, the visits allow the team, from employee liaison groups and non-executives to establish a relationship stakeholders in its also in reports from the HR function, with local management and to test the deliberations which were taken into account in culture and hear any concerns from staff.
decisions affecting operations and A total of 23 non-executive director visits employment conditions.
took place across our sites and offices.
Engagement with suppliers is considered The Chairman led the way in 2018 in by the Board in discussions on build terms of increased engagement with our activity, supply relationship management, regional teams and completed 13 visits and procurement.
A supply chain survey to all our regional offices, holding 1-2-1 has been implemented and feedback to discussions with the regional MDs and date has been positive and independent then with the wider management teams, feedback will also come from the NHBC.
The Chairman held Subcontractors attend adjudication and meetings with Division staff and sat in on project meetings and they also have a number of sessions that discussed the ongoing involvement regarding health Groups margin initiatives to get a feel for and safety.
Suppliers attend regular direction and progress on the ground.
meetings and provide input to product During the year, the Chairman held a and specification.
KPIs are under meeting with the non-executive directors, consideration to monitor relationships without the executive directors present, and service charters, portal websites, and the Senior Independent Director held a supplier visits and supply chain events meeting with the non-executives, without are under consideration.
| 72 Our governance Strategic report | Business over Our governance view Haygate Fields, Wellington || Bovis Homes Group PLC Bovis Homes Group PLC 73 73 Corporate governance report The Board completed its third external The overall result was highly positive.
independent performance evaluation The action plan, formulated based on the towards the end of 2017, which was key recommendations and areas of focus conducted by Independent Board for the Board to take forward was set Evaluation IBE, who have no other out in the 2017 Annual Report.
During 2018, the Board focused on the aspects of its performance set out in the table below: 2018 action plan Strategy Understanding culture The Board participated in a strategy day in July 2018 to review A programme of Chairman and non-executive director visits the three to five year horizon.
Relevant aspects of these to the regions and sites was put in place to test culture and discussions were fed into the Nomination Committee affecting promote business understanding.
board composition, board skills training, and succession planning in the executive.
Decision making Board composition A delegation of authority schedule was put in place establishing clarity on areas where the Board is consulted or informed and A formal competency matrix was developed, assessing the the issues within the remit of management.
Boards strengths and weaknesses, and reflecting the skills and characteristics required and is being monitored.
A new nonexecutive director was appointed, enhancing the diversity of the current Board.
Board meetings The schedule and timetable for Board and committee meetings, Individual performance evaluation was reviewed, ensuring that sufficient time is allocated to specific topics under consideration, with consequent adjustments A more formal annual process was instigated by the to agenda management.
Chairman to review individual director performance and is to be further developed.
Board papers Succession planning Improvements to the format and content of the Board pack A more structured approach to succession planning was were made, including KPIs and non-financial benchmarking.
developed and is ongoing, particularly regarding longer term More external data and assurance is now available to the Board planning around the Chief Executive and his senior team.
| 74 Our governance Our governance The Board carried out an internal formal The performance evaluation of the Following the external independent evaluation of its 2018 performance at the Chairman was led by the Senior performance evaluation completed towards beginning of 2019 using a questionnaire Independent Director, with input from the end of 2017, he ensured that an action designed to capture feedback on progress all other members of the Board.
It was plan was put in place and was followed made by the Board following the external considered that the Board had increased through in 2018. independent performance evaluation in its effectiveness under the Chairmans As Chairman of the Nomination conducted towards the end of 2017, leadership in 2018.
Board meetings Committee, the Chairman has ensured a assess the performance of the Board are well-planned and have appropriate clear focus on succession planning, both and the progress made during 2018, agendas, based on a good understanding to increase the Boards effectiveness, and to look forward to areas for further of the Companys business model and recruiting a further non-executive director, development and action for 2019. strategy and continue to be held in a and to ensure that a clear direction is in conducive environment with a strong focus The Chairman then conducted open place for senior executive succession in the on the important issues, with open debate discussions with each director, picking up context of the Groups strategy and the and constructive challenge.
The Chairman on specific points raised, and a draft paper challenges and opportunities ahead.
engages the Board well, runs meetings was prepared for Board consideration.
efficiently, and facilitates a broad effective It was concluded that the relationship contribution from all the directors with the Board committees between the execuitive and the Board is right level of detail and has a positive and The Board is supported by standing open and positive and that access of the constructive relationship with the CEO.
Audit, Nomination and Remuneration non-executive directors to the business Committees.
through the executive is excellent.
Once again, during 2018, the Chairman Discussions around strategy have been spent significant time visiting regional Membership, roles and activities are open and appropriate, recognising that a offices and sites and engaging with set out in separate reports.
The Audit progressively longer-term view will need to the Companys executives and relevant Committee report is on pages 102 to 105, be taken.
Actions identified for 2018 were external advisers.
He also put in place the Nomination Committee report is on largely complete and the Board agreed the a programme of non-executive visits to pages 106 and 107, and the Remuneration following action plan for 2019: increase their knowledge of the Companys Committee report is on pages 82 to 101. operations and allow them to test culture.
Each Committee reports to and has terms of reference approved by the Board and 2019 action plan the minutes of Committee meetings are Succession planning Investment review circulated to the Board.
Past investment decisions to receive Further progress to be made with The Audit Committee is chaired by review and appraisal periodically, structured succession planning, Ralph Findlay, the Remuneration focusing on those made since particularly for the executive directors, Committee is chaired by Nigel Keen January 2017. but also for the wider executive team, and the Nomination Committee is chaired including monitoring development plans.
Nigel Keen took over the Chair of the Remuneration Committee Understanding culture on the retirement of Alastair Lyons at the 2018 AGM.
Engagement Monitoring of culture and Chairman and non-executive director visits to the The internal formal Board evaluation Further develop engagement with major regions and sites to be more accurately included performance evaluations of the shareholders and particularly with proxy recorded and regular debriefs to be Committees and all were identified as voting agencies.
having areas where performance could be improved.
Further detail is given in the individual Committee reports.
|| Bovis Homes Group PLC Bovis Homes Group PLC 75 75 T Corpor itle ate governance report Governance through the business The Board aims to meet governance best practice in light of the Groups business model, organisation structure, processes and internal controls.
Information on the Groups current approach to governance best practice are set out below.
The Group currently complies with and applies the provisions of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code and has reviewed the 2018 edition of the Code and determined the actions it should take to meet the revised requirements.
These include measures to enable greater engagement with the workforce, strengthening the role of the Nomination Committee and widening the role of the Remuneration Committee.
Matters reserved for the Board include the overall leadership of the Group, setting the Groups values and standards, approval of strategy and budgets, oversight of operations and performance, structure and The advice and services of the Group The Senior Independent Director supports capital, financial reporting, internal controls, Company Secretary are available to the the Chairman in ensuring that the Board corporate governance, and approval of directors.
All directors have access to the is effective and constructive relations are major expenditure and transactions.
Companys professional advisers and can maintained, in addition to leading the seek independent professional advice at the The Board has approved a written division annual performance evaluation of the Companys expense.
There was no advice of responsibilities between the nonChairman and providing an additional point sought during the year.
executive Chairman and the Chief Executive of contact for shareholders.
and the role of the Senior Independent Training is made available to directors The control framework is subject to Board Director has been similarly defined.
at induction and as required to develop review.
The Group has a defined set and maintain knowledge.
The Chairman The Chairman is primarily responsible for: of authorities, procedures and controls is responsible for ensuring that directors across the range of its activities, which the effective working of the Board, continually update and refresh their have been mapped and documented and taking a leading role in determining the knowledge and skills appropriate to their are available to all staff via the Groups Boards composition and structure, and role on the Board and Board Committees.
intranet, including the authorities and Directors are also required to maintain their decision making delegated by the Board to ensuring that effective communications awareness of the culture and operations management in respect of the operational are maintained with shareholders.
During 2018, the directors control of the Group.
received training on the 2018 UK Corporate The Chief Executive is responsible for: These are regularly and formally assessed Governance Code, a general corporate the operational management of both by Internal and external audit, in governance briefing, and updates on other the Group, addition to being subject to a quarterly selfregulatory developments.
assessment process established in 2017 and developing strategic operating plans and The Company has an insurance policy in embedded during 2018, which is working presenting them to the Board, and place which insures directors against certain well.
The Groups leadership structure the implementation of strategy agreed by liabilities, including legal costs.
Information provides the framework for governance the Board.
on share capital is provided on pages 109 control, reporting and risk management and 110. and is set out on page 68.
| 76 Our governance Strategic report | Business over Our governance view Following the vote on the 2017 directors The Board reviews feedback from investor Shareholder engagement remuneration report at the 2018 AGM, the relations meetings, visits and presentations, The Company has a comprehensive investor Board considered the best way forward, including commentary on the matters relations programme, which allows our including the comprehensive explanations of discussed.
The overall feedback received major shareholders to regularly engage the approach to remuneration in 2017 and during 2018 was extremely helpful to the with the Chief Executive and Group for 2018 already provided to institutions Board in terms of the strategic direction of Finance Director.
and proxy advisors, and engaged with the Group.
major shareholders by holding a corporate In addition to one-to-one meetings through The Board also values other channels to governance presentation on 2 October the year, the Company holds a series of obtain shareholders views.
The Chairman 2018, which the Chairman, Senior presentations and meetings following the is responsible for ensuring that all directors Independent Director and Chairman of announcement of the final and half-yearly are aware of any issues or concerns raised the Remuneration Committee attended.
These presentations are made by major shareholders.
In addition, the Discussion took place on the recent publicly available so that all shareholders Senior Independent Director is accessible progress made by the Group: the 2017 can access them on the Groups website to shareholders.
external independent board evaluation at www.
co. uk investors and the actions implemented: key Board corporate-governance.
All shareholders are invited to attend the considerations going forward: internal Companys AGM, which this year will be An increased level of shareholder audit, controls and risk management: and held on 22 May 2019.
The full Board, engagement has been maintained since remuneration, including the background to including all Committee Chairmen, attend the strategic update in September 2017 the 2018 AGM vote on the remuneration and value this meeting as a means of and subsequent announcements, enabling report and the anticipated approach to communicating with private investors, the Board to monitor shareholder remuneration in 2019.
Feedback was encouraging their participation.
Discussions took place with positive both to the approach to corporate shareholders and proxy advisors prior to governance adopted by the Group and to All shareholders have the opportunity to the publication of the 2017 Annual Report, the anticipated approach to remuneration exercise their right to vote and can appoint particularly around remuneration, the for 2019. proxies if they are unable to attend.
unusual circumstances that had required To facilitate ease of voting we provide The Board also held a Capital Markets certain actions in 2017, and the proposal an electronic voting facility.
Shareholders Day for major shareholders and analysts to include the Group Finance Director attending the AGM have the opportunity in May 2018 at our Wootton site in in the Project 200 Incentive Plan.
to ask questions relevant to the business of Bedfordshire, comprising an extensive site Having considered the views of the meeting and hear the views of other visit showcasing build and sales activity, shareholders, an alternative approach shareholders before casting their vote.
followed by presentations from directors suggested by one of our top shareholders After the meeting the results of voting on and senior staff, which illustrated the was adopted and an exceptional LTIP award all resolutions are published on the progress being made by the Group.
was granted to the Group Finance Director, Groups website.
Question and answer sessions followed and with the additional element to be entirely the feedback was extremely positive.
measured against the Project 200 Incentive Plan performance measures.
| Bovis Homes Group PLC 77 T Corpor itle ate governance report Risk management and internal control The Board has responsibility for maintaining and monitoring sound risk management and internal control systems.
The Boards role includes responsibility for the risk appetite and the identification, management and mitigation of risk.
Risk is a regular discussion item, which allows the directors to review the risk appetite and principal risks and assess the quality of risk management processes and risk mitigation.
Risk is also a theme that runs naturally through Board discussions on a range of topics.
In setting its approach to risk, the Board aims to ensure that the Company is neither prevented from taking opportunities nor exposed to unreasonable risk.
Monitoring and review forms part of In reviewing the effectiveness of the Previous year weaknesses in the application the work undertaken by the Audit Companys system of internal control and of operational and customer service Committee and is based principally on risk management systems during 2018, controls have been resolved and are the review and interrogation of reports the Board i considered the risk appetite now fully effective in maintaining from the Internal Audit function and and ii reviewed changes in the nature, operational control in respect of quality from management.
It covers all material likelihood and impact of the principal and customer service.
This has been controls, including financial, operational risks, their mitigation, the controls placed reflected in lower internal audit risk and compliance controls and compliance against them and the Companys ability ratings from regional reviews, alongside with risk management processes.
to respond to changes and iii received improvements to the level of compliance In addition, an established Risk Governance reports from the Audit Committee on the across the wider control framework.
Committee operates with representation operation and effectiveness of the risk from the regional businesses to support The Board has complied with Principle management and internal controls systems the monitoring of existing risk and the C. 2 of the Code by completing a robust and their integration with strategy and the effectiveness of controls and mitigation, assessment of the principal risks facing business model.
The Board also reviewed alongside the identification of emerging the Company and it has established the minutes of Audit Committee meetings risk across the Group.
a continuous process for identifying, and the minutes of Risk Governance evaluating and managing the principal Committee meetings.
risks, in accordance with the FRCs Recommendations for improvements to Guidance on Risk Management, internal controls were made during the Internal Control and Related Financial year and corrective action was taken, but and Business Reporting.
This process has they did not represent significant control been in place for the period under review failings or weaknesses.
A self-assessment and up to the date of approval of the process supports our internal control Annual Report and Accounts and includes framework, where all directors across compliance with provision C. 2.3. the company report regional business The Risk Governance It is designed to manage rather than performance in control adherence.
Committee has representation eliminate risk and can only provide from the regional businesses reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
| 78 Our governance Our governance The Company operates software systems Reporting is supported by a formal budget Control framework that record financial transactions and and monthly rolling forecasting which The Company maintains a comprehensive whose effectiveness is reviewed by the ensures that there is a recent financial control environment, which is regularly Internal Audit function on a regular basis.
forecast in place at all times against which reviewed by the Board.
Findings arising from these exercises are to assess performance.
Together with reported to the Audit Committee and this financial reporting, Division and The principal elements of the control action is taken, as appropriate.
regional management teams report key environment include regular board business issues promptly and as part of meetings, the Division and regional Control over cash expenditure is a a standard monthly regional operational structure, defined operating controls key component of the financial reporting pack.
and authorisation limits, the Internal control framework.
The Company Audit function, the Risk Governance maintains tight control in this area Finally, there is a process of accounts Committee, and a comprehensive financial through a centralised treasury function, preparation which ensures that there is an reporting system.
regional payment functions, three-way audit trail between the output from the matching of payments, authorisation Companys financial reporting systems and documentation, and the segregation of the preparation of the financial statements.
There are a number of elements of authorisation accountability.
the Companys internal control and The Company maintains a regular weekly risk management systems that are and monthly financial reporting cycle specifically related to the Companys and an alternate monthly cost valuation financial reporting process: process, allowing management to assess there is a well understood financial progress against objectives.
management structure which allows for clear accountability and an appropriately granular level of financial control.
the structure is underpinned by documented authority levels for business transactions.
the process is supported by process documents and systems for both internal management reporting and external reporting which stipulates, amongst other things, reporting timetables and the contents of key management reports.
best practice processes and procedures are mapped for all core and support activities.
a quarterly self-assessment for all director level employees had been embedded to confirm adherence to mandatory controls and nonconformities are reported to the ELT for discussion and remediation.
Internal Audit plays a key role in monitoring the control environment and in identifying and supporting the mitigation of threats to the business.
|| Bovis Homes Group PLC Bovis Homes Group PLC 79 79 | 80 Our governance Our governance Keeping customers happy Delivering a high standard of customer service has been a priority across the Group The Avenue, Moreton-in-Marsh | Bovis Homes Group PLC 81
