Audit committee report I am pleased to introduce the Audit Committee report for 2018.
During the year the Committee reviewed the Groups financial reporting, internal control systems and risk management.
It also maintained oversight of external and Internal Audit.
The Committee continues to play a fundamental role in protecting shareholders interests.
The Committee met three times in 2018 Committee membership and detailed papers and information and meetings were received sufficiently in advance of The Committee comprised five Ralph Findlay meetings to allow proper consideration of independent non-executive directors for Committee Chairman the matters for discussion.
The Committee the majority of the year.
Alastair Lyons also met with the external auditors and retired at the 2018 AGM on 23 May 2018 the Head of Internal Audit & Risk, without Overview and Katherine Innes Ker was appointed executive management present, at the During the year, the Committee reviewed to the Committee on 9 October 2018. end of two meetings.
These discussions the integrity of the Groups financial The non-executive directors have, focused on opportunities for improvement statements and kept operating, financial between them, the recent and relevant in the control environment and how new and accounting practices under review.
experience required by the UK Corporate systems implementation would support this It also carefully reviewed significant areas Governance Code and as a whole they improvement.
Ralph Findlay met privately of judgement and the viability statement.
have competence relevant to the sector in with the audit engagement partner of which the Company operates.
Biographical the external auditors during the year.
The Committee monitored the system details and information on skillsets are The Group Company Secretary acts as for internal control, financial reporting provided on pages 62 and 63. secretary to the Committee.
An overview and risk management and its of the main activities during 2018 is effectiveness was reviewed in the Committee membership is determined provided below.
context of the Groups strategic priorities by the Board following recommendation and its operational performance.
from the Nomination Committee and Reporting from management, Internal is reviewed as part of the Committees Audit and the external auditor was openly performance evaluation.
The Company debated in free-flowing discussion, Chairman, Chief Executive and Group testing conclusions, audit outcomes Finance Director were present at and judgements.
The effectiveness of all meetings in 2018 by invitation.
The Committee is satisfied the Groups Internal Audit function has  LLP, the external with the ongoing progress significantly improved and focus continues auditors, and the Head of Internal made in improving the in this area with a view to progressing Audit & Risk attended all meetings and to Internal Audit being a driver of the Group Financial Controller attended control environment in 2018 performance and compliance across two meetings.
The process of reviewing risk management via the Risk Governance Committee is now embedded and the Attendance Date of Name appointment Role at meetings Committee is contributing well to the understanding and mitigation of evolving Ralph Findlay appointed Chairman 15 05 15 07 04 2015 Chairman 3 3 risk facing the business.
Alastair Lyons retired 23 05 18 01 10 2008 Member 1 1 Chris Browne 01 09 2014 Member 3 3 Nigel Keen 15 11 2016 Member 3 3 Mike Stansfield 28 11 2017 Member 3 3 Katherine Innes Ker 09 10 2018 Member 1 1 | 102 Our governance Our governance Reviewed the 2017 annual report and Reviewed managements viability Responsibilities and terms accounts, so as to recommend to the assessment for the year end reporting of reference Board that, taken as a whole, it was fair, period covering strategic planning, The key responsibilities of the balanced and understandable.
principal risks, detailed financial Committee are: forecasts, resources available to the Assessed the results and effectiveness of Group, scenario testing, qualifications Monitoring the integrity of the the 2017 final audit.
and assumptions and the period chosen.
financial statements, the accompanying reports to shareholders and corporate Reviewed and discussed the key Reviewed the Companys whistleblowing governance statements, including accounting considerations and policy, arrangements for reporting reviewing and testing the findings of judgements reflected in the Groups concerns, and general nature of the the external auditor.
results for the six months ended 30 June cases reported.
Reviewing and monitoring the Reviewed the Committees terms effectiveness of systems for internal Evaluated and agreed the external of reference.
control, financial reporting and auditors audit strategy memorandum in risk management.
advance of the 2018 year-end audit.
The Audit Committee were provided with Overseeing and reviewing the summarised findings and action plans from Received reports from Internal Audit effectiveness of the Groups Internal all internal audits throughout the year.
These included process reviews which covered the entirety of the Group, alongside Reviewed and assessed the Groups Making recommendations to the Board regional reviews that tested the end-torisk appetite.
in relation to the appointment and end control framework in detail within a removal of the external auditor and particular region.
The audit cycle ensures Reviewed ongoing progress with the approving their remuneration and terms each region is subjected to detailed review a review of risk management and the of engagement.
minimum once every three years, although work completed by the Risk Governance the frequency is often increased based on Committee, including having sight Reviewing and monitoring the external perceived risk and operational performance.
audit process and the independence and objectivity of the auditor, as well as the In September 2018, the Committee Reviewed the effectiveness of the system nature and scope of the external audit discussed the findings of a Culture of internal control and risk management and its effectiveness.
Review, which sought to understand systems and monitored progress with the extent to which the Groups the implementation of a key new The pre-approval of all audit related culture was embedding, providing a software system to ensure the expected and non-audit services proposed to be temperature check.
The Review improvements in the control environment undertaken, taking into account relevant concluded that progress was as expected, were delivered.
given the considerable change that had Completed an assessment of anti-bribery, taken place within the Group over the The Committees terms of reference fraud risk and anti-fraud measures.
previous eighteen months, and consistent are available on the Companys website with other large businesses that had been www.
co. uk investors Received updates on the significantly through a similar turnaround.
improved IT security environment and deliver further clarity and alignment amongst further steps to be taken.
staff were put in place as a result.
Main activities during the year Reviewed progress with the Groups The Committee followed a programme In December 2017, the Committee GDPR project to ensure delivery by the structured around the annual considered the new ERP system Regulations commencement date.
reporting cycle and received reports implementation review focusing on from Internal Audit, the external auditor consistency and efficiency of use and also Reviewed managements going concern and management.
The key activities discussed the programme assurance review, assessment at each reporting period undertaken were: a continuous activity designed to ensure that end, considering detailed financial a number of key projects forming part of a forecasts, future cash flow projections Discussed the key accounting wider change programme are co-ordinated and the resources available to the Group, considerations and judgements reflected and delivered as expected.
including the current banking facility and in the Groups results for the year forecast covenant compliance.
ended 31 December 2017 with the external auditor.
| Bovis Homes Group PLC 103 Audit committee report Whistleblowing was also discussed, which The assessment of the level of provision External auditor saw a further increase in the number required necessitates the exercise of  LLP PwC were of reported cases and investigations in judgement by management.
appointed as external auditor at the 2018.
The Group operates a confidential 2015 AGM, following the completion At this year end the provision remaining reporting service run by an external of a competitive audit tender process was 3.4m and had been audited and provider and investigations are completed supervised by the Committee.
In doing reported on by the external auditors.
by independent resource within the Group.
so, the Committee complied with the The utilisation in the period, and provisions of the Competition & Markets Thirty cases were raised during 2018, adjustments proposed were discussed Authority Order, including the appointment demonstrating that the concerted and justified by management and the of the auditor to audit and non-audit awareness campaign run throughout 2018 land write down provision remaining at services.
Our 2019 AGM Notice contains a was highly effective.
The Committee and the period end was reviewed.
resolution for the re-appointment of PwC executive management remain committed as auditors to the Company.
In making Following discussion, the Committee to ensuring that the whistleblowing facility this recommendation, the Committee took was satisfied that the judgements is well publicised throughout the Group into account, amongst other matters, the exercised were appropriate and that the in 2019 and will continue to monitor independence and objectivity of PwC, provision was appropriately stated at the reporting and investigations to ensure that the effectiveness of the external audit year end.
Details of the movements in appropriate action is taken, with cases process and cost.
There are no contractual the provision are provided in note 3.1 to being closed out on a timely basis.
restrictions on the choice of external the accounts on pages 128 to 129. auditor.
The AGM Notice also contains a At its meeting in February 2019, the Margin forecasting and recognition - the resolution to give the directors authority Committee discussed with the external gross margin from revenue generated to determine the auditors remuneration, auditor the key accounting considerations on each individual site within the year which provides a practical flexibility to and judgements reflected in the Groups is based on the latest forecast or the the Committee.
results for the year ended 31 December gross margin expected to be generated 2018 and reviewed the 2018 Annual During the year, the Committee reviewed over the life of that site.
The remaining Report and Accounts, to be able to the independence and objectivity of the life gross margin is calculated using recommend to the Board that, taken external auditor, which was confirmed forecasts for selling prices and all land, as a whole, it was fair, balanced and in an independence letter containing build, infrastructure and overhead costs understandable and provided the information on procedures providing associated with that site.
The assessment information necessary for shareholders safeguards established by the external of house prices and cost to complete is to assess the Companys performance, auditor.
Regulation, professional based on the specific details of each site business model and strategy.
The approach requirements and ethical standards and incorporates certain assumptions taken was to analyse key areas of progress were taken into account, together with and judgements by management.
and challenge during the year, followed consideration of all relationships between The level of profit recognised in the by reviewing the 2018 annual report and the Company and PwC and their staff.
income statement is monitored accounts to ensure that all key areas had throughout the year via the Groups been reported upon in a balanced and Relations with the external auditors are usual budgeting, forecasting and fair way.
managed through a series of meetings management accounts reporting.
and regular discussions and the The control processes surrounding Significant areas Committee ensures a high quality audit the review of life of site revenue and The key accounting judgements considered by challenging the key areas of the costs have been enhanced by the by the Committee in relation to the 2018 external auditors work.
implementation of a new ERP system.
accounts and discussed with the external The methodology adopted and the auditors, were: Groups performance to date against expectations have been audited by the Inventory provisioning - the level of external auditors.
inventory provisioning impacts the carrying value of the most significant balance on the balance sheet.
The Company carries a provision to write down the value of the land held within inventories to the lower of cost and net realisable value, less costs to sell, where this is less than the historical cost and reviews this provision annually.
| 104 Our governance Our governance At its meeting in February 2019, the The Committee also undertook an Committee reviewed the effectiveness of Internal Audit assessment of the effectiveness of the the external audit process as part of its external auditor and the Groups Internal Internal Audit was further consideration of the 2018 final audit.
Having gained a strong strengthened during 2018 with This involved assessing delivery and content understanding of the Groups business and an additional member joining the against the audit plan for the 2018 year building on effective working relationships, team to ensure progress towards end audit, including determination of audit the Committee considers PwC to have a significantly improved internal risks and significant areas of judgement, carried out a high quality and thorough capability, led by the Head of Internal consideration of the performance and audit in the fourth year since appointment.
The Committee has communication of the audit team, and The Committee was satisfied with the again reviewed the progress being the quality of reporting, observations, scope of the external audit and, having made to enhance the effectiveness recommendations and insight.
It also reviewed all services provided to the of the work of Internal Audit and included reviewing comprehensive papers Group by PwC, that they demonstrate the role and profile of the Risk from the external auditors, discussing and independence.
The Committee believes Governance Committee in identifying challenging their conclusions and audit the external audit to be effective.
Internal and mitigating threats to the business.
judgements and assessing responses from Audit is considered to have made further The co-sourced approach to the external auditor.
Lastly, feedback was significant progress, cementing credibility Internal Audit continued in 2018. taken on the effectiveness and conduct of through the business, identifying risk and Overall, the Committee is pleased the audit from those involved, including control weaknesses, producing clear and with the progress made and the feedback from the regional businesses on well-articulated reports for Committee plan for future improvements in visits to the regions, which was positive.
review and supporting an ongoinng the control environment and risk improvement in processes and controls.
management during 2019, including The Committee keeps under review its The Committee is satisfied with the opportunities for Internal Audit to policy which requires the Committee to progress made in improving the control act as a driver of performance and approve all audit related and non-audit environment in 2018 and the plan compliance throughout the business.
services proposed to be undertaken by for 2019. the external auditors, with the exception of compliance work undertaken in the Performance evaluation ordinary course of business, which is An evaluation of the performance of the treated as pre-approved.
Committee was completed as part of the When a request for approval is made, the internal formal performance evaluation of Ralph Findlay Committee has due regard to the nature the Board, completed at the begining of Chairman of the Audit Committee of the audit related or non-audit service, 2019.
The Committee is considered to be 28 February 2019 whether the external auditor is a suitable performing well and to have made further supplier, and whether there is likely to be good progress in driving improvements any threat to independence and objectivity around audit and risk.
The Chairman in the conduct of the audit.
continues to bring focus and rigour to the Committee and to display a good balance The related fee level, both separately between the technical skills required and and relative to the audit fee is also ability to challenge.
The agenda is well considered.
For an analysis of fees paid managed, items are allowed sufficient time to PwC for audit services see note 2.1 on for discussion, and Committee members page 127.
There were no non-assurance present the right level of challenge.
services provided by PwC during the year, Areas for consideration have been beyond a fide-minimis technical accounting identified, principally related to progressing subscription service.
Internal Audit away from co-sourcing to further improve the robustness of the internal control environment and to develop Internal Audit to be a driver of performance and compliance.
Deeper dives into specific topics are also to be considered, as they arise.
