Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information RISK COMMITTEE REPORT Overseeing the Risk Management Framework Q&A with our Chairman of the Risk Committee, Kath Cates What would you identify as the most important role of the RiskCommittee?
Commercial success and organisational growth are unachievable without some level of risk being taken.
The work of the Risk Committee is therefore central to Brewin Dolphins growth aspirations, not merely identifying the key risks we face but also helping the Board to set and monitor an appropriate risk appetite for us to achieve our ambitions for all stakeholders.
Chairmans overview I was appointed as Chair of the Risk Committee in September The cross-membership with the Audit Committee contributes to 2014 and identification of the key risks faced by the Group, an overall view of risk and control in the organisation, with one and the management and control of those risks, remains a key joint meeting being held during the year to review the ICAAP.
Lintstock performed a review of the Committee as part of its An area that the Committee has concentrated on this year annual Board effectiveness review.
I am pleased to report that has been Information Technology risks and Data Management, we were rated highly overall.
The report recommended that the especially with the implementation of GDPR during the year.
Committee should continue to provide increasing challenge on We also reviewed and challenged the Groups measures to emerging risks and horizon scanning.
The Group has a dedicated information security and data protection team that reports directly to the Chief RiskOfficer.
Kath Cates Chairman of the Risk Committee MiFID II required changes to the way the business operates, and the Committee has closely reviewed its implementation 27 November 2018 and the effect on the business.
The Committee has spent time providing oversight of the new initiatives undertaken to achieve the Groups strategic objectives by the Change and Transformation team, and the support provided by senior management representatives of the Group.
The Committee also undertakes an ongoing programme of training.
Training was received on GDPR and the ICAAP, and we keep up to date on current topics in the market.
Committee composition The Committee during the year comprised Kath Cates Chair, Paul Wilson and Ian Dewar.
Simonetta Rigo joined the Committee from 1 October 2018.
There is cross-membership between this Committee and the Audit and Remuneration Committees to ensure that agendas are aligned, and key information is appropriately shared across the Board Committees.
The Chairman of the Risk Committee attends the Remuneration Committee at least once a year and is also a member of the Audit Committee.
Standing attendees at Committee meetings include the Chief Executive, Finance Director and the Chief Risk Officer.
Further details of membership and attendance can be found on pages 45 and 48.
The responsibilities of the Committee are outlined in the Committees Terms of Reference, a copy of which can be found at brewinmedia.
co. uk RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED How the Committee spent its time The Committee reviewed and recommended to the Board the risk appetite statements and Key risks tolerance for key risks.
These were monitored on an ongoing basis to ensure they remained relevant and appropriate, adding any emerging risks if necessary.
In-depth discussions on Information Technology risk and Change and Transformation.
51% The key components of the ICAAP were challenged in a six-monthly review, exploring scenarios ICAAP and joint and stress tests to determine an appropriate regulatory capital requirement.
Therewas a joint meeting with Audit meeting with the Audit Committee prior to recommendation tothe Board.
Committee 18% The Committee held Non-Executive Director only sessions.
It reviewed the Terms of Reference Routine matters for the Committee and disclosures for the Annual Report in addition to dealing with routine governance matters.
17% Training sessions on the ICAAP and GDPR were held.
Training 7% Considered regulatory changes in relation to MiFIDII and the implication for the Group including Regulatory change management proposal to ensure embedding of appropriate behaviours across the Group.
4% The Committee underwent a formal evaluation during the year.
The results were discussed by Performance the Committee and have helped to inform forward-looking agendas.
evaluation 3% Brewin Dolphin 54 Annual Report 2018
