Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Ensuring confidence in compliance Q&A with our Chairman of the Audit Committee, Ian Dewar How do you define the role of the Audit Committee at BrewinDolphin?
In my view, the key value of the Audit Committee is around ensuring shareholders can have total confidence that all the information contained in the Groups published accounts andfinancial information is truthful, accurate and complete.
In this sense we are representatives of the shareholders, responsible for providing the highest standards ofassurance relating to the quality of the audit.
In previous reports I have said that we will review our External Chairmans overview Audit arrangements during Robert Topleys, our audit partners, The last year has seen a new challenge for us as an Audit five-year term.
Deloitte were appointed as our auditors in 2002 Committee with the departure of Andrew Westenberger, and the last year that they can remain auditors is 2022.
Robert our Finance Director, in May 2018.
We have sought to provide has now signed off three year-ends, and we have decided that support to both David Nicol, our Chief Executive and our it is time to start the process of selecting our next audit firm.
finance professionals, whilst retaining our role as an We have held initial discussions with potential firms and will run independent challenge.
a tender process in earnest in the New Year once our new Finance Director has joined.
Our focus has remained firmly on quality, and we increased our oversight of the year-end financial reporting process and of The Committees performance was evaluated during the year, External Audit.
We have particularly sought to understand and as part of the Lintstock review, and I am delighted that the challenge the messaging in our financial statements and market outcome was positive.
In 2018 19 we will work closely to ensure announcements as well as the key judgements which the new Finance Director is fully supported when she joins.
We will also continue to challenge the internal and external I would particularly like to thank the entire Finance Team for the auditors as well as closely monitor the changes being made outstanding work they have done over this year end and to to our IT systems and the impact on controls.
welcome Siobhan Boylan as our new Finance Director.
We look I am delighted to welcome Michael Kellard as a member forward to working with her when she joins early in the New Year.
Ian Dewar Chairman of the Audit Committee 27 November 2018 Committee composition The Committee comprises only independent Non-Executive Directors.
The members during the year comprised Ian Dewar Chair, Kath Cates, and Caroline Taylor.
Michael Kellard joined the Committee with effect from 1 October 2018.
There is a crossmembership with the Risk Committee, tohelp ensure that agendas are aligned, and key information is shared appropriately across the Board Committees.
Further details of membership and attendance can be found on pages 45 and 48.
The Chief Executive, Finance Director and Chief Risk Officer are invited to attend at the Committees request.
In addition, all Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman are entitled to attend.
The external audit partner and our internal audit partner are standing attendees.
We have considered the Financial Reporting Council FRC requirement for the Committee to have competence relevant to the financial services sector and have concluded that the Committee, as a whole, satisfies this requirement.
The responsibilities of the Committee are outlined in the Committees Terms of Reference, a copy of which can be found at brewinmedia.
co. uk AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED How the Committee spent its time Reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts, the Interim Management Statements, the Half-Year Financial reporting Report and the investor presentation.
This was to ensure that, taken as a whole, they were fair, balanced and understandable and that they provided the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
27% Reviewed reports from the external auditor on the Financial Statements.
This included the significant audit risks, areas of audit focus, and the appropriateness of the significant management judgements used in preparing the accounts, and the effectiveness of systems of internal financial control.
Reviewed reports from management on the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts and the Half-Year Report, including both the key judgements and accounting policies followed in their preparation, as well as updates on changes to guidance regarding financialreporting.
Reviewed the Groups Going Concern assumption and Viability Statement and quarterly trading updates.
Approved the external audit plan, the external auditors terms of engagement and the fees to be External auditor paid to the external auditor for the audit of the 30 September 2018 Annual Report.
Assessed the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditor.
25% Enforced the policy relating to non-audit services provided by the external auditor.
It approved non-audit services in accordance with the policy which can be found on our website.
Reviewed a letter of recommendation from the external auditor for improving the systems of internal control.
Received reports on the Financial Statements.
Assessed the effectiveness of the internal auditor and reviewed and approved the internal audit Internal auditors plan for the year.
Received quarterly internal audit reports, challenged the robustness of their findings and agreed appropriate actions.
16% Reviewed how issues identified for action, whether arising from internal audit reports or from internal control processes, are identified, progressed and reported: this ensures there is an effective framework for the management of issues within the Group.
Received, reviewed and discussed the Groups annual whistleblowing report, the control Control oversight environment report, the six-monthly money laundering and financial crime report.
Reviewed and discussed the six-monthly updates for both the Clients Assets Money report 14% CASS and Audit Assurance Faculty report AAF.
The Committee reviewed the minutes, its Terms of Reference and held meetings in private Routine matters session including performance evaluation.
9% The Audit Committee reviewed the ICAAP jointly with the Risk Committee.
After reviewing and ICAAP challenging the ICAAP and its key components, the Committee recommended its approval to the Board.
9% Brewin Dolphin 56 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Financial reporting Key sources of estimation uncertainty related to the Financial Statements We reviewed the significant issues set out below in relation to the Groups Financial Statements for the year ended 30 September 2018.
We discussed these issues at various stages with management during the financial year and during the preparation and approval of the Financial Statements.
We are satisfied that the Financial Statements appropriately address the critical judgements and key estimates, in respect both of the amounts reported and the disclosures made, following review and consideration of the presentations and reports presented by management.
We also reviewed these issues with the auditors during the audit-planning process and at the conclusion of the year-end audit.
We are satisfied that our conclusions in relation to these issues are in line with those drawn by the auditors.
Issue Key considerations Role of the Committee Conclusion Amortisation of client Determination of the useful We considered the paper We concluded that the relationships see note 4. b. i economic life of client prepared by management on assumptions and judgements to the Financial Statements.
relationships, which the average client tenure and used were reasonable and we establishesthe quantum of useful economic life were satisfied that the useful theamortisation expense.
economic life expectations were appropriate.
Assumptions underlying the Determination of the actuarial We considered managements We concluded that the calculation of the defined assumptions such as discount paper explaining the assumptions and judgements benefit pension scheme rate, the life expectancy of assumptions used in the used in determining the defined asset see note 4. b. ii to the scheme members and the calculation, prepared by the benefit pension scheme asset Financial Statements.
inflation rate used when Groups pension advisers, and were appropriate.
calculating the defined benefit the resulting impact on the pension scheme asset.
balance sheet and the increase in the surplus during the year.
Likelihood of meeting Determining the likelihood We considered managements We concluded that the performance conditions of meeting the performance paper explaining the assumptions used in calculating for the long-term incentive conditions which impact the assumptions for the likelihood the expense were appropriate.
plan see note 4. b. iii to the quantum of the expense in of meeting the performance Financial Statements.
Assumptions underlying the Appropriate application We reviewed managements We concluded that the estimation of the provision of IFRS and underlying paper explaining the provisions were appropriate and relating to onerous leases recognition principles.
assumptions and calculation complete for obligations that see note 4. b. iv to the methodologies applied in existed at the year end.
We Determining the best estimate Financial Statements.
This confirmed that there had been of the likely cash flows and included ensuring that the no new information following other assumptions.
provisions represent present the year end that would result in obligations arising from an adjustment to the provision.
We satisfied ourselves that the procedures performed by management to identify the requirement for provisions were robust and comprehensive.
co. uk AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED External auditor The Audit Committee is responsible for developing, implementing and monitoring the Groups policy on external audit.
The policy sets out the categories of any pre-approved non-audit services which the external auditor is authorised to undertake.
It also provides an approval process for the provision of any other non-audit services.
This policy is available to view on the Investor Relations section of the Groups website, under the Board Committees subsection.
The Board generally only uses the external auditor for audit and related activities.
If there is a business case to use the external auditor to provide non-audit services, prior permission is required from the Committee.
In such an instance, the Committee will review the proposal to ensure that it will not impact the auditors objectivity and independence.
The majority of tax advisory and similar work is carried out by another major accountancy firm.
An analysis of the auditors remuneration is provided in note 8 to the Financial Statements.
The external auditor meets privately with the Committee at least twice a year without senior executive management being present and regularly with the Audit Committee Chairman.
The Committee assesses the effectiveness of the external auditor on an annual basis, taking account of the following factors: Factor Assessment The role of management That information provided by management to the external auditor is timely and correct, that it has proper supporting papers and that accounting systems and internal controls work effectively.
The audit partner The extent to which the partner demonstrates a strong understanding of the business, the industry and the challenges faced by the business.
The length of time the partner acts as the lead engagement partner.
The audit team The extent to which the audit team understands the business and industry and is properly resourced and experienced.
The audit approach That the audit approach is discussed with management, targets the significant issues early, is communicated properly, is appropriate for the business and industry and includes an appropriate level of materiality.
The communications That management and the Committee are kept appropriately informed as the audit progresses and andformal reporting that the formal report is appropriate and contains all relevant material matters.
by the auditor The independence and That the auditor complies with the FRCs ethical standards, has the required degree of objectivity of the auditor objectivity including their arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest, andthat the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditor does not .
The Committee is satisfied that Deloitte LLP has conducted an effective audit for the 2017 18 financial year.
The Committee has therefore recommended to the Board that Deloitte be reappointed at the 2019 AGM.
The Committee has considered the Competition and Markets Authority CMA and EU requirements for mandatory tendering and rotation of the audit firm.
As previously reported, the Committee had intended to initiate a re-tendering process during 2017 18 in line with the previous audit partners rotation.
However, as the Group changed audit partner during 2015 16, it did not believe that a re-tendering process would be beneficial during 2017 18.
The Committee has decided that it is now appropriate to start the process of identifying a successor firm and initial discussions have been held with prospective firms.
The Committee has considered the likelihood of the external auditor withdrawing from the market and has noted that there are no contractual obligations to restrict the choice of replacement external auditor.
Brewin Dolphin 58 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Internal audit BDO was appointed internal auditor in January 2016.
The Committee approves an internal audit plan at the start of the financial year and then receives quarterly reports on all internal audits.
The plan is reviewed every six months to ensure it fully covers the Groups key risks.
The Committee appraises the internal auditors processes to determine the effectiveness of their findings, the Committee is satisfied that BDO continue to provide a satisfactory service.
Fair, balanced and understandable Report and Accounts The Committee has performed a review of the Groups Annual Report and Accounts to ensure that it is fair, balanced and understandable.
What is meant by these terms, and the questions that the Committee considers as part of this review, areshown below: Term Description Questions Fair Not exhibiting any bias.
Is the whole story being presented?
Have any sensitive material areas been omitted?
Understandable Having a meaning or nature that Is there a clear and cohesive framework for the Annual Report?
Is the report written in accessible language?
Able to be accepted as normal.
Are the messages clearly drawn out?
Is there a good level of consistency between the front and back sections of the Annual Report?
Taking account of all sides on their merits without prejudice Does the reader get the same message from reading the two orfavouritism.
Are the key judgements referred to in the narrative reports and the significant issues reported in the Audit Committee Report consistent with the disclosures of key estimates and uncertainties and critical judgements set out in the Financial Statements?
This report has been prepared in compliance with the CMA Order in relation to mandatory audit tendering and the responsibilities of the Audit Committee.
