Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT A leadership framework for growth Governance framework Board The Board has principal responsibility for promoting the long-term strategy and success of the Group and provides strategic leadership as well as influencing the Groups culture and agreeing the risk appetite and the appropriate systems of control for risk management.
The Matters Reserved for the Board and the Terms of Reference for the Board Committees can be found on the Investor Relations section of the website media.
1 Committees Audit Committee Nomination Committee Risk Committee Remuneration Committee The Committee helps The Committee ensures The Committee provides The Committee exercises the Board meet its that the Board retains an oversight of the Risk independent judgement on responsibilities for the appropriate balance of skills Management Framework remuneration policies and integrity of the Groups to support the strategic of the Group and assists the practices, and the incentives financial reporting, objectives of the Group and Board with its responsibilities created to manage risk, including the effectiveness that there are appropriate for ensuring the integrity capital and liquidity.
It also of its internal financial control procedures in place for the of the Groups internal oversees personal system, and for monitoring nomination, selection, control and risk objectives, performance the effectiveness and training and evaluation management systems.
appraisal and individual objectivity of the internal of Board members.
It also compensation packages and external auditors.
ensuresthat there is an for the Chairman and effective framework for Executive Directors.
Executive Committee The purpose of the Executive Committee is to support the Chief Executive in the implementation and formation of strategy, as well as overseeing the day-to-day running of the Group.
It agrees operational decisions that are not otherwise reserved for the Board.
The Committee consists of the Chief Executive, Finance Director and members of senior management from different areas of the business.
There is a further delegated committee of the Board the Disclosure Committee.
The Disclosure Committee focuses on discharging the Companys duties in accordance with the EU Market Abuse Regulation.
It comprises the ChiefExecutive, Finance Director, either the Company Secretary or Head of Legal as alternate, plus either the Chief Risk Officer or the Head of Compliance as alternate.
co. uk CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board roles There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman, ChiefExecutive, Finance Director, Senior Independent Director and .
The Board has a majority of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Further information on the Directors range of skills and expertise can be found on page 45.
Chairman Chief Executive Provide leadership to the Board, promoting constructive Provide leadership to the Group.
debate and challenge between the Executive and Develop strategy proposals for recommendation to the .
Board and is accountable for business performance.
Ensure that there is a good information flow to the Board, Maintain a dialogue with the Chairman on all important and from the Board to its key stakeholders.
matters and strategic issues facing the Group.
Support and advise the Chief Executive, particularly on the Ensure that there is an effective framework of internal development of strategy.
controls, including risk management, covering all Build an effective and complementary Board, regularly business activities.
considering its composition and balance, diversity and Ensure that the Board is fully informed of all key matters.
Finance Director Senior Independent Independent Director Non-Executive Directors Support the Chief Executive Act as a sounding board for the Constructively challenge indeveloping and Chairman and serve when required management and decisions taken implementingstrategy.
as an intermediary for the at Board level.
Oversee the financial delivery and Oversee the performance performance of the Group and Meet with the Non-Executive of management in meeting provide insightful financial analysis Directors without the Chairman agreedgoals.
present at least once a year.
Support the Chairman and Executive Lead investor relations activities Lead the Board in the ongoing Directors in instilling appropriate and communication with investors monitoring and annual evaluation culture, values and behaviours in the alongside the Chief Executive.
Work with the Chief Executive Be available to meet with major Challenge the adequacy and quality todevelop budgets and mediumshareholders and act as a point of information received prior to term plans to support the of contact for shareholders and Board meetings.
1 Board and Committee attendance record Member Independent Board Nomination Risk Audit Remuneration Executive Directors David Nicol N 8 8 n a n a n a n a 2 Andrew Westenberger N 4 4 n a n a n a n a Non-Executive Directors Simon Miller N 8 8 3 3 n a n a 5 5 Kath Cates Y 8 8 3 3 4 4 7 7 n a Ian Dewar Y 8 8 n a 4 4 7 7 5 5 3 Michael Kellard Y 6 6 n a n a n a n a 4 Simonetta Rigo Y 3 3 n a n a n a n a Caroline Taylor Y 8 8 3 3 n a 7 7 5 5 Paul Wilson Y 8 8 3 3 4 4 n a 5 5 1.
The table shows attendance at scheduled meetings only.
The Board and Committees also meet on an ad hoc basis whenrequired.
Andrew Westenberger stepped down from the Board on 16 May 2018 and attended all Board meetings to that date.
Michael Kellard was appointed to the Board on 1 December 2017 and attended all Board meetings he was entitled to attend.
Simonetta Rigo was appointed to the Board on 6 June 2018 and attended all Board meetings she was entitled to attend.
Brewin Dolphin 48 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Effectiveness For the Directors to discharge their responsibilities as set out in the Matters Reserved for the Board, the Board meets at least eight times a year.
A full list of Matters Reserved for the Board can be found on our website.
In addition, the Board attends a strategy day with executive management to discuss in depth the Groups direction.
Details of the Board and Committee attendance at scheduled meetings can be found on page 48.
The Board and Committees also meet on an ad hoc basis when required.
How the Board spent its time Key activities and discussions Received reports from the Chief Executive.
Strategy Engaged with senior management and advisors on Group strategy.
Received management presentations from across the business.
Received reports from the Finance Director including review of the medium-term plan.
Considered and approved annual and interim financial reports and trading statements.
16% Reviewed minutes and actions from Committee meetings.
Routine matters Discussed Groups property portfolio.
Reviewed broker and investor relations reports.
16% Received reports from Chief Risk Officer.
Risk & Compliance Considered cyber security for the Group and evaluated technology resilience.
Reviewed and approved the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP.
10% Received training on CASS and Market Abuse Regulation.
Oversight of data protection and GDPR implementation.
Discussed succession planning for the Board and senior management.
People and culture Considered the results of the employee engagement survey.
Approved the appointment of new Directors.
9% Received committee updates and outcomes of the Board and its committees performance Governance evaluations.
8% Agreed the composition of the Executive Committee.
Reviewed updates on corporate governance.
co. uk CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Actions for 2019 Board evaluation Technology oversight: Ensure consistent oversight of The Board and its Committees undertake an annual evaluation technology implementation improvements via enhanced reporting of their performance.
The process provides an opportunity to and governance.
appraise effectiveness and to identify areas of development as well as follow up on actions raised by the previous review.
Strategic oversight: Strengthen mechanisms to evaluate strategic outcomes.
Lintstock Ltd were appointed as retained adviser in 2017, Board skillset and composition: Promote the continued for a three-year programme to facilitate Board and Committee development of skills amongst Board members that match evaluations: this is the second year of the programme.
strategic goals with ongoing review.
Last years evaluation was based on a set of questionnaires Business engagement: Enhance engagement with senior designed by Lintstock.
The Board has addressed all the actions management and network of regional offices.
outlined in the Corporate Governance Report presented in the 30 September 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, including Progress against these actions will be reviewed during the year.
increasing the time spent on strategic considerations.
It is intended that a questionnaire approach will be conducted in the final year.
Lintstock has no other connections to the Company.
This year, Lintstock have conducted a series of interviews with members of the Board, Executive Committee and other Time commitment stakeholders.
The exercise was weighted to ensure that issues The expectation of the Non-Executive Directors time commitment identified in previous Board reviews had been followed up, as well is set out in their letters of appointment.
Copies are available for as having a focus on the following areas: inspection at the Companys Registered Office and will also be The succession planning requirements of the Board over available at the AGM.
Their attendance, along with Executive the coming years, and the evolution of skills amongst Board Directors, at meetings during the year is set out in the table on members to match the Groups strategic goals.
The understanding of, and engagement with, key stakeholder Directors conflicts of interest groups including investors, employees, clients, regulators andsuppliers.
The Board has a policy in place for managing and, where appropriate, approving conflicts or potential conflicts of interest.
The quality of the narrative in the Board materials, and the AllDirectors are provided with an opportunity to disclose any balance of time devoted to presentation and discussion at changes in conflicts at the start of every meeting.
The value of the 2018 Board strategy day and the format of Independence of Directors subsequent discussions to further discuss plans and initiatives All Non-Executive Directors are independent in character and over the coming year.
They do not hold any positions that will conflict with The mechanisms by which strategic plans are determined their responsibilities with the Group.
and the analysis of key competitors and their performance.
Information flow The delegation of responsibility for risk oversight between the Board, the Risk Committee and management.
As part of the annual cycle, all Board Committees forward-plan their agendas for the year to ensure that important issues are A partner from Lintstock facilitated a discussion of the results addressed.
The Chairman of each Committee works closely with at the September Board meeting and was also available to the the Company Secretariat and other relevant members of senior Committee Chairmen to discuss the performance of the management to agree areas of discussion or approval.
Director evaluation The results were positive, a number of actions were identified and agreed as part of this exercise.
These form the basis of the During the year, the Chairman evaluated the performance of all Boards action points for the next year, a selection of which Directors in one-to-one meetings and the Senior Independent are set out below.
Director evaluated the performance of the Chairman.
It was confirmed that each Director continued to deliver the required commitment to his or her role and made an effective and valuable contribution to the Group.
Brewin Dolphin 50 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Directors induction The induction programme for Non-Executive Directors followed by both Michael Kellard and Simonetta Rigo included presentations and discussions on the following areas of the Group.
In addition each had one-to-one meetings with fellow Board members, members of the Executive Committee and other senior management.
Feedback was sought from each Director on the inductionprogramme and onboarding.
Board and governance Finance Risk and regulation Board procedures Budget and forecast Regulatory landscape Governance framework Management accounts ICAAP Evaluation process Internal audit function Operational risk framework Director training programme Analyst Investor overview Business introduction Other Structure Legal issues Strategy Culture Market environment People Information technology and cyber security issues Shareholders Accountability The Chairman and Chief Executive meet with the Groups major An overview of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties and a shareholders.
The Chairman communicates shareholder feedback description of the risk management framework can be found on to the Board.
The Board also receives regular broker reports pages 28 to 32 in the Strategic Report.
A description of how the Board has discharged its responsibilities Following the release of our annual results, a presentation is held in relation to internal controls and risk management is set out on for analysts and investors.
The presentation is available on our page 77 of the Directors Report.
website for those unable to attend.
Diversity This years AGM will be held in Haberdashers Hall, 18 West The Groups Diversity Policy is implemented through the Diversity Smithfield, London EC1A 9HQ at 11.30am on 1 February 2019. and Inclusion Committee which meets quarterly.
Itsfour distinct Further details can be found in the Notice of AGM on the Groups objectives are to: website, brewinmedia.
encourage all employees to promote workplace diversity and Clients inclusion: recognise value and respect differences.
An annual client survey ensures we are focused on how clients create a working environment that supports the effective view the service we provide, see Chief Executives Review, contribution of everyone.
ensure our people policies and processes are aligned to and drive diversity and inclusion goals and values in support of Employees business strategy.
Employee engagement is facilitated in a number of ways and more improve diversity in the talent pipeline and at senior levels.
detail can be found on page 39.
Details of diversity activities for the period can be found in the Regulators OurPeople report on page 39.
The principal regulator for the Group is the Financial Conduct Authority FCA and there is a proactive system of engagement.
Stakeholder engagement The Board is kept aware of any regulatory issues via regular Building and nurturing strong working relationships with our updates to the Board and its Committees from the Chief shareholders, clients, intermediaries, employees and regulators is RiskOfficer.
We aim to build  with In addition, the Group also engages with other supervisory bodies, our stakeholders and to keep these under review.
agencies and trade bodies to discuss areas of common interest and share our views.
