NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Expanding the Board skillset Q&A with our Chairman of the Nomination Committee, Simon Miller How would you characterise the year from the perspective of the Nomination Committee?
The Nomination Committee had a particularly busy 2018, asthe year included the search for and appointment of two new Non-Executive Directors as well as the identification ofanew Finance Director.
Iam proud of the Committees performance during this period, and its direct contribution tothe organisations future by adding to the depth of talent, experience and diversity of its leadership.
An externally facilitated performance evaluation of the Board Chairmans overview was conducted during the year by Lintstock board consultancy.
The main focus of the Nomination Committee is to consider the This evaluation took the form of interviews with each Board composition of the Board and its Committees and to review and member as well as members of the Executive Committee and manage succession planning.
The Company has in place other individuals who contributed to the Committee during the succession plans for the Board and senior management to year.
Overall, the report confirmed the Board and committee were ensure there is an appropriate future mix of skills and experience.
run effectively and the focus of the Nomination Committee over the coming year will be development and succession planning.
Following a review of the Boards skillset, the need to recruit individuals with digital experience in the financial services sector was identified as important to the growth of the Group.
Michael Kellard and Simonetta Rigo both bring experience in this area in Simon Miller financial services: Simonetta from her time repositioning a brand Chairman of the Nomination Committee for the new digital age, and Michael from his experience of 27 November 2018 implementing a new financial services IT platform.
Andrew Westenberger stepped down from the Board in May 2018.
Odgers Berndtson, a market leader in executive searches which has no connection to the Group, were appointed to find a suitable replacement.
How the Committee spent its time Several candidates were identified as having the experience necessary.
These were shortlisted to two individuals who were interviewed by the Board and members of the Executive 7% Committee.
Siobhan Boylan then had a structured interview 7% and undertook psychometric testing with Manchester Square 27% Board composition 4% Partners, a partnership that specialises in leadership, career Succession & skills matrix management and succession.
It is anticipated Siobhan will join Appointment of NEDs the Board in February 2019.
FD appointment 17% Routine matters Additionally, we looked at the overall existing Committee Performance evaluation memberships.
As a result, the Board agreed to make changes to UK Corporate Governance 20% the various committees in order to take advantage of the different Code 2018 skillsets of the new Directors.
Details of all Committee 18% memberships can be found on page 45.
Committee composition The Committee during the year comprised the Board Chairman, Simon Miller, Caroline Taylor, Paul Wilson and Kath Cates.
The Chief Executive and Group Human Resources Director are standing attendees at Committee meetings: the Chief Executive and the Chairman exclude themselves from discussions relating to their ownappointments.
Further details of membership and attendance can be found on pages 45 and 48.
The responsibilities of the Committee are defined in the Committees Terms of Reference, a copy of which can be found at brewinmedia.
