Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Introduction Audit Nominations Remuneration Responsibility & Board Committee Committee Committee of Directors Leadership and effectiveness Governance framework The Board The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders of the Company for its performance and for the Groups strategic direction, its values andits governance.
The Board provides the leadership necessary for the Group to meet its performance objectives within a robust framework ofinternal controls.
Board responsibilities: Board programme Group strategy.
The Board has a comprehensive annual programme of meetings to monitor and review the Groups strategy across all the elements Significant corporate activities.
Risk management and of the Groups business model.
The key activities of the Board in internal control.
2018, discussed under the Groups four strategy pillars of Growth, Annual Report & 20-F approval.
Productivity, Sustainability and Winning Organisation, are detailed Periodic financial reporting.
Board and Management Board on pages 58 and 59.
The Boards strategic priorities for 2018 are appointments and succession.
identified within the key performance indicators set out in our Strategic Report on pages 10 and 11.
Board Committees The Board devotes considerable attention to Group Corporate The Board has three principal Board Committees to which it has Governance, including internal control and compliance issues.
The roles, memberships and It receives verbal updates from the Chairman of each Committee activities of these Committees are described in their individual following each Committee meeting.
Copies of the minutes of reportsin this section.
allCommittees are circulated to all members of the Board.
Each Committee has its own terms of reference, available at Collective decisionmaking www.
These terms of reference are all reviewed and updated regularly, most recently to reflect revisions to internal The Chairman seeks a consensus at Board meetings but, if necessary, governance and reporting processes to align with the UK Corporate decisions are taken by majority.
If any Director has concerns on any Governance Code 2018. issues that cannot be resolved, such concerns are noted in the Board minutes.
No such concerns arose in 2018.
Management Board Audit Nominations Remuneration Committee Committee Committee The Management Board, chaired by the Chief Executive, isresponsible for overseeing the implementation of the Groups page 64 page 71 page 73 strategy and policies set by the Board, and for creating the framework for the day-to-day operation of the Groups operating subsidiaries.
Its members comprise the Executive Directors and 14senior Group executives whose names and roles are described onpage 56.
Leadership roles and responsibilities To accelerate execution of the Groups strategy, the following Leadership appointments to the Management Board were made with effect from 1 January 2019: Chairman Chief Executive Leadership of the Board.
Overall responsibility for Kingsley Wheaton, previously Regional Director, Americas and Groupperformance.
Sub-Saharan Africa, was appointed as Chief Marketing Officer Leadership of the Group.
replacing Andrew Gray: Enables planning and execution Interfaces with shareholders.
Tadeu Marroco, previously Regional Director, Europe and North ofobjectives and strategies.
Ensures effective shareholder Africa, was appointed as Director, Group Transformation and Stewardship of Group assets.
additionally, with effect from 1 March 2019, as Deputy Finance Director, to then succeed Ben Stevens as Finance Director with effect from 5 August 2019: Oversight Marina Bellini, previously Chief Information Officer, was appointed NonExecutive Directors NEDs Senior Independent Director SID Oversee Group strategy.
Leads the review of the Chairmans as Director, Digital and Information: performance.
Hae In Kim, previously Group Head of Talent and Organisational Presides at Board meetings in the Monitor Group performance.
Effectiveness, was appointed as Director, Talent and Culture Chairmans absence.
Designate and will replace Giovanni Giordano, currently Director, Bring an external perspective and Intermediary for other Directors.
Group Human Resources, from 1 April 2019: Available to meet with major Luciano Comin, previously Regional Head of Marketing, Americas shareholders.
and Sub-Saharan Africa, was appointed Regional Director, Americas and Sub-Saharan Africa: Management Board Johan Vandermeulen, previously Regional Director, Asia-Pacific Develops Group strategy for the Ensures Group, regional and and Middle East, was appointed as Regional Director, Europe and Groups product portfolio for approval functional strategies and resources North Africa: by the Board.
Guy Meldrum, previously Area Director, Australasia Area, was Monitors Group operating Manages the central functions.
appointed as Regional Director, Asia-Pacific and Middle East: and performance.
Oversees the management and development of Group talent.
Paul Lageweg, previously Regional Marketing Manager, Asia-Pacific and Middle East, was appointed as Director, New Categories.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 57
