Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information US corporate governance practices Principles In the US, ADSs of the Company are listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
The significant differences between the Companys corporate governance practices as a UK company and those required by NYSE listing standards for US companies are discussed below.
The Company has applied a robust set of board governance principles, which reflect the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 and its principlesbased approach to corporate governance.
NYSE rules require US companies to adopt and disclose on their websites corporate governance guidelines.
The Company complies with UK requirements, including a statement in this report of how the Company has applied the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 and that the Company has complied with the best practice provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016.
From 1 January 2019, the Company has applied the Principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 and will report on its application of those Principles in the Companys Annual Report and Form 20-F for 2019.
Independence The Companys Board governance principles require that all Non-Executive Directors be determined by the Board to be independent in character and judgement and be free from any business or other relationships that could interfere materially with, or appear to affect, their judgement.
The Board also has formal procedures for managing conflicts of interest.
The Board has determined that, in its judgement, all of the NonExecutive Directors are independent.
In doing so, the Board has taken into consideration the independence requirements outlined in the NYSEs listing standards and considers these to be met by the Chairman and all of its Non-Executive Directors.
Committees The Company has a number of Board Committees that are broadly comparable in purpose and composition to those required by NYSE rules for domestic US companies.
For instance, the Company has a Nominations rather than nominating corporate governance Committee and a Remuneration rather than compensation Committee.
The Company also has an Audit Committee, which NYSE rules require for both US companies and foreign private issuers.
These Committees are composed solely of Non-Executive Directors and, in the case of the Nominations Committee, the Chairman whom the Board has determined to be independent, in the manner described above.
Each Board Committee has its own terms of reference, which prescribe the composition, main tasks and requirements of each of the Committees see the Board Committee reports on pages 64, 71 and 106.
Under US securities law and the listing standards of the NYSE, the Company is required to have an audit committee that satisfies the requirements of Rule 10A-3 under the Exchange Act and Section303A.
06 of the NYSE Listed Company Manual.
The Companys Audit Committee complies with these requirements.
The Companys Audit Committee does not have direct responsibility for the appointment, reappointment or removal of the independent auditors.
Instead, it follows the UK Companies Act 2006 by making recommendations to the Board on these matters for it to put forward for shareholder approval at the AGM.
One of the NYSEs additional requirements for the audit committee states that at least one member of the audit committee is to have accounting or related financial management expertise.
The Board has determined that Luc Jobin, Holly Keller Koeppel and Kieran Poynter possess such expertise and also possess the financial and audit committee experiences set forth in both the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 and SEC rules see the Audit Committee report on page 64.
Mr Jobin, Ms Keller Koeppel and Mr Poynter have also each been designated as an Audit Committee financial expert as defined in Item16.
In accordance with the requirements of applicable US federal securities laws and NYSE listing standards, the Board determined that Dr Marion Helmes service on audit committees external to the Company did not impair her ability to effectively serve on the Companys Audit Committee.
Shareholder approval of equity compensation plans The NYSE rules for US companies require that shareholders must be given the opportunity to vote on all equity-compensation plans and material revisions to those plans.
The Company complies with UK requirements that are similar to the NYSE rules.
The Board, however, does not explicitly take into consideration the NYSEs detailed definition of what are considered material revisions.
Codes of business conduct and ethics The NYSE rules require US companies to adopt and disclose a code of business conduct and ethics for all directors, officers and employees and promptly disclose any waivers of the code for directors or executive officers.
The Group Standards of Business Conduct SoBC described on pages 30 to 31 apply to all staff in the Group, including senior management and the Board, and satisfy the NYSE requirements.
All Group companies have adopted the SoBC or localised versions.
The SoBC also set out the Groups whistleblowing policy, enabling staff, in confidence and anonymously, to raise concerns without fear of reprisal, including concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters.
The SoBC is available at www.
The Company has also adopted a code of ethics for its Chief Executive, Finance Director, Group Financial Controller and Group Chief Accountant as required by the provisions of Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules issued by the SEC.
There have been no waivers from the code of ethics relating to any officers.
The Company considers that these codes and policies address the matters specified in the NYSE rules for US companies.
Independent director contact Interested parties may communicate directly with the independent directors, individually or as a group, by sending written correspondence addressed to the independent director s to the attention of the Company Secretary at the following address: c o Paul McCrory, Company Secretary, British American Tobacco p. l. c. Globe House, 4 Temple Place, London WC2R 2PG.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 293
