Directors Report Board effectiveness Balance of NonExecutive Directors considering a wide pool of candidates of Balance and diversity and Executive Directors both genders for appointment to the Board: Our Non-Executive Directors come from broad industry and professional backgrounds, maintaining at least 30% representation of with varied experience and expertise aligned women on our Board, with the ambition of to the needs of our business.
Short biographies progressing towards further gender balance: of the Directors are set out in this section on giving preference, where appropriate, to pages 54 and 55. engagement of executive search firms that The Hampton-Alexander Review set are accredited under the Standard and Chairman 1 recommendations aimed at increasing the Enhanced Codes of Conduct for Executive Executive Directors 2 number of women in leadership positions in Search Firms, which include gender Independent NonExecutive Directors 7 FTSE 350 companies, including a target of diversity: and 33% representation of women on FTSE 350 oversight of the development of a pipeline of Boards by 2020.
From 1 April 2019, women Length of tenure of diverse, high-performing potential Executive will represent 30.0% of our Board and 14.3% NonExecutive Directors Directors, Management Board members and of our Management Board.
other senior managers, through the activities The Board appreciates the benefits of of the Nominations Committee.
diversity in all of its forms, within its own Please refer to page 72 for details of progress membership and at all levels across the in 2018 against these objectives.
Our Strategic Report discusses our Group diversity initiatives and provides Independence details of the representation of women in our The Board considers all Non-Executive 03 years 3 total workforce and in our senior manager Directors to be independent, as they are free 46 years 3 population on pages 24 to 26. from any business or other relationships that 7 years 2 could interfere materially with, or appear to Board Diversity Policy affect, their judgement.
We believe that great talent and an engaging Gender split of Directors culture are key to our success, and diversity is In respect of Luc Jobin and Holly Keller a critical component of both.
Koeppel, who were originally appointed to the Board following the acquisition of RAI Strength from Diversity is one of our Groups and pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of long-standing four Guiding Principles.
Merger with RAI, the Board determined each This principle is reflected in our Group of them to be independent Directors, having Employment Principles discussed further taken into account their respective periods of on pages 25 and 26, and is taken into service on the board of RAI as independent, consideration in determining the composition non-executive directors.
of our Board and Management Board.
Male 7 The Board has also considered the We think of diversity in its widest sense, as Female 3 independence requirements outlined in the those attributes that make each of us unique.
NYSEs listing standards and has determined These include our race, ethnicity, cultural that these are met by the Chairman and all background, geographical origin, gender, Ethnicity split of Directors the Non-Executive Directors.
age, disability, sexual orientation, religion, skills, experience, education, professional Conflicts of interest background, perspectives and thinking styles.
The Board has formal procedures for The Nominations Committee is responsible managing conflicts of interest.
Directors are for regularly reviewing the composition of required to give advance notice of any conflict the Board and Management Board to ensure issues to the Company Secretary.
These are both boards have an appropriate balance of considered either at the next Board meeting skills, expertise and knowledge, and ensuring or, if the timing requires it, at a meeting of that all appointments are made on merit the Boards Conflicts Committee.
Each year, White 9 against objective criteria and with due regard the Board also considers afresh all previously BAME 1 for the benefits of diversity.
These principles authorised situational conflicts.
Directors are were rigorously applied by the Nominations excluded from the quorum and vote in applying the Parker Report guidance.
Committee in identifying and recommending respect of any matters in which they have Jack Bowles for appointment to the Board.
Nationality of Directors an interest.
Our Board Diversity Policy sets out the Boards During 2018, the Board convened commitment to the following objectives: a ConflictsCommittee at which the US 1 interests of Dr Marion Helmes were noted.
considering all aspects of diversity when Brazilian 1 There were two appointments considered, reviewing the composition of, and British 4 herappointment to the Board of Heineken succession planning for, the Board and Canadian 1 N. V. where no reasonable likelihood of Management Board: German 1 conflict was identified, and her appointment Greek 1 to the Board of Siemens Healthineers AG, Irish 1 where a situational conflict was authorised bythe Conflicts Committee.
Note: The information in the above charts is at 31 December 2018.
60 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Introduction Audit Nominations Remuneration Responsibility & Board Committee Committee Committee of Directors A further Conflicts Committee was convened Training and professional development The Executive and the Non-Executive to consider Lionel Nowell, IIIs appointment Directors also meet annually, led by the Non-Executive Directors receive a full to the Board of Ecolab Inc. where a potential Senior Independent Director and without programme of briefings on an annual basis conflict was identified and authorised by the the Chairman present, to discuss the across all areas of the Companys business Conflicts Committee.
from the Executive Directors, members of the Management Board, the Company Secretary Board evaluation The Board, in accordance with the Companys and other senior executives.
procedures, confirmed the Conflicts Evaluation process Non-Executive Directors regularly attend Committees decisions in these above matters.
The performance and effectiveness of the meetings of the Groups Regional Audit Board, its Committees, the Executive and Where a situational conflict was authorised, and Corporate and Social Responsibility Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman that Director is regarded as having an interest Committees and Corporate Audit Committee were evaluated internally in 2018, facilitated in any transaction or agreement between to gain an enhanced understanding of the by the Company Secretary, using a series the Company and that entity, without the Groups regions and central functions and the of detailed questionnaires.
An external requirement to give further notice.
risks faced by the business at market, regional evaluation was undertaken in 2016, facilitated and functional levels.
In December 2018, the Board noted that by Independent Audit Limited.
in respect of Dimitri Panayotopoulos The Chairman meets with each Non-Executive The Chairman is responsible for the overall appointment as a member of the Advisory Director individually towards the end of each evaluation process and each Committee Board of JBS USA Food Company, whose year, to discuss their individual training and Chair is responsible for the evaluation parent company, JBS S. A. was previously a development plans.
of the performance and effectiveness of supplier to the Group, it was established that their Committee.
since September 2017 both JBS S. A. and JBS Training and development USA Food Company were no longer suppliers All Directors participated in the evaluation highlights: to the Group and that a situational conflict no process, assessing the Board, the Committees Group product portfolio longer exists.
of which they were a member or regularly The Board gained extensive insight into the attended in 2018, and each of the Directors The Board further noted that Richard Burrows Groups product innovation pipeline and the individually.
Directors were requested to rank will step down as Senior Independent Director science supporting it, presented by scientists, the Board, their Committees and each other and Non-Executive Director of Rentokil Initial product developers and other R&D teams at against several outcomes across a range of PLC on 8 May 2019, when a situational our Global R&D Centre in Southampton.
different areas and to provide commentary to conflict will no longer exist.
Mr Burrows also support their assessments.
stepped down from the Board of Craven UK Corporate Governance House Capital PLC on 17 October 2018.
Anonymised reports specifying the findings The Board received a series of briefings on of the evaluations were prepared by the the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 Information and Company Secretary for the Board and and new UK reporting regulations from the  each Committee.
The Board or respective Company Secretary and the Companys Board induction Committee as applicable then reviewed external legal advisers and discussed the and discussed their report and identified revised Code and the spirit in which it On joining the Board, all Directors action areas for 2019 taking into account the should be implemented.
These activities receive a full induction tailored to their evaluation findings.
informed Board decisions on the practical individual requirements.
steps to be taken across the Group to align The Chairman received reports from the Jack Bowles completed our Executive Director our corporate governance with the new Company Secretary on the performance and induction programme in preparation for requirements from 1 January 2019. effectiveness of each of the Executive and his appointment to the Board on 1 January Non-Executive Directors in 2018 and individual 2019.
Mr Bowles induction focused on feedback was provided by the Chairman to the Companys corporate governance NonExecutive Director meetings each of the Directors.
The Senior Independent structures, Board processes, responsibilities When required, the Non-Executive Directors, Director received a report from the Company as Chief Executive and Directors duties more led by the Chairman, meet prior to or Secretary on the Chairmans performance generally, shareholder and wider stakeholder following Board meetings.
Regular meetings and effectiveness in 2018 and led a discussion engagement programmes and perspectives, led by the Chairman are scheduled in reviewing the Chairmans effectiveness with the and the UK and US regulatory frameworks the Board calendar without the Executive other Directors without the Chairman present.
The Senior Independent Director then provided individual feedback to the Chairman.
Directors: information and advice Information: Board Directors receive papers for review in good time ahead of each meeting: and Committees the Company Secretary ensures effective information flow within and between the Board and its Committees, andbetween theNon-Executive Directors and senior management: and the Company Secretary, in conjunction with external advisers where appropriate, advises the Board on all governance matters.
Advice all Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary: a procedure is in place for all Directors to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense ifrequired: and each of the three principal Committees of the Board may obtain independent legal or other professional advice, attheCompanys expense, and secure attendance at meetings of outsiders if needed.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 61 Directors Report Board effectiveness continued Evaluation outcomes As part of the annual Board evaluation, Shareholder engagement theBoard assessed progress against the The findings of the annual Board evaluation Dialogue with our shareholders areasof focus identified for 2018 reported show that the Board and each of its The Board is committed to open and inthe Companys 2017 Annual Report and Committees continues to function effectively.
The Directors work very well together and The Senior Independent Director and other they each contribute effectively to the Board The Remuneration Committee has led a Non-Executive Directors are available to meet and their designated Committees.
focused review of the Directors Remuneration with major shareholders on request.
The AGM Policy over the year to develop a revised Key strengths of the Board include its broad is an opportunity for further shareholder policy that remains aligned with shareholder range of expertise and diversity of skill sets, engagement and for the Chairman to interests.
The Remuneration Committee its strong understanding of the Groups explain the Companys progress and, with Chairman continues to lead a programme of business and the competitor landscape, other members of the Board, to answer engagement with shareholders to understand and its scrutiny of business strategy and any questions.
their views on the Companys policy proposals performance.
Board members receive All Directors attend the AGM, unless illness in advance of the Companys 2019 AGM.
high-quality information enabling effective or pressing commitments prevent them.
decision making and are well supported by Sufficient time has been allocated to ongoing All Directors, except for Lionel Nowell, III, the Company Secretary.
The Boards oversight risk monitoring and oversight of compliance attended the AGM in 2018. of the integration of the US business into the issues, supported by continued enhancement Group, its leadership of the evolution of the Details of our 2019 AGM are set out on of the Groups global business conduct NGP category and its pro-active management page 321. framework described further at pages 30 to 31. of succession planning for the Chief Executive Update on 2018 AGM voting results The Nominations Committee has reviewed were highlighted as examples of the All resolutions were passed at the Companys the size and composition of the Board and Boards effectiveness.
AGM held on 25 April 2018 with the the membership of Board Committees in Frequent opportunities for the Board to requisite majority of votes.
However, in view of the retirements of Ann Godbehere, engage with senior management and respect of three resolutions, the re-election Dr Pedro Malan and Lionel Nowell, III.
conductdeep dives into key aspects of DrMarion Helmes as Director, authority to As part of this review, the Board accepted of Group strategy continue to be highly allot shares and the Directors Remuneration the recommendations of the Nominations valued by the Non-Executive Directors.
Report, we acknowledge that a significant Committee to appoint Holly Keller Koeppel Board feedback welcomed the extensive minority of our shareholders did not support as the Chairman of the Audit Committee, to insights gained from meeting with scientists, these resolutions.
appoint Luc Jobin to the Audit Committee product developers and other R&D teams and to appoint Dr Marion Helmes to the Dr Marion Helmes has since stepped down at the Groups Global R&D Centre in Remuneration Committee with effect from from the Supervisory Board of Bilfinger SE Southampton and recognised the high quality 14 January 2019 Dr Helmes and Mr Jobin with effect from 15 May 2018 and has also of operational performance information having stepped down from the Audit and retired as a Non-Executive Director of NXP provided to the Board.
The Board identified Remuneration Committees, respectively from Semiconductors N. V. with effect from 22 June that these strategic sessions should remain that date.
Following these retirements, and with a focus in 2019 through R&D Centre and continue to be a priority for the Nominations her appointment to the Supervisory Board of market visits.
Heineken N. V. from 19 April 2018, DrHelmes The Board retains an effective balance of portfolio of listed company non-executive Other areas of focus for 2019, identified skills and experience, and diversity of gender, directorships and equivalent total five through the annual Board evaluation, include nationalities and backgrounds, to enable appointments including her position at enhanced Board review of the Groups it to perform effectively.
The Board culture and its alignment with the Groups Directors remain highly regarded, including continues to listen to the views of our purpose, values and strategy, continued for their valuable expertise and the in-depth shareholders and Directors are required to rigour in the oversight of the development industry knowledge they bring to the Board.
obtain Board approval prior to undertaking of a diverse senior management succession The Chairman continues to ensure that additional external appointments.
pipeline and the allocation of additional time Board meetings are conducted effectively for the Nominations Committee to review with sufficient time allocated, particularly for and monitor the progress of the Groups significant or emerging matters.
Compliance statement Throughout the year ended 31 December 2018, we applied the Main We comply with the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules Principles of the April 2016 version of the UK Corporate Governance Code requirements for corporate governance statements by virtue of the as it applies to the year ended 31 December 2018.
The Company was information included in this section, together with the information compliant with all provisions.
contained in the Other Information section.
The Board considers that this Annual Report and Form 20-F, and notably this As a result of the listing of the Companys American Depositary section, provides the information shareholders need to evaluate how we have Shares ADSs on the NYSE, the Company is required to meet certain complied with our current obligations under the Code.
For ease of reference, NYSE requirements relating to corporate governance matters.
we prepare a separate voluntary annual compliance report by reference to each Certain exceptionsto these requirements apply to the Company as provision of the Code, available at www.
For a discussion of the significant differences between the NYSE requirements and the Companys practices, please From 1 January 2019, we have applied the Principles of the July 2018 version seepage 293. of the UK Corporate Governance Code and we will report on our application of those Principles in the Companys Annual Report and Form 20-F for 2019.
62 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Introduction Audit Nominations Remuneration Responsibility & Board Committee Committee Committee of Directors In respect of authority to allot shares, it is In addition, there is a microsite on standard market practice for many FTSE listed www.
com for debt investors, with companies to retain this type of authority comprehensive bond holder information and the authority sought by the Company on credit ratings, debt facilities, outstanding at its 2018 AGM is in accordance with bonds and maturity profiles.
the Investment Associations share capital During 2018, the Remuneration Committee management guidelines.
However, we are Chairman led an extensive programme aware that some institutional investors, of shareholder engagement in relation particularly in South Africa, have policies to proposed revisions to the Directors against supporting this type of resolution.
Remuneration Policy, supported by We will continue to listen to the views of our the Chairman, the Executive Directors shareholders in order to better understand and members of senior management.
the position of those for which this resolution Engagement with shareholders on the presents concerns, and will keep best practice revised policy has continued in the lead up under review.
Please refer to Please refer to page 108 for an update in the Remuneration Report for details of this respect of the resolution regarding the 2017 engagement programme and the Companys Directors Remuneration Report.
regard for shareholder interests in developing the revised policy.
Annual investor relations programme Board reporting on shareholder views A full programme of engagement with shareholders, potential investors and During 2018, the Head of Investor Relations analysts, in the UK and overseas, is regularly updated the Board on key undertakeneach year by the Head of issues raised by institutional shareholders InvestorRelations, usually accompanied and provided commentary on share by one or more of the Executive Directors.
Key issues raised The Chairman also met with shareholders by shareholders and considered by the over the year and, following his appointment Board during 2018 included the growth as CEO Designate, Jack Bowles has also of PRRPs, the US market, FDA regulation attended shareholder meetings.
Every two years, combined investor meetings The Chairman and the Executive Directors are held over two days with the Management regularly update the Board on their dialogue Board in attendance.
Our next investor event with shareholders.
The Board discusses will be held in March 2019 in London.
key issues raised and takes shareholder feedback into account in developing the In 2018, as part of the annual investor Groups strategy.
relations programme, meetings were held with institutional shareholders owning the For disclosures required by paragraph 7.2.
6 majority of the Groups shares, primarily in the of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rulesand the Companies Act2006 see the UK, US and South Africa.
Over the past year, Other Information section.
over 380 investor engagement activities were completed, mainly comprising face to face meetings, telephone conferences and group meetings.
Regular investor presentations were also given and these together with the results presentations are published on www.
All results presentations are also available to shareholders by webcast.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 63
