Directors Report Audit Committee Kieran Poynter Chairman of the Holly Keller Koeppel Audit Committee Current Chairman of to14 January 2019 the Audit Committee Role Audit Committee current members The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the: Holly Keller Koeppel Chairman from 14 January 2019 integrity of the Groups financial statements and any formal Luc Jobin from 14 January 2019 announcements relating to the Companys performance, considering Kieran Poynter Chairman to 14 January 2019 any significant financial reporting issues, significant judgments and estimates reflected in them, before their submission to the Board: Attendance at meetings in 2018 consistency of the Groups accounting policies: Attended Eligible to attend effectiveness of, and makes recommendations to the Board on, the Name Member since Scheduled Ad hoc Groups accounting, internal accounting and other financial controls, 1 Holly Keller Koeppel 2017 5 5 0 0 auditing matters and business risk management systems: 3 d Dr Marion Helmes 20162019 5 5 0 0 effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: and 3 b Dr Pedro Malan 20162018 2 2 0 0 2 b, 3 c independence, performance, effectiveness and objectivity of the Lionel Nowell, III 20172018 3 5 0 0 Companys external auditors, making recommendations as to their 1 Kieran Poynter 2012 5 5 0 0 reappointment or for a tender of audit services where appropriate, Notes: and approving their terms of engagement and the level of audit, 1.
Holly Keller Koeppel, Luc Jobin and Kieran Poynter each have recent and relevant financial audit-related and non-audit fees.
Holly Keller Koeppel, Luc Jobin and Kieran Poynter are each designated as an audit committee financial expert in accordance with applicable US federal securities laws and NYSE listing standards.
The members of the Committee as a whole have competence relevant to the Audit Committee terms of reference sectors in which the Group operates.
Revised Audit Committee terms of reference have been adopted by 2.
Number of meetings in 2018: a the Committee held five meetings in 2018: and b Lionel the Board to reflect revisions to internal governance and reporting Nowell, III did not attend the meetings held in April and July due to prior commitments.
processes to align with the requirements of the UK Corporate 3.
Membership: a all members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 Provision C. 3.1. applicable US Governance Code 2018.
The revised Audit Committee terms of federal securities laws and NYSE listing standards: b Dr Pedro Malan ceased to be a member reference incorporate: of the Committee upon his retirement as a Non-Executive Director on 25 April 2018: c Lionel Nowell, III ceased to be a member of the Committee upon his retirement as a Non-Executive the Committees role in supporting the Board to carry out a robust Director on 12 December 2018: and d Dr Marion Helmes ceased to be a member of the assessment of the Companys emerging risks: Committee with effect from 14 January 2019. the Committees role in supporting the Board to routinely review 4.
The Finance Director attends all meetings of the Committee but is not a member.
Other Directors may attend by invitation.
The Director of Legal & External Affairs, the Group the Groups whistleblowing channels, the reports arising from their Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors also attend meetings on a regular basis.
operation, and the arrangements in place for proportionate and 5.
The Committee meets alone with the external auditors and, separately, with the Group independent investigation and follow up, as appropriate: and Head ofInternal Audit at the end of every Committee meeting.
The Committee also meets periodically with management.
confirmation of the Committees responsibility to conduct the tender process for appointment of external auditors For the Committees terms of reference see from time to time, as considered necessary or as required by www.
64 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Introduction Audit Nominations Remuneration Responsibility & Board Committee Committee Committee of Directors Further specific matters considered by the Committee in relation Key activities in 2018 to the financial statements: Regular work programme reviewing: in relation to the offer to bond holders to exchange debt previously the Groups 2017 results, 2018 half-year results, the application of issued under Rule 144A format for SEC registered bonds discussed accounting standards, and the external auditors reports where results at page 40, the revision of the 2017 financial statements to reflect are audited: the Groups regional structures and retrospective implementation of the Groups external auditors year-end audit, including the key IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, as required by audit matters, materiality assessments and the Groups control applicable US securities regulations: environment, and confirming the independence of the Groups revisions to the Groups accounting policies to reflect the application external auditors: of IFRS 9 relating to financial instruments with effect from 1 January the Basis of Preparation and Accounting Judgements: 2018, the retrospective application of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and managements impact assessment adjusting items, applicable accounting treatment and the use of of the application of IFRS 9 and 15, discussed further at note 1 in the alternative performance measures: Notes on the Accounts: and the annual assessment of goodwill impairment: methodology for the Groups application of IFRS 16 Leases with the accounting applicable to retirement benefits liabilities and assets: effect from 1 January 2019 and revisions to the Groups accounting policies to reflect the application of IFRS 16, discussed further at note the Groups liquidity position, current facilities and financing needs 1 in the Notes on the Accounts.
through 2018: Significant accounting judgements considered by the Committee the steps taken to validate the Groups going concern assessment at in relation to the 2018 financial statements: half-year and year-end and agreeing on the process and steps taken the Groups significant tax exposures: the Committee reviewed to determine the Groups viability statement at year-end: periodic updates on corporate tax matters and considered reports the internal processes followed for the preparation of the Annual from the Group Head of Tax on the current status of the Franked Report and Form 20-F 2018 and confirming that the processes Income Investment Group Litigation Order FII GLO and the status appropriately facilitated the preparation of an Annual Report and of issues in various markets.
These included significant tax disputes in Form 20-F that is fair, balanced and understandable: Brazil, South Africa and theNetherlands.
The Committee confirmed managements assessments and extended disclosures in respect of the Groups Risk Register, including prioritisation and categorisation these tax exposures see note 28 in the Notes on the Accounts : of, and mitigating factors in respect of, Group risks: contingent liabilities, provisions and deposits in connection with regular reports from the Group Head of Internal Audit on internal ongoing litigation: the Committee confirmed that quarterly deposits audits of markets, processes and operations, management responses made as security for costs in relation to the Quebec class-actions by to internal audit findings and action plans put in place to address any the Groups subsidiary Imperial Tobacco Canada would continue to issues raised: be treated as an asset to be recovered upon a successful appeal of the the 2019 internal audit plan and progress against the 2018 plan: original judgment see note 14 in the Notes on the Accounts and approved the continued recognition of a contingent liability pending the Groups sustainability performance, including the Groups the final outcome of the class-actions see note 28 in the Notes on youth smoking prevention activities and the Groups corporate the Accounts.
The Committee reassessed the provision in respect of social investment in the focus areas of empowerment, civic life and the Fox River clean-up costs and related legal expenses subsequent sustainable agriculture and environment initiatives in countries and to a funding agreement in relation to the sharing of the costs.
communities in which the Group operates: The Committee confirmed that the provision would be retained periodic reports from the Groups Corporate Audit Committee and at the prior year level see note 3 in the Notes on the Accounts, Regional Audit and Corporate Social Responsibility Committees: although inherent uncertainties remain see note 28 in the Notes on the Accounts.
The Committee reviewed the position in respect of the annual and interim reports on the Groups Business Conduct & Kalamazoo River claim and agreed with managements assessment Compliance programme, whistleblowing and compliance with the that no provision should be recognised on the basis set out at note Group Standards of Business Conduct SoBC : 28 in the Notes on the Accounts: the annual report from the Group Head of Security on security risks, foreign exchange: as the Group has operations in certain territories losses and fraud arising during the preceding year: with severe currency restrictions where foreign currency is not half-year and year-end reports on political contributions: and readily available, the Committee assessed managements approach to applicable accounting treatment and was satisfied that the the Committees effectiveness in 2018, following the annual methodologies used to determine relevant exchange rates for evaluation of the Committee discussed further at page 61. accounting purposes were appropriate: BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 65 Directors Report Audit Committee continued RAI group companies: the Committee reviewed and approved the impact of the EU General Data Protection Regulation GDPR, review of final purchase price allocation in relation to the acquisition in 2017 of the Group-wide programme established to support GDPR compliance the remaining shares in RAI not already owned and subsequently the from 1 May 2018 and oversight of programme implementation: 2018 assessment of the carrying value of the intangibles, including increased threat of cyber-attack to the Groups operations and the goodwill.
The Committee also considered and concurred with evolving nature of those threats, and the Groups implementation of managements approach to accounting for the Master Settlement enhanced administrative, technical and physical defence capabilities Agreement, the Engle class-action and progeny cases and claims to protect its information systems and data through a cyber security brought by RAI dissenting shareholders seeking determination of fair roadmap integrated across the Group, including business continuity value for their shares following acquisition of the remaining shares in plans, security policies and procedures, network and systems RAI see note 28 in the Notes on the Accounts : and monitoring, employee training and third-party risk assessments: and proposed FDA regulations: the Committee considered the potential periodic reassessment of the risks faced by the Group as a consequence of impact of the FDAs announcement proposing to regulate or prohibit the UKs decision to exit the EU Brexit, including potential risks relating to menthol in cigarettes in the US and agreed with managements increased costs of capital, transactional and translational foreign exchange judgement that, in accordance with IFRS, this did not constitute an rateexposures, supply chain continuity, taxation and changes in customs impairment trigger on the basis that amongst other factors any duty, and talent acquisition and retention.
proposed regulation of menthol in cigarettes would need to be introduced through the established US comprehensive rule-making For further information please refer to the Principal Group risks on pages 48 to 52 and the Group risk factors on pages 270 to 284. process, the timetable and outcome for which was uncertain, and it was unclear how any such potential US regulation might affect the Audit Committee effectiveness manufacture and marketing of Group combustible brands containing menthol, indicating a lack of evidence that any impairment had An annual evaluation of the Committees effectiveness was undertaken occurred and that the amount of any potential impairment could as part ofthe wider internal Board evaluation conducted in 2018. not be reasonably estimated at this time.
The Committee requested The evaluation found that the Board considered the Committee to that management continue to monitor developments in relation operate effectively and that its working relationship with the Board to the FDAs proposals and required that potential impact be kept continues to be sound.
The process by which the Committees under review.
effectiveness was evaluated is discussed at page 61.
Other specific matters considered by the Committee: External auditors review of the Companys status as a Foreign Private Issuer for the KPMG LLP KPMG were appointed as the Companys auditors with effect purposes of US securities laws: from 23 March 2015, following a formal tender process carried out in 2015.
The Committee considers the relationship with the auditors to be working revisions to the Audit Committee terms of reference to reflect internal well and remains satisfied with their effectiveness.
governance changes implementing the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018: UK Competition and Markets Authority Audit Order evaluation of the progress on the Groups Delivery with Integrity The Company has complied with the Statutory Audit Services Order compliance programme discussed further on page 31 and issued by the UK Competition and Markets Authority for the financial monitoring SoBC incident reporting and the effectiveness of year ended 31 December 2018.
SpeakUp channels: review of the outcomes from assessments of key countries of concern Group Auditor Independence Policy AIP to the Group from a human rights perspective, including local The Group has an established AIP, reflecting the requirements of compliance with the Groups Supplier Code of Conduct and other applicable laws, to safeguard the independence and objectivity of the applicable Group policies in those countries: and Groups external auditors and to specify the approval processes for the oversight of the assessment of UK Group company payment practices engagement of the Groups external auditors to provide audit, auditand the procedures established to ensure that applicable companies related and other non-audit services.
report on payment practices in compliance with UK regulations.
The key principle of the AIP is that the Groups external auditors may Risk topics considered by the Committee included: only be engaged to provide services in cases where the provision of those services does not impair the independence and objectivity of oversight of the programme established to ensure ongoing SOx the Groups external auditors.
The Committee recognises that using compliance discussed further at page 69 : the external auditors to provide services can be beneficial given their the status of Group subsidiary Imperial Tobacco Canadas appeal of detailed knowledge of our business.
However, the AIP does not permit the class-action judgment in Quebec Province see note 28 in the the Committee to delegate its responsibilities to the external auditors Notes on the Accounts : and the external auditors are only permitted to provide audit, auditrelated and non-audit services in accordance with the AIP.
revisions to the Groups risk appetite framework as it relates to the Groups strategic objectives and regular review of emerging risks to The AIP does not permit the external auditors to maintain a financial, the Group prior to Board assessment: employment or business relationship with any Group company, or provide services to any Group company, which: the report on the effectiveness of the Companys risk management system: creates a mutual or conflicting interest with any Group company: risks associated with increased exposure to interest rate changes on places the external auditors in the position of auditing their own work: net finance costs, arising from existing and future refinanced debt: results in the external auditors acting as a manager or employee of any Group anti-bribery and corruption controls, with emphasis on the Group company: or controls established in markets assessed to be exposed to higher places the external auditor in the position of advocate for any bribery and corruption risks: Group company.
66 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Introduction Audit Nominations Remuneration Responsibility & Board Committee Committee Committee of Directors Audit services are approved in advance by the Committee on the Services provided by KPMG firms and associates 2018 basis of an annual engagement letter and the scope of audit services 2018 2017 isagreed by the Committee with the external auditors.
m m Subject to the restrictions specified in the AIP, the external auditors Audit services 15.1 17.6 may also provide certain non-audit services with the prior approval Audit of defined benefit schemes 0.4 ofthe Committee.
The requirement for the Committees pre-approval Audit-related assurance services 9.4 8.0 of non-audit services may be waived only if the aggregate amount Total audit and auditrelated services 24.9 25.6 of all non-audit services provided is less than 5% of the total amount paid to the external auditors during the reporting year, where those Other assurance services 0.3 4.1 services were not recognised to be non-audit services at the time of Tax advisory services engagement, and provided those services are promptly brought to Tax compliance 0.2 the attention of the Committee and their provision is approved prior Other non-audit services tocompletion of the audit in the relevant reporting year.
Total nonaudit services 0.3 4.3 The provision of permitted non-audit services must be put to tender Notes: In 2018, non-audit fees paid to KPMG amounted to 1.2% of the audit and audit-related if expected spend exceeds limits specified in the AIP, unless a waiver assurance fees paid to them 2017: 16.8%.
All audit and non-audit services provided by the external of this requirement is agreed by the Finance Director and notified to auditors in 2018 were pre-approved by theCommittee.
The other assurance services of 4.1 million the Committee.
in 2017 includes costs in relation to the Groups acquisition of RAI and associated regulatory filings.
The AIP: External auditor effectiveness requires Committee pre-approval for all audit, audit-related and other The Committee, on behalf of the Board, is responsible for the non-audit services, except in respect of non-audit services falling relationship with the external auditors.
The Committee carries within the exceptions described above: out an annual assessment of the Groups external auditors, covering qualification, expertise and resources, and objectivity and prohibits the provision of certain types of services by the external independence, as well as the effectiveness of the audit process.
auditors, including those with contingent fee arrangements, expert This assessment takes into account the Committees interactions services unrelated to audit and other services prohibited by US with, and observations of, the external auditors and gives regard to securities laws and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board: factors including: prohibits the Chief Executive, Finance Director, Group Financial experience and expertise of the external auditors in their direct Controller and Group Chief Accountant from having been employed communication with, and support to, the Committee: by the external auditors in any capacity in connection with the Group audit for two years before initiation of an audit: their mindset and professional scepticism: specifies requirements in respect of audit partner rotation, including their effectiveness in completing the agreed external audit plan: for both the lead and the concurring external audit partners to rotate their approach to handling significant audit and off the Group audit engagement at least every five years, and not to accounting judgements: recommence provision of audit or audit-related services to the Group for a further five years: and content, quality and robustness of the external auditors reports: and provides authority for the Committee to oversee any allegations of their provision of non-audit services, as noted above.
improper influence, coercion, manipulation or purposeful misleading The Committees assessment is also informed by an external audit in connection with any external audit, and to review any issues satisfaction survey completed by members of the Groups senior arising in the course of engagement with the external auditors.
No material issues were identified during the external External audit fees auditor assessment in 2018.
The Committee is satisfied with the The Committee reviews a schedule identifying the total fees for qualification, expertise and resources of its external auditors and that all audit and audit-related services, tax services and other nonthe objectivity and independence of its external auditors are not in audit services expected to be undertaken by the external auditors any way impaired by the non-audit services which they provide.
Tax services and other non-audit services in The Committee has recommended to the Board the proposed excess of the tender thresholds referred to above must be itemised.
reappointment of KPMG at the 2019 AGM.
Updated schedules are also submitted to the Committee at mid-year The Committee Chairman, Finance Director, Director of Legal & and year-end, so that it has full visibility of the Group spend on services External Affairs, Group Head of Internal Audit and the Company provided by the Groups external auditors.
Secretary all meet with the external auditors regularly throughout the A breakdown of audit, audit-related, tax and other non-audit fees paid year to discuss relevant issues as well as the progress of the external to KPMG firms and associates in 2018 is provided in note 3 c in the audit.
Any significant issues are included on the Committees agenda.
Notes on the Accounts and is summarised as follows: FRC Audit Quality Review The UK Financial Reporting Council FRC Audit Quality Review AQR team selected the audit of the Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 for review, as part of their annual inspection of audit firms.
The AQR covered the audit work at Group level and the AQR report did not identify any significant areas for improvement.
The Committee reviewed and discussed the scope of the AQR, the AQR report conclusions and the actions that will be taken in response to the AQR findings with the External Audit Engagement Partner.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 67 Directors Report Audit Committee continued Competition & Markets Authority statutory audit market study External and internal auditors attend meetings of these committees and regularly have private audiences with members of the committees The UK Competition and Markets Authority CMA invited the after meetings.
Additionally, central, regional and individual market Company to participate in its statutory audit market survey in 2018. management, along with internal audit, support the Board in its role The Committee Chairman led the Committees response to the CMAs ofensuring a sound control environment.
requests for information in connection with the study.
The Committee Chairman also met with representatives from the CMAs study team to This framework ensures that significant financial, social, environmental discuss the UK statutory audit market and the Companys approach to and reputational risks faced by the Group are appropriately managed external audit tenders.
and that any failings or weaknesses are identified so that remedial action may be taken.
Risk management and internal control Risk management Overview Risk registers, based on a standardised methodology, are used at The Company maintains its system of risk management and internal Group, regional, area and individual market level to identify, assess control with a view to safeguarding shareholders investment and and monitor the risks both financial and non-financial faced by the the Companys assets.
It is designed to identify, evaluate and manage business at each level.
Information on prevailing trends, for example risks that may impede the Companys objectives.
It cannot, and is not whether a risk is considered to be increasing or decreasing over time, is designed to, eliminate them entirely.
The system therefore provides provided in relation to each risk and all identified risks are assessed and a reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement prioritised at three levels by reference to their impact high medium or loss.
A description of the principal risks that may affect the Groups low and likelihood probable possible unlikely.
business is provided in our Strategic Report on pages 48 to 52.
Mitigation plans are required to be in place to manage the risks The main features of the risk management processes and system identified and progress against those plans is monitored.
The risk of internal control operated within the Group are described below.
registers are reviewed on a regular basis.
Regional and above-market These have been in place throughout the year under review and risk registers are reviewed regularly by the relevant Regional Audit and remain in place to date.
These do not cover associates of the Group.
CSR Committee or the Corporate Audit Committee, as appropriate.
Board oversight At Group level, specific responsibility for managing each identified During the year, the Board considered the nature and extent of risk is allocated to a member of the Management Board.
The Group the principal risks that the Group is willing to take to achieve its Risk Register is reviewed regularly by a committee of senior managers, strategic objectives its risk appetite and for maintaining sound risk chaired by the Finance Director.
In addition, it is reviewed annually management and internal control systems.
It keeps its risk appetite by the Board and twice yearly by the Committee.
The Board and the under review to ensure that it is appropriate and consistent with Committee review changes in the status of identified risks, assessing internal policies and the Groups strategic objectives.
the changes in impact and likelihood.
The Committee also conducts With the support of the Committee, the Board conducts a review deep dives into selected risks, meeting senior managers responsible of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal for managing and mitigating them, so that it can consider those risks control systems annually.
This review covers all material controls in detail.
including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk The Board noted that the Groups principal risks remained significantly management systems.
Audit and CSR Committee framework The Board also considered the Group Viability Statement @ The Groups Regional Audit and CSR Committee framework underpins see page 48 of the Strategic Report.
It provides a flexible channel for the structured flow of information through the Group, with committees For more information on risks see the Principal Group risks covering each of the Groups regions, and locally-listed Group entities on pages 48 to 52 and the Group risk factors on pages 270 to 284. and complex markets where considered appropriate in certain markets.
The Regional Audit and CSR Committees are supported by Risk and Internal control Control Committees established at business unit level, and within Group companies and other business units are annually required to certain Group functions where considered appropriate.
complete a checklist, called Control Navigator, of the key controls that they are expected to have in place.
Its purpose is to enable The Groups Regional Audit and CSR Committee framework structure them to self-assess their internal control environment, assist them in was amended with effect from 1 May 2018 to reflect the Groups identifying any controls that may need strengthening and support new international business model, and to establish a Regional Audit them in implementing and monitoring action plans to address control and CSR Committee for each of the three Group regions, in addition weaknesses.
The Control Navigator checklist is reviewed annually to to the RAI Regional Audit and CSR Committee covering the Groups ensure that it remains relevant to the business and covers all applicable US business.
The Committee approved revised terms of reference key controls.
In addition, at each year-end, Group companies and for the Regional Audit and CSR Committee to implement this other business units are required to: new international structure.
The Groups Regional Audit and CSR Committees are all chaired by a member of the Management Board review their system of internal control, confirm whether it remains and attended by one or more Non-Executive Directors.
effective and report on any material weaknesses and the action being taken to address them: and The Corporate Audit Committee focuses on the Groups risks and control environment that fall outside the regional committees remit, review and confirm policies and procedures to promote compliance for example head office central functions, global programmes and with the SoBC are fully embedded within the Group company or projects.
It comprises members of the Management Board, is chaired business unit and identify any material instances of non-compliance.
by a Regional Director and is also attended by one or more ofthe Non-Executive Directors.
@ Denotes phrase, paragraph or similar that does not form part of BATs Annual Report onForm20-F as filed with the SEC.
68 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Introduction Audit Nominations Remuneration Responsibility & Board Committee Committee Committee of Directors The results of these reviews are reported to the relevant Regional Audit The Group Manual of Accounting Policies and Procedures sets out and CSR Committees or to the Corporate Audit Committee, and to the Group accounting policies, its treatment of transactions and its the Committee, to ensure that appropriate remedial action has been, internal reporting requirements.
The internal reporting of financial or will be, taken where necessary.
They are also considered by the SOx information to prepare the Groups half-yearly and year-end financial Steering Committee and the Disclosure Committee in determining statements is signed off by the heads of finance responsible for the managements opinion on ICFR.
Groups markets and business units.
The heads of finance responsible for the Groups markets and all senior managers must also confirm Internal Audit function annually that all information relevant to the Group audit has been The Groups Internal Audit function is responsible for carrying out provided to the Directors and that reasonable steps have been taken risk-based audits of Group companies, other business units, and toensure full disclosure in response to requests for information from in relation to global processes.
The internal audit function of RAI the external auditors.
Companies was integrated into the Groups Internal Audit function The current and previous Committee Chairmen participated in the andits ways of working with effect from 1 January 2018, reporting Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 drafting and review processes, and directly to the Group Head of Internal Audit.
engaged with the Finance Director and the Group Head of Internal There is a separate Business Controls Team which provides advice Audit during the drafting process.
and guidance to the Groups businesses on best practices in risk SOx compliance oversight management and controls systems.
Following the registration of Company securities in 2017 under the US The Groups Internal Audit function maintains a rolling 18-month Securities Act of 1933, as amended the Securities Act, the Company audit plan, which is reviewed by the Committee on an annual basis.
is subject to certain rules and regulations of US securities laws, The internal audit plan is aligned to the Groups Risk Register and including the US Securities Exchange Act 1934 and SOx.
SOx places prioritises principal risk areas in relation to the Groups business.
specific responsibility on the Chief Executive and the Finance Director In 2018, internal audits covered various markets, Group manufacturing to certify or disclose information applicable to the financial statements, facilities, functional transformation programmes and specific processes, disclosure controls and procedures DCP and theinternal controls over including readiness for compliance with the EU Tobacco Products financial reporting ICFR.
For 2018, this includes our Chief Executive Directive.
The Committee considered internal audit findings and action and Finance Director giving attestation, required for the first time, in plans established to address any issues identified.
respect of ICFR effectiveness under 404 of SOx.
The internal audit plan for 2019 reviewed by the Committee places The Committee has oversight of processes established to ensure full increased focus on emerging risks for the Group, emphasising and ongoing compliance with applicable US securities laws, including audits relating to THP and vapour processes, enterprise organisation SOx.
Two committees provided assurance during 2018 with regard to programmes and global business services, whilst maintaining thorough applicable SOx certifications.
The Disclosure Committee reviews the coverage of core business activities, lines of defence and IT controls.
Companys financial statements for appropriate disclosure and designs The scope of each internal audit is assessed for SOx impact and audit and maintains DCPs and reports to, and is subject to the oversight of applicable SOx controls is included where relevant.
Reviews of SOx of, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
A sub-committee controls and their effectiveness are primarily conducted by the Groups of the Disclosure Committee, the SOx Steering Committee, provides Business Controls Team and assurance is also undertaken by the assurance that ICFR have been designed, and are being implemented, Groups external auditors, as referred to below.
evaluated and disclosed appropriately, in accordance with applicable The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Companys Internal requirements and subject to the oversight of the Chief Executive and Audit function on an annual basis.
The Committee considers the Finance Director.
The activities of this sub-committee are directly Internal Audit function to be effective and to have the necessary reported to the Disclosure Committee.
resources to enable it to fulfil its mandate.
The outputs from the Disclosure Committee and SOx Steering Financial reporting controls Committee were presented toand reviewed by the Committee.
No material weaknesses were identified and the Committee was The Group has in place a series of policies, practices and controls in satisfied that, where areas for improvement were identified, processes relation to the financial reporting and consolidation process, which are are in place to ensure that remedial action is taken and progress designed to address key financial reporting risks, including risks arising is monitored.
from changes in the business or accounting standards and to provide assurance of the completeness and accuracy of the content of the In 2018, the Committee also reviewed the scope of the external Annual Report and Form 20-F. auditors SOx procedures, and received reports on their progress with their independent assessment of ICFR across the Group and A key area of focus is to assess whether the Annual Report and Form theGroups SOx implementation.
20-F and financial statements are fair, balanced and understandable inaccordance with regulatory requirements, with particular regard to: Fair: Consistency of reporting between the financial statements and narrative reporting of Group performance and coverage of an overall picture of the Groups performance: Balanced: Consistency of narrative reporting of significant accounting judgements and key matters considered by the Committee with disclosures of material judgements and uncertainties noted in the financial statements: appropriate prominence and explanation of primary and adjusted measures: and Understandable: Clarity and structure of the Annual Report and Form 20-F and financial statements, appropriate emphasis of key messages, and use of succinct and focused narrative with strong linkage throughout the report, to provide shareholders with the information needed to assess the Groups business, performance, strategy and financial position.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 69 Directors Report Audit Committee continued Code of Ethics for the Chief Executive and Senior Financial Officers Whistleblowing In addition to the SoBC, which applies to all staff of the Group The Group maintains whistleblowing channels which enable concerns including senior management and the Board, the Company has regarding SoBC compliance matters, including concerns about adopted a Code of Ethics applicable to the Chief Executive, the Finance possible improprieties in financial reporting, to be raised in confidence Director, and other senior financial officers, as required by US securities and anonymously should an individual wish without fear of reprisal.
laws and NYSE listing standards.
The SoBC includes the Groups whistleblowing policy, which is The Code of Ethics includes requirements in relation to confidentiality, supplemented by local procedures throughout the Group that provide conflicts of interest and corporate opportunities, and obligations for staff with further guidance on reporting matters and raising concerns, those senior financial officers to act with honesty and integrity in the and the channels through which they can do so.
The Committee is performance of their duties and to promote full, fair, accurate, timely satisfied that the Groups whistleblowing policy and procedures enable and understandable disclosures in all reports and other documents proportionate and independent investigation of matters raised, and submitted to the US Securities and Exchange Commission, the ensure that appropriate follow-up action is taken.
UK Financial Conduct Authority, and any other regulatory agency.
Further information about the Groups whistleblowing channels and No waivers or exceptions to the Code of Ethics were granted in 2018. whistleblowing reports in 2018 is provided at page 31.
Annual review Political contributions The Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management and Internal Control and Related Business Reporting reflects the The Group does not make contributions to European Union EU requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 regarding political organisations or incur EU political expenditure.
The total the applicability of, and compliance with, that Codes provisions with amount of political contributions made to non-EU political parties in regard to issues of risk and internal control management and related 2018 was 3,718,540 2017: 4,832,321 as follows: financial and business reporting.
RAI Companies reported political contributions totalling 3,718,540 The processes described above, and the reports that they give rise US$4,965,850 for the full year 2018 to US political organisations, to, enable the Board and the Committee to monitor risk and internal non-federal-level political party committees and to campaign control management on a continuing basis throughout the year and committees of various non-federal candidates, in accordance with their to review its effectiveness at the year-end.
The Board, with advice from contributions programme.
No corporate contributions were made to the Committee, has completed its annual review of the effectiveness of federal candidates or political party committees and all contributions that system for 2018. were made in accordance with applicable laws.
The Board is satisfied that the system of risk and internal control All political contributions made by RAI Companies are assessed and management accords with the UK Corporate Governance Code approved in accordance with RAIs policies and procedures to ensure 2016 and satisfies the requirements for internal controls over appropriate oversight and compliance with applicable laws.
In accordance with the US Federal Election Campaign Act, RAI Group Standards of Business Conduct Companies continue to support an employee-operated Political The Committee is responsible for monitoring compliance with the Action Committee PAC, a non-partisan committee registered with SoBC, which underpins the Groups commitment to good corporate the US Federal Election Commission that facilitates voluntary political behaviour.
The SoBC requires all staff to act with a high degree of donations by eligible employees of RAI Companies.
According to US business integrity, comply with applicable laws and regulations, and federal finance laws, the PAC is a separate segregated fund and is ensure that standards are never compromised for the sake of results.
controlled by a governing board of individual employee-members of Every Group company and all staff worldwide, including senior the PAC.
In 2018, RAI Companies incurred expenses, as authorised by management and the Board, are expected to adhere to the SoBC.
US law, in providing administrative support to the PAC.
The SoBC and the Groups Delivery with Integrity programme is No other political contributions were reported.
discussed further on pages 30 to 31.
All Group companies have adopted the SoBC or local equivalent.
Information on compliance with the SoBC is gathered at a regional and global level and SoBC incidents reports, and details of the channels through which incidents are reported, are provided on a regular basis to the Regional Audit and CSR Committees, Corporate Audit Committee, and to the Committee.
A breakdown of incidents reported under the SoBC across the Group in 2018 is set out at page 31.
The SoBC and information on the total number of incidents reported under it in 2018 including established breaches is available at www.
com sobc 70 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018
