Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Introduction Audit Nominations Remuneration Responsibility & Board Committee Committee Committee of Directors Nominations Committee Role The Nominations Committee is responsible for: reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and Management Board on a regular basis to ensure both have an appropriate balance ofskills, expertise, knowledge and for the Board independence: reviewing the succession plans for appointments to the Board, the Management Board and as Company Secretary, to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience and to ensure progressive refreshing of both the Board and the Management Board: Richard Burrows making recommendations to the Board on suitable candidates Chairman of forappointments to the Board, the Management Board and as theNominations Company Secretary, and ensuring that the procedure for those Committee appointments is rigorous, transparent, objective and merit-based, and has regard for diversity: assessing the time needed to fulfil the roles of Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive Director, and ensuring Nominations Committee current members Non-Executive Directors have sufficient time to fulfil their duties: and Richard Burrows Chairman Holly Keller Koeppel implementing the Board Diversity Policy and monitoring progress towards the achievement of its objectives, highlighted on page 72.
Sue Farr Savio Kwan Dr Marion Helmes Dimitri Panayotopoulos Nominations Committee terms of reference Luc Jobin Kieran Poynter Revised Nominations Committee terms of reference have been adopted by the Board to reflect revisions to internal governance and reporting processes to align with the requirements of the UK Attendance at meetings in 2018 Corporate Governance Code 2018.
Attended Eligible to attend The revised Nominations Committee terms of reference incorporate Name Member since Scheduled Ad hoc the Committees role in overseeing the development of a pipeline of Richard Burrows 2009 2 2 5 5 diverse, high-performing potential Executive Directors, Management 1 b Sue Farr 2015 2 2 3 5 Board members and other senior managers.
2 b Ann Godbehere 20112018 1 1 1 1 Dr Marion Helmes 2016 2 2 5 5 Key activities in 2018: 1 c Luc Jobin 2017 2 2 4 5 Leading an extensive selection process to identify a successor to the Holly Keller Koeppel 2017 2 2 5 5 Chief Executive and recommending to the Board the appointment Savio Kwan 2014 2 2 5 5 of Jack Bowles as Chief Executive Designate with effect from 2 b Dr Pedro Malan 20152018 1 1 1 1 1 November 2018, discussed further on page 72.
1 d, 2 c Lionel Nowell, III 20172018 1 2 4 5 Making recommendations to the Board in respect of Committee Dimitri Panayotopoulos 2015 2 2 5 5 appointments, specifically to appoint Holly Keller Koeppel as the 1 e Kieran Poynter 2010 2 2 4 5 Chairman of the Audit Committee, Luc Jobin to the Audit Committee and Dr Marion Helmes to the Remuneration Committee with effect Notes: 1.
Number of meetings in 2018: a the Committee held seven meetings, five of which were ad from 14 January 2019 Dr Helmes and Mr Jobin having stepped hoc and convened at short notice: b Sue Farr did not attend the ad hoc meetings in October down from the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee and November due to prior commitments: c Luc Jobin did not attend the ad hoc meeting in respectively from that date.
November due to prior commitments: d Lionell Nowell, III did not attend the meeting in July, and the ad hoc meeting in April, due to prior commitments: and e Kieran Poynter did not Making recommendations to the Board in relation to Directors attend the ad hoc meeting in October due to prior commitments.
annual appointment and re-election at the AGM, discussed further 2.
Membership: a all members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors in onpage 72. accordance with UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 Provision B.
2.1. applicable US federal securities laws and NYSE listing standards: b Ann Godbehere and Dr Pedro Malan ceased to be Reviewing the Executive Directors and Management Board members of the Committee upon their retirement asNon-Executive Directors on 25 April 2018: members annual performance assessments.
and c Lionel Nowell, III ceased to be a member of the Committee upon his retirement as a Non-Executive Director on 12 December 2018.
Considering organisational changes to accelerate execution of Group 3.
Other attendees: the Chief Executive, Chief Executive Designate, Group Human Resources strategy, and recommending that the Board make the Management Director, Talent and Culture Director Designate and Group Head of Talent & Organisation Board appointments set out at page 57.
Effectiveness regularly attend meetings by invitation but are not members.
Succession planning for the Board and for the Management Board, For the Committees terms of reference see having regard to the Board Diversity Policy.
com governance Reviewing the Group talent strategy, talent development priorities and the programmes underpinning the Groups commitment to investment in engaging, developing and retaining talent.
Reviewing the Groups Diversity & Inclusion strategy, specific diversity initiatives to further develop a diverse and gender-balanced work place, and progress made in the development of a diverse senior management succession pipeline.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 71 Directors Report Nominations Committee continued Assessing the progress of bespoke development plans for candidates Board retirements for Executive Director and Management Board roles.
Nicandro Durante will retire from the Board with effect from 1 April 2019, on his retirement as Chief Executive.
Ann Godbehere and Dr Reviewing an update on outcomes of the global Your Voice survey Pedro Malan retired as Non-Executive Directors of the Company with of employee opinion conducted across the Group in 2017. effect from the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 25 April Assessing the Committees effectiveness in 2018, following the annual 2018.
Lionel Nowell, III retired as a Non-Executive Director of the evaluation of the Committee discussed further at pages 61 and 62.
Company with effect from 12 December 2018.
Board appointments Board succession planning The Committee is responsible for identifying candidates for Board The Board considers the length of service of the members of the Board positions, taking into account the Board Diversity Policy.
This includes as a whole and the need for it to refresh its membership progressively afull evaluation of candidates attributes to ensure the Board maintains over time.
Board succession planning remains a priority for the an appropriate balance of skills, expertise and knowledge and Committee in 2019. generallyinvolves interviews with several candidates, supported by The Chairman will have served as a Director for just over nine independent, specialist external search firms to identify and shortlist years at the time of the 2019 AGM.
The Committee has given appropriate candidates.
careful consideration to Director transitions to ensure orderly Board Leading the rigorous selection process to identify the successor to the succession and has prioritised effective succession planning for the Chief Executive was a key priority for the Committee during 2018.
Chief Executive and the Finance Director which takes effect during As part of the selection process, all Committee members participated 2019.
In the forthcoming year, the Committee will be focused on in a series of interviews with internal and external shortlisted succession planning for the Chairman and will have close regard to candidates, assessed the outcomes of candidates competency testing, therequirements of the new Corporate Governance Code.
and gave thorough consideration to the skills, experience and diversity Annual General Meeting 2019 of attributes of each potential candidate and their respective abilities The Company will be submitting all eligible Directors for to deliver the Groups strategic objectives and fulfil its leadership re-election and, in the case of Jack Bowles, election for the first requirements.
This selection process was supported by Heidrick & time.
Prior to making recommendations to the Board in respect Struggles, an independent executive search firm accredited under the of Directors submissions for election or re-election as applicable, Standard and Enhanced Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms.
theCommittee carried out an assessment of each Director, including Following this selection process, the Board approved the Committees their performance, contribution to the long-term success of the recommendation to appoint Jack Bowles as Chief Executive Designate Company and, in respect of each of the Non-Executive Directors, with effect from 1 November 2018, then as an Executive Director with theircontinued independence.
effect from 1 January 2019 and as Chief Executive from 1 April 2019.
In respect of the reappointment of Kieran Poynter, who will have Details of the selection process informing the Committees served as a Non-Executive Director for just over eight years at the recommendation to appoint Tadeu Marroco as Deputy Finance Director timeof the 2019 AGM, the Committee conducted a particularly with effect from 1 March 2019, and then to join the Board and succeed rigorous review, taking into account his performance including as Ben Stevens as Finance Director with effect from 5 August 2019, will Senior Independent Director and, until 14 January 2019, Chairman be reported in the Companys Annual Report and Form 20-F for 2019. ofthe Audit Committee, his involvement in matters relevant to his Terms of appointment to the Board role outside of formal Committee meetings and his attendance record.
Details of the Directors terms of appointment to the Board and the The Committee concluded that Mr Poynter continues to make effective Companys policy on payments for loss of office are contained in the use of his extensive experience in the fields of accounting and risk Directors Remuneration Policy, which is set out in full in the Remuneration management, challenges management constructively and maintains Report 2015, contained in the Annual Report for the year ended 2015 independence of thought and approach.
Accordingly, the Committee available at www.
The terms of appointment and the Companys considered it appropriate to recommend to the Board that Mr Poynter policy on payments for loss of office are retained without alteration in be submitted for re-election at the 2019 AGM.
the proposed new Directors Remuneration Policy at pages 86 and 87.
The Chairmans letter accompanying the AGM Notice confirms that The Executive Directors have rolling contracts of one year.
The Nonall Non-Executive Directors being proposed for election or re-election Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company as applicable are effective and that they continue to demonstrate but instead have letters of appointment for one year.
Their expected commitment to their roles as Non-Executive Directors.
time commitment is 2530 days per year.
Board Diversity Policy progress update Board objective Progress in 2018 Considering all aspects of diversity when reviewing the composition The Nominations Committee has regard to diversity in its broadest sense, including gender, social of, and succession planning for, the Board and Management Board.
and ethnic background, and cognitive and personal strengths, when undertaking these activities.
Considering a wider pool of candidates of both genders for Executive search firms are engaged to support Board and Management Board succession planning appointment to the Board.
where applicable and are required to provide gender-balanced shortlists of candidates.
Succession planning for Executive Directors and Management Board members takes into account potential internal candidates from across the Group and potential external candidates.
Maintaining at least 30% female Board representation, with the The representation of women on the Board will be 30% as at 1 April 2019 30% as at 31 December ambition of progressing towards further gender balance.
Giving preference, where appropriate, to engagement of executive Only executive search firms accredited under the Standard and Enhanced Code of Conduct for search firms accredited under the Standard and Enhanced Code of Executive Search Firms were engaged to provided executive search services to support Board and Conduct for Executive Search Firms, including on gender diversity.
Management Board succession planning in 2018.
Oversight of the development of a pipeline of diverse, highThe representation of women on the Management Board will be 14.3% as at 1 April 2019 nil as at performing potential Executive Directors, Management Board 31December 2018, indicating the success of our Diversity & Inclusion strategy in delivering steady but members and other senior managers.
Please refer to page 25 for information about our Diversity & Inclusion strategy.
72 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018
