Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Management Board biographies The Management Board, chaired by the Chief Executive, is responsible for overseeing the implementation of the Groups strategy and policies set by the Board, and for creating the framework for the day-to-day operation of the Groups operating subsidiaries.
As at 27 February 2019, its members comprise the Executive Directors as set out on page 54 and 14 senior Group executives, whose names and roles are described below.
Jerome Abelman Director, Legal & External Affairs and General Counsel 55 Jerry was appointed Director, Legal & External Affairs and General Counsel in May 2015, having joined the Management Board as Group Corporate & Regulatory Affairs Director in January 2015.
Jerry was Regional General Counsel, Asia-Pacific from 2010 to 2014, before becoming Assistant General Counsel Corporate & Commercial.
He was a member of the Board of RAI from February 2016 until the RAI acquisition in July 2017.
Marina Bellini Director, Digital and Information 45 Marina was appointed Director, Digital and Information on 1 January 2019.
This role is responsible for driving digital transformation across the Group and further enhancing the Groups digital consumer experience capabilities.
Marina joined the Group as Chief Information Officer CIO in 2018, having previously served as Global CIO and Global Business Services SVP at Anheuser-Busch InBev, where she was responsible for information technology transformation, including consumer digital marketing.
Luciano Comin Regional Director, Americas and SubSaharan Africa 49 Luciano was appointed Regional Director, Americas and Sub-Saharan Africa on 1 January 2019.
He joined the Group in 1992 and has gained broad experience in a wide range of roles, including Marketing Director in Venezuela, Marketing Director in Mexico and General Manager of BAT Mexico.
Luciano was also Regional Marketing Manager for Western Europe and then Regional Head of Marketing, Americas and Sub-Saharan Africa before his appointment to the Management Board.
Alan Davy Director, Operations 55 Alan was appointed as Group Operations Director in March 2013.
Hejoined the Group in 1988 and has held various roles in manufacturing, supply chain and general management.
Alan previously held the position of Group Head of Supply Chain.
Giovanni Giordano Director, Group Human Resources 53 Giovanni was appointed as Group Human Resources Director in June 2011.
He is an international human resources executive with wide experience from senior roles at Procter & Gamble and Ferrero, where he was Chief Corporate Officer.
As part of Management Board changes announced in December 2018, Giovanni will step down from the Management Board at the end of March 2019 and will be succeeded by Hae In Kim.
Hae In Kim Director, Talent and Culture Designate 45 Hae In was appointed Director, Talent and Culture Designate on 1 January 2019 and will succeed Giovanni Giordano, currently Director, Group Human Resources, on 1 April 2019.
She was previously Group Head of Talent and Organisational Effectiveness and has held several other senior HR roles in British American Tobacco, including Regional HR Director, Asia-Pacific, and HR Director, Japan and North Asia.
Prior to joining the Group in 2008, Hae In gained experience at Samsung, IBM Consulting Services and .
Hae In has been a Non-Executive Director of Pakistan Tobacco Company Limited since April 2015.
Paul Lageweg Director, New Categories 49 Paul was appointed Director, New Categories on 1 January 2019.
This role, reporting directly to the Chief Marketing Officer, has end-to-end accountability for driving growth, innovation, world-class brand building and consumer insights for the Groups potentially reduced-risk products.
Paul has been with the Group for 13 years in various senior roles, including: Regional Marketing Manager, Asia-Pacific and Middle East: Area Director, East Asia: and Global Head of Marketing Futures.
Tadeu Marroco Director, Group Transformation 52 Tadeu was appointed Director, Group Transformation on 1 January 2019, working closely with the Chief Executive Designate to further simplify structure and processes.
In addition to this role, Tadeu has been appointed as Deputy Finance Director with effect from 1 March 2019 and will succeed Ben Stevens as Finance Director on 5 August 2019.
Tadeu joined the Management Board as Director, Business Development, in September 2014, was appointed Regional Director, Western Europe in December 2016, then Regional Director, Europe and North Africa in January 2018.
Tadeu joined the Group in Brazil in 1992.
He has held various senior finance positions including Regional Finance Controller, EEMEA, and Group Finance Controller.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 255 Additional disclosures Management Board biographies continued Guy Meldrum Regional Director, AsiaPacific and Middle East 47 Guy was appointed Regional Director, Asia-Pacific and Middle East on 1 January 2019.
Previously Area Director, Australasia Area, Guy joined BAT in 1992 and has held several senior roles in the Group including Area Director, North Asia Area and Marketing Director, Russia.
Dr David OReilly Director, Research and Science 52 David was appointed Director, Research and Science on 1 January 2019, focusing on scientific research and engagement to support continued transformation of our product portfolio.
David joined the Management Board in January 2012 as Group Scientific Director, leading R&Ds focus on potentially reduced-risk products.
He has been with the Group for more than 20 years and was previously Head of International Public Health and Scientific Affairs, responsible for engagement with scientific, medical and public health communities.
Ricardo Oberlander President and CEO, Reynolds American Inc. 55 Ricardo was appointed President andCEO of Reynolds American Inc. on 1 January 2018.
Appointed to the Management Board as Regional Director for the Americas in 2013, previous roles include Marketing Director of the Malaysian business, Regional Marketing Manager for the Americas, General Manager in France and Global Consumer Director.
He was Chairman of Souza Cruz S. A. from 2013 until it became a whollyowned subsidiary of BAT in 2016 and an RAI Board member from 2014 until the acquisition.
Ricardo is a member of theChief Marketing Officer Council North America Advisory Board and was appointed as an Advisory Board member of Coast Capital LLC in November 2018.
Naresh Sethi Director, Business Development 52 Naresh was appointed Director, Business Development in December 2016.
He joined the Management Board as Director, Group Business Development in 2012, then Regional Director for Western Europe from January 2013.
He has over 20 years of experience in the tobacco industry, having held various roles in the Group including Marketing Director and General Manager in Japan and then Group Head of Strategy and Planning.
As part of Management Board changes announced in December 2018, Naresh will step down from the Management Board at the end of March 2019 when his role will cease to exist.
His responsibilities will move to the roles of Director, Digital and Information, and Director, Group Transformation.
Johan Vandermeulen Regional Director, Europe and North Africa 51 Johan was appointed Regional Director, Europe and North Africa on 1 January 2019.
He joined the Management Board as Regional Director for Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa in September 2014, then Regional Director, Asia-Pacific and Middle East in January 2018.
He has been with the Group for more than 25 years and his previous roles include General Manager in Russia, General Manager in Turkey and Global Brand Director for the Kent brand.
Kingsley Wheaton Chief Marketing Officer 46 Kingsley was appointed Chief Marketing Officer on 1 January 2019.
He joined the Group in 1996 and held positions in marketing, including, Marketing Director in Nigeria and Russia, prior to being General Manager in Russia and then the Global Brand Director for the Kent and Vogue brands.
He joined the Management Board in 2012 as Corporate and Regulatory Affairs Director.
In January 2015 he was appointed Managing Director, Next Generation Products, and was then appointed Regional Director, Americas and Sub-Saharan Africa in January 2018.
256 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018
