Strategic Investment Financial Shareholder Report Review Governance Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee met six times during the year.
In May, the Committee A further significant risk control issue is to ensure that the investment reviewed the Half Year Report for the period to 31 March 2018 and portfolio accounted for in the financial statements reflects physical recommended its approval to the Board.
The external Auditors plan ownership of the relevant securities.
The Company uses the services of an for their audit of the year end financial statements was also received independent Custodian JPMorgan Chase Bank, NA to hold the assets and discussed, and reviews of the Companys internal controls and the of the Company.
The investment portfolio is reconciled regularly by the service levels provided by the Companys Custodian and Depositary Administrator to the Custodians records, and the year-end reconciliation were undertaken.
In September, the Committee considered its terms of was reviewed by the Auditor.
The systems and controls operated by the reference and reviewed the controls reports issued by the Companys Custodian are also monitored by the Depositary, J. P. Morgan Europe outsourced service providers, including those issued by the Companys Limited, whose responsibilities include oversight of the safekeeping of the Administrator, Depositary, Custodian and Investment Manager.
The Audit Committee meets with the Depositary as November, the Committee reviewed the year end financial statements necessary, principally to review the work of the Depositary, but also to and discussed the findings of the external audit with KPMG.
More consider the effectiveness of the internal controls at the Custodian.
Additional meetings of the Committee were Financial statements issued by the Company need to be fair, balanced and held to consider the implications of the introduction of Key Information understandable.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the Annual Report as Documents, to review the services and performance of the Custodian and a whole and made a recommendation to the Board.
Several sections of Depositary and to approve the final versions of the financial statements.
the Annual Accounts are not subject to formal statutory audit, including the Strategic Report and Investment Managers Review: the checking process Role of the Audit Committee for the financial information in these sections was considered by the Audit The Audit Committees main functions are: Committee, and by the Auditor.
To monitor the internal financial control and risk management systems The Companys Half Year Report was approved by the Audit Committee on which the Company is reliant.
prior to publication, and was also reviewed by the Auditor.
To consider whether there is a need for the Company to have its own internal audit function.
The Audit Committee has assessed whether it is appropriate to prepare To monitor the integrity of the half year and annual financial statements the Companys financial statements on a going concern basis, and made of the Company by reviewing and challenging, where necessary, its recommendation to the Board.
The Boards conclusions are set out the actions and judgements of the Investment Manager and the in the Report of the Directors.
The Audit Committees remit includes Administrator.
consideration of a statement by the Directors on the long-term viability of the Company.
That statement can be found on pages 48 and 49.
To meet the independent Auditor of the Company to review their proposed audit programme of work and the subsequent Audit Report As explained below, the Audit Committee has considered carefully the and to assess the effectiveness of the audit process, the nature of the internal control systems.
The Company relies heavily on third-party non-audit work and the levels of fees paid in respect of both audit and suppliers: the Audit Committee monitors the services and control levels non-audit work.
of all of its suppliers on an ongoing basis.
To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the The Committee reviewed special dividends received in the year to appointment, re-appointment or removal of the Auditor, and to determine their allocation to the revenue or capital account in the negotiate their remuneration and terms of engagement on audit and Statement of Comprehensive Income.
To monitor and review annually the external Auditors independence, Given the nature of the Companys investments, substantial funds objectivity, effectiveness, resources and qualifications.
can be received from corporate actions at investee companies.
The implementation of the corporate actions can be complex and challenging.
The Audit Committee operates within defined terms of reference, which are The Committee reviews such corporate actions, and takes advice where available on the Companys website.
Composition of the Audit Committee The Company suffers withholding tax on many of its dividends received, The Audit Committee comprises the whole Board, being independent some of which is irrecoverable.
The Audit Committee and the Investment Directors.
All members of the Committee have recent and relevant financial Manager aim to ensure that any recoverable withholding tax is received experience and two are Chartered Accountants.
However, such recovery can be difficult in some jurisdictions, and the Company has incurred professional service fees in Significant Issues this area.
In planning its own work, and reviewing the audit plan of the Auditor, the The Audit Committee expressed concern to Link Fund Solutions that, for Audit Committee takes account of the most significant issues and risks, the second year running, the service providers report on IT controls only both operational and financial, likely to impact on the Companys financial covered controls existent on one day rather than throughout the period statements.
The valuation of the investment portfolio is a significant risk factor.
The Audit Committee also considered the reports and controls required However, 97.4% of the portfolio at the year end can be verified against relating to the additional fixed-term debt assumed by the Company during daily market prices and observable price movements.
uses methodologies based on observable inputs.
British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 73 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Internal Controls As the Company has no employees, it does not have a whistle-blowing The Board, through the Audit Committee, is responsible for ensuring policy and procedure in place.
The Company delegates its main functions that suitable internal control systems to prevent and detect fraud and to third-party providers, each of whom report on their policies and error are designed and implemented by the third-party service providers procedures to the Audit Committee.
During the year, the Audit Committee to the Company and is also responsible for reviewing the effectiveness has ensured that all third party service providers have appropriate GDPR of such controls.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process Data Protection policies in place and has reviewed the Companys own for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the policies as applied to the Directors.
Company in line with the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal The Audit Committee believes that the Company does not require an Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting published in internal audit function, principally because the Company delegates its daySeptember 2014 and the FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees published to-day operations to third parties, which are monitored by the Committee, in April 2016.
This process has been in place for the year under review and and which provide control reports on their operations at least annually.
up to the date of approval of this report, and accords with the guidance.
In particular, it has reviewed and updated the process for identifying and External Audit Process evaluating the significant risks affecting the Company and policies by which The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year with the Auditor.
The these risks are managed.
The risks of any failure of such controls are Auditor provides a planning report in advance of the annual audit, a report identified in a Risk Matrix and a schedule of Key Risks, which are regularly on the annual audit, and a report on their review of the half year financial reviewed by the Board and which identify the likelihood and severity of the statements.
The Audit Committee has an opportunity to question and impact of such risks and the controls in place to minimise the probability challenge the Auditor in respect of each of these reports.
Where reliance is made on third parties to manage identified risks, those risks are matched to appropriate controls reported In addition, the Audit Committee Chairman discusses the audit plan and in the relevant third-party service providers annual report on controls.
The results of the audit with the external Auditor prior to the relevant Audit principal risks identified by the Board are set out in the Strategic Report on Committee meeting.
After each audit, the Audit Committee reviews the pages 10 to 12. audit process and considers its effectiveness.
The review of the 2018 audit concluded that the audit process had worked well, and that the significant The following are the key components which the Company has in place to issues had been adequately addressed.
provide effective internal control: At least once a year, the Audit Committee has an opportunity to discuss The Board has agreed clearly defined investment criteria, which specify any aspect of the Auditors work with the Auditor in the absence of the levels of authority and exposure limits.
Reports on compliance with Investment Manager and administrators.
these criteria are regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Board has a procedure to ensure that the Company can continue Auditor Assessment and Independence to be approved as an investment company by complying with sections The Audit Committee has reviewed KPMGs independence policies and 1158 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010. procedures, including quality assurance procedures.
It was considered The Investment Manager and Administrator prepare forecasts that those policies and procedures remained fit for purpose.
Philip and management accounts which allow the Board to assess the Merchant has been the Audit Partner allocated to the Company since Companys activities and to review its performance.
the appointment of KPMG at the 2016 AGM.
The audit of the financial The contractual agreements with the Investment Manager and other statements for the year ended 30 September 2018 is therefore his second third-party service providers, and adherence to them, are regularly as Audit Partner.
The Committee has also taken into consideration the reviewed.
standing, skills and experience of the audit firm and the audit team and The services and controls at the Investment Manager and at other is satisfied that KPMG is both independent and effective in carrying out third-party suppliers are reviewed at least annually.
The Audit Committee receives and reviews assurance reports on the The Audit Committee has discussed the findings of the FRCs recent 2018 controls of all third-party service providers, including the Custodian Audit Quality Report on the quality of audits performed by KPMG and has and Administrator, undertaken by professional service providers.
satisfied itself that none of the shortcomings identified are relevant to the The Audit Committee seeks to ensure that the Company is recovering audit of the Company.
withholding tax on overseas dividends to the fullest extent possible.
The Investment Managers Compliance Officer continually reviews Fees Payable to the Auditor the Investment Managers operations.
The Investment Manager also Total fees payable to the Auditor were 33,000 2017: 33,000.
Of the employs a compliance consultant.
Compliance reports are submitted total fees, the fees for audit services were 25,000 2017: 25,000. to the Committee at least annually.
The Audit Committee has approved and implemented a policy on the Internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular engagement of the Auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
They do not eliminate the risk of account the recommendations of the FRC, and does not believe there failure to achieve business objectives and, by their nature, can only provide to be any impediment to the Auditors objectivity and independence.
All reasonable and not absolute assurance against mis-statement or loss.
non-audit work to be carried out by the Auditor must be approved by the Audit Committee in advance.
The cost of non-audit services provided by the Auditor for the financial year ended 30 September 2018 was 8,000 2017: 8,000.
This comprised: 6,000 in relation to the half year review and 2,000 in relation to review reports and filings required in respect of the Debenture and fixed-term debt.
74 British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 Strategic Investment Financial Shareholder Report Review Governance Statements Information These non-audit services are assurance related, and the Audit Committee firmly believes that KPMG have been best placed to provide them on a cost effective basis to the benefit of shareholders.
The fees for non-audit services are considered not material in the context of the accounts as a whole.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that KPMG remains independent.
The Audit Committee confirms that the non-audit work undertaken by the Companys Auditor satisfies, and does not compromise, the tests of the Auditors independence, objectivity, effectiveness, resources and qualification.
Given the assurance nature of the fees, the cost of these services are considered by the Audit Committee to be proportionate in relation to the fees for audit services.
Re-appointment of the Auditor Taking into account the performance and effectiveness of the Auditor and the confirmation of their independence, the Committee recommends that KPMG LLP be re-appointed as Auditor to the Company.
Audit Tender The audit was put out to competitive tender in 2016, following which KPMG were appointed as the Companys Auditor in respect of the financial year ended 30 September 2017.
In accordance with the CMA Order, a competitive audit tender must be carried out at least every ten years.
The Company is therefore required to carry out a tender no later than in respect of the financial year ending 30 September 2027.
CMA Order British Empire Trust has complied throughout the year ended 30 September 2018 with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services Order 2014, issued by the Competition and Markets Authority CMA Order.
Calum Thomson Audit Committee Chairman 9 November 2018 British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 75
