REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE We monitor the quality and integrity of the financial reporting and valuation process Committee composition and governance The year to 31 March 2018 has seen significant change to the membership of the Committee.
As mentioned in the 2017 Annual Report, Simon Borrows retired from the Committee at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
In addition, having served on the Board and this Committee for nine years, including a period as Committee Chairman, Aubrey Adams retired at the end of the 2017 calendar year.
I would like to thank them both for the diligence and insight they provided during their tenure and Aubrey, in particular, for his knowledge and experience of the UK property market.
I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for the We also welcomed three new members to the Committee during year ended 31 March 2018. thefinancial year: Nicholas Macpherson, who has served for a full year, Rebecca Worthington and Alastair Hughes.
Details of the In line with the focus on improved governance and clear, relevant knowledge, experience and skills each brings to the Committee are and concise reporting, this report of the Audit Committee set out below.
highlights the main issues which arose during the year and how they were addressed.
The Committee continues to be composed solely of independent Non-Executive Directors with sufficient financial experience, Key areas of focus commercial acumen and sector knowledge to fulfil their Ultimately, the Committee continues to play a key role in overseeing responsibilities.
The changes in membership, together with the integrity of the Groups financial statements, including assessing attendance at Committee meetings during the year, are set out whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable, in the following table: Date of aswell as ensuring that a sound system of risk management and Committee Date of internal control is in place.
Director Position appointment resignation Attendance Tim Score Chairman 20 Mar 2014 3 3 During the year, the Committee has reviewed the process for identification and mitigation of key business risks, challenging Alastair Hughes Member 1 Jan 2018 1 1 management actions where appropriate.
The Committee has also Nicholas reviewed the appropriateness of the accounting treatment of Macpherson Member 1 Apr 2017 3 3 significant transactions, including asset acquisitions and disposals.
Rebecca Together with the ongoing scrutiny of the process for valuing Worthington Member 1 Jan 2018 1 1 investment and development assets, the Committee also reviewed Aubrey Adams Member 1 Sep 2008 31 Dec 2017 2 2 the outcomes and effectiveness of the tender of valuation services undertaken during the first half of the financial year.
Simon Borrows Member 12 Apr 2011 18 Jul 2017 1 1 This year saw the implementation of the first phase of the new valuer Nicholas was the Permanent Secretary to the Treasury for over appointment policy see page 73 for further details with c. 45% of the 10 years from 2005 to March 2016, leading the department through portfolio subject to new valuers at 30 September 2017.
Further the financial crisis and the subsequent period of banking reform.
transitions will take place over the next two years with the initial He joined the Treasury in 1985 and held a number of roles prior to implementation of the valuer appointment policy due to be completed his appointment as Permanent Secretary.
Nicholas trained as an in 2019.
The Committee has appreciated the continued professionalism economist and has worked at the CBI and Peat Marwick Consulting.
of all its valuers during the tender process.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 69 Governance REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED Rebecca has worked in the real estate industry since 1998 and brings valuable insight into residential real estate as well as financial, Role and responsibilities operational and governance experience as a result of her role as group chief financial officer of Countryside Properties PLC, and The principal responsibilities of the Committee are: former roles as finance director of Quintain and chair of the audit committee at Hansteen Holdings and Aga Rangemaster Group.
Financial reporting Monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial statements and any formal announcements relating Alastair has over 25 years of experience in real estate markets.
tofinancial performance, and considering significant financial His experience as former Chief Executive of JLL for Europe, reporting issues, judgements and estimates Middle East and Africa and then regional CEO for Asia Pacific, and his non-executive directorship of Schroders REIT, brings an External Audit Oversight and remuneration of the external in-depth knowledge of global commercial real estate markets.
auditor, assessing effectiveness and making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of and the policy for non-audit The Board is satisfied that the Committee as a whole has services provided by the external auditor competence relevant to the real estate sector.
For the purposes ofthe UK Corporate Governance Code, Rebecca and I are deemed Internal Audit Monitoring and reviewing reports on the work tomeet the specific requirement of having significant, recent and performed by the internal auditor and reviewing effectiveness, relevant financial experience.
including its plans and resourcing Members of the senior management team, including the former Risk management and internal controls Reviewing the Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel and Company Secretary, system of internal control and risk management GroupFinancial Controller, Head of Financial Reporting and representatives of both external and internal auditors are invited to Investment and development property valuations attend each Committee meeting.
In addition, the Chairman of the Considering the valuation process and outcome and the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Head of Investor Relations, Head of effectiveness of the Companys valuers Planning and Analysis and other key employees are invited to attend part, or all, ofspecific Committee meetings.
Financial reporting The Committee continues to review the content and tone of the The Committee meets privately with both external and internal preliminary results press release, Annual Report and half year auditors after each scheduled meeting and continues to be satisfied results at the request of the Board.
Drafts of the Annual Report that neither is being unduly influenced by management.
As Committee are reviewed by the Committee Chairman and the Committee Chairman, I additionally hold regular meetings with the Chief as a whole prior to formal consideration by the Board, with Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and other members of sufficient time provided for feedback.
management to obtain a good understanding of key issues affecting the Group and am thereby able to identify those matters which The Committee reviewed the key messaging included in the Annual require meaningful discussion at Committee meetings.
I also meet Report and half year results, paying particular attention to those the external audit partner, internal audit partner and representatives matters considered to be important to the Group by virtue of their from each of thevaluers privately to discuss any matters they wish size, complexity, level of judgement required and potential impact to raise or concerns they may have.
onthe financial statements and wider business model.
Any issues which were deemed to be significant were debated openly by the Committee effectiveness Committee members and other attendees, including management, The Committees effectiveness during the year to 31 March 2018 external and internal auditors.
wasassessed as part of the triennial independently facilitated Boardevaluation process.
This review considered the structure, The Committee has satisfied itself that the controls over the membership and role of the Committee as well as the Boards accuracy and consistency of the information presented in the perception of the quality and thoroughness of its work.
The review AnnualReport are robust.
The Committee therefore recommended concluded that the breadth of experience brought to the Committee to the Board that the Annual Report presented a fair, balanced and by its new members provided the Board with confidence that it understandable overview of the business of the Group and that it would continue to operate thoroughly and effectively and that the provided stakeholders with the necessary information to assess financial governance of the Company was conducted with theGroups position, performance, business model and strategy.
During the year, the Group received a letter from the Financial The Committee also reviews its terms of reference on an Reporting Council confirming that the 2017 Annual Report had been annual basis.
The current terms of reference were approved subject to a review by its Conduct Committee, which is responsible by the Board in March 2018 and are available on our website for overseeing the FRCs work in promoting high quality corporate w w w. britishland.
reporting and ensuring compliance with relevant accounting and reporting requirements and rules.
No questions or queries were The information below sets out in detail the activity undertaken raised as a result of this review, no response from the Company by the Committee during the year ended 31 March 2018.
I hope was requested and no further action was undertaken.
that you find it useful in understanding our work.
A number of minor matters were noted for improvement which, in theview of the Conduct Committee, would be of benefit to the users ofthe Annual Report.
Consequently, we have made changes to the Annual Report this year in line with these recommendations.
Tim Score Chairman of the Audit Committee 70 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED The significant issues considered by the Committee in relation to the financial statements during the year ended 31 March 2018, and the actions taken to address these issues, are set out in the following table: Significant issues considered How these issues were addressed Going concern The appropriateness of The Committee reviewed managements analysis supporting the going concern basis statement preparing the Group financial of preparation.
This included consideration of forecast cash flows, availability of statements on a going committed debt facilities and expected covenant headroom.
The Committee also concern basis.
received a report from the external auditor on the results of the testing undertaken on managements analysis.
As a result of the assessment undertaken, the Committee satisfied itself that the going concern basis of preparation remained appropriate.
The going concern statement is set out on page 67.
Viability Whether the assessment The Committee considered whether managements assessment adequately reflected statement undertaken by management the Groups risk appetite and principal risks as disclosed on pages 52 to 55: whether regarding the Groups long the period covered by the statement was reasonable given the strategy of the Group term viability appropriately and the environment in which it operates: and whether the assumptions and reflects the prospects of sensitivities identified, and stress tested, represented severe but plausible scenarios theGroup and covers an in the context of solvency or liquidity.
The Committee also considered a report from appropriate period of time.
The Committee concurred with managements assessment and recommended the viability statement to the Board.
The viability statement, together with further details on the assessment undertaken, is set out on page 51.
Accounting for The accounting treatment The Committee reviewed management papers on key judgements, including those for significant of significant property significant transactions, as well as the external auditors findings on these matters.
transactions acquisitions, disposals and In particular, the Committee considered the accounting treatment of The Leadenhall financing transactions is a Building transaction, the share buyback programme, Storey British Lands flexible recurring risk for the Group workspace offering launched in the year and the acquisition of The Woolwich Estate.
with non-standard accounting entries required, and in some The external auditor confirmed that managements judgements in relation to these cases management transactions were appropriate and reasonable and the Committee agreed with this judgement applied.
REIT status Maintenance of the Groups The Committee reviewed the Companys compliance with the REIT tests.
REIT status through Management presented details of the methodology and results of their process compliance with certain forREIT testing, with any change in long term trends, and the level of headroom, conditions has a significant highlighted.
The Committee also considered the external auditors review of the impact on the Groups results.
The Committee concluded that the Companys REIT status had been maintained in the year.
Valuation of The valuation of investment The external valuers presented their reports to the Committee prior to the half year property and development properties and full year results, providing an overview of the UK property market and portfolio conducted by external valuers summarising the performance of the Groups assets.
Significant judgements are is inherently subjective as it is alsohighlighted.
undertaken on the basis of The Committee analysed the reports and reviewed the valuation outcomes, assumptions made by the challenging assumptions made where thought fit.
In particular, withthe valuers which may not prove implementation of the first stages of the new valuer appointment policy, tobe accurate.
theCommittee paid specific attention to those assets which were subject to The outcome of the valuation a newvaluation instruction during the year.
issignificant to the Group in The Committee was satisfied with the valuation process and the effectiveness of the terms of investment decisions, Companys valuers.
The Committee also approved the relevant valuation disclosures results and remuneration.
to be included in the Annual Report.
Revenue For certain transactions, The Committee and the external auditor considered the appropriateness of the recognition judgement is applied by accounting treatment applied by management in relation to revenue recognition.
management as to whether, In particular, the Committee considered the treatment of Clarges Residential unit and to what extent, they should sales, taking into account the timing of legal completions following practical be treated as revenue for the completion of the property in the year.
The Committee considered the scope of the accounting standard and agreed with the reasonableness of the judgement made.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 71 Governance REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED External Audit The Committee is satisfied that the Company has complied with  LLP PwC was appointed as the Groups theprovisions of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies external auditor for the 2015 Annual Report following a formal Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Processes and competitive tender.
The Committee will consider the need for a Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014, published by the competitive tender for the role of external auditor every five years Competition & Markets Authority on 26 September 2014. and, in accordance with legislation and its own terms of reference, will ensure that a competitive tender takes place at least every 10 Effectiveness years.
There are no contractual obligations in place which would Assessment of the annual evaluation of the external auditors restrict the Committees selection of a different auditor.
The Groups performance was undertaken by way of a questionnaire completed audit engagement partner is John Waters, who has been in role since by key stakeholders across the Group, including senior members PwCs appointment.
The Committee will ensure that the rotation of ofthe Finance team.
The review took into account the quality of audit partner is undertaken as required by legislation to the extent planning, delivery and execution of the audit including the audit that this is not undertaken earlier by PwC.
ofsubsidiary companies, the technical competence and strategic knowledge of the audit team and the effectiveness of reporting The Committee is responsible for overseeing the relationship with andcommunication between the audit team and management.
the external auditor and for considering their terms of engagement, remuneration, effectiveness, independence and continued PwC also provide the Committee with an annual report on its objectivity.
The Committee annually reviews the audit requirements independence, objectivity and compliance with statutory, regulatory of the Group, for the business and in the context of the external and ethical standards.
For the year ended 31 March 2018, as for environment, placing great importance on ensuring a high quality, theprior year, the external auditor confirmed that it continued to effective External Audit process.
maintain appropriate internal safeguards to ensure its independence and objectivity.
Fees and non-audit services The Committee discussed the audit fee for the 2018 Annual Report The Committee concluded that the quality of the external auditors with the external auditor and approved the proposed fee on behalf work, and the knowledge and competence of the audit team, had ofthe Board.
been maintained at an appropriate standard during the year.
In addition, the Group has adopted a policy for the provision of The Committee therefore recommended to the Board that a non-audit services by the external auditor.
The policy helps to resolution to reappoint PwC as external auditor to the Group be safeguard the external auditors independence and objectivity.
The put to shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
policy allows the external auditor to provide the following non-audit services to British Land where they are considered to be the most Internal Audit appropriate provider: The role of Internal Audit is to act as an independent and objective assurance function, designed to improve the effectiveness of the Audit related services: including formal reporting relating to governance, risk management and internal controls framework borrowings, shareholder and other circulars and work in respect inmitigating the key risks of British Land.
Ernst & Young LLP EY of acquisitions and disposals.
In some circumstances, the continue to provide internal audit services to British Land and external auditor is required to carry out the work because of their attended all Committee meetings to present their audit findings office.
In other circumstances, selection would depend on which and the status of management actions.
firm was best suited to provide the services required Sustainability assurance: PwC currently provides an assurance During the year, the Committee reviewed and approved the annual opinion to the Company over selected sustainability data.
This internal audit plan, including consideration of the plans alignment to appointment is reviewed annually the principal risks of the Group and its joint ventures.
Internal audits completed during the year included those in relation to IT, third party In addition, the following protocols apply to non-audit fees: management, fraud resilience, insurance, company secretariat, procurement, human resources, accounts payable and payroll Total non-audit fees are limited to 70% of the audit fees in any phase 2.
Overall, no significant control issues were identified oneyear.
Additionally, the ratio of audit to non-audit fees is although several process and control improvements were proposed, calculated in line with the methodology set out in the 2014 with follow up audits scheduled where necessary.
EURegulations Committee approval is required where there might be questions Effectiveness as to whether the external auditor had a conflict of interest The annual effectiveness review of the internal auditor included The Audit Committee Chairman is required to approve in advance consideration of the Internal Audit charter which defines EYs role each additional project or incremental fee between 25,000 and and responsibilities, review of the quality of the audit work undertaken 100,000 and Committee approval is required for any additional and the skills and competence of the audit teams.
The Committee projects over 100,000 concluded that EY continued to discharge its duties as internal auditor effectively and should continue in the role for the year During the year two engagements relating to sustainability commencing 1 April 2018. assurance and financial model assurance required approval.
These engagements were approved by the Audit Committee Risk management and internal controls Chairman on the basis that PwC were best placed to provide these The Board has delegated responsibility for overseeing the services and that they created no conflict of interest with their role effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control as external auditor.
The Committee has oversight of the activities of the executive Risk Committee, receiving minutes of Total fees for non-audit services amounted to0.2 million, which all Risk Committee meetings and discussing any significant represents 20% of the total Group audit fees payable for the year matters raised.
Details of all fees charged by the external auditor during the year areset out on page 113.
72 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED At the full and half year, the Committee reviewed the Groups Investment and development property valuations principal risks including consideration of how risk exposures have The external valuation of British Lands property portfolio is a key changed during the period and any emerging risks in the Companys determinant of the Groups balance sheet, its performance and the risk register.
Both external and internal risks are reviewed and their remuneration of the Executive Directors and senior management.
effect on the Companys strategic aims considered.
The Committee The Committee is committed to the rigorous monitoring and considered the Groups risk appetite, concluding that it remains review of the effectiveness of its valuers as well as the valuation set at an appropriate level to achieve the Groups strategic goals process itself.
The Board accepted the Committees recommendation that no changes were required to theGroups risk As set out in the 2017 Annual Report, a new policy has been adopted appetite for the forthcoming year.
The Committee also reviewed the regarding the appointment of external valuers.
The key elements of status of key risk indicators throughout the year against the risk this policy are: appetite set, focusing on any which were outside optimal ranges.
The duration of any valuers appointment to a specific asset is During the year ended 31 March 2018, the Committee gave particular limited to 10 years except where that asset has been market attention to the risk relating to catastrophic operational events tested in the period including ensuring that safety investigations were undertaken on the An agreed panel of valuers with the required level of market British Land portfolio following the Grenfell Tower fire and that crisis knowledge and service provision will be maintained response plans were in place for both physical and cyber risks.
The Incumbents cannot be re-appointed to an asset Committee also undertakes annual reviews of the Groups Treasury There will be a minimum of two valuers on each of our main Policy which includes policies on liquidity, interest rate and foreign sectors, with each valuer covering a meaningful proportion currency management and the Groups insurance programme.
ofboththe overall portfolio and relevant sector Half yearly, the internal auditor reports to the Committee on the To ensure a manageable transition of assets to new valuers, the effectiveness of internal controls, including an analysis of control Committee agreed that the initial implementation process would issues identified by management through the exceptions reporting bespread over three years, running 2017-2019.
The first phase of process.
Care is taken to ensure that identified risk areas are tendering c. 45% of the portfolio was completed during the first considered for incorporation in the Internal Audit plan and that the halfof the current financial year with a further c. 20% scheduled to findings of internal audits are taken into account when identifying and transition in both 2018 and 2019.
The Groups valuers are now CBRE, evaluating risks within the business.
Key observations are reported Knight Frank, Jones Lang LaSalle JLL and Cushman & Wakefield.
to, and debated by, the Committee.
During the year, it was agreed that exceptions reporting should include operational matters aswell The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the external valuers as financial.
For the year ended 31 March 2018, the internal auditor bi-annually, focusing on a quantitative analysis of capital values, confirmed that the system of risk management and internal control yieldbenchmarking, availability of comparable market evidence had been effective.
andmajor outliers to subsector movements, with an annual qualitative review of the level of service received from each valuer.
At the request of the Remuneration Committee, the Committee considers annually the level of risk taken by management and The valuers attend Committee meetings at which the full and half whether this affects the performance of the Company and thereby year valuations are discussed, presenting their reports which include incentive awards granted to the Executive Directors and senior details of the valuation process, market conditions and any significant management.
Taking into account the reports received on internal judgements made.
The external auditor reviews the valuations and key controls and risk management, and the results of the internal valuation process, having had full access to the valuers to determine audit reviews, the Committee concluded that for the year ended that due process had been followed and appropriate information 31 March 2018 they were not aware of excessive risk taking by used, before separately reporting its findings to the Committee.
The management which ought to be taken into account when valuation process is also subject toregular review by Internal Audit.
British Land has fixed fee arrangements in place with the valuers The Groups whistleblowing arrangements, which enable all staff, in relation to the valuation of wholly-owned assets, in line with including temporary and agency staff, suppliers and occupiers to therecommendations of the Carsberg Committee Report.
report any suspected wrongdoing, remained unchanged during the Copies ofthe valuation certificates of CBRE, Knight Frank, JLL year.
These arrangements, which are monitored by the General and Cushman & Wakefield can be found on our website Counsel and Company Secretary and reviewed by the Committee atw w w. britishland.
annually, include an independent and confidential whistleblowing service provided by a third party.
The Committee received a Focus for the coming year summary of all whistleblowing reports received during the year During the year ending 31 March 2019 the Committee will continue and concluded that each had been dealt with appropriately.
to focus on the processes by which the Board identifies, assesses, monitors, manages and mitigates risk particularly in light of the The Committee also reviewed the Groups tax strategy which sets continued uncertainty arising from the UKs decision to leave the EU.
outthe Groups approach to risk management and governance in The Committee will also continue to monitor key risk areas for the relation to UK taxation, its attitude towards tax planning, the level business, particularly those scheduled for review by internal audit ofrisk the Group is prepared to accept in relation to tax and its including, but not limited to General Data Privacy Regulation relationship with HM Revenue & Customs.
The resulting document compliance, cyber security and crisis management.
Our Approach to Tax was approved by the Board in March 2018 and is available on the Companys website w w w. britishland.
Additional information on the Companys internal controls systems is set out in the Managing risk in delivering our strategy section on pages 48 to 49.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 73
