Governance REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Committee leads the process for Board appointments Chris Grigg, Chief Executive, was invited to attend all Committee meetings during the year.
Luke Meynell of Russell Reynolds and formerly of The Zygos Partnership was invited to attend one Committee meeting during the year.
Diversity The Committee, the Board of Directors and British Land as a whole continue to pay full regard to the benefits of diversity, including gender diversity, both when searching for candidates for Board Welcome to the report of the Nomination Committee for the year appointments and when the Company is searching for candidates ended 31 March 2018. forother appointments.
Role and responsibilities The Committee recommended an updated Board Diversity and The Committees principal responsibilities remain: Inclusion Policy to the Board during the year.
The revised Policy aspires for women to represent 30% of Board membership by 2020, Reviewing the structure, size and composition including the as well as having regard to other aspects of diversity when making skills, knowledge and experience and diversity of the Board recruitment decisions atboth Board and senior management level.
andits Committees and recommending changes to the Board Considering succession planning for Directors and other British Land currently has three female Board members: Lynn seniorexecutives Gladden, Laura Wade-Gery and Rebecca Worthington, all of whom Reviewing the independence and time commitment requirements are Non-Executive Directors.
This represents 25% female Board of Non-Executive Directors and membership as at 31 March 2018 2017: 23%.
Making recommendations as to the Directors standing for election or re-election at the AGM The Board Diversity and Inclusion Policy also sets out British Lands commitment to strengthen the gender balance on British Lands Full details of the Committees role and responsibilities are set leadership and senior management teams.
The Board recognises out in its terms of reference available on our website at that successful delivery of our strategy is underpinned by creating w w w. britishland.
an environment where all our people feel fully supported.
We have established an Inclusive Culture Steering Committee, headed by a Committee composition and governance member of our Executive Committee, to promote diversity and Following Lord Turnbulls retirement, the Committee has three inclusion at all levels of the business.
The Steering Committee has members: William Jackson and Tim Score, both independent implemented a number of initiatives such as diversity training for Non-Executive Directors, while I continue to Chair the Committee.
all new joiners and the establishment of support networks.
Further I would like to thank Lord Turnbull for the support and advice he has information on diversity within British Land is set out on page 30. provided to the Committee during his tenure.
We also recently published our gender pay gap report.
The report Details of the Committees membership and attendance at meetings isavailable on our website w w w. britishland.
com governance and are set out in the following table: summarised on page 30.
Date of Committee Date of Board membership Director Position appointment resignation Attendance The Committee regularly reviews the structure, size and composition John Gildersleeve Chairman 1 Jan 2013 3 4 of the Board in order to ensure it is made up of the right people with William Jackson Member 11 Apr 2011 4 4 the requisite skills and experience, including diversity ofthought and approach, who can provide strong and effective leadership to the Tim Score Member 1 Apr 2017 4 4 business and support delivery of the Companys strategy.
Lord Turnbull Member 1 Apr 2006 18 Jul 2017 1 1 J ohn Gildersleeve was unable to attend one meeting due to illness.
74 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 As was anticipated in last years Annual Report, Simon Borrows Independence and re-election andLord Turnbull retired from the Board at the conclusion of the Prior to recommending the re-appointment of any Non-Executive 2017 AGM.
In addition, Aubrey Adams retired from the Board at the Director to the Board, the Committee assesses their continued end ofthe 2017 calendar year and Lucinda Bell stood down as an independence, the time commitment required and whether the Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer on 19 January 2018. re-appointment would be in the best interests of the Company.
Detailed consideration is given to eachNon-Executive Directors The process undertaken by the Committee to identify, select and contribution to the Board and its Committees, together with the make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment overall balance of knowledge, skills, experience and diversity.
of three Non-Executive Directors and a new Chief Financial Officer is set out below.
Non-Executive Directors tenures as at 31 March 2018 Appointment process for Board Directors 22% 34% Role requirements The Committee prepared detailed role specifications setting outthe skills, knowledge, experience and Under 1 year attributes required for the role s. 1 to 3 years 22% The Chief Executive was also involved in preparing 3 to 6 years 22% the rolespecification for the Chief Financial Officer.
Over 6 years Search process Having served for more than six years, the Committee undertook Under the direction of the Committee, Russell Reynolds aparticularly rigorous review of William Jacksons contributions previously The Zygos Partnership, an external search tothe Board and the Committees on which he serves, together with consultancy, was engaged to facilitate the search process.
TheCommittee unanimously concluded that William remained independent in character and judgement and continued to discharge his responsibilities as a Non-Executive Director effectively.
William did not participate in the discussion Review relating to his re-appointment.
Details of preferred candidates were presented to, and considered by, the Committee and, in the case of the Following their review, the Committee is of the opinion that each ChiefFinancial Officer, the other Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Director continues to demonstrate commitment to Shortlisted candidates were invited to interview by the his or her role asa member of the Board and its Committees, Committee, Chief Executive and other Directors as appropriate.
discharges his or her duties effectively and that each makes a valuable contribution to the leadership of the Company for the benefit of all stakeholders.
Accordingly, the Committee recommended to the Board that resolutions to elect or re-elect each Non-Executive Recruitment Director be proposed as appropriate to the AGM alongside the The Committee considered the feedback from interviews and resolutions to re-elect the Executive Directors.
made recommendations to the Board as to the appointments of Preben Prebensen, Alastair Hughes and Rebecca Worthington Therefore, in accordance with the Code, each of the Directors in role as Non-Executive Directors and Simon Carter as Executive at year end and the date of this Annual Report will offer themselves Director and Chief Financial Officer.
for election in the case of Alastair Hughes, Preben Prebensen and Rebecca Worthington or re-election in the case of all other The appointments were formally announced following Directors.
In addition, Simon Carter will take up his appointment on approvalby the Board.
21 May 2018 and offer himself for election at the AGM.
Biographies for each Director can be found on pages 58 to 61.
Other than the provision of recruitment consultancy services neither Committee effectiveness Russell Reynolds nor, previously, The Zygos Partnership has any This year the review into the Committees effectiveness was connection with British Land.
undertaken as part of the triennial externally facilitated Board evaluation.
I am pleased to report that the evaluation concluded that Succession planning the Committee had handled the various succession issues well over The Committee is responsible for reviewing the succession plans the past year and continued tooperate effectively.
forthe Board, including the Chief Executive.
The succession plans forthe Executive Directors are prepared on immediate, medium and Focus for the coming year long term basis while those for Non-Executive Directors reflect the Having overseen major changes to membership of the Board over need to regularly refresh the Board.
Such plans take account of the the last 12 months, the Committee intends to focus its attention for tenure of individual members.
The Committees review of Executive the coming year on improving the gender balance of the leadership Director succession plans include consideration of the process for team and undertaking a formal structured review of the succession talent development within the organisation to create apipeline to plans for senior management.
The Chief Executive, with the support of the HR Director, is responsible for developing succession plans for executives and senior management which are presented to and considered by theCommittee.
John Gildersleeve Chairman of the Nomination Committee British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 75
