STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION EFFECTIVENESS Induction and development The Chairman, with the support of the Company Secretary, is responsible for preparing and co-ordinating a comprehensive and valuable induction programme for newly appointed Directors.
This programme includes presentations from senior management on different aspects of the business, as well as guidance on their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a Director of a listed company.
The Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to visit Group manufacturing sites to enable them to gain a greater understanding of the Groups activities and to meet senior managers throughout the business.
Directors have access to appropriate training as required and they are encouraged to develop their understanding of the business.
To strengthen their knowledge and understanding of the business, Board meetings regularly include updates and briengs on specic areas of the companys activities.
Suniti Chauhan and William Eccleshare were appointed as Non-Executive Directors to the Board on 29 November 2017.
The following table shows the activities included in the inductions that they received throughout the year.
Type of induction activity Summary Face-to-face meetings Meetings were arranged with the Chairman, CEO, CFO and wider Executive team, including the Strategy and Planning Director, the GB Managing Director and the Director of Audit and Risk, in order to provide an understanding around culture, values, strategy, recent developments, an overview of nancials including prior year Annual Report and Accounts, key challenges and opportunities, and to provide insight into the roles and responsibilities of different teams within the business.
Site visits Individual visits were arranged to the Rugby factory in addition to the whole Board visit.
Senior leaders from the site spent time explaining the progress of the Business Capability Program.
Committee inductions Inductions involved meeting with the Chair and members of the committees which the individuals were appointed to, in order to understand the committees remit and obtain an overview of topical issues, policies and developments.
Suniti also met with EY, the external auditors, as part of her Audit Committee induction.
Investor relations An overview of investor relations activities, market facing issues and investor concerns was provided by the and media views Director of Investor Relations and the Director of Corporate Relations.
Governance, risk The directors met with the Company Secretary and were given information about Board policies, procedures and litigation and processes.
Suniti also benefited from a meeting with the companys external lawyers for a brieng on directors duties and governance.
The Board portal Access to the fully encrypted electronic Board Portal was provided, which contains past and current Board and committee papers and also contains business updates and resources for Directors.
A fully encrypted electronic Board Portal Independent advice Ongoing training is used to distribute Board and committee The Board has approved a procedure for A combination of tailored Board and papers and to provide efficient distribution Directors to seek independent professional committee agenda items and other Board of business updates and other resources advice at the companys expense if activities, including brieng sessions, assist to the Board.
No such advice was sought by the Directors in continually updating their additional information or variations to any Director during the year.
In addition, the skills and their knowledge and familiarity regular reporting as required.
Directors have direct access to the advice with the company as required to full their and services of the General Counsel and the role, both on the Board and the Board Company Secretary.
In addition, external seminars, workshops and presentations are made Information ow available to the Directors.
The Chairman and the Company Secretary The Board also received presentations ensure that the Directors receive clear, throughout the year from various timely information on all relevant matters.
departments within the business on key Board papers are circulated in a timely topics including Human Resources, Legal, manner in advance of meetings to ensure Audit, Risk and Compliance, Health and that there is adequate time for them Safety, Sustainability and Corporate Finance.
to be read and to facilitate robust and informed discussion.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 61 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED 2017 EVALUATION An internal evaluation was carried out in the summer of 2017 by means of a questionnaire.
The results were presented to the Board, and reported in the 2017 Annual Report, conrming that the Board and its committees were operating effectively.
The review noted number of areas for the Board to focus on during 2018 outlined below, alongside the actions subsequently undertaken in response.
Focus area Actions Maintain focus on building Board capability and improve The Board appointed two new Non-Executive Directors with succession planning diverse experience The Board carried out an extensive talent review at the March strategy day Continue to support management in developing the international The Board received regular deep dives on the GB, US, International and Brazilian businesses and growing the UK market and Brazil businesses Improve the quality of information relating to brands and The Board received regular brand health reviews marketing metrics BOARD COMMITTEE AND DIRECTORS PERFORMANCE EVALUATION CYCLE Year 1 Years 2 and 3 An externally facilitated evaluation is carried out to assess the effectiveness of the An internally devised questionnaire Board, each committee and the Chairman.
Each individual Director is also required is circulated, building on the key to complete a self-evaluation.
The direct input of each Board member is kept areas identied in the prior year.
condential by the external facilitator, allowing for honest and in-depth feedback.
The process is facilitated by the Company Secretary.
2018 EVALUATION The process was divided into four stages: Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Further to a tender process, the Following completion of the Lintstock created a report The Board reviewed the report Board appointed Lintstock in the questionnaires, Lintstock compiling all the feedback and recommendations and agreed summer of 2018 to facilitate the interviewed each Director, allowing and presenting conclusions a plan of action to improve areas evaluation.
Lintstock has no other for detailed discussion of areas on the effectiveness of the highlighted by the evaluation over connection with the company.
Board, the Committees and the the forthcoming year.
They worked with the Company Directors.
The report included Secretary, the Chairman and the recommendations for areas of CEO to devise comprehensive focus in the forthcoming year.
questionnaires covering best practice and issues specic to the company.
Findings Outcomes The evaluation covered areas including Board composition, Further to discussion of the evaluation findings, the Board expertise and dynamics, strategic and operational oversight, agreed a number of actions to enhance effectiveness and risk management and internal control, and succession planning.
support the business over the next year: Overall the Board was generally rated good to excellent and the Review the strategy development process to ensure clear report confirmed that the Board and its Committees continue to articulation of risk appetite and ambition as the company operate effectively.
Good alignment was reported among Board members on the top Support the new Chief Human Resources officer in three priority areas for the coming year: developing diverse talent pipelines internationally at all levels of the business, and plan additional time to reect on culture, Agreeing the strategic plan values and reputation and how these affect the attraction and Focusing on people and succession retention of high quality candidates.
Continuing to focus on key markets and customers.
Build on existing monitoring of markets, customers and other key stakeholders with particular focus on international businesses and opportunities.
