CORPORATE GOVERNANCE EXECUTIVE TEAM 1 2 3 Matt Barwell Clive Hooper Mathew Dunn Chief Marketing Officer Chief Supply Chain Officer Chief Financial Officer Matt is responsible for all aspects of Britvics global Clive was appointed Chief Supply Chain Officer in See page 50 for Mathews biography brand strategy and execution, innovation, corporate October 2016 having joined the business in 2006 affairs and the companys sustainability agenda.
Clive has responsibility for production, logistics, warehousing and technical Matt joined Britvic in 2014 from Diageo where he across Britvic sites.
Prior to joining Britvic, Clive held a number of senior positions over 15 years, held senior management, production and planning including Marketing and Innovation Director for roles at Greencore, Procter & Gamble and CeDo.
Diageo Africa and, later, Diageo Europe.
He started Clive has a BEng in Engineering from the Royal his career as a graduate trainee at Mars, working Naval Engineering College.
in sales and marketing across the pet food and confectionery businesses.
Matt is a Fellow of the Marketing Society, a council member of the Marketing Group of Great Britain, and an active member of the Institute of Practitioners in Advertising Effectiveness Group and the Ehrenberg Bass Institute.
He is a council member of the Advertising Association and was also Chairman of the AAs Front Foot Group for four years.
4 5 6 Hessel fide Jong Paul Graham Joo Caetano fide Mello Neto Managing Director, International Managing Director, GB Chief Executive Officer, Britvic Brazil Hessel joined the business in September 2015 Paul was appointed GB Managing Director in April Joo Caetano joined Britvic following the with over 20 years of management experience 2015, having joined Britvic as GB General Manager acquisition of Ebba in September 2015.
He brings in the international FMCG industry.
in September 2012. with him over 30 years of executive management experience in the consumer goods industry.
Prior to joining Britvic, Hessel worked as an Before joining Britvic, Paul worked in a range of advisor to a number of private equity companies, commercial roles for companies including Mars Previously, Joo Caetano worked for Cia.
including Blackstone and Bencis Capital Partners.
Mller fide Bebidas Caninha 51 where he spent From 2008 to 2014, he was Managing Director 14 years and acted as Chief Executive Officer Paul has a BSc in Management Sciences from of the Dutch and Benelux operations of the for seven of those years.
He then worked for the University of Manchester and is a member Coca-Cola Company.
Before 2008, Hessel held J. Macedo for seven years as Chief Executive of the Executive Council of the British Soft various regional and global leadership positions Officer of Hidracor before moving to Ebba.
at Heineken and SCA Group in Europe and Asia.
Hessel is based in Amsterdam and holds a Master of Business Administration from INSEAD and a Bachelor of Business Administration from Nyenrode University.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 7 8 9 Kevin Donnelly Zareena Brown Olivier Mercier Managing Director, Ireland Chief Human Resources Officer Managing Director, France Kevin joined Britvic Ireland in September 2008 as Zareena was appointed as Chief Human Resources Olivier joined Britvic in 2015 as Commercial Marketing Director and was appointed Country Officer in June 2018 and is responsible for global Director and was appointed Managing Director Director in June 2013. talent management, capability building, diversity, in January 2018.
Prior to joining Britvic, Olivier organisation development, reward and all aspects worked for large multinational FMCG businesses Kevin has over 25 years experience in sales, of the people strategy for the Group.
including Heineken, Kelloggs and Kraft Mondelez, marketing and general management in FMCG and has strong international experience having companies, including Unilever and Dairygold.
Zareena has extensive HR experience over worked in both Russia and the Middle East.
a 25-year career with major multinational Kevin holds a first class Honours degree in companies.
Before joining Britvic, she worked Marketing from Trinity College Dublin and a for InterContinental Hotels Group in a variety post graduate diploma in Digital Marketing.
of senior human resources positions including Senior Vice President Talent, Learning and Leadership Development and Vice President of Human Resources, Asia, Middle East and Africa.
Her earlier career was with Hilton Hotels and a number of FTSE 100 retailers.
She has experience of living and working in Asia.
10 11 12 Jonathan Adelman Steve Potts Simon Litherland Company Secretary Chief Information, Transformation and Chief Executive Officer Digital Officer Jonathan joined Britvic in January 2015 and See page 50 for Simons biography has been Acting General Counsel and Company Steve joined the business in October 2014 with Secretary since September 2017.
He was responsibility for IT.
He took on the additional appointed as Company Secretary by the Board responsibility for the One Britvic Transformation on 30 October 2018.
Jonathan was previously in May 2016, which created a new operating model General Counsel and Company Secretary of within Britvic.
Steve joined the Britvic plc Executive Ladbrokes plc, having previously served as Vice team in June 2018, when he also became President and Senior Counsel at the Hilton Hotel responsible for Britvics overall digital approach.
Corporation where he also sat on the Board of Prior to joining Britvic, Steve was at Marks & Hilton International.
Spencer plc where he was responsible for IT for UK stores, the international businesses in more than 40 countries, and the critical commercial and supply chain systems used across the foods business.
Earlier in his career, he worked for both Procter & Gamble and Reckitt Benckiser where he performed a number of director-level roles within IT and was CIO at Tarmac Group, where he combined running 10 the IT function with the Programme Director role of 11 Tarmacs Business Transformation Programme.
12 9 8 7 BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 53
