STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT COMMITTEE AT A GLANCE On behalf of the Nomination Committee the Committee, I am pleased to present its report for the 52 weeks ended 30 September 2018.
This report describes how the Committee has carried out its responsibilities during the year.
Committee members John Daly Chairman 1 Ben Gordon Ian McHoul 2 Euan Sutherland Notes: 1.
Ben Gordon stepped down from the Board and all committees on 31 January 2018.
Euan Sutherland was appointed to the Nomination Committee on 30 January 2018.
The Committee comprises a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chief Executive officer also attends by invitation.
John Daly Nomination Committee Chairman Role of the Committee Appointment of Directors Further to the announcement that Mat There is a formal, rigorous and transparent The Committee is responsible for Dunn will be leaving the company in 2019, considering and recommending to the procedure for the appointment of new the Committee has commenced a search Board candidates for appointment as Directors to the Board under which the for his successor as CFO.
Executive and Non-Executive Directors and Committee interviews suitable candidates Diversity for other senior management roles, so as who are proposed by an external search At Britvic, diversity is a wider topic than to maintain an appropriate balance of skills rm.
Careful consideration is given to ensure simply gender and the Board recommends and experience within the company and that proposed appointees have enough time to the company that, in order to achieve on the Board, and to ensure progressive available to devote to the role and that the its future growth aspirations, it should refreshing to the Board.
In addition, it is the balance of skills, knowledge and experience remain committed to building a pipeline of responsibility of the Committee to review on the Board is maintained or improved.
diverse talent and to regularly review its the structure, size and composition of the When discussions relate to the appointment HR processes, including recruitment and Board and its committees and further that of a Chairman, the Senior Independent performance management frameworks.
the procedures for appointing Directors Director will chair the Committee and is formal, rigorous, transparent, objective, As noted on page 40, the Britvic Equality lead the recruitment process.
When the merit-based and has regard for diversity.
and Diversity Policy applies to the whole Committee has found a suitable candidate, The terms of reference for the Committee workforce, and the Committee has a the Chairman of the Committee will make a can be found on our website clear focus on diversity when considering proposal to the whole Board, which retains at www.
appointments to both the Board and responsibility for all such appointments.
Main activities during the year Succession planning The Committee meets as necessary and Conicts of interest Mindful of Ben Gordon reaching his ninth at least twice a year.
The Chairman of the As referred to on page 55, the Board year of tenure, the Board retained the Committee provides a report of Committee operates a formal policy to identify and, external search rm Zygos Partnership meetings to the Board following each meeting.
where appropriate, manage any potential for the purpose of continuing the ongoing conicts of interest that Directors may have.
The Committee considered and has made refreshment of the Board.
Zygos Partnership It is the role of the Committee to monitor recommendations to the Board in respect of: has no other connection with the company.
the situation and determine actions to ongoing Non-Executive recruitment plans Following the recommendation of the address any potential or actual conicts and subsequent recommendation of Committee, the Board appointed Suniti that may arise.
The Committee reviews appointees to the Board: Chauhan and William Eccleshare, effective all potential conicts of interest on an amendment to membership of the on 29 November 2017.
For orderly annual basis and when new Directors Board committees further to Ben transition, Ben Gordon remained on the are formally appointed.
Gordons retirement from the Board Board until the end of January 2018.
Committee evaluation and the appointment of new NonAt the time that he stepped down from The performance of the Committee was Executive Directors: the Board, Ben Gordon served on all three rated highly overall, and the Committee a review of orderly and emergency Board committees.
The Board accepted was seen to have been effective in succession plans at Board and the Committees recommendations in handling recent Non-Executive Director Executive level: respect of these roles, and appointed appointment processes.
a review of the findings of the 2017 18 Euan Sutherland to the Nomination Board evaluations for more information John Daly Committee, Suniti Chauhan to the Audit see page 62 : and Nomination Committee Chairman Committee and William Eccleshare to the annual review of Directors potential 28 November 2018 the Remuneration Committee.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 63
