CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD COMPOSITION AND DIVERSITY background, experience, attitude and thought.
Information on our diversity BOARD COMPOSITION Britvic recognises the and inclusion strategy, policies and implementation can be found in our importance of diversity Sustainable Business Review on pages 39-41. at the Board and all Changes to the Board during the period of levels of the Group.
this report have contributed to increasing We are committed to diversity of thought and approach in Board discussions.
William Eccleshare and Suniti increasing diversity Chauhan joined the Board in November 2017, and Ben Gordon retired from the across our operations Board in January 2018.
This has increased and have a wide range the percentage of women on the Board from 14% to 25%.
of activities to support William is a highly experienced Director, the development and both in Executive and Non-Executive promotion of talented roles, with a wealth of experience in international business and business individuals, regardless transformation.
Britvic is Sunitis first public Chairman 12.5% Non-Executive Directorship: she brings Executive Directors 25% of factors such as over 20 years of investment banking and Independent Non-Executive Directors 62.5% gender, ethnicity, corporate development experience to the Board.
They both provide perspectives not disability, sexuality previously available to the Board.
The Board and religious belief.
will continue to seek out different outlooks and background in future succession plans.
Board composition As diversity, inclusion and culture continue Diversity policy The Board believes that diversity to be areas of focus, the Board will develop Britvic operates an Equality and Diversity encompasses not only visible differences its thinking and practices to ensure we are Policy, described on page 40.
The policy such as gender and ethnicity, but also meeting appropriate standards and gaining applies to the whole workforce including the best possible balance for the company.
the Board and Executive team.
AVERAGE AGE BOARD SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE OF THE BOARD 0 5 10 Manufacturing 8 53 Retail & marketing 5 Consumer 6 8 International Finance investments 5 Number of Directors GENDER DIVERSITY GENDER DIVERSITY BOARD TENURE AT YEAR END PRIOR YEAR END Male 75% Male 86% 1 3 years 71% Female 25% Female 14% 3 years 29% 60 WWW.
