STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ACCOUNTABILITY In accordance with the Code, the Board has the Audit Committee review the Annual Financial reporting, risk also considered the companys longer-term Report in detail and provide its opinion on management and internal control viability, based on a robust assessment of whether the report is fair, balanced and The Board has ultimate responsibility for its principal risks.
This was done through understandable.
The Audit Committees the internal control and risk management the work of the Audit Committee which opinion is on page 66.
The Board has systems operating throughout the Group recommended the Viability Statement, as reviewed the Annual Report 2018 and and for reviewing their effectiveness.
set out on page 35, to the Board.
the opinion of the Audit Committee and, The company had procedures in place taken as a whole, considers it to be fair, throughout the year and up to 28 November The company has in place internal control balanced and understandable, and provides 2018, the date of approval of this Annual and risk management systems in relation to shareholders with information necessary Report, which accord with the Guidance the companys financial reporting process to assess the companys position, on Risk Management, Internal Control and and the Groups process for preparation of performance, business model and strategy.
Related Financial and Business Reporting consolidated accounts.
Further, a review In arriving at this conclusion, the Boards published by the Financial Reporting Council of the consolidated financial statements review draws on its collective knowledge of in September 2014. is completed by management to ensure the business, which is regularly updated by that the financial position and results of The Board confirms that, through the management reports and presentations at the Group are accurately reected.
activities of the Audit Committee described scheduled Board and committee meetings below, a robust assessment of the principal and other business updates provided Fair, balanced and understandable risks facing the company, including those between meetings.
The Board as a whole is responsible for that would threaten its business model, ensuring that the Annual Report is fair, future performance, solvency or liquidity, balanced and understandable.
Drafts of has been carried out.
During the year, in this document have been reviewed by line with the Code, the Board considered the relevant Committee Chair and other the nature and extent of the risks it was Board members.
The Board requested that willing to take in order to achieve its strategic goals.
BOARD ATTENDANCE Number Number of Number of of Audit Remuneration Nomination Number of Committee Committee Committee AGM Membership and attendance Board meetings meetings meetings meetings attendance John Daly 7 7 n a 5 5 3 3 3 Simon Litherland 7 7 n a n a n a 3 1 Suniti Chauhan 5 5 2 2 n a n a 3 Sue Clark 7 7 n a 5 5 n a 3 Mat Dunn 7 7 n a n a n a 3 2 5 William Eccleshare 5 5 n a 3 3 n a 2 Ian McHoul 7 7 3 3 5 5 3 3 3 3 Euan Sutherland 7 7 3 3 n a 1 1 3 Former members 4 Ben Gordon 3 3 1 1 2 2 2 2 n a Notes: 1.
Suniti Chauhan was appointed to the Board and Audit Committee on 29 November 2017.
William Eccleshare was appointed to the Board and Remuneration Committee on 29 November 2017.
Euan Sutherland replaced Ben Gordon as a member of the Nomination Committee on 30 January 2018.
Ben Gordon resigned from the Board and all committees effective 31 January 2018.
William Eccleshare could not attend the 2018 AGM due to prior business commitments.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 59
