CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1 2 3 4 John Daly Simon Litherland Mathew Dunn Ian McHoul Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Director John was appointed Chairman Simon was appointed Chief Mathew joined the business in Ian was appointed Senior of the Board on 1 September Executive Officer in February 2013 September 2015 and became Independent Director on 2017.
John joined the Board and is responsible for overseeing Chief Financial Officer CFO 1 September 2017.
Ian joined the as a Non-Executive Director on the delivery of the companys on 25 November 2015.
Mathews Board as a Non-Executive Director 27 January 2015 and became business strategy.
He joined Britvic appointment to the Board also on 10 March 2014.
Senior Independent Director on in September 2011, initially as became effective from this date.
Managing Director of Britvic GB.
He is responsible for Finance, and experience: Skills, competence Skills, competence Legal, Estates, Risk Management, Ian served as CFO of Amec Foster and experience: and experience: Procurement and Quality, Safety Wheeler plc for nine years.
Prior to John brings strong international Prior to joining Britvic, Simon had and Environment.
this, Ian was Finance Director of and consumer expertise to the a career spanning 20 years with Scottish & Newcastle plc and Mathew resigned in October 2018.
Board, having held various executive Diageo.
His last role was Managing Finance and Strategy Director of In order to facilitate an orderly leadership positions over the course Director of Diageo Great Britain, the Inntrepreneur Pub Group Ltd. transition, he is continuing in his of 20 years at British American having previously run Diageos In addition, Ian spent 10 years with post until Spring 2019.
His most businesses in South Africa, Ireland Fosters Brewing Group in a variety therefore stand for re-election at the recent positions at BAT were Chief and Central and Eastern Europe.
Ian brings substantial AGM in January 2019.
Operating Officer 2010-2014 and During his time at Diageo, Simon financial expertise, and extensive Skills, competence Regional Director for Asia Pacific, was responsible for an extensive knowledge and experience of and experience: based in Hong Kong 2004-2010. portfolio of brands including strategy and the beverage and retail Prior to joining Britvic, Mathew was John is a former Director of Guinness, Johnnie Walker, Baileys, industry, to the Board.
Ian was a at SABMiller PLC where he was Reynolds American Inc. a US public Smirnoff and Captain Morgan.
In his Non-Executive Director and Chairman CFO of South African Breweries company which is 42% owned by earlier career, he held a variety of of the Audit Committee of Premier Ltd, based in South Africa since BAT.
Prior to his time with BAT, John international finance director roles in Foods plc 2004-2013, the last year 2014.
Mathew first joined SABMiller held various sales and marketing Diageo, IDV and Grand Metropolitan.
of which he was also the Senior in 2002 where he held various positions with Johnson & Johnson, Independent Director.
Simon qualified as a Chartered financial planning, management and Bristol-Myers Squibb, Pennwalt Accountant with Deloitte in South Committee membership: leadership positions, before joining Corporation, Schering-Plough and Africa and holds a business degree A N R EMI Music Ltd as CFO of their Ferguson plc.
from the University of Cape Town.
External public directorships: Committee membership: External public directorships: He returned to SABMiller in 2010 Non-Executive Director of Young & N R Non-Executive Director of as CFO Asia based in China, a role Cos Brewery plc and a member of Persimmon plc and is a member which he held until his 2014 move to External public directorships: the Audit Committee.
of the Audit, Nomination and South Africa.
Non-Executive Chairman of Vivo Non-Executive Director of Bellway Remuneration Committees.
External public directorships: plc and a member of the Audit None.
Non-Executive Director of G4S PLC, Committee, Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
Committee and a member of the Audit Committee.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Audit Committee A Nomination Committee N Remuneration Committee R Chairman of the Committee 5 6 7 8 Sue Clark William Eccleshare Euan Sutherland Suniti Chauhan Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Sue was appointed as NonWilliam was appointed as Euan was appointed as Suniti was appointed as Executive Director on 29 February Non-Executive Director on Non-Executive Director on Non-Executive Director on 2016 and since 1 September 29 November 2017.
2017 has been Chair of the Skills, competence Skills, competence Skills, competence Remuneration Committee.
and experience: and experience: and experience: Skills, competence William has strong international Euan is Group Chief Executive Suniti brings over 20 years of and experience: experience in business Officer of SuperGroup Plc.
Euan was experience in strategy, finance and Sue has strong international transformation, expansion, previously Group Chief Executive M&A through a career in corporate credentials and has worked in the marketing, branding, restructuring Officer for the Co-op group of development and investment global FMCG sector for the last and digital innovation.
Earlier in his career he banking, most recently as Director 14 years.
Prior to the merger with the European divisions of major was Group Chief Operating Officer of Corporate Development for Anheuser-Busch InBev in October advertising agencies WPP and at Kingfisher Plc, Chief Executive Rexam plc, a multinational consumer 2016, Sue held the role of Managing Omnicom, and is a former partner Officer of B&Q and Chief Executive packaging company.
Formerly, Suniti Director of SABMiller Europe and of McKinsey & Co where he led of AS Watson UK, owner of was a Managing Director of Morgan was an Executive Committee the firms European Marketing Superdrug.
Euan has over 22 years Stanley, focused on UK M&A and member of SABMiller plc.
William also served as a experience within the retail and the consumer and retail industry.
SABMiller in 2003 as Corporate Non-Executive Director of Hays plc FMCG sectors, having held roles with She is currently a senior consultant Affairs Director and was part of from 2004 to 2014.
Boots, Dixons, Coca-Cola and Mars.
at Tulchan Communications and the executive team that built the advisor to GrowthEnabler, a digital William is CEO and Chairman Euan has a first class Honours business into a top 5 FTSE company.
platform providing intelligence on of Clear Channel International, degree in Managerial and Previously, Sue has held a number of tech start-ups globally to facilitate and led the global out of home Administrative Studies from senior roles in UK companies, including corporate innovation, and she has advertising business through a Aston University.
that of Director of Corporate Affairs for previously served as a trustee of major digital transformation.
Railtrack Group and Scottish Power plc.
Committee membership: Breakthrough Breast Cancer, the William is also a Director of A N Sue has an MBA from Heriot-Watt leading breast cancer research Donmar Warehouse Projects Ltd. University and joined the Board of the charity in the UK.
External public directorships: Edinburgh Business School in 2017.
Committee membership: Suniti graduated from Dartmouth Chief Executive Officer of She is also a Non-Executive director R College in the United States with a SuperGroup Plc.
of Tulchan Communications, a leading degree in Economics and attended External public directorships: financial communications advisory firm.
the General Management Program Non-Executive Director and Senior Committee membership: at Harvard Business School.
Independent Director of Centaur R Committee membership: Media plc.
External public directorships: A Non-executive director of Bakkavor External public directorships: Group plc.
Member of the Supervisory Board of AkzoNobel N. V. Jonathan Adelman Non-Executive Director of Imperial Company Secretary Brands PLC and a member of the Remuneration Committee and the See page 53 for Jonathans biography Succession & Nominations Committee.
7 6 8 5 BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 51
