CORPORATE GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP financial reporting, the appointment of The Board The role of the Board further Directors and social responsibility.
The Board of Directors is comprised of the The Board of Directors provides strategic Chairman, the Chief Executive officer, the leadership and oversight within a Board committees Chief Financial officer and five independent framework of prudent and effective The Board is assisted by three board Non-Executive Directors.
It is responsible for the companys committees as shown in the diagram below responsibilities between the Chairman long-term success, culture, values and to which it delegates matters as appropriate.
and the Chief Executive is set out on page ethical standards, and is committed to Each committee has full terms of reference 55 opposite.
high standards of corporate governance that have been approved by the Board throughout Britvics operations.
The Board The Board is committed to remaining and which can be found on our website at normally meets at least seven times each effective and recognises that, to do so, it www.
The reports of financial year and has a formal schedule of must ensure that it has the right balance the committees can be found on pages 63-83. matters reserved to it for decision making, of skills, independence and knowledge which defines the separation of the Board Re-election of Directors of the company in order to effectively from sub-committees and management.
While the companys articles of association discharge its duties and responsibilities.
This clear denition not only complements provide that all Directors will stand for reand strengthens the companys decisions but Each Director brings experience, election at least every three years, all of the builds the foundations of a solid business.
independence of thought, character and Directors submit themselves for re-election judgement to the Boards deliberations.
or election following their first appointment The Non-Executive Directors support the They have all occupied, or occupy, senior at each Annual General Meeting AGM development of the Groups strategic positions in UK and or international of the company, in compliance with the direction, provide critical and constructive companies and have substantial experience UK Corporate Governance Code.
challenge to the Executive Directors and across a range of businesses, thus bringing exercise oversight through their participation The Chief Financial officer, Mathew a broad perspective to Board discussions.
in the work of the Boards committees Dunn, resigned in October 2018.
In order on matters such as remuneration, risk The biographical details of the Board to facilitate an orderly transition, he is management systems, financial controls, members are set out on pages 50-51. continuing in his post until Spring 2019.
He will therefore stand for re-election at the AGM in January 2019.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE STRUCTURE Shareholders 2,633 shareholders as at 30 September 2018 Board Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Responsible for Board appointments, Monitors the integrity of the Groups Responsible for setting the succession planning and reviewing external reporting and provides remuneration policy and individual the structure, size and composition oversight and governance over compensation for Directors and of the Board.
The Nomination the Groups internal controls, risk senior management so that it is in Committee also ensures that management and the relationship line with the long-term interests of there is a healthy balance of with external auditors.
skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board.
Committee Report Committee Report Committee Report see page 63 see pages 64-67 see pages 68-83 Executive team Chief Executive officer Chief Chief Chief Chief MD MD CEO Chief Information, Company Financial Marketing Supply Human GB France Brazil Transformation and secretary officer officer Chain Resources Digital officer MD MD officer officer Ireland International 54 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE DIRECTORS AND COMPANY SECRETARY Role Responsibility The Chairman is primarily responsible for the workings of the Board: to ensure that its strategic Chairman and supervisory role is achieved and for ensuring effective communication with shareholders.
John Daly The Chairman works closely with the Chief Executive officer to ensure that the strategies and actions agreed by the Board are implemented and provides him with support and appropriate advice.
The Chief Executive officer is responsible for the day-to-day management of the business, Chief Executive developing the Groups strategic direction for consideration and approval by the Board, and officer implementing the agreed strategy.
He is supported by the other members of his Executive team.
Simon Litherland The Chief Financial officer is accountable for the administrative, financial and risk management Chief Financial officer operations of the business.
He has primary responsibility for all financial-related activities including Mathew Dunn the development of financial and operational strategies, strategic planning, deal analysis and negotiations and investor relations.
He reports directly to the Chief Executive officer.
Mathew will be leaving the company in Spring 2019 and a search has commenced for his successor as CFO.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which are not Senior resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive officer or Chief Financial officer, Independent Director or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Ian McHoul The Non-Executive Directors role is to provide a creative contribution to the Board by providing Non-Executive independent oversight and constructive challenge to the Executive Directors.
They bring an Directors independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance and resources, including key Suniti Chauhan, Sue appointments and standards of conduct.
Clark, William Eccleshare, Euan Sutherland The Company Secretarys role includes ensuring good information ows to the Board and its Company Secretary committees and between senior management and the Non-Executive Directors.
The Company Jonathan Adelman Secretary advises the Board on all corporate governance matters, and assists the Chairman in ensuring that the Directors have tailored and detailed inductions in addition to ongoing professional development in fullling their duties.
None of the Non-Executive Directors have Conicts of interest Matters reserved for the Board served more than five full years on the The Board has in place an established The formal schedule of matters specically Board and additional external commitments procedure for reviewing, managing and, reserved for the Boards decision includes are considered on an ongoing basis.
where appropriate, approving any conicts responsibility for the overall management of interest.
Each Director is aware of and performance of the Group, and the The Board is satisfied that all Non-Executive the requirement to notify the Board, via approval of its long-term objectives, Directors, including the Chairman, remain the Company Secretary, as soon as they commercial strategy, approval of annual independent and further, that each of the become aware of a possible conict or and interim results, annual budgets, Non-Executive Directors commits sufficient material change to an existing authorisation.
material acquisitions and disposals, material time and attention to the business of Upon receipt of such notication, the Board agreements, major capital commitments, the company.
will consider the situation before deciding approval of treasury policies, and whether to approve the perceived conict.
assessment of its going concern position.
Directors indemnities At the outset of every Board meeting, the The company maintains Directors and The matters reserved are regularly reviewed Chairman checks that no new conicts Ofcers liability insurance, which provides to ensure that the Board provides continual have arisen.
Only those Directors who have appropriate cover for legal actions brought effective leadership and drive towards the no interest in the matter being considered against its Directors.
The company has also companys strategic aims.
take part in the relevant decision.
Overall, granted indemnities to each of its Directors the Board is satisfied that there are in respect of potential liabilities that may Independence appropriate procedures in place to deal be incurred as a result of their position as The Board reviews the independence of its with conicts of interest and that they have an officer of the company.
A Director will Non-Executive Directors as part of its annual operated effectively.
not be covered by the insurance in the Board effectiveness review.
The Chairman event that they have proven to have acted is committed to ensuring that the Board The UK Corporate Governance Code dishonestly or fraudulently.
comprises a majority of independent The Board supports the principles of the UK Non-Executive Directors who objectively Corporate Governance Code the Code Service contracts challenge management, balanced against available at www.
Throughout the 52 Details of the Executive Directors service the need to ensure continuity on the Board.
weeks ended 30 September 2018 and to the contracts and the Chairmans and the Nondate of this report, the company has complied Other than their fees, which are disclosed Executive Directors letters of appointment with all provisions set out in the Code.
on page 76, the Non-Executive Directors are set out in the Directors Remuneration received no remuneration from the Report on page 82.
These documents are The Board notes the revisions to the Code company during the year.
They do not available for inspection at the registered published in July 2018 and has commenced participate in any of the Groups pension ofce of the company during normal its assessment of how it will embed the new schemes or in any of the Groups bonus, business hours and at the AGM.
and amended principles into Board practice.
share option or other incentive schemes.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP CONTINUED Board meetings & activities The Board met seven times during the year in accordance with its scheduled meeting calendar, excluding ad-hoc conference calls and committee meetings to approve the financial results.
Additional meetings were convened to deal with matters requiring the Boards attention and major projects, as required.
At each meeting, the Board received regular reports, including detailed reports on current trading performance, any matters requiring approval or decision and in-depth presentations from senior Executives.
The business reported monthly on its performance against its agreed budget.
In March, the Board participated in an off-site meeting across two days with the full Executive team and other senior leaders to review the companys strategy and talent.
An Innovation Showcase was set up for the Directors to spend time reviewing new products and how they are positioned to support category growth.
In July, the Board completed a visit to our Rugby factory and details of this visit can be found on page 57 opposite.
A timeline of meetings and activities and the attendance by each Board member at meetings is shown on pages 58-59.
BOARD ACTIVITY IN 2017 18 Financial performance Strategy Governance and shareholders Approved the annual budget and longReview of company strategy at Approved modern slavery prevention term nancing plans annual two-day off-site meeting statement and gender pay gap report Approved interim and full year results, Brand, category and Reviewed fees for dividends and announcements innovation reviews Non-Executive Directors Approved the Annual Report, going Regular updates on Soft Drinks Reviewed developments in concern and viability statements Industry Levy preparation corporate governance, legal and performance and regulatory updates Deep dives on US, GB and Completed an externally Brazil businesses, and on conducted Board evaluation supply chain transformation Completed annual review of conicts and independence Regular agenda items Group performance report from the Chief Executive officer Report on innovation plans and delivery Financial performance report from the Chief Financial officer Report on supply chain transformation project Reports from committee chairs Company Secretary and governance report Health and safety updates Leadership and people Internal controls and risk management Approved the appointments of William Eccleshare and Reviewed key risks and mitigation plans Suniti Chauhan as Non-Executive Directors and their Deep dives into cybersecurity risk, GDPR preparation appointments as members of the Remuneration and and Brexit planning Audit Committees respectively Approved insurance renewal Approved the appointment of Euan Sutherland to the Approved updated statement of authorities Nomination Committee Received regular updates on talent and succession planning Approved the appointment of Jonathan Adelman as Company Secretary 56 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Board visit to Rugby factory The Board held its July meeting in Rugby providing the opportunity to see the significant progress on site during the year as part of the Companys extensive Business Capability Programme.
The Board were able to view six new lines in operation and one further line in commissioning phase which together will deliver increased capacity, pack flexibility and liquid capability.
The Board were able to tour the fully automated high-bay warehouse being constructed on site which is scheduled for completion in late 2019 as well as the new facilities for colleagues including a canteen and meeting spaces.
The meeting at Rugby also gave the Board the opportunity to meet with senior members of the Supply Chain team who led the Business Continuity Programme.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP CONTINUED Principles of ownership, corporate Annual General Meeting Shareholder engagement governance and voting guidelines issued At the AGM, the Chief Executive officer Investor relations by the companys major institutional gives an update on the positioning and The Board is committed to maintaining shareholders, their representative bodies outlook for the business.
Shareholders are strong communications with shareholders and advisory organisations are circulated invited to ask questions formally during and believes that engagement with to, and considered by, the Board.
the meeting and to follow up on these shareholders and institutional investors discussions with the Directors on a one-toshould be an ongoing process.
The Board There is further detail on the companys one basis afterwards.
regularly connects with shareholders engagement with stakeholders on pages through a variety of channels including 6-7 in the Strategic Report.
The Chairs of the Board committees and face-to-face meetings and online content.
the Senior Independent Director are present The Senior Independent Director and Private investors and available to respond to questions at other Directors are available to meet the We are keen to hear the views of our the AGM.
companys major shareholders if requested.
private shareholders and we encourage them to use our shareholder mailbox Our 2018 AGM was well attended, and all There is a regular programme of meetings investors@britvic.
com for detailed proposed resolutions were passed, with with major institutional shareholders enquiries and to access our website for our votes in favour ranging from 85.68% to to consider the Groups performance company reports and business information.
Specic enquiries to the Company Secretary We look forward to welcoming our may be sent to the Secretariat mailbox A report on investor relations, which shareholders to our AGM in January 2019 company.
com or sent includes updates on meetings with major and to updating them on our business to the registered ofce.
institutional shareholders, is given at each developments.
The Notice of Meeting can Board meeting.
In addition to this, the be reviewed at www.
Board receives regular reports prepared by an independent capital market advisory rm, which provide comprehensive information relating to the companys major shareholders.
The companys brokers also met with the Board as required during the year.
BOARD MEETINGS, REPORTING AND ENGAGEMENT WITH INVESTORS: Meeting: Meeting: Deep dive GDPR Half year and Cyber Security performance review Meeting: Meeting: 2-day offsite Meeting: Meeting: Full year Deep dive strategy Visit to Deep dive performance review US business meeting Rugby factory GB business Deep dive Soft Drinks AGM Deep dive Deep dive Industrial Levy Brazil business Sustainability OCT NOV DEC JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEPT OCT 2018 half year Notice of AGM results announced Voting opens Investor conference call Analyst brieng 2017 full year Roadshows results announced Q1 2018 trading update Investor conference call Investor conference call Analyst brieng AGM voting Q3 2018 trading update Roadshows results published Investor conference call 58 WWW.
COM Board activities Shareholder reporting of engagement
