CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT COMMITTEE AT A GLANCE On behalf of the Audit Committee the Committee, I am pleased to present its report for the 52 weeks ended 30 September 2018.
This report describes how the Committee has carried out its responsibilities during the year.
Committee members Ian McHoul Chairman 1 Suniti Chauhan 2 Ben Gordon Euan Sutherland Notes: 1.
Suniti Chauhan was appointed to the Audit Committee on 29 November 2017.
Ben Gordon stepped down from the Board and all committees on 31 January 2018.
The Committee is comprised solely of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board is satisfied that Ian has recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code Ian McHoul and, further, that the Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the sector in Audit Committee Chairman which the company operates.
Role of the Committee Responsibilities Committee meetings The Committees role is to ensure Reviewing the financial results The Committee meets three times a year: appropriate oversight and review of the announcements and financial statements, in November and May to review the Annual presentation and integrity of the Groups and any significant financial reporting Report and Accounts and interim report financial reporting and statements, internal issues and judgements which they respectively and to consider the external control and risk management, internal may contain.
audit findings, and in September to review audit programmes, changes in regulatory Advising the Board on whether the the activities of the previous year, the plan requirements, and the independence and Annual Report and Accounts, taken for the year ahead and to consider any appointment of external auditors.
The terms as a whole, is fair, balanced and emerging issues.
At each meeting the of reference for the Committee can be understandable and provides the performance and findings of the internal found on our website at www.
com information necessary for shareholders audit team are reviewed, and the most governance.
to assess the companys performance, recent key risks are considered.
To enable the Committee to discharge its The attendance of the Committee for each Ensuring compliance with applicable responsibilities, discussions on a broad meeting during the year can be found on accounting standards and reviewing the range of topics and reports were held page 59.
Attendees at each of the meetings appropriateness of accounting policies with management, internal audit and the are the Committees members as well as, and practices in place.
external auditors throughout the year.
by invitation as appropriate, the Chairman, Assessing the adequacy of the internal This provided us with insight into the the Chief Executive officer, the Chief control environment and the processes in progress towards the companys strategic Financial officer, the Director of Financial place to monitor this, including reviewing goals and the challenges and risks, and how Controls and Governance, the General the activities and performance of the they are being managed.
The activities of Counsel, the Director of Audit and Risk, and internal audit team.
the Committee can be found in the table on the external auditor, Ernst and Young LLP as Reviewing risk management processes page 65 opposite.
well as any others that the Committee feels and considering the adequacy of the necessary for a full discussion of matters on actions being taken to identify risks and The Committee has an open dialogue the agenda.
reduce the exposure of the Group to throughout the year with the Director of those risks.
Audit and Risk and the external auditors Each meeting allows time for the Overseeing the relationship with the in order to raise challenges and questions Committee to speak with key people external auditors, reviewing their to support understanding whilst sharing without the presence of the others, in activities in making recommendations experience and an independent perspective.
particular the external auditor and the to the Board in relation to their Director of Audit and Risk.
The most significant matters discussed appointment, remuneration and terms of over the course of the year are described engagement, independence, objectivity in this report.
Ensuring that appropriate safeguards are in place for individuals to raise issues with the Board where a breach of conduct or compliance, including any financial reporting irregularity, is suspected.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Main activities during the year Committee meetings usually take place prior to a Board meeting.
The Chairman of the Committee subsequently reports on the activities of the Committee and matters of particular relevance to the Board.
Audit Committee meeting dates Key agenda items November Review of the Annual Report and Financial Statements, including changes to accounting policies, key issues and judgements and assessment that the statements are fair, balanced and understandable Review of the CFOs report on accounting issues and judgements Review of the external audit findings, including any accounting and audit adjustments Assessment of the effectiveness of external auditors, including audit process, independence and objectivity Recommendation on the appointment of the external auditors Internal audit update, including review of risk management processes May Review of the interim financial report, including any changes to accounting policies Review of the external audit findings, including any accounting and audit adjustments Review of the annual external audit plan, including scope of engagement for the year Review and assess performance against the internal audit plan and review all significant reports and managements responsiveness to the findings and recommendations Review and update on the corporate risk process Cyber security risk update September Review of key accounting judgements for the full year financial statements and any potential issues Internal audit and risk update, including approval of audit plan for the next financial year, significant audit findings and progress against previous outstanding audit actions Review of external auditors plan and progress on non-financial metrics assurance Review of status of risk management processes, including a review of the viability statement work Fair, balanced and understandable assessment At the request of the Board, the Committee considered whether the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
To enable the Board to have confidence in making this statement, the Committee considered the elements in the table below: Fair Balanced Understandable Is the whole story Is there a good level of consistency between the narrative in the front Is there a clear framework to being presented?
section and the financial reporting in the back section of the report?
Has any sensitive material Is the Annual Report considered a document t for shareholders?
Are the important messages been omitted that should highlighted appropriately Are statutory and adjusted measures explained clearly with have been included?
Are the key messages in Is the layout clear with good Are the key judgements referred to in the narrative reporting and the the narrative reected in the linkage throughout in a manner significant issues reported in the Audit Committee report consistent financial reporting?
which reects the whole story?
with the disclosures of key estimation uncertainties and critical Are the KPIs disclosed at an judgements set out in the financial statements?
appropriate level based on How do they compare with the risks that the auditors plan to include with the financial reporting?
To form its opinion, the Committee reected on the information and reporting it received from management and the external auditors and the discussions that took place during the year.
Key considerations for the Committee in 2018 included the following: The financial statements comply with all applicable financial reporting standards and any other required regulations.
Material areas of significant judgement have been given due consideration by management and reviewed with the external auditors.
The application of acceptable accounting policies and practices is consistent across the Group.
The disclosures provided are clear, and as required by financial reporting standards.
Reporting and commentary provides a fair and balanced view of company performance.
Any correspondence from regulators received in relation to our financial reporting are considered and disclosures are updated if required.
To ensure that these considerations are met, reviews take place based on information provided by the Chief Financial officer and his team at each Committee meeting as well as reports from the external auditor based on the outcomes of their half year review and annual audit.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 65 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Financial statements and significant issues Revenue recognition Revenue recognition is a key area of focus.
The control, accounting and accuracy of long-term discounts, promotional discounts and account development funds are reviewed throughout the year to ensure that they remain consistent and IFRS compliant.
From the accounting period starting 2 October 2017, the Group has adopted accounting standard IFRS15 with full retrospective application, and the Committee has reviewed the impact and additional disclosures as well as the updated revenue accounting policy which reects these changes.
Valuation of goodwill The review of goodwill and intangible assets is based on a calculation of value in use, using cash ow and assets projections based on market measures and financial budgets prepared by senior management and approved by the Board of Directors.
The assessment models were reviewed as part of the audit, for which the external auditors provided reporting to the Committee.
The Committee has also considered management reports on potential triggers of impairment and the outcome of sensitivity testing for all areas of the Group, including France, Ireland and Brazil, and the potential reversal of prior year impairments.
The Committee concluded that it was appropriate to recognise a reversal of impairment in the Ballygowan trademark of 11.5m.
Adjusting items Adjusting items are not reported as part of the financial statements but are used in the Annual Report to provide clarity on underlying performance for users of the accounts.
The classication of adjusting items is dened by a Group policy, as approved by the Committee, and includes items of significant income and expense which due to their size, nature or frequency merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to understand better the elements of financial performance during the year.
Management has reviewed items to be included with the Committee throughout the year in order to confirm appropriateness.
Derivative and hedging The Group has derivative instruments to which hedge accounting is applied and which swap principal and activities interest of US Private Placement notes.
The Committee reviewed reporting on comparisons of valuations to external conrmations and assessment of hedge effectiveness in order to be satisfied with the quality of financial statement disclosures.
Taxation Uncertain tax positions within the Group were reviewed to ensure that the balance sheet provisions are appropriate, and that the Group effective tax rate is calculated appropriately.
The Committee were also updated on the treatment of the new Soft Drinks Industry Levy during the year and how the Group prepared and implemented the required system changes.
Dened benefit pension The Committee reviewed benchmarks and assumptions that are provided by the Groups actuaries and used scheme liabilities valuation to value the pension liabilities for the four dened benefit schemes.
The underlying assumptions based on market conditions and the characteristics of the schemes are reviewed by management and conclusions reported to the Committee.
The Committee subsequently recommended to the Board that, taken as a whole, the Companys 2018 Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
Internal audit and control The internal audit function carries out work across the company, providing independent assurance and advice to help the organisation achieve its strategic priorities.
In September 2018, the Committee agreed the FY19 audit plan to be undertaken by the internal audit team prior to the start of the year.
The audit plan coverage is based on risk, strategic priorities and consideration of the strength of the control environment.
The Committee reviews the results of the internal audit reports during each meeting, looking in detail at any reports where processes and controls require improvement or any reports that are particularly pertinent to delivery of strategic objectives or priorities.
The Committee was also provided with updates on internal audit findings, agreed actions and overall control environment progress at each meeting.
Where internal or external circumstances gave rise to an increased level of risk, the audit plan was modied accordingly during the year.
Any changes to the agreed audit plan were presented to and agreed by the Committee.
Detailed updates on specic areas were provided at the request of the Committee, such as findings from a post-incident review of supplier resilience following the shortage of carbon dioxide that caused disruption industry-wide over the summer.
Risk management The risk management process facilitates the identication and prioritisation of risk through regular risk reviews and workshops with the Board, Executive Team, business units, key business functions and senior members of management across the organisation.
This process is reviewed at each meeting by the Committee to ensure that it is set up to deliver appropriate risk management and effective prioritisation across the group.
A risk that can seriously affect the performance, future prospects or reputation of the company is deemed a principal risk.
These are aligned to the companys strategic goals and priorities and each year the Executive Team perform a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the company which is reviewed by the Board.
A summary of the principal risks and uncertainties to which the business is exposed can be found on pages 31-34.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Viability statement Whistleblowing Independence and reappointment The Committee reviewed managements The Groups whistleblowing policy contains The Committee reviews the independence work in conducting a robust assessment arrangements for an independent service of the auditors throughout the year and of those risks which could threaten the provider to receive, in confidence, reports confirms that it considers EY to remain business model and the future viability of breaches of any legal or company policy independent.
The Committee confirms of the company.
This assessment requirements, including those related compliance with the Statutory Audit included identifying severe but plausible to accounting, auditing, risk, internal Service for Large Companies Market scenarios for each of our principal risks control and related matters.
Any such Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive as well as considering inter-dependencies disclosures are reported to the Committee Tender Processes and Audit Committee and scenarios involving multiple risks.
Responsibilities Order 2014, having last Additionally, reverse stress testing was carried out a competitive tender for audit Effectiveness of external audit carried out, allowing the Committee to services in 2016.
EY have been auditors There are a number of areas that the model circumstances that could render the to the company since otation in 2005.
Committee considers in relation to the business unable to pay its liabilities as they external auditors: their performance in The external auditors are required to rotate fall due.
To support the final conclusion discharging the audit and the interim review, the lead audit partner every five years.
on viability, the assessment also took into their independence and objectivity, and A new lead auditor partner led the FY18 account the mitigations available to the their reappointment and remuneration.
audit, having shadowed key meetings company to protect against these downside The Chairman of the Committee has regular with the outgoing partner in the prior scenarios.
Based on this analysis, the contact with the external audit partner financial year.
Based on the Committees Committee recommended to the Board outside of Committee meetings and without recommendation, the Board is proposing that it could approve and make the Viability the management of the business present.
that EY be reappointed to ofce at the AGM Statement on page 35. in January 2019.
The external auditors, Ernst and Young LLP Internal control Non-audit fees EY, provided the Committee with their The Board is responsible for reviewing The Group has a policy regarding the plan for undertaking the year end audit the adequacy and effectiveness of the provision of non-audit services by the which highlighted the proposed approach risk management framework and the external auditors.
Any non-audit services and scope of the audit for the coming year system of internal controls.
The Board has provided must be pre-approved by the and identied the key areas of audit risk, delegated responsibility for this review Committee Chairman unless the activity including the audit approach for these areas.
Management in each will have a total value of less than 5,000 The Committee reviewed and appropriately business unit is responsible for establishing and falls within the allowed services dened challenged the basis for these before and maintaining adequate internal by FRC guidance.
agreeing the proposed approach and scope controls.
Functions such as finance, legal, of the external audit.
procurement, IT and HR are responsible for Control over total non-audit fees is also setting out the policies to be followed by the EY prepared a detailed report of their audit exercised by reviewing spend on all activities business units.
The Committee, through the findings at the year end, which they took proposed or provided by the external auditor internal audit function, reviews the adequacy the Committee through at the meeting and we can confirm that we are well within and effectiveness of internal control in November 2018.
The findings were the FRC guidance of 70% cap that will be procedures, identies any weaknesses and reviewed and discussed in detail by the required from 2019. ensures that these are addressed within Committee, particularly in relation to the Board evaluation agreed timelines.
key areas of audit risk previously identied.
The Committee was evaluated as part of A similar review of the external auditors The internal control framework has been the overall Board evaluation described on report of their findings at the half year was designed to manage rather than eliminate page 62.
The conclusion of the evaluation undertaken by the Committee.
material risks to the achievement of our was that the Committee continues to strategic and business objectives and can work effectively and was highly rated The Committee also considered the only provide reasonable, and not absolute overall.
Good relationships with the CFO, effectiveness of the audit in relation to its assurance against material misstatement internal and external auditors were noted, robustness, the quality of the audit delivery of loss.
and excellent scores were achieved on and the quality of the people and service, the effectiveness of assessing financial and has concluded that EY remain effective reporting and the internal control system.
Following a successful transition in external audit partner, continuing to operate at a high standard was identied as a priority going forward.
Ian McHoul Audit Committee Chairman 28 November 2018 BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 67
