The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion Key to membership of Board committees Board of Directors ARC Audit & Risk EC Executive REM Remuneration Committee chair CC BT Compliance IPGC Investigatory Powers Governance CSRB Sustainable & Responsible Business TC PEN BT Pensions NAG Nominating & Governance Technology EAB Equality of Access Board IPGC NAG CSRB PEN EC TC CSRB IPGC EC PEN REM NAG TC ARC NAG TC NAG Jan du Plessis Gavin Patterson Simon Lowth Tony Ball Iain Conn Tim Httges Chairman Independent non-executive director Chief executive Chief financial officer Independent non-executive director Non-independent, non-executive director Appointed chairman in November 2017 and Appointed chief executive in September Appointed to the Board as chief financial Appointed to the Board in July 2009.
Appointed to the Board in June 2014.
Appointed to the Board in January 2016. on the Board since June 2017.
2013 and on the Board since June 2008. officer in July 2016.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Jan has significant experience on the boards Skills and experience Simon has experience in finance, Tony brings international business expertise Iain has international experience, and an Tim has international telecoms experience of major UK public companies, having Gavin has experience in sales, marketing, accounting, risk, corporate strategy and in addition to financial, operational, sales, understanding of technology, energy and having been CEO of Deutsche Telekom since served as chairman and non-executive technology and operations.
He was mergers and acquisitions.
He was CFO and marketing and media experience.
Iain joined January 2014, and with the company since director of various FTSE100 companies previously CEO of BT Retail and from executive director of BG Group before the 1999 to 2003 Tony was chief executive Centrica as chief executive in January 2015, 2000.
From 2009 until his appointment across a range of sectors.
Jan stepped down 2004 to 2008 was managing director of takeover by Royal Dutch Shell in February of BSkyB and until 2013 was chairman of having been with BP since 1986.
From as CEO, he was a member of the board of as chairman of Rio Tinto in March 2018 BT Consumer BT Retail.
Simon was CFO and an executive Germanys largest cable operator, Kabel 2004 to 2014 Iain was executive director management responsible for finance and having served in that role since 2009.
BT, Gavin was managing director of the director of AstraZeneca from 2007 Deutschland GmbH.
He has held a number of BP and chief executive downstream from controlling.
From 2006 to 2009 he was Until October 2016 he was chairman of consumer division of Telewest now Virgin to 2013, and an executive director of of senior executive positions in broadcasting 2007 to 2014.
Until May 2014, Iain was a a member of the board of management SABMiller, a role he held since July 2015, Media.
Prior to that he spent nine years ScottishPower from 2003 to 2007, and was and telecoms businesses in the UK, US and non-executive director of Rolls-Royce for responsible for the T-Home unit.
In this having been with the company since at Procter & Gamble, rising to become appointed finance director in 2005.
nine years, and senior independent director.
position, he was in charge of the fixed- 2014.
He was also a director and senior European marketing director.
that, Simon was a director of McKinsey network and broadband business, as well as Other appointments include Other appointments include independent director of Marks & Spencer & Company.
integrated sales and service in Germany.
Other appointments include Chairman of Ambassadors Theatre Group Member of the CBI Presidents Committee, from 2008 and 2012 respectively until Non-executive director of British Airways Other appointments and Bit Group.
chairman of the advisory board of the Other appointments include March 2015. and a member of the CBI Presidents None outside BT.
Senior adviser to Providence Equity Partners Imperial College Business School and Chairman of T-Mobile US and a supervisory Other appointments Committee.
and chairman of the advisory council of member of the Imperial College Council.
board member of FC Bayern Mnchen AG None outside BT.
CC EAB PEN NAG REM CC NAG REM TC ARC REM TC ARC NAG REM CSRB ARC CC NAG Dan Fitz Isabel Hudson Mike Inglis Karen Richardson Nick Rose Jasmine Whitbread Company secretary Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Dan is the company secretary.
He joined Appointed to the Board in November 2014.
Appointed to the Board in September 2015.
Appointed to the Board in November 2011.
Appointed to the Board in January 2011 Appointed to the Board in January 2011.
BT in April 2010 and was appointed Age 58.
Age 55. and senior independent director since Age 54. company secretary in November 2012.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Isabel has experience in the financial sector Mikes technology experience includes With a career over 30 years in the Skills and experience Jasmine has experience in transforming as well as pensions, risk, control, governance Nick brings experience in finance, risk, serving on the board of ARM Holdings from technology and software industry, Karen large complex organisations in the UK and and international business.
Isabel was 2002 to 2013, with roles including chief brings experience in technology having control, governance and international internationally and brings an understanding previously a non-executive director of The business expertise.
He was chief financial commercial officer, executive vice president held a number of senior operating roles of corporate social responsibility and Pensions Regulator, MGM Advantage, QBE and general manager of the processor in both the public and private technology officer of Diageo prior to his retirement in sustainable business.
She was previously Insurance, Standard Life and an executive December 2010, having joined the board division and executive vice president of sales sector.
She is a former adviser to Silver Lake chief executive of Save the Children director of Prudential Assurance Company and marketing.
Prior to joining ARM, Mike Partners, was with NASDAQ-listed software in 1999. International and has a background in in the UK.
worked in management consultancy with company Epiphany Inc, latterly as chief technology marketing.
Other appointments include AT Kearney and held a number of senior executive, and has served on a number Other appointments include Chairman of Williams Grand Prix Holdings, Other appointments include operational and marketing positions at of corporate boards including VirtuOz, Non-executive chair of National House senior independent director of BAE Systems Chief executive of London First and nonMotorola.
Mike was previously a director Proofpoint, Hi5 Networks, Convercent and Building Council and senior independent and non-executive chairman of Loch executive director of Standard Chartered.
Isabel is also an Lomond Scotch Whisky.
ambassador for the disability charity, SCOPE.
Other appointments include Other appointments include Non-executive chairman of Ilika and a Director of Exponent and Worldpay Group.
director of Advanced Micro Devices.
134 BT Group plc Annual Report 2018 Annual Report 2018 BT Group plc 135
