Relations with shareholders Individual shareholders We have a large number of individual shareholders.
They are regular users of our website, receive electronic communications, and all are invited to attend our AGM.
The company secretary oversees communications with private shareholders, making sure we respond directly as appropriate to any matters regarding their shareholding, and a dedicated team at Equiniti our share registrar also looks after their needs.
We encourage direct payment of dividends and e-communications WKLV LPSURYHV WKH VHFXULW DQG HFLHQF RI RXU FRPPXQLFDWLRQV DQG reduces the amount of paper we use.
Institutional shareholders Our executive management team aims to meet with institutional investors regularly.
The chairman, senior independent director and other Board members also meet investors where appropriate.
We do this via an investor relations programme that includes one-to-one meetings, roadshows, group meetings, conferences and industry events.
During 2017 18 we held around 450 meetings with investors, covering a wide range of topics including our strategy, operational performance, capital investment, pension, relations with government and our regulator, and capital allocation policy.
We gather feedback from our main shareholders and this is regularly considered by management and the Board.
Here are some of the ways we engage with our shareholders: The AGM provides an opportunity for directors to engage with shareholders, answer their $ 0 questions and meet them informally.
The 2018 AGM will take place on Wednesday 11 July in Edinburgh.
We invite all shareholders to attend and use the opportunity to ask questions.
We encourage those who cant attend to vote by proxy on all the resolutions put forward.
All votes with the exception of procedural resolutions are taken by a poll.
In 2017, voting levels at the AGM were over 70% of the companys issued share capital, the same level as in 2016.
We publish a full annual report and accounts each year which contains a strategic report, $QQXDO 5HSRUW JRYHUQDQFH VHFWLRQ QDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV DQG DGGLWLRQDO LQIRUPDWLRQ 7KH UHSRUW LV DYDLODEOH in paper format and online.
During the year, we surveyed 13,000 private shareholders selected at random to help Annual shareholder survey us improve shareholder engagement.
Weve continued to include more information on our QDQFLDO SHUIRUPDQFH VWUDWHJ SXUSRVH DQG IXWXUH SODQV LQ RXU VKDUHKROGHU communications.
:H LVVXH SUHVV UHOHDVHV IRU DOO VXEVWDQWLYH QHZV UHODWLQJ WR %7oV QDQFLDO DQG RSHUDWLRQDO Press releases SHUIRUPDQFH RX FDQ QG SUHVV UHOHDVHV RQ RXU ZHEVLWH From WKH UVW TXDUWHU Rf 2018 19 we will be changing the way we report.
We will continue Results announcements to release a full set of QDQFLDO DQG RSHUDWional results at the interim and full year stage.
We will release trading statemHQWV DW WKH UVW DQd third quarter with reduced disclosure, whilst VWLOO SURYLGLQJ VXFient information to allow investors to model and value our business.
The interim and full year results will be accompanied by presentations hosted by senior management, and the Q1 and Q3 results will be webcast.
All our results events provide the opportunity for investors to ask questions of management.
Our website is regularly updated and contains a comprehensive range of information on our Website company.
There is a section dedicated to LQYHVWRUV ZKLFK KDV RXU LQYHVWRU FDOHQGDU QDQFLDO results, presentation, press releases and contact details.
The area dedicated to individual shareholders is an essential communications channel.
It includes information on shareholder news, administration services, contact information, and information for UK shareholders on capital gains tax.
com 142 BT Group plc Annual Report 2018 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The separate Notice of meeting 2018, which we send to all Substantial shareholdings shareholders who have requested shareholder documents by At 9 May 2018, BT had received notice, under the Financial post, contains the 19 resolutions with explanatory notes we will Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Guidance & Transparency Rules, in propose at the 2018 AGM on 11 July in Edinburgh.
We notify all respect of the following holdings of shares: shareholders of the publication of these documents, which we VHQG RXW LQ WKH PRVW FRVW HHFWLYH ZD :H DLP WR JLYH DV PXFK Date of % of total QRWLFDWLRQ Shares voting rights notice of our AGM as possible and at least 21 clear days notice, as required by our Articles of Association.
In practice, we send these Orange SA 22 June 2017 265,725,107 2.66% documents to shareholders more than 20 working days before BlackRock Inc 4 May 2018 495,542,444 4.99% the AGM.
For other general meetings this should be at least {ZRUNLQJ GD V LQ DGYDQFH At 31 March 2018, BlackRocks interest was 572,491,666 shares representing 5.77% of total voting rights.
No requirement to notify At each meeting at which the companys accounts are presented the company of any increase or decrease would have arisen unless to its members, the company is required to appoint auditors to the holding moved up or down a whole number percentage level.
serve until the next such meeting.
In June 2017, we announced The percentage level may decrease on the transfer of treasury shares completion of a formal tender process for external audit IRU{DQ RI WKH FRPSDQ oV VKDUH SODQV services, details of which can be found on page 148.
On the recommendation of the Audit & Risk Committee, the Board In addition, T-Mobile Holdings Limited holds 1,196,175,322 proposes that KPMG LLP be appointed as the companys shares representing 12% of total voting rights.
we received QRWLFDWLRQ IURP 'eutsche Telekom AG as nominee for T-Mobile Holdings Limited that the 12% holding had transferred  LLP PwC will stand down as the into their pension trust.
companys auditors at the conclusion of the AGM.
As partial consideration for our purchase of EE Limited in January Authority to purchase shares 2016, we issued 1,594,900,429 new ordinary shares to T-Mobile The authority given at last years AGM for BT to purchase in the Holdings Limited and Orange Telecommunications Group Limited.
market 996m of its shares, representing 10% of the issued share capital, expires on 11 July 2018.
Well ask shareholders to give a Annual General Meeting similar authority at the 2018 AGM.
Resolutions During 2017 18, we purchased 43m shares of 5p each under Well ask our shareholders to vote on both the Annual Report this authority 0.43% of the share capital for a consideration of and the Report on directors remuneration at our AGM.
125m, at an average price of 2.88 per share.
During 2017 18, we transferred 4.9m treasury shares to meet BTs obligations $V SDUW RI RXU SROLF WR LQYROYH VKDUHKROGHUV IXOO LQ WKH DDLUV under our employee share plans.
We purchased all of the 43m of the company, at our AGM we give them the opportunity to VKDUHV LQ DQ 2HULQJ RI %7 VKDUHV E 2UDQJH LQXQH At ask questions about BTs activities.
We also give shareholders 9{0ay 2018, we held a total of 46.2m shares as treasury shares.
the opportunity to vote on every important issue by proposing a separate resolution for each.
Before the AGM, we count the proxy In addition, the BT Group Employee Share Ownership Trust the votes for and against each resolution, as well as votes withheld, Trust purchased 32.4m BT shares for a total consideration of and make the results available at the meeting.
As at previous P 7KH 7UXVW SXUFKDVHG P RI WKRVH VKDUHV LQ WKH 2HULQJ AGMs, well take votes on all matters at the 2018 AGM on a poll, of BT shares by Orange in June 2017.
The Trust continued to hold except procedural issues.
Well count every vote cast, whether 12.8m shares at 9 May 2018. in person or by proxy at the meeting, and post the outcome of voting on the resolutions on our website as soon as possible after the meeting.
Its our policy for all directors to attend the AGM if possible.
While, because of ill health or other pressing reasons, this may not always be possible, in normal circumstances this means that the chairs of the Audit & Risk, Nominating & Governance and Remuneration Committees are at the AGM and are available to answer questions.
Mike Inglis did not attend the 2017 AGM due to family circumstances.
Annual Report 2018 BT Group plc 143
