Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Nomination Committee report Ensuring that the Board has the appropriate balance of skills, experience, knowledge and diversity is a key role of the Committee which is essential for the long term sustainability and success of the Company.
Philip Rogerson Chairman and Chairman of the Nomination Committee Our aim is to continue to refresh the Board Making recommendations to the Board Principal responsibilities to further enhance the range of skills, as to the continuation in office and or of the Committee breadth of knowledge and experience and re-appointment of directors.
Board structure diversity on the Board while ensuring Evaluation Reviewing the structure, size and stability and continuity.
Information about Considering the commitment required composition of the Board with regard the Committees approach to succession of non-executive directors and to maintaining a balance of skills, planning more generally can be found below.
Philip Rogerson Succession Meetings Chairman and Chairman of the Considering succession planning, The Committee met on five occasions Nomination Committee taking into account the challenges and during 2018.
Members attendance at 25 February 2019 opportunities facing the Company and those meetings is set out below: the skills and expertise required by the Composition Board in the future.
Meetings attended The Nomination Committee comprises Philip Rogerson 5 Reviewing annually a succession the Chairman of the Company, who chairs Frank van Zanten 5 planning presentation in relation to the Committee unless the Committee is Eugenia Ulasewicz 5 the Companys key management.
dealing with the matter of succession of 1 Jean-Charles Pauze 5 the Chairman of the Company, the Chief Appointments Vanda Murray 5 Executive and all of the independent Identifying and nominating appropriate Lloyd Pitchford 5 non-executive directors.
In accordance with individuals to fill Board vacancies as Stephan Nanninga 5 the provisions of the Code, the majority of they arise.
1 J ean-Charles Pauze retired as a director on the members are independent non-executive 31 December 2018.
Approving the appointment of any directors.
The Secretary to the Committee is senior executive who is to report directly the Company Secretary.
Role The Committees principal role is to consider, Introduction from Philip Rogerson As mentioned on page 58 of the Corporate and make recommendations to the Board As Chairman of the Nomination Committee, governance report, I myself have been a concerning, the composition of the Board I am pleased to present the Committees director of the Company for nine years and, and its Committees including proposed report for the financial year ended in recognition of the new provisions of appointees to the Board, whether to fill 31 December 2018. the recently revised Code, we have started any vacancies that may arise or to change a process to identify and appoint my the number of Board members.
It is the This report explains the Committees successor, led by Vanda Murray, our Senior Committees role to ensure that the Board activities during the year, including the work Independent Director.
Subject thereto, and and its Committees maintain the appropriate undertaken in relation to succession planning, taking into account the guidance in the balance of skills, knowledge, experience which continues to be a key focus of the revised Code, it is presently the Boards and diversity to ensure their continued Committee.
I believe that the Committee has intention that I should remain as Chairman effectiveness.
The Committee meets as an important role to play in ensuring that the until the Annual General Meeting AGM necessary throughout the year to discharge size, composition and structure of the Board to be held in 2020 in order to provide its responsibilities.
The Committees terms is appropriate for the delivery of the Groups sufficient time to complete this process of reference, which were reviewed by strategy and that all relevant provisions of the in an orderly and considered manner and both the Committee and the Board in 2018, UK Corporate Governance Code the Code to oversee a successful handover.
are available on the Companys website, continue to be met.
66 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Activities The Committee also continues to take talented people from succeeding.
There is The Committee recognises that having the an active interest in the quality and also a range of initiatives within the Group right directors and senior management is development of talent and capabilities below to help provide learning and development crucial for the Groups success and a key Board level.
In this connection, during the opportunities for female executives and task of the Committee is to ensure that there year the Chief Executive presented his to ensure unbiased career progression is a robust and rigorous succession planning annual management succession plan opportunities.
The Board has formally process, over both the medium and long term, to the Committee for its consideration.
approved an equality and diversity policy, to ensure that there is the right mix of skills This process helps to ensure that appropriate which applies to the wider workforce of the and experience as the Company evolves.
opportunities are in place to develop high Group, further details of which are included performing individuals and to increase in the Our people section on pages 36 to 39.
In addition to the proposed appointment of a diversity in senior roles across the Group.
successor to the Chairman, the Committee Monitoring and reporting has also started a process to recruit a further As part of the 2018 review of its terms of The Nomination Committee is responsible non-executive director.
Having taken reference, the Committee also approved for regularly reviewing the structure, size account of the challenges and opportunities for formal ratification by the Board and composition of the Board, including the facing the Company currently and in the appropriate amendments to ensure that such skills, knowledge, experience and diversity future and after identifying the background, terms of reference are fully compliant with of the directors.
It is also responsible for skills, knowledge and experience that will be the 2018 edition of the Code, which applies identifying and nominating appropriate required of the Chairman and non-executive to the Company from 1 January 2019. individuals to fill Board vacancies as they directors in the future, the Committee arise.
The Committee will report annually, prepared and agreed detailed specifications Diversity policy in the Companys Annual Report, on the for the roles and appointed an external Within the Groups businesses, the Board is process followed in relation to any Board search consultancy, Russell Reynolds committed to greater diversity, in its broadest appointments made during the relevant Associates, to assist it in the recruitment sense, whether in terms of ideas, skills, period.
The Board is responsible for keeping processes.
Russell Reynolds Associates knowledge, experience, education, ethnicity, its diversity policy under review and making does not provide any other services to, or gender, or any other relevant measure.
changes thereto when appropriate to do so.
have any connection with, the Company.
When considering director appointments, Further information about the Companys The Committee has agreed that the search one of the objectives is to maintain a diverse workforce diversity is set out on pages 36 criteria for candidates should include, Board.
While the Board will continue to to 39. in particular, successful senior business follow a policy of ensuring that the best executives with extensive international people are appointed for the relevant roles, management experience across a range based on merit by assessing candidates of businesses, ideally operating in the against objective criteria, the directors distribution or service sectors, with detailed recognise the benefits of greater diversity and knowledge of digital technologies and will take account of this when considering processes which will be invaluable to any particular appointment.
However, the the future development of the Group.
It is primary responsibility when making new important that the chosen candidates are appointments is to ensure the strength of the able to play a supportive role to the executive Boards composition.
The overriding aim is management team, while at the same to select and recommend the best candidate time providing strategic input into the for the position, having regard to all of the Companys direction and development.
different stakeholders that Bunzl has as a It is also a requirement that the prospective global organisation, while ensuring that the directors can provide wise counsel and Board members are able to provide a range of independence of mind and challenge perspectives, insights and challenge required management constructively by offering to support effective decision making.
impartial, independent and objective advice.
Looking beyond the Board to the Groups In addition, the Committee reviewed wider workforce, Bunzl is committed to and took account of the balance of skills, treating people fairly and equally by knowledge, experience and diversity of accepting and embracing their diversity and the Board, the time commitment expected ensuring there is an inclusive and positive of the non-executive directors and the working environment for all employees.
conclusions of the formal performance For a number of years in the annual evaluation process which was carried out succession planning reviews there has been when considering and recommending the a particular focus on diversity within the nomination of directors for re-election at business areas and one of the key objectives the 2018 AGM.
is to ensure there are no barriers preventing Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 67
