Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Audit Committee report Providing rigorous oversight and challenge of the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk management processes and procedures continues to be an important part of the Committees role and an essential aspect of the Groups robust corporate governance framework.
Lloyd Pitchford Chairman of the Audit Committee which was published in April 2016.
As mentioned in the Corporate governance Reviewing the Companys relationship Principal responsibilities report, an updated version of the Code with the external auditors and of the Committee was published in July 2018 and applies monitoring their independence and Financial reporting to the Company from 1 January 2019. objectivity.
Monitoring and reviewing the integrity The Committee has already taken account of Agreeing the scope, terms of of the Groups financial results and the the changes required and will report formally engagement and fees for the statutory significant judgements contained therein.
in accordance with the revised edition of the audit.
Code in the 2019 Annual Report.
Risk management and internal Initiating and supervising a competitive control The principal responsibilities of the tender process for the external audit as Reviewing: Committee include monitoring and required from time to time.
the Groups risk management reviewing the integrity of the Companys Developing and implementing a policy processes, procedures and controls: financial reporting, together with the related on the engagement of the external internal controls, and ensuring that the the effectiveness of the Companys auditors to supply non-audit services.
assumptions and judgements made by internal financial controls: and management in preparing the financial Meetings the Groups whistleblowing results are challenged as appropriate.
The Committee met on four occasions arrangements going forward, this The significant accounting matters during 2018.
Members attendance at review will be undertaken by the Board.
considered by the Committee in relation those meetings is set out below: to the 2018 financial statements were the Internal audit accounting for business combinations, Overseeing the Companys internal Meetings attended the carrying value of goodwill and customer audit activities.
Lloyd Pitchford 4 relationships intangible assets, defined Eugenia Ulasewicz 4 Monitoring and reviewing the benefit pension schemes and taxation.
1 Jean-Charles Pauze 3 effectiveness of the internal audit function.
These are discussed in detail in the report Vanda Murray 4 that follows and the Committee is satisfied External audit Stephan Nanninga 4 that these matters have been properly Making recommendations to the 1 J ean-Charles Pauze retired as a director on recorded in the Companys books and Board in relation to the appointment 31 December 2018. records and accounted for appropriately.
re-appointment removal of the external auditors.
In fulfilling its oversight responsibilities in respect of the Groups risk management Introduction from Lloyd Pitchford This report reflects the requirements placed and control environment, during 2018 the I am pleased to present the Audit on committees by the Financial Reporting Committee reviewed the process by which Committees report for the year ended Councils FRC UK Corporate Governance current and emerging risks had been 31 December 2018.
During 2018, the Code the Code and applicable guidance, identified by management and the Board Committee continued to apply rigorous laws and regulations.
The Code includes a and the processes and controls in place to scrutiny and challenge to the Groups audit, number of provisions relating to the role and manage and mitigate these risks.
Further assurance and risk management processes reporting requirements of audit committees information on the Committees activities and I believe that this, together with the and accordingly this report has been in relation to risk management can be found Boards efforts in harnessing and promoting prepared in compliance with the relevant later in this report.
a strong risk focused culture, play an provisions of the 2016 edition of the Code essential role in safeguarding the interests which applied to the financial year ended The Committee will continue to review its of stakeholders and assuring the long term 31 December 2018.
In carrying out its duties, activities in the light of regulatory and best viability of the Company.
the Committee also operated in accordance practice developments to ensure that we are with the recommendations set out in the able to maintain high standards of financial FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees, governance going forward.
68 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements By providing an overview of the Committees including the Companys risk management making recommendations to the Board role and a meaningful insight into its activities and internal control systems, the internal concerning the re-appointment of the during the past year, this report demonstrates and external audit functions and the external auditors and approving the how the Committee has discharged its regular reporting of the Companys remuneration and terms of engagement responsibilities effectively and I hope that performance against budgets, forecasts of the auditors, including the audit strategy you will find it useful in understanding the and prior year results.
and planning process for the current work that we have undertaken.
financial year: The Committee ensures that the Company receiving and considering a proposal Lloyd Pitchford has effective governance over the Groups from the external auditors concerning Chairman of the Audit Committee financial reporting, including the adequacy the rotation of the lead audit partner 25 February 2019 of related disclosures, the performance following the conclusion of the audit of of both the internal and external audit the Companys financial statements for Composition functions and the management of the the year ended 31 December 2018: The Committee members are all of the Groups systems of internal control and independent non-executive directors who business risk management and related receiving and, where appropriate, were appointed to the Committee by the compliance activities.
The Committees challenging reports from management Board following recommendations by the terms of reference, which were reviewed by and the external auditors in relation to Nomination Committee.
While the other both the Committee and the Board in 2018, the half yearly financial report and the directors, being the Chairman of the are available on the Companys website, annual financial statements: Company and the executive directors, www.
reviewing the half yearly financial report are not members of the Committee, they and the annual financial statements and normally attend meetings of the Committee In the performance of its duties, the the formal announcements relating thereto: by invitation together with the Head of Committee has independent access to the Internal Audit, representatives from services of the Companys internal audit receiving and considering a presentation the external auditors and members of the function and to the external auditors and on the adoption of IFRS 16 Leases, which Group finance team.
The Secretary to may obtain outside professional advice as will apply for the 2019 financial year, and the Committee is the Company Secretary.
Both the Head of Internal Audit the potential impact thereof on the Group: and the external auditors have direct access reviewing the effectiveness of the risk The Committee members bring an to the Chairman of the Committee who held management process: appropriate balance of financial and a number of meetings with each of them commercial experience in multinational during the year outside formal Committee receiving and considering reports from organisations, combined with a good meetings.
The Chairman of the Committee the Head of Internal Audit concerning understanding of the Companys business also liaises with the Finance Director as the work undertaken by the internal audit and are therefore considered by the Board necessary to ensure robust oversight and function, including in relation to the to be collectively competent in the sector in challenge in relation to financial control and functions ongoing quality assurance which the Company operates.
As the serving risk management.
and improvement programme: Chief Financial Officer of Experian plc, the reviewing and approving the internal audit Chairman of the Committee, Lloyd Pitchford, The Committees performance and work programme for the coming year: is considered by the Board to have recent and effectiveness is reviewed annually by both relevant financial experience.
The Committee the Committee and as part of the Board receiving and considering a report from considers independent thinking to be crucial performance evaluation.
The Chairman of the the Head of Internal Audit relating to an in assessing the work of management and Committee also meets with each Committee analysis of trends in internal audit findings: the assurance provided by the internal and member independently to ensure that their reviewing the effectiveness of both the external audit functions and believes that individual views about the operation of the external auditors and the internal audit each of the Committee members brings an Committee are taken into account.
function following completion of detailed appropriate mindset to their role.
questionnaires by both the Board and Activities senior management within the Company: Role The Chairman of the Committee holds Audit committees have a clearly defined role preparatory discussions with the Companys reviewing the effectiveness of the in the corporate governance framework of senior management, the Head of Internal Companys internal financial controls and listed companies.
The Audit Committee Audit and the external auditors prior to the assurance procedures relating to risk acts independently of management to Committee meetings to discuss the items management systems, including receiving ensure that the interests of the Companys to be considered at the meetings.
In addition, and considering a Risk and Assurance Map: stakeholders are properly protected through separate discussions are held during reviewing the Companys annual controls the Committees oversight, review and Committee meetings between the self-assessment process: challenge of the Companys financial Committee and the Head of Internal management and its reporting processes Audit and the external auditors without reviewing the arrangements by which and procedures.
There are a number of management present.
The Chairman of staff may, in confidence, raise concerns key aspects to this, including the use of the Committee also attends the Annual about possible improprieties in matters of appropriate accounting policies and General Meeting AGM to respond to financial reporting or other matters and practices and the implementation of a robust any shareholder questions that might making recommendations in relation to assurance framework.
This framework be raised on the Committees activities.
the improvement thereof, receiving periodic comprises a number of important elements, The Committees activities in 2018 included: Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 69 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Audit Committee report continued reports relating to the matters raised The Committee will continue to keep its The carrying value of goodwill and other through the arrangements and undertaking activities under review and focused on the customer relationships intangible assets a benchmarking process with a view to audit, assurance and risk processes within Goodwill is allocated to cash generating outsourcing the administration of such the business.
By doing so, the Committee units CGUs and is tested annually for arrangements to a third party provider: will ensure that in the future it is able to impairment.
During the year the Committee maintain high standards of financial critically reviewed and discussed reviewing the Committees terms of governance in line with the regulatory managements report on the impairment reference: framework as well as market practice for testing of the carrying value of goodwill of reviewing the Committees effectiveness audit committees.
each of the CGUs and customer relationships following an externally facilitated intangible assets including the sensitivity performance evaluation: Financial statements and significant of the outcome of impairment testing to the accounting matters use of different assumptions and considered reviewing the policy for the provision of During the year and prior to the publication the external auditors testing thereof.
After non-audit services by the external auditors: of the Groups results for 2018, the due challenge and debate, the Committee reviewing and approving the level and Committee reviewed the 2018 half yearly concluded that it was satisfied with the nature of non-audit work which the financial report and related news release, the assumptions and judgements applied in external auditors performed during the 2018 Annual Report including the financial relation to such testing and agreed that there year, including the fees paid for such work: statements, the 2018 annual results news was no impairment to goodwill or customer release and the reports from the external relationships intangible assets.
Details of reviewing the principal tax risks auditors on the outcomes of their half year the key assumptions and judgements used applicable to the Company and the review and their audit relating to 2018. are set out in Note 10 to the consolidated steps taken to manage such risks: and financial statements.
reviewing the Companys internal As part of its work, the Committee considered audit charter.
the following significant accounting matters Defined benefit pension schemes in relation to the Companys financial The Committee considered reports from In addition, during the year the Committee statements and challenged the judgements management and the external auditors in considered the impact of the adoption by being made in relation thereto.
relation to the valuation of the defined benefit the Company of new accounting standards pension schemes and reviewed the key IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Accounting for business combinations actuarial assumptions used in calculating Revenue from Contracts with Customers, For business combinations, the Group has the defined benefit pension liabilities, which applied for the first time in the a long-standing process for the identification especially in relation to discount rates, 2018 financial year.
of the fair values of the assets acquired inflation rates and mortality life expectancy.
and liabilities assumed, including separate The Committee discussed the reasons for As part of the 2018 review of its terms of identification of intangible assets using the decrease in the net pension deficit and reference, the Committee also approved external valuation specialists where was satisfied that the assumptions used for formal ratification by the Board required.
The Committee reviewed this were appropriate and were supported by appropriate amendments to ensure that process and discussed with management independent actuarial experts.
Details of the such terms of reference are fully compliant and the external auditors the methodology key assumptions used are set out in Note 21 with the 2018 edition of the Code, which and assumptions used to value the assets to the consolidated financial statements.
applies to the Company from 1 January and liabilities of the acquisitions completed 2019.
One of the changes introduced by in 2018.
The Committee concluded that it Taxation the revised Code is that, going forward, was satisfied with managements valuations The Committee reviewed a report and the Groups whistleblowing arrangements of these assets and liabilities, including received a presentation from the Head of Tax will be overseen by the Board as a whole the degree to which such valuations are highlighting the principal tax risks that the rather than the Committee.
supported by professional advice from Group faces and a detailed risk assessment external advisers.
Details of the Companys relating to the tax risks identified including Following each Committee meeting, any approach to accounting for acquisitions the judgements underpinning the provisions significant findings are reported to the Board are set out in Note 25 to the consolidated for potential tax liabilities.
The Committee and copies of the minutes of the Committee financial statements.
also reviewed the results of the external meetings are circulated to all of the directors auditors assessment of provisions for and to the external auditors.
Having done so, the Committee was satisfied with the key judgements and proposed disclosures related to tax made by management.
70 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements The Committee is satisfied that each of the above mentioned significant accounting Auditors effectiveness reviews matters have been properly recorded in During 2018 the Committee undertook reviews of the effectiveness of both the Companys the Companys books and records and external audit process for the 2017 financial statements and the Companys internal audit accounted for appropriately, including function.
Each of the reviews followed a broadly similar process, as summarised below: relevant disclosure in the Annual Report.
Detailed Questionnaires Results of Action plan and Internal control and risk management questionnaires completed by: questionnaires implementation of different considered and time frames As mentioned above, the Committee is directors: and aspects of discussed by agreed.
responsible for reviewing, on behalf of the senior managers external audit the Committee.
Board, the effectiveness of the Companys at Group and process internal internal financial controls and the assurance business audit function.
procedures relating to the Companys risk area levels.
These controls and procedures are designed to manage, but not Internal audit function Following these assessments, eliminate, the risk of failure of the Company The questionnaire covered a total of 35 the Committee concluded to meet its business objectives and, as such, different aspects of the internal audit provide reasonable, but not absolute, function including: purpose, authority and that it was satisfied with the assurance against material misstatement responsibility: independence and objectivity: effectiveness of the external or loss.
During the year, the Committee quality assurance processes: adequacy of audit process relating to the resources: auditors skills and capabilities: monitored the effectiveness of the internal and the quality of reporting.
financial controls framework through 2017 financial statements reports from the Finance Director, the Head External audit process and that the internal audit of Internal Audit and the external auditors.
The questionnaire covered a total of 24 function continued to be In particular the Committee considered the different aspects of the external audit process, effective, efficient and scope and results of the work of the internal grouped under four separate headings: the robustness of the audit process: the quality audit function, the findings of the external appropriately resourced.
of delivery: the quality of people and service: auditors in relation to the year end audit, and the quality of reporting.
the assessment of fraud risk carried out The Committee will carry by management, the controls over the out similar effectiveness reviews Companys financial consolidation and reporting system, the treasury controls, in 2019 in respect of the audit of the tax risks and the processes for the 2018 financial statements setting strategic plans and budgets and and the internal audit function.
for monitoring the ongoing performance of the Company.
In relation to the risk management system, in addition to considering the results of the external assessment referred to above, the function covers all systems and activities work of the internal audit function provides Committee reviewed the process by which of the Group.
Work is prioritised according to the Committee with a further means of significant current and emerging risks had the Companys risk profile with the annual monitoring the processes and actions to been identified by management and the audit plan being approved by the Committee manage and mitigate those risks identified Board, the key controls and other processes each year.
Internal audit reports are regularly as posing the greatest threat to the Company.
designed to manage and mitigate such risks provided to the Committee.
These reports and the assurance provided by the internal include details of the audit findings, and the External auditors independence audit function, the external auditors and other relevant management actions required The Committee ensures that the external oversight from management and the Board.
in order to address any issues arising, as auditors remain independent of the well as updates on the progress made by Company and receives written confirmation Internal audit management in addressing any outstanding from the external auditors as to whether The Company has an internal audit recommendations from previously reported they consider themselves independent department which comprises nine in-house findings.
In addition, the internal audit within the meaning of their own internal auditors, including the Head of Internal Audit function reports on any significant issues and the relevant regulatory and professional who reports jointly to the Chairman of the relating to the processes for controlling the requirements.
Key members of the audit Audit Committee and the Finance Director.
activities of the Group and the adequacy and team rotate off the Companys audit after The scope of work of the internal audit effectiveness of such processes.
Overall, the a specific period of time.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 71 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Audit Committee report continued In order to ensure that the objectivity and External auditors re-appointment independence of the external auditors is not In considering whether to recommend to the compromised, the Company has a detailed Board the appointment or re-appointment of policy relating to the provision of non-audit the external auditors, the Committee takes services by the external auditors which is into account the tenure of the auditors in overseen by the Committee.
As reported last addition to the results of its review of the year, this policy was updated following the effectiveness of the external auditors and implementation of the EU Audit Directive considers whether there should be a full and Regulation which changed the rules tender process either as a result of that relating to the provision of non-audit services review or as may be required by the relevant by the external auditors.
There are no contractual policy the only non-audit services that have obligations restricting the Committees been pre-approved by the Committee are choice of external auditors.
those which are not prohibited or otherwise restricted and which are considered to As previously reported, following a detailed be trivial due to the value of the services.
tender process,  Apart from such pre-approved services, LLP PwC were first appointed as the a permitted service requires specific Companys external auditors in 2014.
While authorisation from the Committee or the the Company has no current retendering Committee Chairman.
It is the Companys plans, in accordance with The Statutory policy to assess the non-audit services to be Audit Services for Large Companies Market performed by the Companys auditors on a Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive case-by-case basis to ensure adherence to Tender Processes and Audit Committee the prevailing ethical standards and Responsibilities Order 2014 CMA Order regulations.
In the main, other firms are the Company will be required to put the used by the Company to provide non-audit external audit contract out to tender by 2024. services.
However, if the provision of a In addition, PwC will be required to rotate the service by the Companys auditors is not audit partner responsible for the Companys prohibited and adequate safeguards are in audit every five years and, in accordance place, it is sometimes appropriate for this with the CMA Order, the current lead audit additional work to be carried out by the partner, Paul Cragg, will shortly rotate off the Companys auditors.
Details of the fees paid audit following the completion of the external to the external auditors in 2018 in respect of audit of the Companys financial statements the audit and for non-audit services are set for the year ended 31 December 2018 and out in Note 5 to the consolidated financial his successor is in the process of being statements.
The ratio of the fees relating to appointed to oversee the external audit of the non-audit services to audit services in 2018 Companys financial statements for the year was 6%.
Accordingly, the Company confirms that it has complied with the provisions of the CMA Order for the 2018 financial year.
As a consequence of its satisfaction with the results of its review of the external auditors activities during the year, the Committee has again recommended to the Board that a resolution proposing the re-appointment of PwC as external auditors for the year ending 31 December 2019 be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
