Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Corporate governance report A robust governance framework and a healthy corporate culture are essential to the successful delivery of the Groups strategy and the creation of sustainable long term value for our stakeholders.
Philip Rogerson Chairman Compliance statement It is the Boards view that, for the year ended Introduction from Philip Rogerson, Chairman of the Board 31 December 2018, the Company has been One of my key responsibilities as Chairman is to ensure that the Board delivers effective fully compliant with all of the relevant leadership to secure the long term success and sustainability of the Group and the principles and provisions set out in the creation of long term value for our stakeholders.
The Board recognises that sustainable 2016 version of the Code.
The Companys business success is not possible without a clear corporate purpose and sound corporate auditors,  LLP, governance and that good governance is about more than just compliance with are required to review whether this statement rules and regulations: it is also about culture, behaviours and how we do business.
reflects the Companys compliance with The Board is therefore committed to ensuring that the Companys purpose, values, those provisions of the Code specified for culture and high standards are set from the top and embedded throughout the Group.
their review by the Financial Conduct The executive directors and executive management team play an integral role in this Authoritys Listing Rules and to report if it by promoting positive behaviour to ensure that our commonly held values are put does not reflect such compliance.
No such into practice every day and that our people understand how we expect to achieve our report has been made.
I believe that this, together with our robust governance framework, allows the Board to lead the Group in the right direction as we develop and pursue our future Board composition strategy, while ensuring that good governance principles and practices are adhered to.
As at 31 December 2018, the Board was 2018 proved to be another busy year for the Board and its Committees as we continued made up of seven members comprising to monitor developments in the legal and governance landscapes, including the a Chairman, a Chief Executive, one other publication of The Companies Miscellaneous Reporting Regulations 2018 and the executive director and four non-executive 2018 edition of the Financial Reporting Councils FRC UK Corporate Governance directors.
Patrick Larmon, an executive Code the Code, both of which apply to the Company from 1 January 2019.
All director and President and Chief Executive references to the Code in this report relate to the 2016 edition, which applied to the 2018 Officer of the North America business, financial year.
The Code contains broad principles together with more specific provisions retired from the Board and the Company which set out standards of good practice in relation to Board leadership and effectiveness, with effect from 31 December 2018, having accountability, remuneration and relations with shareholders.
We will report formally served as an executive director from in accordance with the revised edition of the Code in the 2019 Annual Report but the December 2004.
Jean-Charles Pauze, a Company has already taken account of the changes required by the new Code, including non-executive director, also retired from in respect of company purpose, values and culture, which are briefly referred to on the Board on 31 December 2018.
Brief page 12 of the Strategic report and which will be covered in more detail in next years biographical details of the current directors Annual Report.
A copy of the 2016 version of the Code is available at www.
As detailed on page 62, an externally facilitated evaluation of the Board and its At the end of 2018, Philip Rogerson Committees was once again undertaken during 2018 and I am pleased to report that completed his third three year term in office.
as a result of the evaluation, the Board concluded that both it and its Committees The Board has undertaken a thorough continue to operate effectively.
The Board continues to work closely with the executive review of Philip Rogersons performance management team and offers support and robust challenge as appropriate.
and has given due consideration to The reports that follow provide an overview of the work undertaken by the Board and evaluation feedback, shareholder opinion, its Committees in fulfilling our governance responsibilities and describe how the his knowledge and experience of the Group principles and provisions of the Code have been applied by the Company during the and the amount of time that he devotes to year ended 31 December 2018.
The Board will continue to strengthen the Groups his duties at Bunzl and his other business governance processes to ensure that the business as a whole is aligned with best commitments.
Having given due deliberation practice and that our approach to disclosure remains understandable and transparent.
to the matter, the Board has concluded that, notwithstanding his length of service, Philip Philip Rogerson Rogerson continues to be independent in Chairman character and judgement and that there are 25 February 2019 no relationships or circumstances which are 58 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements likely to affect, or could appear to affect, During 2018, a number of the Groups his judgement.
Philip Rogerson is offering executives made presentations to the Board Board in action himself for re-election at the forthcoming about a variety of different and diverse topics Board meetings in Annual General Meeting AGM.
However, including reviews of potential acquisition in recognition of the new provisions of the opportunities, the post-acquisition Washington, US 2018 edition of the Code, which states that performance of businesses acquired in prior and Paris, France the Chair of a listed company should not years, the Groups financing facilities and remain in post beyond nine years from the treasury policies, tax risks, cyber security The Board held its June and October date of their first appointment to the Board, risks and controls, supplier audits carried out 2018 meetings in Washington, US and a process, which is being led by Vanda and health and safety performance metrics.
Murray, the Senior Independent Director, is under way to identify and appoint Philip Following the publication of the 2018 edition During their visit to Washington, the Rogersons successor.
Subject thereto, and of the Code, the Board formally approved directors met with local business taking into account the guidance in the schedules setting out its key responsibilities managers and received presentations revised Code, it is the Boards present and those of the Senior Independent Director, on the performance of the different intention that Philip Rogerson will retire from together with some changes to the businesses in the north east region the Board at the conclusion of the AGM to responsibilities of the Chairman and the of the US.
The presentations covered be held in 2020 in order to provide sufficient Chief Executive and the terms of reference topics such as key financial metrics time to complete this process in an orderly of the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration and information related to employees, and considered manner and to oversee a Committees.
The schedule of responsibilities customers, suppliers and the markets successful handover.
of the Board, the Senior Independent served.
The directors were also Director, the Chairman and the Chief informed of the challenges and Our aim is to continue to refresh the Board Executive, as well as the revised terms of opportunities faced by the businesses while ensuring stability and continuity.
reference of the Board Committees became during 2018 and the efforts and Further information on the process that effective on 1 January 2019 and are available initiatives undertaken to overcome has been followed in respect of succession on the Companys website, www.
planning can be found in the Nomination Committee report on pages 66 and 67.
The Board also reviewed and formally The meeting in Paris afforded approved minor changes to its diversity members of the management team in None of the Companys non-executive policy, which became effective on 1 January France the opportunity to meet with directors had any previous connection with 2019.
Further details of the diversity policy the directors and give presentations the Company or its executive directors on that applied throughout 2018 are set out on the performance, development appointment to the Board and all of them in the Nomination Committee report on and strategic goals of Bunzls French are considered by both the Board and the page 67. businesses, including some of the criteria set out in the Code to be independent.
Each of the non-executive directors is The Board calendar is planned to ensure considered to have a breadth of strategic, that the directors discuss a wide range of The directors believe that overseas management and financial experience topics throughout the year and the Board Board meetings play an important gained in each of their own fields in a range has formally adopted a schedule of matters role in enhancing further their of multinational businesses and in which are required to be referred to it for understanding of the Groups accordance with the terms of the Code, decision.
A non-exhaustive list of such operations and give them better insight each of the directors will be subject to matters can be found on page 60. into the Groups businesses and the re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
environments in which they operate.
Meetings They also provide the Board with Board activity in 2018 The Board met on seven occasions during an opportunity to meet with local The Board meets formally at least seven 2018.
Directors attendance at those management and, in doing so, assess times a year and normally at least two of meetings is set out below: and monitor the Groups culture and its these meetings are held at or near Group alignment with the Groups strategy and Meetings attended locations in the UK and overseas where values.
Such meetings are also essential Philip Rogerson 7 the directors have the opportunity to meet in helping the Board to understand Frank van Zanten 7 and interact with executives from different better the broader long term impact of its 1 Patrick Larmon 7 businesses within the Groups portfolio decisions on the Groups stakeholders Brian May 7 as well as observe the operations in situ.
both nationally and internationally, Eugenia Ulasewicz 7 In addition to regular Board meetings, the including employees, customers, 2 Jean-Charles Pauze 6 directors meet annually to review and suppliers and the communities in Vanda Murray 7 discuss the Groups overall strategy.
As part which the Group operates.
Lloyd Pitchford 7 of this process, presentations are made by Stephan Nanninga 7 the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the heads of the business areas together 1 Patrick Larmon retired as a director on 31 December 2018.
2 Jean-Charles Pauze retired as a director on 31 December 2018. with the Director of Corporate Development.
Further details of the Board meetings that were held overseas during 2018 can be found in the adjacent case study.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 59 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Corporate governance report continued Governance structure The Board has ultimate responsibility for the overall leadership of the Group.
To ensure the directors maintain overall control over strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues, the Board meets regularly throughout the year and has formally adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for consideration.
Further details of the matters reserved for the Board can be found below.
The Board has established three Committees, all of which comply with the provisions of the Code and play an important governance role through the detailed work they carry out to fulfil the responsibilities delegated to them.
Briefing papers are prepared and circulated to Committee members in advance of each meeting.
Further information relating to the Board Committees is set out below and in the Committee reports which follow this Corporate governance report.
Board Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Chairman Chairman Chair Philip Rogerson Lloyd Pitchford Vanda Murray Members Members Members Frank van Zanten Vanda Murray Eugenia Ulasewicz Vanda Murray Eugenia Ulasewicz Lloyd Pitchford Eugenia Ulasewicz Stephan Nanninga Stephan Nanninga Lloyd Pitchford Key responsibilities Key responsibilities Stephan Nanninga Reviews and monitors the integrity of Sets the remuneration policy for the Key responsibilities the Companys financial reports, risk Chairman and executive directors and Reviews the structure, size and processes and internal controls and the monitors the policies and practices applied composition of the Board with regard effectiveness of the internal audit function to senior management remuneration.
to diversity and to ensuring a balance and external auditors.
of skills, knowledge and experience.
For more information For more information For more information see pages 66 and 67 see pages 68 to 72 see pages 73 to 97 Matters reserved for the Board The table below summarises some of the matters which are required to be brought to the Board for consideration: Shareholders Capital allocation Policies and Matters requiring shareholder and structure statements approval.
Material Group policies and statements Circulars and significant and major changes thereto, for example: Significant business acquisitions disposals.
tax strategy: Material changes to the Groups capital structure.
treasury policy: Major property leases.
modern slavery statement: Material increases in borrowing equality and diversity policy: and and loan facilities.
People and Strategy and Financial reporting, leadership management risk and controls Appointment removal of directors The Groups strategic aims and objectives.
Financial results and announcements and Company Secretary.
Annual budget and strategic plan.
Board Committee constitution and Auditor appointment removal.
Risk management and internal controls.
60 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Board roles and responsibilities The following table summarises the role and responsibilities of the different members of the Board: Role Responsibilities Chairman The primary job of the Chairman is to be responsible for the leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
The Chairman: takes overall responsibility for the composition and capability of the Board and its Committees: consults regularly with the Chief Executive and is available on a flexible basis to provide advice, counsel and support to the Chief Executive: and ensures corporate governance is conducted in accordance with current best practice, as There is a clear appropriate to the Group.
division of The Chairman is also viewed by investors as the ultimate steward of the business and the responsibilities guardian of the interests of all the shareholders.
between the Chairman and the Chief Executive The Chief Executive is responsible for the leadership and the operational and performance Chief Executive, management of the Company within the strategy agreed by the Board.
which is set out in writing and has been The Chief Executive: agreed by the Board.
manages the executive directors and the Groups management and day-to-day activities: prepares and presents to the Board the strategy for growth in shareholder value: sets the operating plans and budgets required to deliver the agreed strategy: ensures that the Group has in place appropriate risk management and control mechanisms: and communicates with the Companys shareholders and analysts on a day-to-day basis as necessary.
The Chief Executive is also the designated member of the Board responsible for environmental, social and governance matters and reports to the Board in relation to such matters.
Finance Director The Finance Director supports the Chief Executive and is responsible for managing the Groups funding strategy, financial reporting, risk management and internal controls, investor relations programme and the leadership of the finance function.
Senior Independent Director A key role of the Senior Independent Director is to be available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Senior Independent Director is also available to the other directors should they have any concerns which are not appropriate to raise with the Chairman or which have not been satisfactorily resolved by the Chairman.
Independent non-executive The non-executive directors play an important role in corporate governance and accountability through both their directors attendance at Board meetings and their membership of the various Board Committees.
The non-executive directors bring a broad range of business and financial expertise and experience to the Board which complements and supplements the experience of the executive directors.
This enables them to evaluate information provided and constructively challenge managements viewpoints, assumptions and performance.
Executive and nonNon-executive executive directors Board gender director tenure 2 2 2 2 5 5 1 Executive Male 0 3 years Non-executive Female 3 6 years includes Chairman 6 years Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 61 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Corporate governance report continued Governance in action acquisition process Expanding the Group through acquisition is an important part of Bunzls strategy to grow and develop.
Our markets are very fragmented which results in numerous opportunities to expand through purchasing businesses in both existing and new markets and countries.
The Board plays a critical role in ensuring that a robust and rigorous process is followed in respect of the more material acquisitions and those involving the entry into new countries or market sectors to ensure that the proposals are carefully considered and challenged before being taken forward.
This process is summarised below and details of the acquisitions made by the Group during 2018 can be found on pages 144 to 145.
1 2 3 4 Presentation made to the The Board considers the The Board agrees whether The Board undertakes a Board by management acquisition proposal, to proceed with the post-acquisition review regarding the relevant including the financial proposed acquisition approximately two years potential acquisition, due to performance of the target and sets any relevant after completion of the company, the projected its material size or because parameters concerning the transaction to evaluate synergies, the regulatory, it represents the Groups transaction, including in whether all desired political and competitor first step into a new country relation to the purchase objectives and benefits landscapes, the Companys or market sector.
price and any specific due have been realised, existing operations and diligence requirements.
measured against the market presence in relevant investment case the relevant country, at the time the acquisition employee matters and was approved.
any potential risks and managements proposals for mitigating these.
Performance evaluation Key priorities identified in 2017 The Chairman is responsible, with support from the Nomination Committee, for ensuring 1.
Continuing to keep the key strategic issues that the Company has an effective Board facing the Group under review both as part of with a suitable range of skills, knowledge, the Boards annual strategy meeting and at other times of the year as appropriate.
The Company has a formal performance evaluation process for the The Board is satisfied that 2.
Developing a greater understanding of the Board, its Committees and individual directors relevant digital and technological developments the priorities identified overseen by the Chairman.
The evaluation affecting the Groups businesses.
includes a detailed questionnaire and following the evaluation 3.
Focusing on the operational initiatives required individual discussions between the Chairman carried out in 2017 have in order to maintain or improve the Groups and each director when their individual operating margins.
been adequately addressed training and development needs are reviewed.
Led by the Senior Independent Director, the 4.
Continuing the focus of the Nomination during 2018. non-executive directors also meet without Committee on the management succession the Chairman present at least annually plans for the Group, including in particular to appraise the Chairmans performance maintaining the Boards exposure to the including a review of his other commitments Groups senior management below Board level.
to ensure that he is able to allocate sufficient Key priorities identified in 2018 time to the Company to discharge his responsibilities effectively.
Continuing to develop a greater understanding also periodically holds meetings with the of the relevant digital and technological non-executive directors without the executive developments affecting the Groups businesses.
All of these processes were 2.
Increasing the emphasis on human resources, carried out satisfactorily during the year.
As a result of the people and management of succession planning at both Board and senior performance evaluation management levels.
Further engagement with executives who are the Board concluded that not on the Board to increase the Boards exposure to the Groups senior management both it and its Committees below Board level.
Focusing on the operational initiatives required in order to maintain or improve the Groups operating margins with a particular focus on North America.
62 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Although the Code only requires that the Induction, training and development Financial and business reporting evaluation of the Board and its Committees All new directors receive a tailored induction The responsibilities of the directors in should be externally facilitated at least every on joining the Board, including meetings respect of the preparation of the Group and three years, the Board has decided to carry with senior management and visits to parent company financial statements are out an annual performance evaluation.
some of the Groups locations.
They also set out on page 155 and the auditors report By doing so, the Board is able to ensure receive a detailed information pack which on pages 156 to 161 includes a statement by that there is consistency and continuity in includes details of directors duties and the external auditors about their reporting the evaluation process and the presentation responsibilities, procedures for dealing in responsibilities.
As set out on page 107, of the results from one year to the next.
Bunzl plcs shares and a number of other the directors are of the opinion that it is Following the evaluation, the Board identifies governance related issues.
Directors are appropriate to continue to adopt the going a number of key priorities in order to improve continually updated on the Groups concern basis in preparing the financial the Boards performance.
The facilitator of businesses and their markets and the statements.
the external evaluation, Lintstock, does not changes to the competitive and regulatory provide any other services to, or have any environments in which they operate.
The process of preparing the Annual Report other connection with, the Company.
has included the following: Training and development needs of the comprehensive reviews undertaken at Information and support Board are kept under review and directors different levels of the Group in order to Board agendas are set by the Chairman attend external courses where it is ensure the accuracy, consistency and in consultation with the Chief Executive considered appropriate for them to do so.
overall balance of the Annual Report: and and with the assistance of the Company Secretary, who maintains a rolling Conflicts of interest procedures to verify the factual accuracy programme of items for discussion by The directors are required to avoid situations of the Annual Report.
the Board to ensure that all matters reserved where they have, or could have, a direct or for the Board and other key issues are indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly The Board considered whether the 2018 considered at the appropriate time.
The may conflict, with the Companys interests.
Annual Report, taken as a whole, was fair, Board is supplied with full and timely In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, balanced and understandable and provided information, including detailed financial the Companys Articles of Association allow sufficient information to enable the reader information, to enable the directors to the Board to authorise potential conflicts of to assess the Groups position and discharge their responsibilities.
To enable interest that may arise and to impose such performance, business model and strategy.
informed decision making, briefing papers limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
In carrying out its review, the Board are prepared and circulated to directors considered the information and assurance approximately one week before the Directors are required to give notice of any provided by the ongoing work of the internal scheduled Board meeting.
All directors potential situational and or transactional audit department, the reviews conducted by have access to the advice and services of conflicts which are then considered by the the external auditors in relation to both the the Company Secretary who is tasked Board and, if deemed appropriate, authorised half year and full year results, the Boards with ensuring that Board procedures are accordingly.
A director is not however understanding of the Groups business complied with and the Board is fully briefed permitted to participate in such considerations and the information provided by the senior on relevant legislative, regulatory and or to vote in relation to their own conflicts.
The Board corporate governance developments.
also took account of the preparation and Directors may also take independent The Board has considered and authorised verification processes that had been professional advice at the Companys a number of potential situational conflicts undertaken, including the review that had expense where they judge this to be all of which relate to the holding of external been carried out by one of the Companys necessary in the furtherance of their directorships and have been entered on senior executives who had not been duties to discharge their responsibilities the Companys conflicts register.
No actual involved in the Annual Reports preparation.
conflicts have been identified during the As a result of its deliberations the Board year.
The Board considers that these concluded that, taken as a whole, the procedures operate effectively.
2018 Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 63 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Corporate governance report continued Risk management and internal control The directors acknowledge that they have Relations with stakeholders Site visits and overseas meetings overall responsibility for identifying, As referred to above, Board meetings are The Board recognises the importance of evaluating, managing and mitigating the periodically held at or near Group locations maintaining regular, open and constructive principal risks faced by the Group and for where the directors have the opportunity to dialogue with our shareholders and wider monitoring the Groups risk management meet and interact with local management stakeholders and it achieves this through from different businesses within the Groups and internal control systems.
However, the following engagement methods: portfolio.
Such meetings are an important part such systems are designed to manage rather Half year and full year announcements of the directors development and give them than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve As required by the relevant laws and the opportunity to observe the operations in business objectives and can only provide regulations, the Company reports formally to situ and enhance further their understanding reasonable and not absolute assurance shareholders twice a year, with the half year of the Groups businesses.
More information against material misstatement or loss.
In results announced normally at the end of on the Board meetings that have been held accordance with Principle C. 2 of the Code August and the annual results announced overseas during 2018 can be found on page 59. and the related guidance, the Company has normally at the end of February.
In addition, Surveys established the procedures necessary to during the year the Company has published, A biennial, global all-employee engagement on a voluntary basis, two quarterly trading ensure that there is an ongoing process survey is undertaken to help the Board statements and two other trading updates for identifying, evaluating, managing and understand what areas matter most to prior to entering its close periods at the end mitigating the principal risks faced by the our employees.
The surveys also play an of June and the end of December in order to Group and for determining the nature and important role in helping the Board to assess keep the Companys shareholders and the extent of the principal risks it is willing to and monitor the extent to which our values and financial markets periodically updated on the take to achieve its strategic objectives its culture are embedded throughout the Group Companys trading performance outside of the risk appetite.
The directors confirm that and identify any areas of misalignment with regulatory announcements made in relation to the Groups strategy.
More information on such procedures have been in place for the the half year and annual results.
workforce engagement can be found in the year ended 31 December 2018 and up to the Meetings with institutional Our people section on pages 36 to 39. date of approval of these financial statements shareholders and that the Groups risk management and Supplier conferences and audits The Chief Executive and Finance Director internal control systems have been We actively work with our suppliers to build have regular meetings with representatives monitored during the year.
relationships, capacity and trust, to increase of institutional shareholders and report to sustainability within our supply chain and the Board the views of major shareholders.
to provide products and solutions to our Further information about the Groups Additional forms of communication include customers that are sourced and delivered approach to risk management and the presentations of the half year and annual efficiently, safely and sustainably.
Supplier principal risks and uncertainties facing results.
The Chairman, the Senior Independent conferences are held to showcase examples the Group can be found on pages 51 to 55.
Director and the other non-executive directors of good practice and build awareness of social are available to meet with major shareholders A summary of the principal control compliance issues.
Our quality assurance on request.
The Board also periodically processes and procedures in place to quality control department based in Shanghai reviews and discusses analysts and brokers manage such risks is set out below.
also monitors and works with our key direct reports and surveys of shareholder opinions suppliers in Asia and elsewhere to ensure that conducted by the Companys own brokers.
The Board has delegated to an Executive they meet international standards.
During Committee, consisting of the Chief Annual General Meeting 2017, a specific supplier code of conduct was Notice of the AGM is sent to shareholders at adopted and has been rolled out across our Executive, Finance Director and other least 20 working days before the meeting.
More information on supplier functional managers, the initial shareholders are encouraged to participate in engagement can be found in the Corporate responsibility for identifying, evaluating, the AGM, are invited to ask questions at the responsibility section on pages 40 to 50. managing and mitigating the risks facing meeting and are given the opportunity to meet the Group and for deciding how these are Relationship building all of the directors informally.
Shareholders best managed, as well as responsibility for We build strong relationships with our unable to attend are encouraged to vote using customers, using the expertise of our establishing a system of internal control the proxy card mailed to them or electronically commercial teams, to gain a deep appropriate to the business environments as detailed in the Notice of Meeting.
understanding of their needs and to identify in which the Group operates.
The principal Shareholders are given the option to withhold where we can support them.
In addition, we features of this system include: their vote on the proxy form.
As in previous work with our customers in the development years, at the forthcoming AGM each of the of new, redesigned or substantially improved resolutions put to the meeting will be taken products and host launch days to engage with on a poll rather than on a show of hands as customers and increase their awareness of the directors believe that a poll is more sustainability matters.
More information on representative of shareholders voting customer engagement can be found in the intentions because shareholder votes are Corporate responsibility section on pages counted according to the number of shares 40 to 50. held and all votes tendered are taken into account.
The results of the poll will be publicly announced and made available on the Companys website as soon as practicable following the AGM.
64 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements a procedure for monitoring the the Board in turn reviews the outcome regular meetings are held with insurance effectiveness of the internal control system of the Executive Committee discussions and risk advisers to assess the risks through a tiered management structure on internal control and risk management throughout the Group: with clearly defined lines of responsibility issues which ensures a documented and a management committee, known as and delegation of authority: auditable trail of accountability: the Corporate Responsibility and clearly defined authorisation procedures each business area, the Executive Sustainability Committee, which oversees for capital investment and acquisitions: Committee and the Board carry out issues relating principally to environment, an annual fraud risk assessment: health and safety and business continuity strategic plans and comprehensive budgets planning matters, sets relevant policies which are prepared annually by the actual results are reviewed monthly and practices and monitors their business areas and approved by the Board: against budget, forecasts and the previous implementation: year and explanations obtained for all formal standards of business conduct significant variances: health and safety risk assessments, safety including a code of ethics and audits and a regular review of progress whistleblowing procedure based on all treasury activities, including in relation against objectives established by each honesty, integrity, fair dealing and to the management of foreign exchange business area are periodically carried compliance with the local laws and exposures and Group borrowings, are out: and regulations of the countries in which reported and reviewed monthly: the Group operates: developments in tax, treasury and the Groups bank balances around the accounting are continually monitored by a well established consolidation and world are monitored on a weekly basis Group management in association with reporting system for the statutory accounts and significant movements are reviewed external advisers.
and monthly management accounts: centrally: continual investment in IT systems to the internal audit department periodically The directors confirm that they have ensure the production of timely and reviews individual businesses and reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys accurate management information procedures, makes recommendations risk management and internal control relating to the operation of the Groups to improve controls and follows up to systems in operation during 2018. businesses: and ensure that management implements the recommendations made.
The internal audit The external auditors are engaged to express detailed manuals covering Group departments work is determined on a risk an opinion on the financial statements.
accounting policies and policies and assessment basis and its findings are The audit includes a review and evaluation procedures for the Groups treasury reported to Group and business area of the system of internal financial control operations supplemented by internal management as well as to the Audit and the data contained in the financial control procedures at a business area level.
Committee and the external auditors: statements to the extent necessary for expressing an audit opinion on the truth Some of the procedures carried out in order an annual self-assessment of the status and fairness of the financial statements.
to monitor the effectiveness of the internal of internal controls measured against a control system and to identify, manage and prescribed list of minimum standards is Assessment of the prospects of the mitigate business risk are listed below: performed by every business and action Company and its viability statement plans are agreed where remedial action central management holds regular In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the is required: meetings with business area management Code, details of how the directors have to discuss strategic, operational and the Audit Committee, which comprises assessed the prospects of the Company, financial issues including a review of all of the independent non-executive over what period the prospects have been the principal risks affecting each of the directors of the Company, meets regularly assessed and the Companys formal viability business areas and the policies and throughout the year.
Further details of statement are included in the Strategic report procedures by which these risks are the work of the Committee, which includes on page 55. managed: a review of the effectiveness of the Companys internal financial controls and On behalf of the Board the Executive Committee meets twice the assurance procedures relating to the per month and also reviews the outcome Companys risk management system, Paul Hussey of the discussions held at business area are set out in the Audit Committee report Secretary meetings on internal control and risk on pages 68 to 72: 25 February 2019 management issues: Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 65
