GOVERNANCE REPORT Board of directors CHAIRMAN Sir John Peace 69 Chairman Sir John Peace became Chairman of the Board in June 2002 and is also Chairman of the NominationCommittee.
Previously he was Chairman of Standard Chartered PLC from 2009 to 2016, Chairman of Experian plc from 2006 to 2014, and Group Chief Executive of GUS plc from 2000 to 2006.
Sir John is Lord-Lieutenant of Nottinghamshire and was knighted in 2011 for services to business and the voluntary sector.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Marco Gobbetti 59 Chief Executive Officer Marco Gobbetti became Chief Executive Officer in July 2017.
Marco joined Burberry from French luxury brand Cline, where he was Chairman and CEO from 2008 to 2016.
Prior to this, he served as Chairman and CEO of Givenchy and CEO of Moschino.
He has also worked at Bottega Veneta and Valextra.
Julie Brown 56 Chief Operating and Financial Officer Julie Brown became Chief Operating and Financial Officer in January 2017.
Julie was CFO of Smith & Nephew from 2013 to 2017.
Prior to this, she worked at ICI and AstraZeneca plc from 1987, where she held the positions of Interim Group CFO, Vice President Group Finance, Vice President Corporate Strategy and Regional Vice President Latin America.
She is also a non-executive director and Audit Committee Chair of Roche Holding Ltd. NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Fabiola Arredondo 51 Non-executive director Fabiola Arredondo was appointed as a non-executive director in March 2015.
Fabiola is currently the Managing Partner of Siempre Holdings, a private investment firm based in the US.
She is also a nonexecutive director of Campbell Soup Company, National Public Radio NPR, and a National Council Member of the World Wildlife Fund and Member of the Council on Foreign Relations.
Prior to Siempre Holdings, Fabiola held senior operating roles at Yahoo!
Inc. the BBC and Bertelsmann AG.
She has also previously served as a non-executive director of Rodale Inc. Experian plc, Saks Incorporated, Intelsat Inc. BOC Group plc, Bankinter S. A. Sesame Workshop and the World Wildlife Fund UK and US.
Ian Carter 56 Non-executive director Ian Carter was appointed as a non-executive director in April 2007.
Ian is President of Hilton Global Development and Chairman of Del Friscos Restaurant Group, Inc.
Previously, he was CEO of Hilton International Company and Executive Vice President of Hilton Hotels Corporation.
He was a director of Hilton Group plc until the acquisition of Hilton International by Hilton Hotels Corporation in February 2006.
Ian previously served as an Officer and President of Black & Decker Corporation.
Jeremy Darroch 55 Senior Independent Director Jeremy Darroch was appointed as a non-executive director in February 2014 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is also the Senior Independent Director.
He is CEO of Sky plc, a position he has held since 2007, having joined the company as CFO in 2004.
Prior to Sky, Jeremy was Group Finance Director of DSG International plc formerly Dixons Group plc and spent 12 years at Procter & Gamble in a variety of roles in the UK and Europe.
Jeremy also previously served as a non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Marks and Spencer Group plc.
72 GOVERNANCE REPORT Ron Frasch 69 Non-executive director Ron Frasch was appointed as a non-executive director in September 2017.
Ron is currently CEO of Ron Frasch Associates LLC, an Operating Partner of Castanea Partners Inc. and is also a non-executive director of Crocs Inc. Ron previously held positions of President and Chief Merchandising Officer, and Vice Chairman of Saks Fifth Avenue Inc. between 2004 and 2013, and was Chief Executive of Bergdorf Goodman Inc. between 2000 and 2004.
Stephanie George 61 Non-executive director Stephanie George was appointed as a non-executive director in March 2006.
She is an adviser to Penske Media Corporation and was recently Vice Chairman of Fairchild Fashion Media Inc. parent of Womens Wear Daily.
Stephanie also sits on the Board of Lincoln Center.
Previously, she was Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer at Time Inc. and spent 12 years at Fairchild Publications.
Matthew Key 55 Non-executive director Matthew Key was appointed as a non-executive director in September 2013.
Matthew was a non-executive director of OSN a leading pay TV operator across the Middle East between 2015 and 2018 and a member of the advisory board of Samsung Europe between 2015 and 2017.
Previously, Matthew was Chairman and CEO of Telefnica Digital, the global innovation arm of Telefnica.
He also previously served as Chairman and CEO of Telefnica Europe plc formerly O2 plc, CEO and CFO of O2 UK and CFO for Vodafone UK.
Prior to this, he held various financial positions at Kingfisher plc, CocaCola & Schweppes Beverages Limited and Grand Metropolitan Plc.
Matthew has been Chairman of the Dallaglio Foundation, which is a charity focused on disengaged youth, since 2014.
Dame Carolyn McCall 56 Non-executive director Dame Carolyn McCall was appointed as a non-executive director in September 2014.
Carolyn is Chief Executive of ITV plc, a position she has held since January 2018.
Prior to ITV, she was Chief Executive of easyJet plc and held a number of roles at Guardian Media Group plc, including Chief Executive from 2006 to 2010.
She has also previously served as a non-executive director of Lloyds TSB, Tesco PLC and New Look plc.
Carolyn was awarded the OBE for services to women in business in June 2008, and a Damehood for services to the aviation industry in January 2016.
Orna NiChionna 62 Non-executive director Orna NiChionna was appointed as a non-executive director in January 2018 and is Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Orna is currently Senior Independent Director at Saga plc and Royal Mail plc, where she also chairs the Remuneration Committee, as well as Deputy Chairman at the National Trust.
She is also Chair of Client Service at Eden McCallum.
Orna has previously served on the Boards of Bupa, HMV, Northern Foods and Bank of Ireland UK, and has been advisor to Apax Partners LLP.
She spent 18 years at McKinsey & Company, where she co-led their European Retail Practice.
Key to membership of Committees Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Philip Bowman and Christopher Bailey stepped down from the Board on 31October 2017 and 31 March 2018, respectively.
