GOVERNANCE REPORT Corporate governance report GOVERNANCE The non-executive directors provide strong experience, an This report sets out the Boards approach and work during independent perspective and constructive challenge.
Together with the Directors Remuneration monitor the performance and delivery of the strategy within Report on pages 96 to 121, it includes details of how the the risk parameters set by the Board.
Company has applied and complied with the principles andprovisions of the Code.
Our Chief Executive Officer, Marco Gobbetti, is responsible for all commercial, operational and financial elements of OUR BOARD managing the business.
He is responsible for management, Our Board currently consists of 11 members the developing the Groups strategic direction for consideration Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating and and approval by the Board, and implementing the agreed Financial Officer and eight independent, non-executive strategy.
He is assisted by members of his Executive Team directors.
A list of directors and their biographies is set identified on page 74, who meet regularly.
Until his resignation from the Board on 31 March 2018, Our Chairman, Sir John Peace, has led the Board as Christopher Bailey was President and Chief Creative Chairman since 2002.
Sir John is responsible for leading Officer.
He was responsible for all elements of brand and and managing the business of the Board and ensuring its design, and shared responsibility for people and strategy overall effectiveness and governance.
He also ensures the with Marco, reporting directly to the Chairman.
effective communication between the Board, management, shareholders and the Groups wider stakeholders.
The Company Secretary, Paul Tunnacliffe, joined the Company in September 2017 and acts as Secretary to the Sir John works collaboratively with our Chief Executive Board and all the Boards Committees.
He is responsible Officer, Marco Gobbetti, in setting the Board agenda and forsupporting the Chairman in delivering our corporate ensuring that any actions agreed by the Board are governance agenda.
THE ROLE OF THE BOARD During the year, the Chairman maintained regular contact It is the responsibility of the Board to support management and met with our Senior Independent Director and other in its strategic aims to enable the Company to continue to non-executive directors outside formal Board meetings.
perform successfully and sustainably for our shareholders Healso met with our non-executive directors without the and wider stakeholders.
The Board is ultimately responsible for promoting the The Chairman is responsible to shareholders for the long-term success of the Group.
It leads and provides Companys performance and Sir John makes himself direction by setting strategy and overseeing its available to meet with the Companys main institutional implementation by management.
The Board is also shareholders.
The major commitments of the Chairman responsible for oversight of the Groups systems of aredetailed in his biography on page 72. governance, internal control and risk management.
Specific key decisions and matters have been reserved for approval Our Senior Independent Director, Jeremy Darroch, by the Board.
These include decisions on the Groups supports Sir John in his role, and leads the non-executive strategy, the annual budget and operating plans, major directors in the oversight of the Chairman.
He is also capital expenditure and transactions, and approval of available as an additional point of contact for shareholders.
They also include the dividend and other capital returns, approval of the Groups risk appetite and other governance issues.
Matters reserved for the Boards decision are available on the Companys website at www.
75 GOVERNANCE REPORT ROLE OF THE BOARD COMMITTEES HIGHLIGHTS OF BOARD ACTIVITIES DURING The Board is supported in its activities by a number FY2017 18 ofCommittees, including the Audit Committee, During the financial year, the Board met for six scheduled the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration meetings, including an in-depth two-day session on strategy Committee.
The terms of reference of each of held in Chicago and a meeting held at the offices of these principal Committees can be viewed at Burberry Business Services in Leeds.
were also held to further consider our strategy and the appointment of our new Chief Creative Officer.
Further The Committees can engage third-party consultants and time was spent, including outside scheduled meetings, on independent professional advisers.
They can also call upon the search for a Chairman successor and in relation to the other resources of the Group to assist them in discharging appointments of non-executive directors.
The Board and Committee agendas were shaped to ensure In addition to the Committee members and the Company that discussion was focused on our key strategies and Secretary, external advisers and, on occasion, other monitoring activities, as well as reviews of significant directors and members of our senior management team issuesarising during the year.
Our ongoing performance attend Committee meetings at the invitation of the Chair against the strategic priorities is reviewed at each ofthe relevant Committee.
Set out on pages 90 to 94 is a report from the Audit Set out below and over the page is a more detailed Committee.
The Directors Remuneration Report can be breakdown of the principal areas of focus for the Board read on pages 96 to 121 and the section on the role and during the last financial year.
details of the Nomination Committee's role can be found onpage 82.
Topic Activity Outcome Strategic Assess insights gained from luxury Throughout the process the Board review consumer deep dive, including provided feedback, questions and extensiveprimary quantitative challenge andqualitative research Following months of evaluation and Review and debate the proposal refinement there was unanimous toreposition the brand support for the strategic plan STRATEGY For each region and function, discuss together with approval of next steps the roadmap, key milestones, priorities, risks and mitigating actions underpinning the long-term strategic plan Review the plans for investor and external communications Beauty and Understand status of transaction with Continued support for the BBS BBS Coty for our Beauty business project and future plans Assess the ongoing business case in relation to Burberry Business Services BBS.
The Board visited BBS in March MAJOR 2018, during which they engaged with PROJECTS various functions and met with key stakeholders of the project 76 GOVERNANCE REPORT Topic Activity Outcome Budget and Review of the sector context Support in principle with final approval capital andconsideration of the of the FY 2018 19 budget, the financial allocation FY2018 19indicative budget plan and the capital allocation proposals andfinancialplan at the May 2018 meeting FINANCE Consider the indicative capital Prior year March & May 2017 budget and allocation proposals capital allocation agreed and delivered to plan Proposals for Discuss implications of the Establishment of plans to address the new UK proposed new UK Corporate key implications and the decision to Corporate Governance Code have the items brought forward within Governance suchasworkforce and the Board agenda planning for Code  FY2018 19 GOVERNANCE & RISK Risk appetite Consider the Boards appetite Approval of a Group risk appetite forrisk framework to apply to each of the Groups principal risks Refer to pages 54 to 67 covering the Risk and Viability Report for further detail Culture and Review the Company-wide Support for the immediate strategic engagement engagement plans, behaviours and priorities and long-term roadmap other core initiatives in the context of the annual employee engagement survey results Talent, Discuss core initiatives such as Ongoing support for programmes in PEOPLE, capabilities career development, the place, and for the need to maintain CULTURE and leadership programme and momentum in this area & VALUES leadership enhancing capabilities Responsibility Discuss our charitable activities, Approval to donate approximately 1% of including donations to the FY 2017 18 adjusted profit before tax to Burberry Foundation social and community causes worldwide Shareholder Review updates from the Investor Board receives investor feedback feedback Relations team on share price, monthly and an investor perception including performance matters, register survey is captured externally periodically activist activity and analyst sentiment Approval of the Investor Relations SHAREHOLDER themes Discuss specific issues raised long-term plan ENGAGEMENT byshareholders Inclusion of activist themes within the Boards strategic and or other considerations Board Discuss the results of the Refer to pages 78 covering the Board evaluation externally facilitated Board evaluation for further detail BOARD evaluation and reflect on the EFFECTIVENESS effectiveness of the Board and itsCommittees 77 GOVERNANCE REPORT EVALUATING OUR PERFORMANCE IN FY 2017 18 The overall view arising from the evaluation and Our Board undertakes a formal review of its performance discussionwas that the Board and its Committees had and that of its Committees each financial year.
We are operated effectively during a year of significant change.
alsorequired to conduct an external evaluation once Thecontribution of the Board and its Committees was everythree years.
This years review of the Boards and illustrated by an open and supportive environment, a blend Committees effectiveness was conducted in conjunction of different voices and leadership from the Chairman and with Dr Tracy Long at Boardroom Review Limited.
Throughout the year there had been an Dr Long nor Boardroom Review Limited has any other increasingly effective balance of time, with a sensible connection with the Company.
rhythm of meetings across the year, an improved balance of presentation versus debate during the meetings, the benefit The process included a briefing with the Chairman of non-executive director only sessions and a higher quality andCompany Secretary: review of Board information: of information.
Strategic clarity was also recognised with a observation at Board and Committee meetings, including shared perspective of the strategic objectives, as was an private sessions, a selection of interviews, and a short increased attention to the risk and control framework.
questionnaire in advance of a Board discussion, for which Additionally, in terms of people, the Board felt it had a good the themes covered Board and Committee objectives, the understanding of the corporate culture, with close work and contribution of the Board and Board basics.
attention to remuneration and the remuneration landscape.
Recognising that the Company and the Board is in a period In terms of developing the roadmap for the future, in of transformation and change, the objectives for the Board addition to an ongoing focus on progress against our discussion focussed on the Boards current strengths: its strategic goals and performance, the priority areas for future challenges: and recommended areas of focus to theBoard in the coming yearare: prepare for the future.
Areas of focus An evolving internal and external The development of KPIs to measure the implementation of the strategy landscape Enhanced horizon scanning, to ensure understanding of the implications for theCompany Optimising the value of site visits, and effective interaction with employees andstakeholders Risk management Further development of the Companys appetite for risk, with risk management on the agenda at each meeting Developing culture and talent Ensuring corporate culture and employee engagement remains on the Boardsagenda Executive succession planning, with more senior leadership engagement and a focus on longer term talent development Optimisation of the Board Planning for the future composition of the Board, recognising its expected composition and contribution furtherevolution Shareholder engagement Ensuring effective communication and consultation with shareholders The Chairman and the Company Secretary will have the responsibility for monitoring progress against the areas of focusidentified.
In terms of key themes from the previous years evaluation, as outlined throughout this governance report, the Boards succession plan continued to be a priority and the aim of appointing additional non-executive directors to enable longerserving members to step down was achieved.
Additionally, the Board retained a focus on important strategic matters and tracked progress of the Companys productivity and efficiency programme.
78 GOVERNANCE REPORT DIRECTORS PERFORMANCE TIME ALLOCATION Separately to the Boards evaluation, the Chairman held Each of our non-executive directors has a letter of discussions with each of the Directors to discuss their appointment, which sets out the terms and conditions of individual performance and for them to raise any issues his or her directorship.
The Chairman and non-executive they may have, including in relation to any matters of directors are expected to devote necessary time to Board Committee effectiveness.
These discussions are perform their duties properly.
This is expected to be used as the basis for recommending the re-election of approximately 20 days each year for basic duties.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are CHAIRMANS PERFORMANCE expected to spend additional time over and above this to Our non-executive directors consider that the Chairman carry out their extra responsibilities.
The Board considers has done an invaluable job in leading the Board during a that the Chairman and all non-executive directors fulfilled year of significant change for the Company, and his their time required commitments.
leadership provided important stability in the context of Executive Team changes and the development and approval The table below gives details of Directors attendance at of our new strategy.
Board and Committee meetings during the year ended 31March 2018.
This is expressed as the number of meetings EXTERNAL DIRECTORSHIPS attended out of the number that each Director was eligible Our Boards executive directors are permitted to hold only to attend.
Details of the Directors other directorships can be found in their biographies on pages 72 and 73.
Where non-executive directors were unable to attend a meeting due to prior commitments or illness, where possible, they gave their views to the Chairman of that respective meeting ahead of the meetings being held 2.
Philip Bowman stepped down from the Board on 31 October 2017 3.
Marco Gobbetti was appointed to the Board and as Chief Executive Officer on 5 July 2017 4.
Ron Frasch and Orna NiChionna joined the Board on 1 September 2017 and 3 January 2018, respectively 5.
Christopher Bailey stepped down from the Board on 31 March 2018 79 GOVERNANCE REPORT MEMBERSHIP OF THE BOARD, INDEPENDENCE DIVERSITY AND SUCCESSION Board succession planning is focused on ensuring the right In relation to our non-executive directors, the Board mix of skills and experience for the Board.
All new continued to focus on building relevant skills and appointments are based on merit, keeping in mind the competencies for the future under its succession plan.
These principles are to: The aim is to continue to refresh the Board while ensuring stability and continuity, particularly in the context of maintain current core competencies: significant management change.
The composition of the add new competencies which reflect the evolution Board has evolved considerably over the past few years.
oftheGroups business: ensure compatibility with Burberrys culture and Our Board determined that all the current non-executive values:and directors are independent see below.
The Board considers promote diversity, including in terms of gender.
them to be experienced and influential individuals drawn from a wide range of industries and backgrounds.
No one The section on the role and activities of the Nomination individual or group dominates the Boards decision-making.
Committee on page 82 provides more information on our Biographical details of our current Directors can be found appointment process.
We believe in the importance of diverse Board membership, At the time of the 2018 Annual General Meeting, Stephanie including in relation to gender, tenure and relevant George will have served on the Board for 12 years, and Ian experience.
The Board is supportive of the Lord Davies Carter for 11 years.
The performance of both Stephanie and Report and the Hampton-Alexander review target for Ian has been subject to a rigorous review, including with women to represent 33% of boards by 2020. regard to their independence.
Their in-depth knowledge of the Group, combined with the consistency they provide through their continued service, remains invaluable to ensure a smooth transition of the Board and its Committees.
They both continue to demonstrate the attributes of an independent non-executive director, including contributing to constructive challenge and debate at meetings, and no evidence was found that their tenure has impacted on their independence.
The Board is satisfied that Stephanie and Ian, and all of its non-executive directors, bring robust, independent oversight and continue to remain independent.
In anticipation of the retirement of Philip Bowman fromtheBoard on 31 October 2017, Jeremy Darroch wasappointed as Senior Independent Director on 1 July 2017.
Ron Frasch and Orna NiChionna also joined the Board on 1September 2017 and 3 January 2018, respectively.
On 13 April 2018, it was announced that Dr Gerry Murphy would be appointed to the Board on 17 May 2018 as Chairman Designate, and succeed Sir John Peace as Chairman at the conclusion of the Annual General Meetingto be held on 12 July 2018.
80 GOVERNANCE REPORT GENDER TENURE MALE N 6, 55% 0 3 YEARS N 4, 36% FEMALE N 5, 45% 3 6 YEARS N 4, 36% 9 YEARS N 3, 28% Currently, five out of our 11 Board members are female The diversity in our Board tenure enables us to have including our Chief Operating and Financial Officer, sufficient balance to ensure the Board composition comprising 45% of our Board membership.
KNOWLEDGE AND EXPERIENCE LUXURY GOODS RETAIL, SALES DIGITAL OPERATIONAL & MARKETING & MEDIA EXCELLENCE N 6, 55% N 10, 91% N 5, 45% N 10, 91% Our 11 Board members bring diverse experience which Our Board will continue to monitor diversity and take ensures we have the appropriate skills and knowledge to appropriate steps to maintain our position as a meritocratic deliver against our strategic objectives.
81 GOVERNANCE REPORT INFORMATION FLOW AND ROLE AND ACTIVITIES OF THE PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT NOMINATION COMMITTEE Our Chairman works closely with the Company Secretary The Committee is responsible for keeping under review inthe planning of agendas and scheduling of Board and thecomposition of our Board and succession planning Committee meetings.
Together, they ensure that forsenior leadership positions.
The main roles and information is made available to Board members on a timely responsibilities of our Nomination Committee are set basis, and is of a quality appropriate to enable the Board outinwritten terms of reference, which are available on toeffectively carry out its duties.
the Companys website at www.
The Committee reviews its terms of reference annually.
Our Board is kept up to date on legal, regulatory, compliance and governance matters through advice The Committee continues to work diligently to assist the and regular papers from the Company Secretary and Board with building on its relevant skills and competencies, other advisers.
according to our Board succession plan.
The composition of our Board has evolved significantly over the past few The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in designing years, and this continued during the past financial year, and facilitating an induction programme for new Directors with the retirement of Philip Bowman and the appointments and their ongoing training.
Each newly appointed Director of Ron Frasch and Orna NiChionna.
As announced on receives a formal and tailored induction programme to 13April 2018, Dr Gerry Murphy was appointed to the Board enable them to function effectively as quickly as possible, on 17 May 2018 and will succeed the Chairman at the while building a deep understanding of the business.
Each conclusion of the AGM on 12 July 2018. induction typically consists of meetings with both executive and non-executive directors and briefings from senior The principal activities of the Committee during the year managers across our key business areas and operations, the were the consideration of potential new non-executive luxury market, strategy, corporate functions, and the directors, in light of the review of the structure and Burberry brand and culture.
In addition, non-executive composition of our Board, and the search for a successor directors are provided with opportunities to visit key for the Chairman.
It also assisted the Board in the search stores, markets and facilities.
This includes visits to our for our new Chief Creative Officer.
various operating facilities in the UK.
The Chairman considers the training needs of individual Directors on an In respect of the searches undertaken prior to the ongoing basis.
appointments of Ron Frasch and Orna NiChionna, having developed candidate profiles, Burberry was advised by For the appointments of Ron Frasch and Orna NiChionna, board search firm Lygon Group, which has no other the induction programme as outlined has been followed, connection with the Company and which specialises in with a specific focus in the case of Orna on an therecruitment of high-calibre non-executive directors, understanding of the Company's remuneration chairmen and chairwomen and executive directors.
Lygon arrangements ahead of her becoming Chair of the Group is a signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Remuneration Committee.
This additionally involved Executive Search Firms.
A similar but more focused search meetings with shareholders.
was undertaken by Lygon Group for a successor for our Chairman.
This search was led by Jeremy Darroch, Senior The Board has direct access to the advice and services of Independent Director, and resulted in the Committee the Company Secretary.
The appointment and removal of meeting on a number of separate occasions before making the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board a recommendation to the Board.
To carry out their duties, Directors may also obtain independent professional advice, if necessary, at Our Chairman and all the non-executive directors served theGroups expense.
as members of the Committee during the year ended 31 March 2018.
In addition to the Committee members, other regular attendees at the Committee meetings during the year included the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief People, Strategy and Corporate Affairs Officer and the Company Secretary.
82 GOVERNANCE REPORT MANAGING CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Ongoing review of these controls is provided through All Directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to internal governance processes and the work of the Group avoid a situation in which they have, or could have, a direct isoverseen by executive management, particularly the work or indirect conflict of interest or possible conflict of of the Group Risk and Assurance Team and the Management interest with the Company and the Group.
Further assurance is provided by the reviews conducted by the external auditor.
Regular Under the Companys Articles of Association, our Board has reportson these activities are provided to the Audit the authority to approve situational conflicts of interest.
It Committee as reflected in the standing items on the has adopted procedures to manage and, where appropriate, AuditCommitteeagenda.
Authorisations granted by the Board are recorded by the Company Secretary in a register and The Board, through the Audit Committee, has conducted are noted by the Board at its next meeting.
arobust assessment of our principal risks and internal control framework.
It has considered the effectiveness A review of situational conflicts that have been authorised ofthe system of internal controls in operation across is undertaken by the Board annually.
theGroup for the year covered by the Annual Report and Accounts and up to the date of its approval by the Board.
Following the last review, the Board concluded that the This review covered the material controls, including potential conflicts had been appropriately authorised, no financial, operational and compliance controls and risk circumstances existed which would necessitate that any management arrangements and no significant control prior authorisation be revoked or amended, and the weaknesses were identified.
The system of internal controls authorisation process continued to operate effectively.
is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of not achieving business objectives, and can only provide EVALUATION OF INTERNAL CONTROLS reasonable and not absolute assurance against material Our Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system misstatement orloss.
of internal controls and risk management and it discharges its duties in this area by: The process followed by the Board, through the Audit Committee, in reviewing regularly the system of internal Determining the nature and extent of the principal risks it controls and risk management arrangements complies with is willing to accept in achieving the Groups strategic the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and objectives the Boards risk appetite.
Related Financial and Business Reporting issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
It also accords with Challenging managements implementation of effective theprovisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
systems of risk identification, assessment and mitigation.
Our Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk management arrangements.
Details of the Groups risk management process and the management and mitigation of each principal risk together with the Groups viability statement can be found in our Risk and Viability Report on pages 54 to 67.
83 GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTROL ENVIRONMENT INTERNAL AUDIT Our business model is based primarily on a central design, The structures of our Internal Audit and risk management supply chain and distribution operation to supply products functions were realigned under the leadership of a newly to global markets via retail including digital and wholesale appointed Senior Vice President Risk Management channels.
This is reflected in our internal control framework andInternal Audit in April 2017.
The Senior Vice President which includes centralised direction, resource allocation, reports tothe Chief Operating and Financial Officer but oversight and risk management of the key activities of hasan independent reporting line to the Chairman of marketing, inventory management, and brand and theAuditCommittee.
We have also established procedures for the delegation of authorities to ensure The scope of Internal Audit work is considered for each thatapproval for matters that are considered significant operating company and Group function.
This takes account isprovided at an appropriate level.
In addition, we have of risk assessments, input from senior management and the policies and procedures in place that are designed to Audit Committee and previous audit findings.
For example, support risk management across the Group.
These include this year there was an emphasis on progress with the policies relating to treasury and the conduct of employees Groups productivity and efficiency programme, with core and third parties with which we conduct business, including financial activities transferring to the BBS in Leeds.
There prohibiting bribery and corruption.
These authorities, was also a focus on inventory and information security, policies and procedures are kept under regular review.
including the General Data Protection Regulation and cyber security.
Changes to the Groups risk profile are considered The Group operates a three lines of defence model, on an ongoing basis and amendments are made to the audit whichhelps to achieve effective risk management and plan as necessary during the year.
Any proposed changes to internal control across the organisation.
This comprises the plan are discussed with the Chief Operating and thefollowing: Financial Officer and reported to the Audit Committee.
The effectiveness of Internal Audit is assessed by performing an First line of defence: management owns and manages risk independent review of the function at least every five years.
and is also responsible for implementing corrective The Committee has assessed the effectiveness of Internal actions to address process and control deficiencies.
Audit and is satisfied that the quality, experience and expertise of the function are appropriate for the business.
Second line of defence: to help ensure the first line is properly designed, established and operating effectively, Ongoing visibility of the internal control environment is management has also established various risk provided through Internal Audit reports to management management and compliance functions to help build and andthe Audit Committee.
These reports are graded to or monitor the first line of defence.
These include, but reflect an overall assessment of the control environment are not limited to, functions such as Group Risk and under review, the significance of any control weaknesses Assurance, Finance, Health and Safety, Asset and Profit identified, and any remedial actions which have been Protection and Business Continuity.
identified and agreed with management.
The Audit Committee places high emphasis on actions being taken Third line of defence: Internal Audit provides the Audit asa result of internal audits.
Regular reports are provided Committee and management with independent and to the Audit Committee on the status of any open actions.
objective assurance on the effectiveness of governance, risk management and internal controls.
This includes the way in which the first and second lines of defence achieve risk management and control objectives.
84 GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORTING FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining As a whole, the Annual Report and Accounts is required adequate internal controls over financial reporting.
These tobe fair, balanced and understandable and to provide are designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the theinformation necessary for shareholders to assess reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of theGroups position and performance, business model financial statements for external reporting purposes.
The Audit Committee considered, on behalfoftheBoard, whether the fair, balanced and We have comprehensive planning, budgeting, forecasting understandable statement could properly be given on and monthly reporting processes in place.
A summary behalf of the directors.
The processes followed to provide ofthefinancial results supported by commentary and the Committee with assurance were considered and the performance measures is provided to the Board Committee provided a recommendation to the Board eachmonth.
thatthe fair, balanced and understandable statement couldbe given on behalf of the directors.
Based on this In relation to the preparation of Group financial recommendation, our Board is satisfied that it has met this statements, the controls in place include: obligation.
A summary of the Directors responsibilities in relation to the Financial Statements is set out on page 128.
A centre of expertise responsible for reviewing new The report of the external auditors on page 129 includes developments in reporting requirements and standards astatement concerning their reporting responsibilities.
toensure that these are reflected in Group accountingpolicies A global finance structure consisting of employees withthe appropriate expertise to ensure that Group policiesand procedures are correctly applied.
Effective management and control of the finance structure is achieved through our finance leadership team, consisting of key finance employees from the regions, BBS and London headquarters Our reporting process is supported by transactional and consolidation finance systems.
Reviews of controls are carried out by senior finance management.
The results of these reviews are considered by the Board as part of its monitoring of the performance of controls around financial reporting controls.
The Audit Committee reviews the application of financial reporting standards and any significant accounting judgements made by management.
These matters are alsodiscussed with the external auditor.
85 GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AND ANNUAL OTHER GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS Tax strategy As required by the UK Corporate Governance Code, the The Group is committed to complying with global tax Notice of the 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM was sent regulations in a responsible manner, with due regard to to shareholders at least 20 working days before the governments and shareholders.
We are also committed to meeting.
A poll vote was taken on each of the resolutions engaging in open and constructive relationships with tax put before shareholders.
Apart from Stephanie George, who authorities in the territories in which we operate.
The was unavailable due to illness, all other Directors serving at Groups tax planning is consistent with this responsible the time of the 2017 AGM attended.
The Chairman of the approach, and we will not enter into arrangements to Board and Chairs of each of our Committees were available achieve a tax advantage.
The Group tax strategy is to answer shareholders questions.
implemented through the Groups tax policy.
This directs and aligns the activities of the various functions within the Voting at the upcoming 2018 AGM will be by way of poll.
Group in order to achieve the strategic objectives.
Further The results will be announced, and details of the votes information regarding the Group tax strategy is provided on will be available to view on the Groups website at the Group's website at www.
com as soon as possible after the meeting.
Tax governance framework Our Chief Operating and Financial Officer is responsible It is the intention that all Directors, including the Chairs of forthe Groups tax policy, which is implemented with the the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, will assistance of the finance leadership team.
This is reviewed attend the 2018 AGM and will be available to answer on an ongoing basis as part of the regular financial planning shareholders questions.
In addition, the Groups tax status is reported regularly to the Management Risk and Audit Committees.
Since the AGM in 2011, all Directors have offered themselves The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring all for annual re-election in accordance with the UK Corporate significant tax matters, including the Groups tax policy.
At the 2018 AGM, other than the Audit Committee meetings are attended by a number of Chairman who will step down at the conclusion of the Group officers and employees as outlined on page 92. meeting, all the Directors will again retire and will offer themselves for re-election.
Newly appointed directors, Share capital Ron Frasch, Orna NiChionna and Dr Gerry Murphy, will offer Further information about the Companys share capital, themselves for election.
including substantial shareholdings, can be found in the Directors Report on page 123.
The biographical details of the current Directors can be found on pages 72 and 73 of this Annual Report.
The Chairman confirms that, following the evaluation conducted during the year and the review of individual Director roles and performance led by the Chairman, the performance of each of the Directors standing for election continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to their roles.
This includes committing time for Board and Committee meetings and any other duties.
Accordingly, the Board recommends that shareholders approve the resolutions to be proposed at the 2018 AGM relating to the re-election or election of the Directors.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the Directors, including the expected time commitment, are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
86 GOVERNANCE REPORT ENGAGEMENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board recognises the importance of regular, open and constructive dialogue with shareholders, not just ahead of the AGM, but throughout the year.
Our Investor Relations team participated in over 350investor meetings and events during the year.
Acombination of the Chairman, Senior Independent Director, Chair of the Remuneration Committee, executive directors and other members of senior management participated in over 100 of these meetings.
This engagement included presentations to institutional shareholders and analysts following the release of the Groups Interim and Full Yearresults available on the Groups website at www.
com, as well as meetings with the Groups 20 largest investors.
A key part of investor engagement this year was the introduction of Marco Gobbetti, following his appointment as Chief Executive Officer, to our investors and also communicating our new strategy announced in November 2017.
Topics discussed in investor meetings included, but were not limited to, luxury sector growth dynamics and the Groups strategic plans in that context, business performance and the Directors Remuneration Policy.
Our Investor Relations and Company Secretariat departments act as the centre for ongoing communication with shareholders, investors and analysts.
The Board receives regular updates on the views of the Groups major shareholders and stakeholders from this engagement or direct contacts.
We also conduct independent investor audits of our major investors through Makinson Cowell, a capital markets advisory firm, to assess investor perception.
An audit is anticipated in FY 2018 19 and the findings will be discussed with the Board.
ENGAGEMENT WITH KEY STAKEHOLDERS On the following pages, we show how Burberry listens to and engages with its key stakeholders.
The highlights of Board activities during FY 2017 18 give further detail of theBoards engagement and involvement.
87 GOVERNANCE REPORT HOW WE LISTEN to AND ENGAGE WITH OUR KEY STAKEHOLDERS UNDERSTANDING THE VIEWS, VALUES AND IDEAS OF ALL OUR STAKEHOLDERS IS CRITICAL TO OUR SUCCESS.
AT BURBERRY, WE SEEK TO FOSTER OPEN AND CONSTRUCTIVE DIALOGUE WITH OUR CUSTOMERS, EMPLOYEES, PARTNERS, SHAREHOLDERS AND COMMUNITIES IN WHICH WE OPERATE, DRAWING ON A RANGE OF TECHNIQUES AND MEDIA TO DO SO.
THE BOARD RECEIVES UPDATES AND PROVIDES INPUT ON THESE ACTIVITIES WHERE RELEVANT, SUPPORTED BY DEEP DIVES ON SIGNIFICANT PROJECTS.
Consumer insights: we undertake Customer analytics: using data from extensive qualitative and quantitative our own customer feedback and text research into the luxury fashion analytics, we build a comprehensive consumer to ensure we continue to understanding of our customer needs CUSTOMERS inspire and excite them and demands, ensuring that our decisions are data-informed and Customer service: we provide customer-centric customer assistance 24 hours, sevendays a week in 14 languages Personalised services: we offer across many mediums, including customised omnichannel services phone, email, social media and live across the Burberry app, website, onlinechat email and in stores, enriching how our customers experience our brand Engagement survey: our first global Strategy: we communicate our annual survey took place in FY 2017 18 strategy and progress regularly with a 88% response rate.
This was through bi-weekly updates, monthly supported by Company-wide drop-in sessions with leaders, and EMPLOYEES engagement on results, sharing of quarterly Q&A sessions with the CEO, priorities, action-planning and the as well as videos from our senior opportunity to feedback on plans leadership team and podcasts about our people Retail: we send weekly updates to our Innovative programmes: in 2018 sales associates on operational and welaunched new engagement Burberry World: we use our business critical information, and programmes including Burberry Company-wide online social, deliver monthly drops of inspiring Disrupted, a cross-functional interactive platform to share news, product-related content problem-solving day, and key information, significant brand BInnovative, a programme events, Company announcements and ofinspiring talks given by support for day-to-day working industryexperts Recognition: we celebrate exceptional employee contributions, nominated and voted for by employees at our annual internal IconAwards 88 GOVERNANCE REPORT Ongoing engagement: members of Perception gauge: the Board engages our senior management and Investor an independent third party to audit Relations team held over 350 our major shareholders and gauge meetings with investors in FY 2017 18 SHAREHOLDERS investor perception Board engagement: the Board Webcasts: we broadcast live receives monthly updates on webcasts of our Preliminary and Investor Relations and our Chairman, Interim results presentations and Senior Independent Director Reporting to shareholders: we audiocast our trading update and Chair of the Remuneration endeavour to provide a holistic and Committee maintain regular engaging review of the performance Annual General Meeting AGM : our 2017 AGM was well attended with all dialogue with our investors of the business and our strategy within all of our communications resolutions passed Sustainability collaborations: Burberrys Responsibility Advisory together with industry peers, NGOs Committee: in 2013, we set up a and business partners, we seek to group of external, independent establish long-term solutions and experts from the NGO, social PARTNERS promote wider industry change: enterprise and academic sectors examples include our partnerships tohear progress updates, comment with the Zero Discharge of Hazardous on draft strategies and generally Chemicals ZDHC Foundation, the challenge and support Burberrys Ethical Trading Initiative ETI, the Wholesalers: we maintain close responsibility agenda four times Leather Working Group LWG, the working relationships through ayear Better Cotton Initiative BCI and the monthly and weekly updates to Sustainable Fibre Alliance SFA understand product performance, Supply chain partners: we evaluate stock levels, review order collaborate with members of our Government: where pertinent, we books and address any questions supply chain to drive social and collaborate with the UK government or concerns environmental improvements at on key initiatives - for example as a the raw material sourcing and founding member of the Business Licensees: we hold regular meetings manufacturing stages, supporting Against Slavery forum, chaired by the and reviews with our licence partners, our 2022 Responsibility goal of Home Secretary covering financial results, brand driving positive change through direction, marketing strategy and 100%of our product merchandising development Burberry apprentices: we offer Burberry Foundation partnerships: we support the Burberry Foundation youngpeople training opportunities intraditional craftsmanship, luxury UK registered charity number 1154468 in creating long-term retailing and business operations, COMMUNITIES helping them to develop key skills, partnerships that fuel innovation and transform communities, confidence and experience to build careers in the creative industries addressing key social and environmental priorities while andbeyond Employee volunteering: we focusing on tackling the causes as encourage employees to dedicate well as treating the symptoms Career inspiration: we work with schools in Greater London and upto three working days a year to volunteering in their local community In-kind donations: our donations Yorkshire to increase access to the creative industries and inspire young range from raw materials used to Financial support: each year assist young people on creative people through in-school workshops, inspiration days and work experience wedonate 1% of Group adjusted courses, to gifts of smart business profitbefore tax to charitable clothing for people enrolled in weeks at Burberry causesworldwide, including employability programmes disasterrelief support, scholarships andsponsorships, with a significant proportion going to the BurberryFoundation 89
