GOVERNANCE REPORT Report of the Audit Committee DEAR SHAREHOLDER, I am pleased to present the FY 2017 18 report of the Audit Committee.
The purpose of this report is to describe how we have carried out our responsibilities during the year.
The role of the Audit Committee is to monitor and reviewthe integrity of financial information and to provideassurance to the Board that the Groups internal controls and risk management systems are appropriate andregularlyreviewed.
We also oversee the work of the external auditors, approve their remuneration and JEREMY DARROCH recommend their appointment.
In addition to the Chairman, Audit Committee disclosure requirements relating to audit committees underthe Code, the Committees report sets out areas ofsignificant and particular focus for the Committee.
Over the course of the year, we continued to focus on ourusual work as set out on page 92.
We paid particular attention to the Group's risk management, its risk reporting framework and risk mitigation.
The Committee conducted more detailed reviews focused on its principal risks, as set out earlier in the Annual Report.
We intend to continue this work, to cover each principal risk on a regular basis.
Some of the more in-depth areas of focus included the following: A rolling programme of risk topics including information security, cyber resilience, supply chain, quality and the establishment of the control environment at Burberry Business Services With heightened global technology and information security risks, we continued to spend a significant amount of time on the Groups progress with its information security improvement programme to ensure that the Group continues to prioritise appropriately its focus andresources on this critical area of risk 90 GOVERNANCE REPORT During the year, the Group received an enquiry letter from the Conduct Committee of the FRC, relating to the 2016 17 Annual Report.
Details of the enquiry raised by the FRC andthe Group's proposed response were discussed withthe Committee prior to issuing the response.
The responseincluded the commitment to make some limited modifications and enhancements to disclosures relating toinventory and significant estimates and judgements.
TheFRC subsequently closed their enquiry with no furtheraction.
We have reviewed the adoption of these modifications and enhancements in the 2017 18 Annual Report.
The review of the 2016 17 Annual Report by the FRC does not provide any additional assurance regarding itsaccuracy andthe FRC does not accept any liability in relation to theirreview.
The Committee also considered the significant matters setout in the table on page 93.
Where these related to thefinancial statements for the year, the Committee requested papers from management setting out its approach, the key estimates and judgements applied, as well as managements recommendations.
The Committee reviewed and challengedthese papers, together with the findings of theexternal auditors, in order to conclude on the appropriateness ofthe treatment in the financial statements.
All mattersreviewed were concluded to thesatisfaction oftheCommittee.
The Committee confirms that during FY 2017 18, the Company has complied with the mandatory audit processes and audit committee responsibilities provisions of the Competition and Markets Authority Statutory Audit Services Order 2014, as outlined in this report, which describes the work of the Committee in discharging its responsibilities.
The Committee has a constructive and open relationship with management and the auditors, and I thank them on behalf of the Committee for their assistance during the year.
I am confident that the Committee has carried out its duties in the year under review effectively and to a high standard.
JEREMY DARROCH Chairman, Audit Committee 91 GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE Jeremy Darroch, Matthew Key and Dame Carolyn McCall The main roles and responsibilities of the Committee are served as members of the Committee during the year set out in written terms of reference, which are available ending 31 March 2018. onthe Companys website at www.
The Committee reviews its terms of reference annually.
In light The Committee met three times during the year, with of its key responsibilities, the Committee considered the allmembers attending each meeting.
In addition to the following items of usual business during the financial year scheduled meetings, the Chairman of the Committee meets inrelation to: separately with representatives of the auditor and senior members of the finance function on a regular basis, Financial Reports: the integrity of the Group's including prior to each meeting.
In addition, he meets financialstatements and formal announcements of withother members of management on an ad-hoc basis theGroup's performance asrequired to fulfil his duties.
Risk and Internal Controls: the Group's internal Regular attendees at Committee meetings include: the financial, operational and compliance controls and Chairman of the Board, Chief Operating and Financial riskidentification and management systems.
Review Officer, Chief People, Strategy and Corporate Affairs ofGrouppolicies for identifying and assessing risks Officer, Company Secretary, Senior Vice President Risk andarrangements for employees to raise concerns Management and Audit, Senior Vice President Group inconfidence about possible improprieties Finance, Vice President Group Financial Controller, Senior Vice President Group Tax, the General Counsel Viability: consideration of the Group's viability statement and representatives of the external auditors.
as set out on page 67 The Board is satisfied that Jeremy Darroch, as Chairman, Internal Audit: review of the annual internal audit has recent and relevant financial experience, and that all programme and the consideration of findings of any other Committee members have past employment internal investigations and management's response.
experience in either finance or accounting roles, or broad Review of effectiveness of the Internal Audit function consumer experience and knowledge of financial reporting and or international businesses and as a whole the Board is External Auditors: recommending the appointment satisfied that the Audit Committee has the competence ofexternal auditors, approving their remuneration and relevant to the business sector.
Details of their experience overseeing their work.
Policies on the engagement of the can be found in their biographies on pages 72 and 73. external auditors for the supply of non-audit services.
92 GOVERNANCE REPORT Significant matters for the year ended 31 March 2018 HOW THE AUDIT COMMITTEE ADDRESSED THESE MATTERS Transaction for the disposal of During the year, the Group disposed of its Beauty operations business to Coty and Beauty operations entered into a licence with them.
The Committee reviewed managements proposal on how these transactions should be accounted for, including the estimates applied to provisions which were not finalised at the end of the period, the allocation of cash received to the different elements of the transaction and the disclosure of the transactions in the Financial Statements, as set out in note 6.
Impairment assessment of The Committee considered managements assessment of the recoverability of the property, plant and equipment and carrying value of retail assets held in property, plant and equipment, and, where onerous lease provisions applicable, the potential need for provisions relating to onerous lease contracts.
The Committee considered the approach applied by management to review for potential indicators of impairment and the assumptions applied in this review.
Where impairments were identified, the Committee considered the reasons for the impairment and managements quantification of the impairment.
The recoverability of the cost of The Committee considered the Groups current provisioning policy, the historic inventory and the resulting amount lossrates incurred on inventory held at the balance sheet date, the nature and of provisioning required condition of current inventory and assumptions regarding the future usage of inventory.
During the year, management carried out a detailed review of inventory andprovisioning.
Movements in inventory provisioning are set out in note 17 of the Financial Statements.
Assessment of the carrying value The Committee considered management's assessment of the recoverability of of goodwill goodwill relating to cash generating units.
The Committee considered the assumptionsapplied by management to assess the recoverable value of goodwill and the sensitivities in relation to any significant balances.
During the year, the goodwill relating to the Saudi cash generating unit was impaired.
The Committee considered the reasons for this impairment arising, the sensitivities relating to the measurement of the impairment and the disclosure in the Financial Statements, as set out in note13.
Fair, balanced and The Committee considered the Annual Report and Interim Report, on behalf of the  Board, to ensure that they were fair, balanced and understandable, in accordance with requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
As part of this review, the Committee reviewed the report from the Strategic Report Drafting Team, highlighting key considerations.
The Committee considered comments arising from the review of accounts by the executive directors.
The Committee also considered the use of alternative performance measures by the Group, including the appropriateness of their current use and their disclosure in the Financial Statements and Strategic Report.
The Committee concluded that their current use was fair, balanced andunderstandable.
Other matters At the May and November meetings, the Committee also considered managements papers on the following subjects: Impairment assessments of trade receivables: The Groups tax strategy, developments relating to discussions with tax authorities, the status of any ongoing tax audits and their impact on the Financial Statements: Recognition and measurement of adjusting items for restructuring costs: and Consideration of the matters raised in the enquiry by the FRC and the Groups response to these matters.
93 GOVERNANCE REPORT EXTERNAL AUDITORS Non-audit services The Committee oversees the work undertaken by The Committee recognises that the independence of the  LLP PwC.
During the year, the external auditors is an essential part of the audit framework Committee met with the external auditors without members and the assurance that it provides.
In line with the Revised of management being present.
Ethical Standard issued by the FRC in June 2016, the Committee has adopted a policy which sets out a Appointment and fees framework for determining whether it is appropriate to The Committees primary responsibility is to make a engage the Groupsauditors for non-audit services and recommendation on the appointment, reappointment and pre-approving non-audit fees.
removal of the external auditors.
Every year, the Committee assesses the qualifications, expertise, resources and The overall objective is to ensure that the provision of independence of the external auditors, and the non-audit services does not impair the external auditors effectiveness of the previous audit process.
Over the independence or objectivity.
This includes, but is not course of the year, the Committee has reviewed the audit limited to, assessing: process and the quality and experience of the audit partners engaged in the audit.
The Committee also any threats to independence and objectivity resulting reviewed the proposed audit fee and terms of engagement from the provision of such services: for FY2017 18.
Details of the fees paid to the external any safeguards in place to eliminate or reduce these auditors during the financial year can be found in note 8 in threats to a level where they would not compromise the theFinancial Statements.
auditors independence and objectivity: the nature of the non-audit services: and PwC have remained in place as auditors since prior to the whether the skills and experience of the audit firm make IPO of the Company in 2002.
They were reappointed with a it the most suitable supplier of the non-audit service.
new lead audit partner following a formal tender process undertaken by the Group for the FY 2010 11.
As the external The value of non-audit services that can be billed by the auditors are required to rotate the audit engagement external auditor is restricted by a cap which is set at 70% of partner every five years, a new engagement partner, Paul the average audit fees for the preceding three years as Cragg, began his appointment from FY 2015 16.
As a result defined by the FRC.
of the UKs implementation of the EUs mandatory firm rotation requirements, the Company is required to replace During FY 2017 18 Burberrys external auditors have not PwC with another firm of auditors no later than for the undertake non-audit work which exceeded this threshold.
The Committee consider the most practical and business-driven approach Proposed fees above 100,000 are approved by the to be to conduct a competitive tender no later than the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Non-audit services first half of calendar year 2019. withavalue below 100,000 and which are in line with theGroups policy have been pre-approved by the Audit In 2017, the Committee approved the reappointment, Committee.
Compliance with the policy of engaging the remuneration and terms of engagement of PwC as the Groups auditors for non-audit services and pre-approving Groups external auditor.
The Committee recommended non-audit fees is reviewed and monitored by the Senior that the Board proposes to shareholders that PwC be Vice President Risk Management and Audit.
These fees must reappointed as the Groups external auditors at the Groups be activity based and not success related.
At the half year forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
and year end, the Audit Committee reviews all non-audit services provided by the auditors during the period, and the fees relating to these services.
During the year, the Group spent 552,000 on non-audit services provided by PwC 25% of the average of Group audit fees received over the last three years.
Further details can be found in note 8 of the Financial Statements.
