Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Nomination Committee report The Nomination Committee is responsible for the regular review The Nomination Committee is focused of the structure, size and composition including the skills, on evaluating the directors and knowledge, experience and diversity of the board and for giving consideration to succession planning for directors and, if examining the skills and attributes requested by the board, for other senior executives.
It is responsible for identifying, using external search consultants needed of board members.
It is also where necessary, candidates to fill board vacancies as and when responsible for identifying suitable they arise, for making recommendations to the board in relation thereto and for keeping under review the leadership needs of the candidates for new director positions.
company, both executive and non-executive.
The Nomination Committee also reviews the time required of the non-executive directors and ensures that they receive formal letters of appointment setting out clearly what is expected of them in terms of time commitment, committee service and involvement outside board meetings.
Diversity The boards policy on diversity is, as it has been in the past, to seek Membership and attendance to appoint the best qualified person to a particular role, be it at The membership and attendance record of the Nomination board level or within the company, regardless of gender or other Committee during the year was as follows: diversity criteria.
It has not therefore adopted any measurable objectives in relation thereto.
Meetings Meetings eligible attended to attend Work of the Nomination Committee D C Stewart Chairman 3 3 The Nomination Committee met four times during the year which S J Bridges 3 3 1 included a meeting of the sub-committee established to deal with Hon C W Cayzer 4 4 2 the Chairmanship succession and the work undertaken included: G B Davison 1 C H Gregson 4 4 consideration of potential candidates for the role of Chairman to S C R Jemmett-Page 3 3 succeed Mr Kent and a recommendation to the board that W P Wyatt 3 3 Mr Stewart be appointed.
In making this recommendation, the 3 R D Kent 1 1 Nomination Committee did not use an external search 1,4 H Y H Bol 2 3 consultancy nor open advertising, as it considered that Mr Stewarts personal qualities and the breadth of his 1.
Included in meetings attended by Mr Gregson, The Hon C W Cayzer and Mr Bol was a meeting of the sub-committee of the Nomination experience in asset management and international business Committee established to deal with the Chairmanship succession.
made him the most suitable candidate for the role.
Mr Davison was appointed to the Committee on 1 January 2018. search consultancy was however used for Mr Stewarts 3.
Mr Kent retired from the Committee on 20 July 2017.
Mr Bol resigned from the Committee on 7 September 2017.
He absented appointment as a non-executive director in 2015 himself from one meeting which approved the renewal of his letter of appointment.
consideration of the contributions and effectiveness of the non-executive directors seeking re-election at the 2017 annual general meeting, prior to giving recommendations for their re-elections the renewal of Mr Bols letter of appointment as a nonexecutive director and approval of a new appointment letter for Mr Stewart for his role as Chairman the conduct of a search for an additional independent nonexecutive director, concluding with a recommendation to the board that Mr Davison be appointed.
The Committee engaged the Zygos Partnership, which has no other connection with the company, to assist in the search.
David Stewart Chairman of the Nomination Committee 24 May 2018 38 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018
