Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Audit Committee report The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the integrity of The Audit Committee plays a the financial statements of the company and any announcements significant role in ensuring that the relating thereto and for reviewing any significant financial reporting judgements contained therein.
In addition, it oversees companys financial statements are the relationship with the external auditor, KPMG LLP KPMG.
It also reviews the companys systems of internal control and risk properly prepared and that the management procedures and considers annually whether an system of controls that is in place is internal audit function is required.
The Audit Committee, comprised exclusively of independent non-executive directors, met three times in the year ended 31 March 2018, in May and November 2017 and in March 2018.
After the year end, it met in May 2018 to consider the significant issues in relation to the 2018 annual report.
The external auditor, KPMG, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Company Secretary and members of the finance team attend the meetings of the Audit Committee.
Other board members and or senior executives may also attend meetings at the invitation of the Chairman.
At the end of each meeting, the Membership and attendance Audit Committee has a separate discussion with the external The membership and attendance record of the Audit Committee auditor without executive management present.
during the year was as follows: Work of the Audit Committee Meetings Meetings eligible The Audit Committee undertook the following activities in the attended to attend discharge of its responsibilities.
S J Bridges Chairman 3 3 1 G B Davison 1 1 Financial statements 2 S C R Jemmett-Page 2 2 The focus of the meetings in May and November 2017 was the 3 1 1 D C Stewart 2017 annual report and financial statements and the 2017 half 4 C H Gregson 1 1 year results respectively, including evaluation of the going concern 5 H Y H Bol 1 1 statement and, in the case of the annual report, the viability statement therein.
Mr Davison was appointed to the Committee on 1 January 2018.
Mrs Jemmett-Page was appointed to the Committee on 20 July 2017.
The March 2018 meeting considered principally the audit planning 3.
Mr Stewart retired from the Committee on 20 July 2017.
Mr Gregson was appointed to the Committee on 26 September 2017 and for the 2018 annual report.
retired from it on 1 January 2018.
Mr Bol resigned from the Committee on 7 September 2017.
In its May 2018 meeting, the Audit Committee reviewed the form and content of the 2018 annual report and financial statements.
In conducting its review, the Audit Committee considered reports prepared by management and the external auditor.
These reports provided an analytical review of the financial statements, comparing the current to prior year financial position and results, and detailed the judgements and sources of estimation uncertainty involved in applying the accounting policies to the financial statements.
The Audit Committee also considered any new accounting standards applicable and disclosure requirements.
In addition, the Audit Committee considered reports prepared by management to support the going concern statement and the viability statement.
The Audit Committee recommended the 2018 annual report to the board.
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 39 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Audit Committee report continued The significant issues the Audit Committee considered in relation Fair, balanced and understandable statement to the 2018 financial statements were the valuation of unlisted The Audit Committee reviewed the draft annual report and, taken and listed investments.
In relation to these financial statements, as a whole, considered it to be fair, balanced and understandable.
the Audit Committee also considered the going concern To assist in reaching this view, the Audit Committee considered a statement, the viability statement and compliance with the annual report prepared by management highlighting the positive and report fair, balanced and understandable provisions of the negative statements included in the annual report to ensure that UK Corporate Governance Code.
they fairly reflected the results for the year.
The Audit Committee recommended to the board that the Statement of directors Unlisted valuations responsibilities in respect of the annual report and the financial The Audit Committee recognises that unlisted investments were a statements, set out on page 64, should be signed accordingly.
significant component of the financial statements and that their valuation is subject to considerable judgement and uncertainty.
Internal control The Chairman of the Audit Committee attended the Valuation The board of directors is responsible for the companys system of Committee meetings along with the external auditor and internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is reported to the Audit Committee on the quality of the review, designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to adherence to the companys valuation policy and consistency of achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and valuation methodologies over time.
not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Listed valuations The Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the internal Listed investments were a significant component of the financial control environment and the structure in place to resolve statements and were valued using available market prices as at identified weaknesses.
The Audit Committee agreed the control 31 March 2018.
The Audit Committee reviewed a schedule of review work plan for 2019.
During the year, the Audit Committee listed securities, to ensure that the exchange bid prices used in the reviewed reports on internal controls, including a review of the valuation were from an actively traded market.
The Audit operations and risks of Caledonia Ireland ICAV, the subsidiary Committee concurred that it was appropriate to use the exchange entity control environment reviews and an overview of the bid price in all cases.
implementation process of the Unquoted pool management system.
Going concern and viability The Audit Committee considered the funding needs of the The Audit Committee also reviewed the Business Risk Report company and its financial capacity, including available bank credit prepared by management identifying the principle business risks and liquid funds, to be wholly sufficient to confirm the going impacting the company, together with the mitigating controls in concern of the business.
operation and actions identified for continuous improvement.
The Audit Committee also assessed the viability of the company.
Internal audit They agreed to provide a viability statement for a period of three As the company does not have an internal audit function, the Audit years for the reasons set out in the statement on page 62.
In Committee considers annually whether there is a need for one.
May 2018, the Audit Committee conducted a series of stress tests The company is an investment trust and manages its nonthat considered the impact of severe market downturn scenarios consolidated subsidiaries as other private company investments, on shareholders funds, the debt facility, investment income and expecting them to operate their own risk management processes.
also the potential loss of investment trust status.
The outcome of The company closely monitors the control environment of its this activity led the Audit Committee to recommend to the board private company investments.
The Audit Committee to make the statement on page 62. recommended to the board that an internal audit function was not required.
40 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Auditor Non-audit work The Audit Committee last conducted an audit tender process in To safeguard the auditors independence and objectivity, the Audit mid-2011.
The main outcomes of the process were the Committee maintains a schedule of specific non-audit activities replacement of Deloitte who had been the companys auditor which may not be undertaken by the external auditor, within the since 2006 with KPMG Audit Plc and a plan for the development broad principles that the external auditor should not audit its own of the external audit approach.
The principal planned changes work, should not make management decisions on behalf of the were to increase the depth of the audit by reducing the materiality company, should not be put into the role of advocate for the level and an increased focus on unquoted investment valuations company and that no mutuality of interest should be created and process.
At its request and for internal reasons, KPMG Audit between the company and the external auditor.
Plc resigned as the companys auditor with effect from the The Audit Committee has in place a policy for the provision of conclusion of the annual general meeting on 24 July 2013 and was non-audit services, meeting the requirements of the 2016 revision replaced by its immediate parent entity, KPMG LLP.
of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the FRC Revised Ethical In accordance with professional guidance, KPMG LLP changes the Standard implementing the EU Audit Regulation and Directive and audit partner every five years.
The current audit partner, Thomas the requirements of the Competition and Markets Authoritys Brown, was appointed in 2016. final Order.
The Audit Committee has decided that it will put the role of Certain non-audit services are prohibited and permitted services auditor out to tender at least every ten years, in accordance with are subject to approval by the Finance Director and Audit the UK Corporate Governance Code and rules from the Committee.
Total fees payable for non-audit work carried out by Competition and Markets Authority and EU legislation.
Its current the companys auditor are subject to limits.
plan is to complete an audit tender in the financial year ending Re-appointment of KPMG as auditor 31 March 2022, being ten years from the date of the last audit KPMG Audit Plc was appointed auditor in 2011 and was replaced tender.
The Audit Committee believes that the depth of by KPMG LLP in 2013.
The lead audit partner is required to rotate knowledge of the company and its investments particularly the every five years this was done in 2016 and other key audit majority owned unquoted investments obtained by KPMG LLP partners every seven years.
No contractual obligations restrict the over its tenure as auditor puts it in the best position to conduct an Audit Committees choice of external auditor.
The Audit effective audit for members.
Committee concluded that KPMG provides an effective audit and Audit effectiveness the Audit Committee recommended to the board the reAudit quality is reviewed continuously throughout the year by both appointment of KPMG LLP.
the Finance Director and Audit Committee.
The focus is centred on Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG LLP as auditor and to authorise the following: the directors to determine the auditors remuneration, will be the quality and seniority of the auditors staff proposed at the annual general meeting on 19 July 2018. the appropriateness of the planned audit methodology as Private meetings applied to Caledonias business activity During the year, the Chairman of the Audit Committee met the level and challenge and quality of reporting to the Audit separately and privately with the Finance Director and KPMG.
The effectiveness of the audit is also monitored throughout the Statement of compliance year using several measures, including but not limited to: This report has been prepared in compliance with the Competition and Markets Authority Order 2014 on statutory audit services for a review and approval of the scope of the planned audit large companies.
the planned implementation of improvements following appropriate post audit reviews the monitoring of the independence of the external auditor Stuart Bridges Chairman of the Audit Committee a review of any Financial Reporting Councils Audit Quality Review Report for KPMGs audit of the company.
24 May 2018 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 41
