68 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Leadership and Governance Corporate Governance Statement Operating with integrity at all levels, at all times Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 69 Leadership and Governance Dear Shareholder, Our core values At Cairn, we operate with integrity at all times, recognising that in doing so the Company will maintain the trust of its many stakeholders.
We are committed to working responsibly as part of our strategy to deliver value for all stakeholders and to engaging with our stakeholders on a regular basis, with a Building Respect clear focus on working in a safe and secure, as well as environmentally and socially responsible manner.
We build respect by communicating openly The Board recognises its important role in promoting high standards of corporate governance and understands that with each other and our stakeholders, an effective, challenging and diverse Board is essential for listening effectively and providing feedback delivering the Companys strategy in line with shareholders and other stakeholders long term interests, generating and recognition in a constructive way.
confidence that the business is conducting itself in an ethical and responsible manner.
Our corporate culture is central to this, and promotes integrity and openness in everything we do, We pursue deep Nurturing Relationships understanding at every level of our organisation of the core set of values which underpin how we do business and the behaviours expected of our people see opposite.
Further We work closely with our stakeholders information on our governance, culture, strategy and business model and our commitment to working responsibly including colleagues, local communities, contractors, how we engage with our key stakeholders can be found in the suppliers, Governments, regulators, Strategic Report section of this Annual Report.
non-governmental organisations, During the year the Board has also placed much focus on industry partners and shareholders.
operational delivery and risk management.
An open and balanced review of our business performance is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 65.
During the year, the Board regularly discussed our strategic priorities, operational delivery and the associated key business risks and their ongoing management.
We provide further information on these activities Acting Responsibly on pages 30 to 40.
There has also been a continuing focus on succession planning We act with honesty and integrity to ensure by both the Board and Nomination Committee with the aim of assessing the executive non-executive and senior management all our operations are carried out safely and succession pipeline at Cairn, and identifying the skills that are empower our people to achieve their goals needed to support our strategy and business for the long term.
We provide further information in relation to our succession and contribute to the wider performance planning in the separate Nomination Committee Report on of the business in a responsible manner.
This will continue to be a key area of focus for the Board in future years.
Read more: Chairmans Statement 12 on P12 Ian Tyler Our corporate culture promotes Chairman integrity and openness in 11 March 2019 everything we do.
We pursue deep understanding at every level of our organisation of the core set of values which underpin how we do business and the behaviours expected of our people.
70 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Leadership and Governance Corporate Governance Statement continued Board diversity The mix in our membership.
Average age years Average tenure years 55 7 40-54 55-70 0-2 3-6 7-9 9 years years years years figures as at 11 March 2019 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The Company considers ongoing refreshment of the Non-Executive As a company incorporated in the United Kingdom with a Premium Listing Directors on the Board to be positive as it brings new thinking to the on the London Stock Exchange, Cairn is required to report against the UK Company as well as ensuring there is a healthy level of independent Corporate Governance Code as published by the Financial Reporting challenge to management.
The Boards collective skills and experience Council and available on its website at www.
This equip it to direct the Companys strategy and meet its business needs statement reports compliance with the version of the Code published as they evolve over time.
The Board is also mindful, however, that an in April 2016.
Cairn is fully committed to achieving compliance with the appropriate balance between directors who can bring a new perspective principles and provisions set out in the Code and the Board is responsible and those who provide continuity is essential for a business like Cairns.
for ensuring that an appropriate framework is in place to do so.
The Company appointed three new Non-Executive Directors during Following publication of a revised version of the Code in July 2018, the period from 2015 to 2017.
During 2018, two Non-Executive Directors the Board has carefully considered the new provisions that have been retired from the Board, with Iain McLaren and Jackie Sheppard retiring incorporated into the revised Code and related FRC Guidance on Board on 15 May 2018 and 31 December 2018 respectively.
Although these requirements only apply to the Companys changes, the Board currently comprises two Executive Directors and financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2019, the Board considers six Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, Alexander Berger, that a number of them are already satisfied by its existing policies and having served on the Board for nine years, will not seek re-election at practices.
Where this is not the case, the Board has been actively taking the AGM to be held on Friday 17 May 2019 and as such will retire as a steps to ensure that the Company will be compliant when the new Code Non-Executive Director immediately following the AGM.
The Company takes effect and in preparation for reporting under the new Code in has commenced a search for two new Non-Executive Directors and 2020.
One particular area of focus has been to expand the Companys currently expects to complete the appointment process during the first existing channels of engagement with the workforce, and the Company half of 2019.
Further information on succession planning is included in plans to constitute a small workforce advisory panel, which will be the Nomination Committee Report on pages 85 and 86. chaired by an independent Non-Executive Director Nicoletta Giadrossi.
The Company will include further information about the activities of the The Directors of the Company as at the date of this statement are set workforce advisory panel in the 2019 Annual Report.
out in the table below and further information about our Directors is also included in the Board of Directors section on pages 66 and 67.
The information in this statement together with the Strategic Report, Date of appointment Date of last Audit Committee Report, Nomination Committee Report, Directors Name Role in current role re-election Remuneration Report and Directors Report describes the manner in Simon Thomson Chief Executive July 2011 15 May 2018 which the Company has applied the main principles of governance set out in the Code and complied with the individual Code provisions.
James Smith Chief Financial May 2014 15 May 2018 It is the Boards view that the Company has fully complied with the Officer 2016 version of the Code throughout 2018.
Ian Tyler Non-Executive May 2014 15 May 2018 The Board Chairman Cairns business is international in scope and carries political, Todd Hunt Non-Executive May 2003 15 May 2018 commercial and technical risks.
Accordingly, particular attention is paid Director to the composition and balance of the Board to ensure that it has wide Alexander Berger Non-Executive May 2010 15 May 2018 experience of the industry and regulatory environment in which Cairn Director operates, and appropriate financial, operational and risk management skills.
In each Board appointment, whether executive or non-executive, Keith Lough Non-Executive May 2015 15 May 2018 objectivity and integrity, as well as skills, experience, ability and Director diversity, assist the Board in its key functions, and are prerequisites for Peter Kallos Non-Executive September 2015 15 May 2018 appointment.
This also applies to senior management appointments Director below Board level and to our succession planning.
Nicoletta Giadrossi Non-Executive January 2017 15 May 2018 Director Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 71 Leadership and Governance previously two Directors until 31 December 2018 Nationality Gender 5:3 7:1 British Other M F figures as at 11 March 2019 Diversity is a key element of the Cairn Board, with emphasis placed Senior Independent Director not only on gender but also on culture, nationality, experience and Following Iain McLarens retirement from the Board in May 2018, Peter cognitive diversity.
Following the retirement of Jackie Sheppard at the Kallos assumed the role of Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
end of 2018, the number of women on the Board reduced from two to The main responsibilities of the Senior Independent Non-Executive one and the ongoing process to recruit new Non-Executive Directors is Director are as follows: therefore actively seeking to appoint at least one woman.
The Board To provide a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an continues to demonstrate diversity in a wider sense, with Directors from intermediary with other Directors when necessary: the Netherlands, the USA, and Italy as well as the UK, bringing a range To be available to shareholders and other stakeholders if they have of domestic and international experience to the Board.
The Boards concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, diverse range of experience and expertise covers not only a wealth of Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve or experience of operating in the oil and gas industry but also extensive for which such contact is inappropriate: and technical, operational, financial, governance, legal and commercial To meet with the other Non-Executive Directors without the expertise.
Further information on diversity within Cairn is included in the Chairman present, at least annually, in order to appraise the Nomination Committee Report on page 86 and in the Strategic Report Chairmans performance.
section of this Annual Report.
Performance evaluation Division of responsibilities between Chairman and Chief Executive The Board continually strives to improve its effectiveness and The Company has a clear division of responsibilities between the recognises that the performance evaluation process represents Chairman and the Chief Executive, which is set out in writing and an annual opportunity to enhance overall Board effectiveness.
In line with the Code recommendation to conduct an externally Chairman: key responsibilities Chief Executive: key responsibilities facilitated Board evaluation at least every three years, the Board Leading the Board in an ethical Managing the business and appointed Independent Audit to facilitate its performance evaluation manner and promoting effective proposing and developing the for 2018 previous externally facilitated evaluations took place in 2012 Board relationships.
Companys strategy and overall and 2015, with evaluations conducted internally in the intervening objectives in consultation with Ensuring that the Board plays a years.
Independent Audit also conducted the previous externally the Board.
full and constructive part in the facilitated evaluation of the Board in 2015 but otherwise has no determination and development Driving the successful and connection with the Company or its Directors.
efficient achievement of the Companys Key Performance In order to facilitate the external evaluation, Independent Audit Building a well balanced Board, Indicators KPIs and strategic reviewed a full annual cycle of the Companys Board and committee considering Board composition objectives.
papers and attended the November 2018 Board and committee and Board succession.
They also conducted a series of one-to-one Leading the Senior Leadership Ensuring the effectiveness of the interviews with each Director and the Company Secretary, as well as Team in ensuring the effective Board and individual Directors.
the Chief Operating Officer and Director of Exploration, in Q4 2018 and implementation of decisions of Overseeing the annual Board Q1 2019.
In addition, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director the Board and its committees.
evaluation and acting on its results.
met with the Non-Executive Directors excluding Ian Tyler in order Providing strong and coherent Ensuring appropriate induction to discuss and appraise the performance of the Chairman.
leadership of the Company and and development programmes effectively communicating the for Directors.
The results of the Board effectiveness review were then set out in a Companys culture, values and final report published by Independent Audit in February 2019, which Setting the Board agenda, chairing behaviours internally and was presented and discussed at the March 2019 Board meeting.
Board meetings and overseeing externally.
implementation of the Boards Engagement with shareholders decisions.
Engagement with shareholders and other stakeholders when appropriate.
72 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Leadership and Governance Corporate Governance Statement continued Performance evaluation continued Having reviewed the independence of each of the Non-Executive Some of the main action points arising from the 2018 performance Directors against these criteria, the Board concluded that all Nonevaluation include the following: Executive Directors demonstrated each of the required competencies to a high level and are, therefore, each considered independent by Key action points Implementation the Board.
Refocusing of the A review of the format and approach including management content and structure for the management The Board recognises that, in view of the characteristics of presentation part presentation part of Board meetings is being independence set out in the Code, length of service is an important of Board meetings undertaken to ensure that this continues to allow factor when considering the independence of Non-Executive Directors for an appropriate level of Board discussion and that Directors having served for longer than nine years may not be on different areas of the business, and that the considered independent.
Todd Hunt has served as a Non-Executive main Board session is more focused around Director on the Board since May 2003.
The Board is, however, satisfied a tighter agenda.
that Todds judgement has remained independent and that he has consistently displayed all of the behaviours expected of our Succession The evaluation provided useful insights into the independent Non-Executive Directors.
Moreover, the Board is of the planning Boards ongoing succession planning activities, view that Todd brings an extremely valuable level of insight and with a particular focus on the current process to challenge to Board discussions and that his extensive industry recruit two new Non-Executive Directors and how experience continues to be of significant benefit to the Company.
best to ensure that the Board has the right mix of skills and diversity going forward.
Re-election of Directors Culture The evaluation reinforced that culture is a strategic In accordance with the Code, all of the Companys directors are subject matter which requires ongoing focus by the to annual re-election by shareholders.
As such, each of the current Board, including workforce and other stakeholder Directors, other than Alexander Berger, will seek re-election at the AGM engagement.
The Company will continue to to be held on Friday 17 May 2019. develop and enhance its activities in this area to facilitate the integration of these matters with the Induction and development Boards strategic discussions.
New Directors receive a full and appropriate induction on joining the Board.
This involves meetings with other Board members in particular As explained above, some improvements have been identified and the Chairman, senior management and the Companys principal have already been implemented or will be addressed during 2019. advisers.
In addition, new Directors are provided with a comprehensive induction pack which contains a wide range of materials including: Following the Board performance evaluation process conducted in 2018, the Board and the Board committees are satisfied that they are operating Board Board papers and minutes of previous meetings: effectively and that each Director has performed well in respect of that schedule of matters reserved to the Board: list Directors role on the Board and its committees.
The Board believes that of Board and committee members and dates of all of the Directors performance continues to be effective and that they appointment: and schedule of dates for Board and each demonstrate commitment to their role.
The Nomination Committee committee meetings.
has also reviewed the outcomes of the 2018 evaluation to consider how Committees Terms of reference for all Board Committees.
these influence or otherwise impact on Board composition.
Risk Terms of reference for Risk Management The Executive Directors also have their performance reviewed by the Committee and minutes of last meeting: current Remuneration Committee against the Group KPIs which are set annually Group Risk Matrix and Risk Appetite Statement: FRC further details of the KPIs can be found on pages 6 to 9.
The 2018 Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control bonuses payable to the Executive Directors under the Companys cash and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
bonus scheme described further in the Directors Remuneration Report Key policies Cairn Operating Standards, Group Corporate on pages 87 to 113 are linked directly to the Groups performance against Responsibility Guiding Principles: Group Code these KPIs.
As the KPIs set out our strategic objectives, this ensures that of Ethics:  ABC executive performance is directly linked to Group strategy.
Management System: Dealing Code: Insider Lists Process: Procedures, Systems and Controls for Independence of Non-Executive Directors Compliance with the Market Abuse Regulation, The Board considers the independence of each of the Non-Executive the Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance Directors on an ongoing basis, taking into account their integrity, their and Transparency Rules.
objectivity and their contribution to the Board and its committees.
The Organisation Organisational Structure, Group Structure Chart: Board is of the view that the following behaviours are essential for a latest Annual Report and Accounts.
Director to be considered independent: Provides an objective, robust and consistent challenge to the Governance UK Corporate Governance Code: all supporting assumptions, beliefs and views of senior management and the FRC Guidance: FRC Feedback Statement on UK other Directors: Board Succession Planning: FRC Report Corporate Questions intelligently, debates constructively and challenges Culture and the Role of Boards: ICSA and rigorously and dispassionately: Investment Association Guidance on the Acts at all times in the best interests of the Company and its Stakeholder Voice in Board Decision Making.
shareholders and other stakeholders: Legal regulatory Memorandum on continuing obligations of directors Has a detailed and extensive knowledge of the Companys business of premium listed companies: ICSA Guidance on and of the market as a whole which provides a solid background Directors General Duties: ICSA Guidance on Liability against which they can consider the Companys strategy objectively of Non-Executive Directors: GC 100 Guidance on and help the executive directors develop proposals on strategy: and Directors Duties: Section 172 and Stakeholder Has no close ties or material relationships with the Company, either Considerations: GC 100 and Investor Group directly or indirectly.
Guidance on Directors Remuneration Reporting.
Insurance Full details of Directors and Officers liability cover.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 73 Leadership and Governance The Company also provides, on an ongoing basis, the necessary Matters reserved to the Board and delegation of authority resources for developing and updating its existing Directors knowledge The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it and capabilities.
In particular, the Company is committed to the provision for decision, which is divided into categories covering different types of of continuing professional development training for its directors.
In 2018, decisions, including: corporate: Board Directors: financial operational: the Company continued with its practice of providing a Directors and legal regulatory.
education programme consisting of a number of seminars for Board members, which are presented by the Companys external advisers By way of example, some of the matters which the Board considered guest speakers members of senior management, on subjects and or approved during 2018 and Q1 2019 were: appropriate to the Companys business, including changes to legislation, Corporate Board Directors regulation and market practice.
During 2018, the subjects covered by these seminars included: The Companys 2017 and 2018 Changes to Board committees An external overview of the exploration and production market and Annual Report and Accounts and Cairns position within it, delivered by Morgan Stanley and JP Morgan: 2018 Half Year Report A presentation on the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code and The Companys 2018 AGM circular Detailed review of succession related regulatory changes, delivered by PwC: planning A presentation on the current dynamics of the oil and gas industry The Companys Risk Appetite and expected future trends, delivered by Wood Mackenzie: and Statement An anti-bribery and corruption update delivered by Pinsent Masons.
Review of the Companys These seminars are normally held prior to Board meetings and are Corporate Responsibility attended by all Directors present at such meetings as well as the Chief Management System Operating Officer and Director of Exploration the Company keeps a record of attendance.
Any Director may request that a particular Financial Operational Legal Regulatory subject be covered in a seminar.
In addition, all media articles relating The appropriateness of the Group Oversight of the arbitration to the Company and all analyst reports relating to the Company are going concern sign-off for the 2017 process seeking resolution distributed to all Directors.
and 2018 full year accounts and of the Indian tax issue 2018 half year Financial Statements Finally, the Company ensures that Directors receive additional induction support and training ahead of any changes to their The Companys viability statement Approval of the Companys responsibilities.
By way of example, Nicoletta Giadrossi received a Modern Slavery Statement comprehensive and tailored induction prior to taking over as Chair of and its publication on the the Remuneration Committee and becoming a member of the Audit Companys website Committee in May 2018.
The Companys annual work Approval of the Group Tax programme and budget Strategy and its publication Information and support on the Companys website The Board has full and timely access to all relevant information to Group Reserves and Resources enable it to discharge its duties.
Under the direction of the Chairman, the Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring good information Approval of new $575m RBL flows within the Board and its committees and between management Facility Extension and Non-Executive Directors, as well as facilitating induction and Approval to submit Senegal SNE assisting with professional development as required.
The Company Exploitation Plan Secretary ensures the presentation of high quality information to the Board and its committees and that all papers and information are Final Investment Decision on the delivered in a timely fashion.
Board and committee papers are Nova Development delivered securely through an electronic platform.
Replacement of the Norwegian Exploration Finance Facility The Company Secretary and Deputy Company Secretary are responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all In addition to the above, the Board conducts an annual review of corporate governance matters, and each Director has access to the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls with ongoing the advice and services of the Company Secretary and Deputy monitoring of this throughout the year, an annual detailed strategy Company Secretary.
meeting, and an annual deep-dive session on risk management.
There is also a procedure agreed by the Board for Directors, in The Board also has an approved set of financial delegations of furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice authority to ensure clarity throughout the business concerning the if necessary, at the Companys expense.
distinction between financial matters which require Board approval and those that can be delegated to senior management.
Conflicts of interest The Board has in place a procedure for the consideration and authorisation The senior management structure beneath Board level remains of conflicts or possible conflicts with the Companys interests.
All Directors unchanged from that disclosed in last years corporate governance are aware of the requirement to submit details to the Company Secretary statement, with the Senior Leadership Team SLT and Management or Deputy Company Secretary of any current situations appointments or Team MT continuing to play a key role in supporting the Board.
otherwise which may give rise to a conflict, or potential conflict, of interest.
The Board will continue to monitor and review potential conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
74 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Leadership and Governance Corporate Governance Statement continued Board and management committee structure Considering whether opportunities being pursued have acceptable subsurface, above ground and fiscal attributes to continue evaluation: Developing a timeline for each existing or proposed opportunity which Board of Directors drives to a decision, including drill or drop, as expeditiously as practical: Ensuring that the subsurface geoscience aspects of all exploration and appraisal and new venture opportunities align with Cairns Board Committees Audit, Remuneration and Nomination strategic objectives: Ensuring consistent, efficient screening and ranking of exploration opportunities, following initial data room assessment but prior to Risk Management Chief Executive Committee detailed evaluation, utilising the significant knowledge and experience of the team: Ensuring that the significant knowledge and experience of the team Senior Leadership Team SLT is utilised appropriately and consistently in the delivery of best practice across all areas of geological and geophysical G&G analysis in accordance with Cairns business plan and core business Management Team MT principles: and Considering and or seeking appropriate data subscriptions, purchases and academic collaborations to ensure rapid opportunity Exploration Leadership Team ELT evaluation and capture.
Further information on our Board committees is contained later in this statement on Board meetings page 76 and in the separate Audit Committee Report, Nomination Committee Report During 2018, six scheduled meetings of the Board were held, with and Directors Remuneration Report.
all of these meetings taking place over two consecutive days the only exception to this being one shorter meeting held specifically to In 2018, the SLT comprised the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial approve the Companys 2018 Half Year Report.
The first day includes Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, the Director of Exploration, the a CEO lunch with the Non-Executive Directors and when applicable Director of Corporate Affairs, the Directors for the UK Norway and a Board education session, followed by a report from the CEO and CFO International regions and the General Manager, Senegal.
The SLT is and a management presentation, both of which form part of the formal chaired by the Chief Executive and meets six times per year with those business of the Board meeting.
meetings scheduled in advance of Board meetings.
The CEO and CFO report and management presentation provide a Key elements of the SLTs role include the following: detailed update from senior management and other employees on Devising and generating the Companys strategy to be proposed key projects, assets or matters to be considered at the Board meeting, to the Board for approval and implementing and communicating allowing opportunity for a technically rigorous discussion.
This this strategy across the business: information allows the Board to more fully understand any risks or Implementing the business plan, the key performance indicators challenges to the business plan and strategy and also provides broad and annual work programme and budget following their approval exposure to the employee base within the Company.
The full Board by the Board: then meets for dinner at the end of the first day, and is usually joined Considering business development and new venture projects prior by the Chief Operating Officer and the Director of Exploration.
to recommending these to the Board: and Providing leadership and guidance to the Company on vision, Board committee meetings are normally held on the second day or, strategy, culture, corporate governance, corporate responsibility depending on the number of committee meetings required, on both and HSE matters.
All Board committee meetings take place prior to the main part of the Board meeting so that the chair of each committee can provide The members of the SLT are also members of the RMC, which a report to the Board.
These are followed by the remainder of the identifies and reviews key business risks further information formal business of the Board meeting and a Board lunch.
The on the role of the RMC is contained in the internal control section Chairman also holds a short meeting with the other Non-Executive of this statement on page 78.
Directors without the Executive Directors at the end of the second day.
The MT is chaired by the Chief Operating Officer and meets formally Three of the Board meetings during 2018 were held at the Companys six times per year with four of those meetings focusing on a quarterly office in London and three were held at the Companys registered performance review of the business.
Details of attendance at each of those Board meetings, and at meetings of each of the Board committees, are set The key elements of the MTs role include the following: out on page 75.
Any Director who is physically unable to attend Board Developing and executing the annual work programme and budget, and committee meetings is given the opportunity to be consulted and which will deliver the Companys strategic objectives: comment in advance of the meeting by telephone or in writing.
Video Assessing and determining the mitigation plans for key business and telephone conferencing facilities are used on the rare occasions risks and ensuring that risks are captured and reviewed regularly: that Directors are not able to attend meetings in person.
Coordinating operations and licence management along with resource allocation and organisational alignment to ensure timely The annual timetable for Board and committee meetings is discussed and cost-effective delivery against approved budgets: at least 18 months prior to its commencement allowing the Directors Oversight of the Companys commitment to working responsibly: and to plan their time accordingly.
The Board and committees have agreed Reviewing and approving the Companys Operating Standards.
dates for all scheduled meetings in 2019 and 2020.
This process ensures that the Chairman can be comfortable that each Director is The Exploration Leadership Team ELT, which is chaired by the Director able to devote sufficient time and resources to their role on the Board of Exploration, meets on a monthly basis to assist the Director of and, where relevant, its committees.
Exploration in delivering a robust exploration portfolio, with a particular focus on the following: The formal agenda for each scheduled Board meeting is set by the Providing assurance that opportunities being pursued by Chairman in consultation with the Chief Executive and the Company new ventures are sufficiently value-added and meet Cairns Secretary.
The system for establishing agenda items means that the strategic objectives: Chairman, the Board and each of the Board committees have the Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 75 Leadership and Governance confidence that all required items are included on their agenda at meetings to be convened at short notice where required to deal with the most appropriate time of the year and that there is sufficient time specific matters which need to be considered between scheduled allocated for discussion, allowing the Directors to discharge their Board meetings.
As noted above, the Non-Executives have a practice of meeting Formal minutes of all Board and committee meetings are circulated informally at the end of each Board meeting without Executive to all Directors prior to the subsequent Board meeting and are Directors being present.
At these Non-Executive forums, the Nonconsidered for approval at that Board meeting.
In addition, the Executive Directors are invited by the Chairman to bring forward any members of the Board are in frequent contact between meetings matter pertaining to the business of the Board that they believe would regarding progress of the Groups business plan, one example being benefit from discussion in such forum.
This practice also applies after an annual Board update call in January ahead of the scheduled Board Board committee meetings to ensure that Non-Executive Directors meetings for the year.
There is also a procedure in place to allow Board can discuss any relevant issues arising from those meetings without management being present.
Directors attendance at 2018 Board and committee meetings The table below sets out the attendance record of each Director at scheduled Board and Board committee meetings during 2018.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Governance Board Committee Committee Committee Committee 1 Meetings held during 2018 6 4 4 4 2 Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings attended attended attended attended attended Executive Directors 2 2 Simon Thomson CEO n a n a n a 3 James Smith CFO n a n a n a Non-Executive Directors 4 Ian Tyler Chairman n a Peter Kallos n a n a Senior Independent Director 5 Todd Hunt n a n a n a n a Alexander Berger n a n a Keith Lough n a 6 Nicoletta Giadrossi n a n a Former Non-Executive Directors 7 Iain McLaren n a 8 Jackie Sheppard n a n a Notes: n a not applicable where a Director is not a member of the committee.
1 D uring 2018, certain Directors who were not committee members attended meetings of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, Nomination Committee and Governance Committee by invitation.
These details have not been included in the table.
2 S imon Thomson is not a member of the Remuneration Committee but attends its meetings by invitation other than parts of meetings where he would be conflicted.
Mr Thomson also attends Audit Committee meetings by invitation.
3 James Smith is not a member of the Audit Committee but attends its meetings by invitation.
4 Ian Tyler is not a member of the Audit Committee but attends its meetings by invitation.
5 Todd Hunt attended all of the scheduled Board meetings held over two days but was unable to attend the shorter Board meeting held specifically to approve the Companys 2018 Half Year Report.
Mr Hunt provided his comments and confirmed his approval of the Half Year Report in advance of the meeting.
6 N icoletta Giadrossi was appointed a member of the Audit Committee with effect from 15 May 2018.
The number of meetings she attended is stated from that date.
7 Iain McLaren retired as a Non-Executive Director on 15 May 2018.
The number of meetings he attended is stated up to that date.
8 Jackie Sheppard retired as a Non-Executive Director on 31 December 2018.
The number of meetings she attended is stated up to that date.
76 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Leadership and Governance Corporate Governance Statement continued Board Committees Further information on the role, responsibilities and work of the Board committee structure during 2018 Remuneration Committee is included in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 87 to 113.
Board of Directors Nomination Committee The members of the Nomination Committee during the year were as follows: Audit Remuneration Nomination Governance Ian Tyler Chair : Committee Committee Committee Committee Simon Thomson: Keith Lough: The Governance Committee was abolished with effect from 31 December 2018 Peter Kallos: see below.
Nicoletta Giadrossi appointed as a member of the Committee with effect from 15 May 2018 : and Each of the Board committees is provided with all necessary resources Iain McLaren retired as a Non-Executive Director with effect from to enable them to undertake their duties in an effective manner and 15 May 2018. has formal terms of reference approved by the Board.
Copies of the terms of reference, which have recently been reviewed and updated in The Nomination Committee met four times in 2018.
The Chairman and line with the 2018 version of the Code, are available on the Companys three of the Companys independent Non-Executive Directors are website.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the members of the Committee.
In addition, to ensure continuing executive Remuneration and Nomination Committees and the Deputy Company input on nomination matters, the Chief Executive is also a member of Secretary acts as secretary to the Audit Committee.
The minutes of all the Committee.
committee meetings are circulated to all Directors.
Further information on the role, responsibilities and work of the In line with best practice, more detailed reports from the Audit and Nomination Committee is included in the separate Nomination Nomination Committees are presented as separate reports on pages Committee Report on pages 85 and 86.
80 to 86 rather than including these in the Corporate Governance Statement.
In addition, full details of the Companys remuneration Governance Committee policy are given in the separate Directors Remuneration Report on The members of the Governance Committee during the year were pages 87 to 113.
Summary details of the composition of each as follows: committee and meetings held during 2018 are set out below.
Jackie Sheppard Chair : Alexander Berger: Audit Committee Ian Tyler: and The members of the Audit Committee during the year were as follows: James Smith.
Keith Lough Chair with effect from 15 May 2018 : Alexander Berger: The Governance Committee met twice in 2018 and was comprised of a Nicoletta Giadrossi appointed as a member of the Committee with majority of Non-Executive Directors.
The ongoing role of the governance effect from 15 May 2018 : and committee was reviewed in late 2018 and, in view of the infrequency Iain McLaren former Chair, retired as a Non-Executive Director on of its meetings and the importance of full Board oversight of the 15 May 2018.
Companys corporate governance activities, it was decided this Committee should be abolished with effect from 31 December 2018.
The Audit Committee met four times during 2018 and currently The responsibilities of the governance committee have subsequently comprises three independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman been assumed by the Board and or other Board committees of the Board is not a member of the Committee but attends its meetings as appropriate.
Further information on the role, responsibilities and work of the Audit Committee is included in the Audit Committee Report on Shareholders and Annual General Meeting AGM pages 80 to 84.
Communications with shareholders are given high priority by the Board.
The Company has implemented the provisions of the Companies Act Remuneration Committee 2006 regarding electronic communication with its shareholders, The members of the Remuneration Committee during the year were in order to give shareholders more choice and flexibility in how they as follows: receive information from the Company.
Cairn responds promptly to Nicoletta Giadrossi Chair with effect from 15 May 2018 : correspondence from shareholders and launched a new Company Ian Tyler: website during 2017, which contains a wide range of information Peter Kallos: on the Company, including a dedicated investor relations section.
Iain McLaren retired as a Non-Executive Director on 15 May 2018 : and In order to ensure that the members of the Board develop an Jackie Sheppard former Chair until 15 May 2018, retired as a understanding of the views of major shareholders, there is regular Non-Executive Director on 31 December 2018. dialogue with institutional shareholders, including meetings with executive management after the announcement of the year end The Remuneration Committee met four times during 2018 and currently and half year results.
The Chairman is available to attend a number comprises three independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chief of these meetings.
The Board is kept informed of any issues raised Executive is not a member of the Committee but attends its meetings by by shareholders both as a standing agenda item in Board papers and invitation.
The Committees remuneration advisers, Aon Hewitt Limited, through feedback at Board meetings and following results or other also attended some of the Committees meetings.
None of the members significant announcements.
In addition, the Company maintains an of the Committee, nor the Chief Executive nor the Chairman, participated investor relations database which details all meetings between the in any meetings or discussions relating to their own remuneration.
The Company and its investors or other related stakeholders.
All analyst Committee has established a practice of meeting informally without reports relating to the Company are also distributed to the Board.
any Executive Directors or advisers present after each Committee meeting to allow the Non-Executives to discuss any matter which has arisen in the meeting or relating to the duties of the Committee which they believe would benefit from discussion in such forum.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 77 Leadership and Governance AGM details 2018 and 2019 Overview 2018 AGM: held on Tuesday 15 May 2018 Full Director attendance The Caledonian Waldorf Astoria Hotel, Edinburgh Highest votes in favour 99% for five resolutions No resolutions with 93% in favour 2019 AGM: to be held on Friday 17 May 2019 Full Director attendance expected The Caledonian Waldorf Astoria Hotel, Edinburgh 12 ordinary resolutions and four special resolutions being full details in Notice of AGM proposed to shareholders A list of the Companys major shareholders can be found in the The Company has in place an Integrated Internal Control and Directors Report on page 116.
The Company recognises that the Assurance Framework the Framework, which plays a critical role in success of the comply-or-explain approach under the Code depends setting out how the Company manages and assures itself that the risks on an ongoing and open dialogue with shareholders, and remains relating to the achievement of corporate vision, strategy and objectives committed to engaging with shareholders, as well as proxy voting are effectively controlled.
The Framework is based on the Committee agencies, on any matter which they wish to discuss in relation to the of Sponsoring Organisations COSO framework and its five key Companys governance.
components, which is a commonly used and recognised international framework for considering internal control systems.
The COSO The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and institutional framework seeks to help organisations develop systems of internal investors and welcomes their participation.
It is policy for all Directors to control which help facilitate the achievement of business objectives be present at the AGM, with the Chair of each of the Board committees and improvements in Company performance.
The COSO framework expected to attend and be prepared to answer shareholder questions also supports organisations in adapting to increasingly complex on areas within their remit.
business environments and managing risks to acceptable levels with the aim of safeguarding shareholders interests and Company assets.
As part of our commitment to transparency we look to involve shareholders fully in the affairs of the Company and to give them The Framework has been in place for the 2018 financial year and up the opportunity at the AGM to ask questions about the Companys to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board, performance and activities.
Details of resolutions to be proposed at supported by the Audit Committee, has carried out a review of the the AGM on 17 May 2019 and an explanation of each resolution can effectiveness of the systems of internal control during 2018 and will be found in the separate Notice of AGM.
ensure that a similar review is performed in 2019.
In so doing, the Board and Audit Committee took into account the assurance provided by the The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as well as abstentions, Chief Executive in respect of the effectiveness of the Groups system will be counted before the AGM and the results will be made available of internal control.
The Board is accordingly satisfied that effective following the meeting after the shareholders have voted in a poll on controls are in place and that risks have been mitigated to a tolerable each resolution.
Both the Form of Proxy and the poll card for the AGM level across the Group in 2018. include a vote withheld option in respect of each resolution, to enable shareholders to abstain on any particular resolution.
It is explained on Particular attention has been placed by the Companys management the Form of Proxy that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not on ensuring that an effective system of internal control has been be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for or maintained during the year in relation to the key risks in the Companys against a resolution.
Enhancements have been made during 2018 to the following key controls, business processes and procedures: Information pursuant to the Takeover Directive The Board completed a risk workshop which focused on assessing The Company has provided the additional information required by above ground risks across the portfolio.
The objective of the the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing rules and workshop was to evaluate the risk profile of the current portfolio in specifically the requirements of DTR 7.2.
6 in respect of directors relation to above ground risk and consider how it may evolve over interests in shares: appointment and replacement of directors: powers time.
The outputs were then contrasted against the risk parameters of the directors: restrictions on voting rights and rights regarding control outlined in the Group Risk Appetite Statement to ensure they remain of the Company in the Directors Report.
appropriate: EY, the Groups internal auditor, delivered the annual internal audit Internal control plan which consisted of a number of risk areas identified from the The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal risk register.
Topics included the General Data Protection Regulation control, which includes all material controls, including financial, GDPR : hydrocarbon sales: Mexico new country set-up: and key operational and compliance controls and related risk management, financial controls.
The Group has been working throughout the and for regularly reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal year to implement the identified improvements: control is designed to identify, evaluate and manage significant risks Enhancements were made to the Cairn Operating Standards associated with the achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
including the addition of a new section on external reporting: Because of the limitations inherent in any system of internal control, Enhancements were also made to the Group Corporate Cairns system is designed to meet its particular needs and the risks Responsibility Management System, comprising the inclusion of to which it is exposed, with a focus on managing risk rather than findings from an ISO45001 gap analysis and an OSPAR 2003 5 eliminating risk altogether.
Consequently, it can only provide reasonable re-verification audit: and and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Training was delivered to employees on anti-bribery and corruption, cyber security, GDPR, and in relation to the Corporate Criminal Offence of Failure to Prevent the Facilitation of Tax Evasion.
78 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Leadership and Governance Corporate Governance Statement continued The following describes the key elements of the Framework and the In 2018, risk management updates were presented at each Board processes used by the Board during 2018 to review the effectiveness meeting and as part of an annual process, the Board undertook a of the system and the approach to be taken in 2019. strategic risk workshop in November 2018.
As mentioned above, the focus of the 2018 workshop was on assessing above ground risks 1.
Strategic direction across the Groups portfolio.
The Companys strategy and business plan are proposed by the SLT and approved by the Board.
The Chief Executive is responsible for The RMC, which continues to meet on a quarterly basis, is currently managing the Companys business and implementing the Companys chaired by the CFO and comprises the Executive Directors and senior strategic objectives in consultation with the Board and SLT.
The internal auditor also attends RMC Executive is also responsible for implementing the decisions of the meetings, in order to ensure integration of the Groups internal audit Board and its committees and driving performance measured against plan with the risk management process.
Regular MT risk sessions were the Companys KPIs.
also held during 2018 to manage and facilitate the assessment and treatment of business risks that may affect the Companys ability to 2.
Operating management deliver its strategy.
The Company operates three regional units covering different countries and assets and with various partners on both an operated and Enhancements to our approach to risk management during 2018 non-operated basis.
The assets within each region are the principal included the following: focus for our regional managers, who are tasked with delivering the The MT formally conducted a review of the risks, mitigations and strategic objectives for their particular region, with a combination of actions identified on the Group risk register each quarter to ensure operational and technical teams as well as functional departments ownership for the risks, mitigations and actions were clearly providing support to each of the assets.
The implementation of the assigned and implementation dates for actions were tracked: and Cairn Operating Standards supports this process, providing assurance, The RMC reviewed a gross to net risk assessment of principal risks, standards and consistency in the delivery of our strategic objectives.
in order to gain a deeper understanding of high impact risks and identify any areas where there is a reliance on controls and The Executive Directors continue to be supported by the SLT as well mitigating actions.
Further information on these teams and their remit can be found on page 74.
There are also a number of functional The RMC reports on the Companys risk profile to both the Audit department heads whose roles include providing expert input and Committee and the Board.
Additionally, the Audit Committee and the challenge to the Companys work programmes, budgets and business Board receive internal reviews of the effectiveness of internal controls plan: and supplying the Directors with full and accurate information relative to the key risks.
The conclusion of the Board following these with which to make statements on the adequacy of internal control.
reviews during 2018 is that the internal controls in respect of key risks are effective.
The Company refreshes its business plan, work programme and budget on an annual basis in line with its overall strategy.
Assurance start at asset level before being consolidated at regional and Company The three lines of defence framework adopted by the Board provides levels.
The business plan sets out detailed objectives and KPIs for each three levels of assurance against the risks facing the Company: first of asset and supporting functional departments, and is consolidated into all at the operational level: secondly through overview by functional the Companys strategic planning.
After an iterative process, the annual management and the RMC: and thirdly through internal or joint venture business plan, work programme and associated budget are presented audits.
to the Board for approval.
The integrated internal control and assurance framework document The asset management teams then have the required authority includes a description of the Companys business and assurance to implement the business plan and to deliver the agreed work models and of its organisation and committee structure and defines programmes within the approved budget and delegations of authority, the relevant roles and responsibilities.
The framework defines the key and in accordance with the internal control framework.
policies and procedures which govern the way in which Cairn conducts its business and is therefore a core part of its system of internal control.
Risk management The Board is responsible for maintaining sound risk management and During 2018, the Directors reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control systems across the Cairn Group.
The Board must satisfy Companys system of financial and non-financial controls, including itself that the significant risks faced by the Group are being managed operational and compliance controls, risk management and high-level appropriately and that the system of risk management and internal internal control arrangements through the completion of internal control is sufficiently robust to respond to internal or external changes control self-assessment questionnaires.
These questionnaires, which in the Groups business environment.
are tailored to each region or function, are designed to provide an internal assessment of the effectiveness of key controls for the Groups The RMC continues to be responsible for the development of risk principal risks.
management strategy and processes within the Company and for overseeing the implementation of the requirements of this strategy.
It does Additionally, assurance maps for principal risks are developed, which this by ensuring that the framework for the identification, assessment, outline the key sources of assurance across the three lines of defence.
mitigation and reporting on all areas of risk is fit for purpose and that The three lines of defence model is a method of assessing different appropriate assurance arrangements are in place in relation to these risks sources of assurance the Group can rely on when analysing key risks to bring them within the Risk Appetite Statement agreed by the Board.
Assurance is gained through the application of the business management system which directs the day-to-day running To supplement the role of the RMC, the Group Risk Management of the business first line, the oversight functions within Cairn which Procedure defines the processes through which Cairn seeks to provide challenge to the risk and control environment second line systematically identify, analyse, assess, treat and monitor the business and any third party reviews the Group instructs to assess the status risks faced by the Group.
The Group Risk Management Procedure also of a risk control third line.
The assurance maps help identify potential identifies the risk management organisational structure through which areas of control weakness and or ineffective use of assurance business risks are managed and regularly reviewed at operating, asset, resources across the Group, which influenced the topics included country and Company levels.
Asset, project, country and functional in the 2018 Group internal audit plan.
level risk registers are used to capture, assess, monitor and review risks before the principal risks are consolidated into the Group risk register.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 79 Leadership and Governance The Directors derived assurance from the following internal and external controls during 2018: A regularly updated schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board: Implementation of the Cairn Operating Standards for key business activities: An appropriate organisational structure: Control over non-operated joint venture activities through delegated representatives: Specific delegations of authority for all financial transactions and other key technical and commercial decisions: Segregation of duties where appropriate: Business and financial reporting, including KPIs: Functional management reviews: An annual letters of assurance process, through which asset and functional managers review and confirm the adequacy of internal financial and non-financial controls and their compliance with Company policies, and report any control weaknesses identified in the past year and actions taken in respect of weaknesses identified in the prior year: A letter of assurance from the Chief Executive confirming the adequacy of internal controls within the Company in line with its policy, and reporting of any control weaknesses identified in the past year and actions taken in respect of weaknesses identified in the prior year: An annual internal audit plan, which is approved by the Audit Committee and Board and is driven by risks and key controls: Reports from the Audit Committee and RMC: Reports from the external auditor on matters identified during its statutory audit: Reports from audits by host Governments and co-venturers: Independent third party reviews: and The skills and experience of the workforce.
