Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 85 Leadership and Governance Nomination Committee Report The Nomination Committee Members and meetings in 2018 Member Meetings since attended 05 14 Ian Tyler Chair 03 13 Simon Thomson 05 15 Keith Lough 09 15 Peter Kallos 1 03 13 Iain McLaren Note: 1 Iain McLaren retired as a Non-Executive Director on 15 May 2018.
The number of meetings he attended is stated up to that date.
Role and membership of the Committee by the Committee.
Spencer Stuart has no other connection with the Cairn recognises that the role of its Nomination Committee, working Company or any of its individual Directors.
The recruitment process is together with the Board as a whole, is key to promoting effective well advanced and it is currently expected that the new Non-Executive Board succession and the alignment of Board composition with the Directors will be appointed to the Board during the first half of 2019.
Companys culture, values and strategy.
The Company will report further on the process for each of these appointments in next years Annual Report.
The membership of the Committee is set out in the table above and comprises a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Succession planning and development of executive pipeline Chief Executive is also a member of the Committee.
The Nomination Committee regularly evaluates the combination of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company on The role of the Nomination Committee includes: the Board and makes recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
Evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge, experience, diversity In so doing, the Committee fully supports the principle that both and independence on the Board: appointments and succession plans should be based on merit Leading the process for Board appointments and ensuring plans and objective criteria, and within this context, should promote are in place for orderly succession to both Board and senior diversity of gender, social and ethnic backgrounds, cognitive and management positions: personal strengths.
Overseeing the development of a diverse pipeline for succession: and The Board and Nomination Committee work together with the aim Working with the Board to address any performance evaluation of maintaining a comprehensive succession plan for appointments outcomes linked to Board composition and succession planning.
to the Board and to senior management, so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the Company and Board changes on the Board and to ensure progressive refreshing of the Board.
The As disclosed in last years Annual Report, Iain McLaren retired as a Companys succession planning also includes contingency plans Non-Executive Director immediately following the AGM on 15 May for the sudden or unexpected departure of Executive Directors and 2018.
Following Iains retirement from the Board, Keith Lough assumed other senior managers.
the role of Chair of the Audit Committee and Peter Kallos assumed the role of Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Jackie Sheppard The Board has also carefully considered the significance of succession also retired as a Non-Executive Director on 31 December 2018.
In order planning and human resource management to the Companys strategy to allow for a comprehensive handover of Jackies responsibilities, and annually reviews this at Board level.
The key positions covered in Nicoletta Giadrossi assumed the role of Chair of the Remuneration our succession plan include the Executive Directors, regional directors Committee with effect from May 2018 having been a member of the and a number of other senior functional and technical managers.
Alexander Berger, having served on Board considered succession planning for each of the key positions, the Board for nine years, will also retire as a Non-Executive Director analysed any succession gaps or risks identified and considered how immediately following the AGM on 17 May 2019. best to continue to develop the succession pipeline of executive talent.
As a result, the Board has a deep understanding of succession In view of the above changes to the Board, the Company commenced planning across the Company and the range of measures being a search for two new Non-Executive Directors in 2018.
The Company used to continue to develop and recruit talented senior employees.
instructed recruitment consultants Spencer Stuart in connection with these appointments, including the preparation of both a long list and short list of candidates in respect of each position for consideration 86 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Leadership and Governance Nomination Committee Report continued Succession planning and development of executive pipeline continued During 2018, the Boards review of succession planning covered a review of the process used by the Company for succession planning, key achievements since the previous review, analysis of the succession plan for each key position over various time horizons, an organisational capability assessment and health-check, and actions being undertaken to address any succession risks or challenges identified.
Diversity The Nomination Committee very much recognises the benefits of building a diverse Board, not just in terms of gender and social and ethnic background, but also to promote diversity of cognitive and personal strengths.
Following the retirement of Jackie Sheppard on 31 December 2018, the number of women on the Board reduced from two to one representing 12.5% of total membership and the current process to recruit new Non-Executive Directors is therefore actively seeking to appoint at least one woman.
The Board remains diverse in terms of the range of culture, nationality and international experience of its members.
The directors diverse range of experience and expertise covers not only a wealth of experience of operating in the oil and gas industry but also extensive technical, operational, financial, governance, legal and commercial expertise.
The Committee will continue to monitor and consider diversity for all future Board appointments, whilst also continuing to recruit on merit.
Beneath Board level, we are also thinking more broadly than gender diversity in all that we do and this means taking into account diversity in all its dimensions national origin, age, race and ethnicity, religion belief, gender, marital status and socioeconomic status, as well as other factors such as personality type, educational background, training, sector experience, and organisational tenure.
Our Group People Policy supports this approach and one of the key principles of this is to promote, develop and maintain an inclusive workplace and to enhance the successful advancement of diversity in the workforce.
In this context, our people are also actively encouraged to take responsibility for their own development, and to challenge conventional thinking and share knowledge, as well as recognising and creating opportunities for personal growth.
Whilst it is by no means the sole consideration, the Company does recognise the value of developing and increasing the number of women in senior management roles across the Group.
We do however face particular challenges in achieving this, as it is generally recognised that more males study science, technology, engineering and mathematics STEM subjects, which in turn tends to mean more men than women applying to join oil and gas companies.
Despite this, our gender statistics are very respectable compared to our industry peers, with 14% female representation on the Senior Leadership Team: 20% on the Management Team and perhaps most encouraging from a succession planning perspective 25% of all direct reports to the Senior Leadership Team.
The Company has also participated fully in the annual submission of gender performance data to the UK Government as part of the Hampton-Alexander review aimed at improving the representation of women in leadership positions in the FTSE 350.
As a Company we will continue to promote diversity in its widest possible sense and the Board and Nomination Committee remain committed to ensuring that our policies and practices support this approach, with a view to harnessing the potential of our workforce and driving the success of the business.
Board and Committee performance evaluation The Board retains overall responsibility for implementation of its annual performance evaluation and the process and outcomes of the 2018 externally conducted evaluation are described in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 71 and 72.
The process included a review of all Board committees and it was concluded that the relationship between the Board and its committees is functioning well, with all committees fully meeting their remit.
The Nomination Committee works together with the Board in seeking to address any performance evaluation outcomes relating to Board composition and succession planning.
Ian Tyler Chair of the Nomination Committee 11 March 2019
