80 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Leadership and Governance Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee Members and meetings in 2018 The Audit Committee continued to support the Board in its responsibilities which include setting the Companys strategic aims, providing the leadership to put them into effect, supervising the management of the business and reporting to shareholders on their stewardship.
Member Meetings since attended 05 15 Keith Lough Chair 03 12 Alexander Berger 1 05 18 Nicoletta Giadrossi 2 07 08 Iain McLaren Note: 1 N icoletta Giadrossi was appointed a member of the Audit Committee with effect from 15 May 2018.
The number of meetings she attended is stated from this date.
2 Iain McLaren retired as a Non-Executive Director on 15 May 2018.
The number of meetings he attended is stated up to that date.
Dear Shareholder, At our request, the CFO, the Chief Executive in his capacity as executive responsible for internal audit and senior members of the The Audit Committees primary responsibilities include the integrity Finance and Risk and Compliance departments attended each of of the Groups Financial Statements, the effectiveness of the Groups these meetings.
Additionally, both internal and external auditors also risk management and internal assurance processes and related attended each meeting.
I also met privately with the external audit governance and compliance matters.
With increasing performance partner to discuss matters relevant to the Group throughout the year.
history from the Groups two UK producing assets, the Committees activities in the current year have had particular focus on the internal The Audit Committee met four times in 2018, with meetings arranged process for reserve estimation and the consequent impact on the around the key external reporting dates.
The first meeting in March Financial Statements as well as monitoring and accounting for any 2018 focused on the 2017 year end external audit process reported in developments in the ongoing Indian tax dispute.
the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
Meetings in June and August both centred on the Groups half year reporting and a November Composition and summary of Audit Committee meeting focused on planning for the 2018 year-end cycle and external meetings during the year audit process and internal work programme for 2019.
Subsequent to I was appointed Chair of the Audit Committee at the Groups AGM held the year end, a further meeting was held in March 2019 to conclude on 15 May 2018, having previously served on the committee for three on the 2018 audit and significant accounting issues.
My predecessor as Chair, Iain McLaren, retired from his position at the AGM having served on the Committee for the previous nine years.
At each meeting the Committee receives an updated report from the external auditors which either explains their plans and scope for a Serving with me on the Audit Committee are two of my fellow Nonforthcoming audit or review, or contains the conclusions from that audit Executive Directors: Alexander Berger, who served for the duration of or review.
The Audit Committee also receives a report on the internal the full year under review, and Nicoletta Giadrossi, who formally joined audit process, tracking the progress of internal audits and reviewing the Committee during the year at the AGM, but attended a number of their output and recommendations.
preceding meetings prior to her appointment.
Both Alexander and Nicoletta are considered by the Board to be independent.
Ian Tyler also The Audit Committee also closely monitors Cairns Risk Management attended meetings in his capacity as Chairman of the Cairn Energy PLC system, reviewing the activities of the Groups Risk Management Board but is not a member of the Committee.
Committee and the Groups risk management project plan with further reviews and challenges of the Groups risk registers and opportunity The members of the Committee have been chosen to provide the wide matrix at each Committee meeting.
range of financial and commercial experience needed to fulfil these duties.
I am a qualified accountant with recent and relevant financial Other business covered by the Committee includes the annual experience.
Alexander and Nicoletta both bring comprehensive approval of corporate assumptions and annual review of the Groups industry knowledge to the Committee.
policy on non-audit services and the Groups Whistleblowing Policy.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 81 Leadership and Governance Communication with the FRC During the year, the FRCs Audit Quality Review AQR team conducted a review of the audit carried out by the Groups external auditor,  LLP PwC on the Groups 2017 year-end financial statements.
As part of this review I met with staff members of the FRC in July 2018 and the final report was issued to me in November 2018.
There we no significant matters arising.
The points raised were discussed at the December Audit Committee and we were entirely satisfied with the changes proposed by PwC.
In December 2018, the Company was notified that the FRCs Conduct Committee had reviewed Cairns Annual Report and Accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017.
The review by the Conduct Committee provides no assurance that the report and accounts are correct in all material respects but considers compliance with reporting requirements.
I am pleased to report that there were no questions or queries raised by the FRC following this review.
Responsibilities and activities during the year The Terms of Reference of the Committee take into account the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code and are available for inspection on the Groups website.
A summary of the Committees principal responsibilities and activities during the year is set out below.
Principal responsibilities of the Committee Key areas formally discussed Financial statements Monitoring the integrity of the Financial Going concern conclusions and linkage to the Statements of the Group and formal viability statement: announcements relating to the Groups Significant accounting issues at the half-year financial performance: and year-end see below : and Reviewing any significant financial reporting Approval of the Groups corporate judgements: and assumptions those impacting impairment Reviewing the appropriateness of accounting testing are summarised in section 2 of the policies, their consistent application and Financial Statements.
External audit Overseeing the Groups relationship with Reviewing the external auditors scope and the external auditors, including: audit plan for the 2018 year end: making recommendations to the Board Discussing the materiality levels set by as to the appointment or reappointment the auditor: of the external auditor: Approval of the auditors remuneration: reviewing their terms of engagement and Consideration of the results of the external engagement for non-audit services: and audit with the auditor and management: and monitoring the external auditors Assessment of the effectiveness of the independence, objectivity and external audit see overleaf.
Internal risk management Reviewing the Groups internal financial Reviewing the Groups corporate and and assurance controls and internal control and Risk operational risk register: Management systems and oversight of the Reviewing reports on the activities of the Groups Risk Management Committee: and Risk Management Committee: Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness Selection of internal audit work planned for of the Groups internal audit function.
2019 and consideration for future years: and Assessment of key findings raised from internal audits conducted in the year.
Whistleblowing procedures Reviewing the Groups whistleblowing Reviewing and approving of the Groups procedures and ensuring that arrangements whistleblowing procedures.
are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of possible improprieties in respect of financial reporting and other matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
Other matters Reviewing the Groups policy for approval of Review and approval of the Group policy for non-audit work to the Companys auditor: and approval of non-audit work to the Companys Reviewing booking of Group reserves auditor: and and resources.
Classification of reserves and resources for disclosure in the Annual Report.
The review of the Annual Report and Accounts for fair, balanced and understandable presentation and disclosure, while considered by the Audit Committee, is formally performed and approved by the full Cairn Energy PLC Board.
82 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Leadership and Governance Audit Committee Report continued External audit The current version of the UK Corporate Governance Code states that FTSE 350 companies should put the external audit contract out to tender at least every 10 years.
Cairn complied with this provision before it came into force and completed an external audit re-tendering process in 2013.
PwC were subsequently appointed as external auditor of the Group, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee at that time.
The 2018 year-end audit therefore represents the sixth year of PwCs tenure as Group auditor.
With effect from the June 2018 Committee meeting, Lindsay Gardiner has replaced Michael Timar as PwCs lead audit partner on the Cairn engagement.
Lindsay was not previously involved with the audit of the Group or its subsidiaries.
2018 year-end significant accounting issues At each reporting date, the Audit Committee review the results for the relevant period and the key assets and liabilities in the Group balance sheet, focusing on the key estimates, assumptions and judgments that management has used in applying the relevant accounting standard.
The key issues identified at the December 2018 year end are consistent with those identified in previous years, albeit updated to reflect current developments.
Those issues identified are: Impairment testing of oil and gas assets and related Goodwill, notably the Groups producing assets in the UK North Sea: Lease accounting for the Kraken FPSO: Recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities: and Updates on the Indian tax dispute including accounting for the sale of shares in Vedanta Limited.
Impairment testing on oil and gas assets and goodwill With a full years production history now available for the Groups producing assets in the North Sea, management has revised production profile assumptions used to model future profitability of the assets for use in impairment testing.
Audit Committee action Audit Committee conclusions The Committee closely monitored changes to the Groups reserves and The Committee was satisfied that changes to reserve volumes and resources of oil and gas and related production profiles as performance production profiles were properly recorded and in accordance with history of Cairns two producing fields expanded.
Performance issues on the Groups standard operating procedures which follow industry Kraken and consequential reserve adjustments were challenged by the best practice.
The Committee also challenged management on the Committee, with the Committee seeking direct explanation from the difference between internal and third-party reserve estimates and Groups Principal Petroleum Engineer.
Where reserves volumes deviated were satisfied with the explanations provided.
from those prepared by independent third parties, the Audit Committee sought a full and detailed explanation as to why this was the case and what impact such differences caused on the valuation of the Groups assets in the impairment test.
The Committee also reviews and approves the remaining assumptions The Audit Committee challenged management on the key corporate and estimates that are key inputs into corporate modelling for assumptions that remain unchanged from the prior year.
The Committee impairment tests including, but not limited to, oil and gas price sought assurance from the external auditor that assumptions did not assumptions and discount rates.
significantly deviate from market consensus.
The Committee approved the assumptions, which are used in the year-end impairment tests.
The Committee also reviews the impairment test calculations and The Committee was satisfied that an appropriate impairment charge ensures that impairment charges are recognised in a timely manner was recorded in the Financial Statements and that additional sensitivity within the Group Financial Statements.
analysis provided in the Financial Statements was appropriate, reflecting the key assumptions at this time.
Accounting for FPSO lease agreements in the North Sea During the year under review, the operator of the Kraken asset negotiated a revised lease agreement for the FPSO with the joint venture issuing a final acceptance certificate in exchange for concessions by the lessor.
Audit Committee action Audit Committee conclusions The Committee reviewed adjustments proposed by management at The Audit Committee reviewed the changes to the lease liability and the time of the amendment to the lease agreements.
The Committee associated right-of-use asset and concluded that the adjustments were focused on the amount of the minimum lease commitment to ensure a fair reflection of the lease contract and that assumptions made by that the asset and liability recorded in the Financial Statements were management were appropriate see note 3.4. properly measured in accordance with the standard.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 83 Leadership and Governance Accounting for Vedanta Limited shares and related dividends Hearings for the international arbitration with regard to the ongoing Indian tax dispute were concluded during the year.
In advance of the arbitration hearings, the IITD enforced sale of the majority of Cairns ordinary shareholding in Vendata Limited and seized proceeds on redemption of preference shares in part-settlement of the disputed tax demand.
Audit Committee action Audit Committee conclusions The Committee reviewed the accounting arising from the sale of The Committee agree with managements calculation of the loss on ordinary shares and redemption of preference shares.
derecognition of the shares held in Vedanta Limited, noting the recording of losses on falls in market value in the period prior to disposal as a separate line item.
The Committee also reviewed managements conclusions for not The Committee continued to support managements view on the recognising either an asset for the recovery of the proceeds of the non-recognition of either asset or liability pending the final award from share sales from the IITD relating to an uncertain tax provision, or the the arbitration panel.
Managements views were also supported by the recognition of a liability in relation to Cairns exposure to the remaining Groups legal advisers who presented to the full Board during the year tax demand.
Non-recognition of UK deferred tax asset At each reporting date the Committee receive an update on the Groups unrecognised deferred tax losses, including UK ring-fenced tax losses, together with managements assessment of whether a deferred tax asset should be recognised.
Audit Committee action Audit Committee conclusions The Committee considers in detail managements assessment of After challenge, the Committee was satisfied with managements whether a deferred tax asset should be recognised, challenging conclusion that no deferred tax asset should be recognised.
The management on the downside sensitivities used to determine probable Committee also concluded that disclosures in the Financial Statements future taxable profit.
see section 5 of the Financial Statements were appropriate.
In light of FRC AQR comments on this subject, the Committee reviewed the clarity of disclosures in the Financial Statements on this matter.
Going concern and viability At each reporting date, management considers the factors relevant to support a statement of going concern included in note 1.2 to the Financial Statements.
The Audit Committee reviews and challenges managements conclusions so that we may, in turn, provide comfort to the Board that managements assessment has been considered, challenged and is appropriate.
Given the volatile price environment facing the oil and gas industry, the Audit Committee carefully reviewed managements going concern conclusion based on the Groups latest cash and debt position and the forecast exploration and appraisal spend in the period ending 31 March 2019.
This confirmed that the Group is fully funded to meet its work programme and firm commitments over the period of 12 months from the date of signing the Financial Statements.
The Audit Committee subsequently recommended to the Board that the Group continues to use the going concern basis in preparing its Financial Statements.
The Committee also reviews and challenges management on the sensitivity analysis performed to support the Groups Viability Statement, included in the Strategic Report on page 33.
Following this challenge, the Committee recommended approval of the Viability Statement to the Board.
Assessment of external audit process The Committee has an established framework to assess the effectiveness of the external audit process.
This comprises: Audit Committee action Audit Committee conclusion A review of the audit plan including the materiality level set by the The Committee accepted the level of materiality set by the auditor.
auditor and the process they have adopted to identify financial statement risks and key areas of audit focus summarised in the Independent Auditors Report on pages 118-123.
A review of correspondence received from the FRC AQR team, The Audit Committee was entirely satisfied with PwCs proposed seeking clarification from the external auditor on the matters raised changes resulting from the AQR review.
and the improvements to the audit process arising from the review.
A review of the Audit Quality Inspection AQI report on our auditor There were no matters raised in the AQI report that caused concern published by the FRC with particular emphasis on any key messages for the Audit Committee.
A review of the final audit report, noting key areas of auditor judgement The Audit Committee reviewed findings on the key audit issues and the reasoning behind the conclusions reached.
The Committee was satisfied that appropriate challenge had been made of management and that the audit process was robust.
Regular communications through formal papers submitted and The audit plan for the year ending 31 December 2018 was presented presentations to the Committee and meetings between myself as to the Audit Committee in June 2018 and is summarised in the Chair of the Audit Committee and the lead audit engagement partner.
Independent Auditors Report on pages 118-123.
A formal questionnaire issued to all Audit Committee members and No matters of significance were reported.
senior Cairn management who are involved in the audit covering the robustness of the audit process, the quality of delivery, the quality of reporting and the quality of the auditors people and service.
84 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Leadership and Governance Audit Committee Report continued Assessment of external audit process continued Of particular focus for the Committee is the assessment of the judgement applied by PwC during each stage of the audit process including setting audit materiality, identifying the risks to the Financial Statements, evaluating audit findings and communicating those areas of judgement to the Committee.
The Audit Committee noted the level of planned materiality and agreed on the levels of misstatements to be reported to the Committee.
With the reduced level of net assets held in the Group Balance Sheet following the derecognition of the shares in Vedanta Limited, the Committee noted the fall in materiality for the current years audit over previous years.
The final audit report was presented to the Audit Committee in March 2019.
After thorough discussion, the Committee agreed with the conclusions reached by the auditor, noting the degree of judgement around areas of significant audit risk.
Auditor independence and provision of non-audit services We have a long-established policy in relation to the supply of non-audit services by the external auditor.
The Group will engage an external adviser to provide non-audit services on the basis of the skills and experience required for the work, where benefit will be derived as a result of the third partys knowledge of the Group and at a reasonable cost.
These advisers may include the Groups external auditor, under a restricted set of circumstances, although, before the engagement commences, the Audit Committee must be satisfied that the auditors objectivity and independence would not be compromised in any way as a result of being instructed to carry out those services.
The policy on approval of non-audit fees for the Groups auditor is re-approved annually.
This Groups policy was updated in 2017 to reflect the FRCs Revised Ethical Standards applicable to audit firms.
Subsequently all non-audit fees should now be approved by the Audit Committee in advance of the engagement with a practical workaround of only seeking approval from the Committee Chair, rather than seeking full Committee, in advance for fees below an approved threshold of 100,000.
This approval will then be ratified at the next meeting of the Committee.
The amended policy was fully disclosed in the 2017 Annual Report and remains unchanged.
It is also available online on the Groups website.
During the year, PwC provided other services including certification of the Groups EITI submission in Senegal and providing the accountants report on the circular requesting approval for the sell-down of the Groups holding in Vedanta Limited the circular was prepared prior to the sale of shares enforced by the IITD.
A full analysis of remuneration paid to the Groups external auditor in respect of both audit and non-audit work is provided in note 6.4 to the Financial Statements.
As an Audit Committee, we consider PwC to be independent.
Internal audit Following a competitive tender process, Ernst & Young LLP EY was appointed as the Groups internal auditor with effect from July 2013.
Prior to the beginning of each year, an internal audit plan is developed by the internal auditor, in consultation with senior management, based on a review of the outcome of the previous years internal audits, the outcome of the annual assessment of effectiveness of internal control refer to page 77, the results of historical audits of fundamental business processes and the significant risks in the Group Risk Matrix and identified mitigation measures.
The plan is then presented to the Audit Committee for review and approval.
The internal auditor also participates in meetings of the Group Risk Management Committee to maintain an understanding of the business activities and associated risks and to update the Group Risk Management Committee on the internal audit work plan.
The Audit Committee also receives updates on the internal audit work plan on an ongoing basis.
The external auditor does not place any reliance on the work undertaken by the Groups internal audit function due to the nature of the scope and the timing of their work.
The external auditor does, however, attend all Committee meetings where internal audit updates are given and meets separately with the internal auditor and the Audit Committee Chair to discuss areas of common focus in developing their audit plan.
Working responsibly whistleblowing and related policies The Group is committed to working responsibly as part of its strategy to deliver value for all stakeholders.
This means delivering value in a safe, secure, environmentally and socially responsible manner.
As part of this, the Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring the Group has a robust Whistleblowing Policy in place and this policy is reviewed annually by the Committee.
The Groups current version of the policy was first presented to, and approved by, the Audit Committee at the March 2018 meeting and re-approved at the December 2018 Audit Committee meeting.
The Committee is also responsible for and is satisfied that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of possible improprieties in respect of financial reporting and other matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
The Group has in place a comprehensive  Management System and Code of Ethics.
Regular training updates are provided to all employees and long term contractors in addition to the training that is provided to all new staff joining the company.
As Cairn enters new countries, further monitoring is undertaken and training is refreshed.
Further information regarding these policies can be found on the Groups website.
Keith Lough Chair of the Audit Committee 11 March 2019
