Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Other governance matters Registered office and number purchase any of its ordinary shares during the year and accordingly the companys issued share capital as at 23 May 2018, being the The registered office of the company is at: Cayzer House, latest practicable date prior to signature of these accounts, was 30 Buckingham Gate, London SW1E 6NN.
The company is 55,381,017 ordinary shares and 8,000,000 deferred ordinary shares.
registered in England under number 235481.
Restrictions on the transfer of shares Dividend policy There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of the companys The companys policy is to pay an increasing annual dividend per shares, although the articles of association contain provisions share in real terms, which it has now done for 51 consecutive whereby the directors may refuse to register a transfer of a years.
In addition, the company may supplement the annual certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that such refusal dividend with special dividends when the board considers it does not prevent dealings in the share from taking place on an appropriate, for example if the company has surplus cash reserves open and proper basis.
The directors may also refuse to register in excess of its strategic investment plans.
the transfer of a certificated share unless it is a lodged, duly The boards objective is to ensure that the annual dividend is fully stamped, at the registered office or at such other place as the covered by investment income less expenses for the financial year, directors may appoint, accompanied by the certificate for the although the company has available distributable reserves of shares to which it relates and such other evidence as the directors 1,647.5m, broadly equivalent to over 52 years payment of the may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make current annual dividend, which could be used to smooth any the transfer: b in respect of only one class of shares: and c in investment income shortfall.
favour of not more than four transferees.
The directors may refuse to register a transfer of shares if a 2018 dividend distributions shareholder has not supplied information to the company in An interim dividend of 15.5p per share 2017 14.9p was paid default of a request duly served under section 793 of the on 11 January 2018 and the board has recommended a final Companies Act 2006 and such shares represent at least 0.25% of dividend of 41.5p per share 2017 39.9p, giving total annual the class of shares concerned.
dividends for the year of 57.0p per share 2017 54.8p.
In 2017, the board also recommended the payment of a special dividend Substantial interests of 100.0p per share.
As at 31 March 2018, the following had notified the company that they held 3% or more of the voting rights of the company: Share capital structure The company has two classes of share capital ordinary shares of Percentage Number of of voting 5p each and deferred ordinary shares of 5p each.
voting rights rights The holders of the ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends The Cayzer Trust Company Ltd 19,419,545 35.07% as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per Wells Capital Management 2,875,916 5.2% share at meetings of the company.
All voting rights are however There have been no changes in the substantial interests notified to suspended in respect of any of the companys shares that are held the company up to the date of this report.
in treasury or by group companies.
The deferred ordinary shares carry no voting rights and are not Employee share trust redeemable.
They carry the right to a fixed cumulative preference The Caledonia Investments plc Employee Share Trust acquires and dividend of 1% per annum exclusive of any associated tax credit of holds ordinary shares in the company for subsequent transfer to the nominal value of such deferred ordinary shares, being 0.05p employees exercising options under the companys performance per share, or 4,000 in aggregate, for all such shares currently in share scheme or calling for awards vesting under the companys issue.
The company is required to pay the dividend to the extent deferred bonus plan.
The voting rights of shares held by the trust that it has distributable profits.
On a winding-up or other return of are exercisable by the independent trustee.
The trust is financed capital, the deferred ordinary shares carry the right to the payment by an interest free loan facility from Caledonia and the trustee has of the amount paid up on such shares only after holders of the waived all dividends payable in respect of the ordinary shares held ordinary shares have received the sum of 100,000 in respect of by the trust, except to the extent of 0.0001% of such dividends.
All of the deferred ordinary shares are held by Sterling Industries Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Caledonia.
At 31 March 2018, the trust held 453,608 ordinary shares, representing 0.82% of the total issued voting share capital.
At 31 March 2018, 55,381,017 ordinary shares and 8,000,000 deferred ordinary shares were in issue.
The ordinary shares therefore represented approximately 87% and the deferred Restrictions on voting rights ordinary shares approximately 13% of the total issued share capital The directors may direct that a shareholder shall not be entitled to by nominal value.
Of the ordinary shares in issue at 31 March 2018, attend and vote either personally or by proxy or exercise any other 3,000 shares were held by a group company.
As stated above, all right conferred by membership in relation to general meetings of voting rights are suspended on these shares.
The company did not the company in respect of some or all of the shares held by him, if 60 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information he or any person with an interest in such shares has been duly when it believes that the shares represent good value in terms of served with a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 the level of the discount to net asset value, and taking into account and is in default for the prescribed period in supplying to the anticipated future cash requirements.
company the information required or, in purported compliance with such a notice, has made a statement which is false or Change of control rights inadequate in a material particular.
There are no special control rights in relation to the companys shares.
Agreements which may restrict the transfer of shares Options granted under the companys performance share scheme or exercise of voting rights and awards made under its deferred bonus plan may become The company is not aware of any arrangements which may restrict exercisable or vest as a result of a change of control, although the the transfer of any of its shares or the exercise of any voting rights.
number of shares comprised in those options or awards may be reduced.
The service contracts of certain directors and other Authority to allot and purchase shares senior executives also contain provisions whereby a liquidated At the annual general meeting of the company held on 20 July sum is payable by the company in the event of termination within 2017, shareholders granted to the directors authority to allot one year following a change of control.
ordinary shares up to a nominal amount of 923,016, representing Further details of these change of control rights are set out in the approximately one-third of the ordinary share capital then in issue, Directors remuneration report.
with authority to allot additional ordinary shares up to a nominal value of 923,016, representing approximately a further one-third Investment trust status of the ordinary share capital then in issue, by way of pre-emptive rights issues only, in accordance with guidance issued at that time Her Majestys Revenue and Customs has confirmed that Caledonia by the Investment Association.
The directors were further has investment trust status for all relevant financial periods.
authorised to issue ordinary shares up to a nominal amount of 138,452 other than pro rata to existing ordinary shareholders.
Annual general meeting These authorities last until 20 October 2018 or, if earlier, the The eighty-ninth annual general meeting of the company will be conclusion of the next annual general meeting.
held at Cayzer House, 30 Buckingham Gate, London SW1E 6NN on Thursday, 19 July 2018 at 11.30 am.
The notice of the annual At the annual general meeting held on 20 July 2017, shareholders also granted authority for the company to make market purchases general meeting and details of all of the resolutions to be put to shareholders are set out in a separate circular sent to shareholders of up to 5,538,100 of its own ordinary shares, being approximately 10% of the ordinary share capital then in issue, at a price not more at the same time as this annual report.
than the higher of a 5% greater than the average of the middle market quotations for such ordinary shares during the five Directors business days preceding any such purchase: and b the higher of The directors of the company are shown on pages 32 and 33.
All of i the price of the last independent trade in such ordinary shares: the directors served throughout the year, other than Mr G B and ii the highest current independent bid relating thereto on the Davison, who was appointed on 1 January 2018.
Mr R D Kent and trading venue where the purchase is carried out, nor at a price less Mr H Y H Bol also served as directors for part of the year, until than 5p, being the nominal value of an ordinary share.
This 20 July 2017 and 7 September 2017 respectively.
authority lasts until 20 October 2018 or, if earlier, the conclusion of the next annual general meeting.
At the same time, shareholders Directors indemnity who were not members of the Cayzer family concert party Each of the directors has the benefit, under the companys articles Cayzer Concert Party gave their approval for a waiver by the of association, of an indemnity, to the extent permitted by the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers of the obligation that could arise Companies Act 2006, against any liability incurred by him or her on the Cayzer Concert Party under Rule 9 of the City Code on for negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust in relation Takeovers and Mergers to make a general offer for Caledonia on to the affairs of the company.
the implementation by the company of the above authority to purchase its own shares.
The approval was subject to the maximum percentage of voting rights in which the Cayzer Concert Appointment and removal of directors and the Party is interested not exceeding 49.9% as a result of purchases by articles of association the company.
This waiver expires on 20 October 2018 or, if earlier, The appointment and removal of directors is governed by the the conclusion of the next annual general meeting.
companys articles of association and prevailing company law.
Due to the level of the shareholding of the Cayzer Concert Party The articles of association provide that at every annual general and the maximum percentage of voting rights permitted to be meeting one-third of the directors, or if not a multiple of three, the held by it under the Rule 9 waiver, the board has only limited scope number nearest to one-third, shall retire by rotation and therefore to utilise the authority to purchase the companys shares.
It will be required to seek re-election by shareholders.
New directors however consider using the authority when it considers it in the may be appointed by the board, but are subject to election by companys and shareholders best interests to do so, for example shareholders at the next annual general meeting of the company Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 61 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Other governance matters continued following their appointment.
However, to comply with the Viability statement provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the company The directors have assessed the viability of the company over the requires that all directors should be subject to annual election by three years to March 2021, taking account of the companys shareholders.
Shareholders may also appoint new directors by position, its investment strategy, and the potential impact of the ordinary resolution.
The articles of association limit the number of relevant principal risks set out on pages 27 to 29.
In making this directors to not less than two and not more than twelve, unless statement, the board is satisfied that the company operates an the shareholders resolve otherwise.
effective risk management process and confirms that it has conducted a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the In accordance with changes to the Financial Conduct Authoritys company.
This includes those that would threaten its strategic Listing Rules introduced in 2014, the election of those directors objectives, its business as usual state, its business model, and its determined by the board to be independent under the UK future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Based on this Corporate Governance Code must be subject to the approval of assessment, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the both all shareholders of the company and separately those company will be able to continue in operation and meet its shareholders who are not controlling shareholders, being the liabilities as they fall due over the period to March 2021.
In making this assessment, the directors took comfort from the Customers and suppliers results of a series of stress tests that considered the impact of a number of severe market downturn scenarios and loss of The groups policy in relation to all of its suppliers is to settle the investment trust status on the companys financial position and, in terms of payment when agreeing the terms of the transaction.
The particular, its ability to settle projected liabilities of the company as group will abide by those terms on condition that it is satisfied that they fall due.
The directors determined that a three year period to the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with March 2021 is an appropriate period for which to provide this the agreed terms and conditions.
The group does not follow any statement given the companys long term investment objective code or statement on payment practice.
and the resilience demonstrated by the stress testing and the relatively low working capital requirements.
Going concern The reports on pages 32 to 65 comprise the Directors report of The groups business activities, together with the factors likely to the company.
The Directors report was approved by the board on affect its future development, performance and position are set 24 May 2018 and signed on its behalf by: out in the Chairmans and Chief Executives report on pages 2 to 5 and the Investment review on pages 10 to 19.
The financial position of the group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial review on pages Graeme Denison Company Secretary 20 to 22.
In addition, note 22 to the financial statements includes the groups capital management policies and procedures and processes for managing market risk and exposures to currency risk, interest rate risk, price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The group has cash and other liquid resources and committed bank facilities available to meet existing and new investment commitments.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the group is well placed to manage business risks successfully.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
62 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Cross references to information required to be disclosed by Listing Rule 9.8.
4 R. To comply with Listing Rule 9.8.
4 C, the following table provides references to where relevant information required to be disclosed under Listing Rule 9.8.
Listing Rule Required information Location 9.8.
4 5 R Details of any arrangements under which a director has waived or Directors remuneration report page agreed to waive any emoluments from the company or any subsidiary 54.
Waiver by Mr Bol of all nonundertaking.
executive director fees to which he was otherwise entitled.
4 6 R Where a director has agreed to waive future emoluments, details of such As above.
waiver together with those relating to emoluments which were waived during the period under review.
4 12 R Details of any arrangement under which a shareholder has waived or Other governance matters page 60. agreed to waive any dividends.
Waiver of all dividends by the trustee of the Caledonia Investments plc Employee Share Trust, except to the extent of 0.0001% of such dividends.
6 13 R Where a shareholder has agreed to waive future dividends, details of such As above.
waiver together with those relating to dividends which are payable during the period under review.
4 14 a R A statement made by the board that the listed company has entered into Corporate governance report page an agreement with a controlling shareholder under Listing Rule 9.2.
Relations with controlling 2 a. shareholders.
4 14 c R A statement made by the board that: As above.
1. the listed company has complied with the independence provisions included in any agreement with a controlling shareholder entered into under Listing Rule 9.2.
2 AR 2 a 2. so far as the listed company is aware, the independence provisions included in any agreement with a controlling shareholder entered into under Listing Rule 9.2.
2 AR 2 a have been complied with during the period under review by the controlling shareholder or any of its associates 3. so far as the listed company is aware, the procurement obligation as set out in Listing Rule 9.2.
2 BR 2 a included in any agreement entered into under Listing Rule 9.2.
2 AR 2 a has been complied with during the period under review by a controlling shareholder.
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 63
