Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Corporate governance report Statement of compliance Caledonia recognises the importance The board recognises the importance of good corporate of good corporate governance, which governance and this report describes how the company has complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code Code issued requires the board to define the in April 2016 for the duration of the reporting period.
framework of the processes, controls The company has complied throughout the year with all of the and limits within which the company provisions of the Code, other than provision D. 1.1.
Provision D. 1.1. requires that schemes for performance-related remuneration should operate and to establish a should include provisions that would enable the company to working culture that is clear and recover sums paid clawback or withhold any sums due malus and specify the circumstances in which it would be appropriate to understandable to everyone involved do so.
Malus provisions were introduced into Caledonias performance share scheme and deferred bonus plan in 2014 and in the management of the company.
were included in the directors remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting in that year.
The provision in the Code requiring malus and clawback did not become operative until after the 2014 directors remuneration policy had been approved and the Remuneration Committee had been advised that it would be necessary to seek shareholder approval of a change in the remuneration policy for clawback provisions to be included in the companys incentive plans.
Accordingly, in line with the GC100 guidance, the Remuneration Membership and attendance Committee resolved to incorporate clawback provisions into Caledonias incentive plans as part of the 2017 remuneration The board held nine scheduled meetings during the year.
policy renewal and the revised policy was approved by Attendance of the directors was as follows: shareholders at the annual general meeting held on 20 July 2017.
Accordingly, the company only complied with provision D. 1.1. from Meetings Meetings eligible that date.
Director attended to attend D C Stewart 9 9 A copy of the Code is available on the website of the Financial Reporting Council at https: www.
uk Our-Work W P Wyatt 9 9 S A King 9 9 Publications Corporate-Governance  1 8 9 Code-2016.
J M B Cayzer-Colvin S J Bridges 9 9 Hon C W Cayzer 9 9 The board 2 G B Davison 3 3 Overall responsibility and operation C H Gregson 9 9 The board as a whole is collectively responsible for the success of S C R Jemmett-Page 9 9 the company and for supervising its affairs.
It sets the companys 3 R D Kent 3 3 strategy, ensures that the necessary financial and human 4 H Y H Bol 4 4 resources are in place to enable the company to meet its 1.
Mr Cayzer-Colvin was unable to attend one board meeting due to objectives and reviews management performance.
It also defines attendance at a funeral.
the companys culture and sets the companys values and 2.
Mr Davison was appointed as a director on 1 January 2018. standards to ensure that its obligations to its shareholders and 3.
Mr Kent retired as a director on 20 July 2017.
Mr Bol resigned as a director on 7 September 2017. other stakeholders are understood and met.
It aims to provide leadership of the company within a framework of prudent and effective controls, which enables risk to be assessed and appropriately managed.
34 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information To assist its operation, the board has adopted a Schedule of Appointment, induction and training Authorities which sets out those matters which it specifically The company complies with the recommendation of the Code that reserves for its own decision and those which are delegated to all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual board committees and to executive management.
reserved for the boards own decision include the following: On appointment, new directors are offered induction and training the appointment and removal of directors of the company, as considered appropriate by the board, and subsequently as prescribed by the companys articles of association, and of necessary, and the annual performance evaluation of the board certain senior executive positions encompasses the identification of any individual training needs of board members so that, if necessary, these can be reviewed by the the terms of reference of board committees and the Chairman with the directors concerned.
The directors receive membership thereof briefings at board meetings on regulatory and other issues the companys strategy relevant to the company and its business sector and, in addition, may attend external courses to assist in their annual budgets professional development.
the companys systems of risk management and internal control Board composition treasury policies, banking counterparties and counterparty The biographies of the directors appear on pages 32 and 33. exposure limits The board currently comprises nine directors.
Excluding the directors remuneration and terms of appointment Chairman, three of the directors are executive and five are non-executive.
The board considers all of the non-executive significant capital transactions directors to be independent, other than The Hon C W Cayzer, who political donations.
was an executive director prior to becoming non-executive.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separated From September 2015 to May 2017, Mr Bridges was Group Chief and clearly defined in the Schedule of Authorities.
The Chairman is Financial Officer of Nex Group, where Mr Gregson is non-executive primarily responsible for the leadership of the board to ensure that Chairman.
The board does not consider that Mr Bridges previous it carries out its role effectively and for succession planning.
The role with Nex Group has any influence on either his, or Chief Executive is responsible for the implementation of the Mr Gregsons, ability to exercise independent judgement in relation boards strategy and policies and the management of the to the affairs of Caledonia, which has no other connection with companys activities, other than those matters specifically Nex Group.
The Schedule of Authorities is reviewed Mrs Jemmett-Page was Caledonias audit partner at KPMG Audit annually by the board.
Plc from November 1995 to March 2001.
The board does not All directors receive detailed papers in advance of board meetings consider that this affects her independence given the length of to enable them to discharge their duties.
They have unlimited time that has elapsed since this role ended and also the fact that access to senior management should further information be none of the current board members, other than The Hon required and presentations by investment pool managers and Charles Cayzer, were in post whilst she was audit partner.
other senior executives are regularly given to the board.
The board Board committees also attends an annual conference and dinner with the senior The board has delegated certain specific areas of responsibility to executives of Caledonias unquoted portfolio companies, which the following standing committees the Nomination Committee, include presentations on specific issues facing their businesses and the Audit Committee, the Governance Committee and the give board members the opportunity to meet the management Remuneration Committee.
Further details of the work of each of teams of the Unquoted pool investee companies, both formally these committees and their membership during the year are set and informally.
The terms of reference of each committee are reviewed annually and are available on the companys website.
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 35 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Corporate governance report continued Other committees Board performance evaluation Various other committees have been established with The board conducts an annual evaluation of its performance and responsibility for specific areas of the companys activities, other that of its committees and, in accordance with best practice, than matters reserved to the board as a whole, as follows: engages an independent third party facilitator to assist in this process every three years although, as explained in the 2017 The Administrative Committee of the board has been annual report, the scheduled 2017 external facilitation was established to deal with administrative matters of a routine deferred for a year in view of the change of Chairman at the 2017 nature requiring board approval or matters which are reserved annual general meeting.
For its 2018 evaluation, the board to the board, but for which board approval has already been engaged an external consultant, The Effective Board LLP TEB, to given in principle.
The Administrative Committee meets when undertake a review of the performance of the board, its required and comprises any two directors.
TEB has no other connection with The Executive Committee meets when required and is the company.
responsible for matters relating to the day to day management TEBs board performance evaluation was conducted through a of the companys business, other than where delegated to other structured interview process with board members, the Company committees.
It is chaired by the Chief Executive and other Secretary and the heads of the pools of capital.
TEB presented its members comprise the Chairman, the executive directors, the findings in a report to the board and feedback on the performance heads of the pools of capital and the Company Secretary.
of the Chairman, directly to him.
The Investment Management Committee meets fortnightly and TEBs overall conclusion was that Caledonias board demonstrated considers matters relating to the companys investment a high degree of effectiveness, with minor recommendations for portfolio and monitors the companys cash requirements and its further refinement in the areas of strategy development, net asset value per share total return performance.
The employee engagement and Nomination Committee processes.
Investment Management Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and other members comprise the entire investment team, the Company Secretary and the Deputy Directors conflicts of interest Company Secretary.
Each director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a situation where he has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest The Investment Approvals Committee considers and formally which conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the companys approves new investments and proposed realisations.
The Companies Act 2006 however allows directors of committee meets when required, is chaired by the Chief public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts Executive and other members comprise the Chairman, the where the articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
executive directors, the heads of the pools of capital and the The Companies Act 2006 also allows the articles to contain other Company Secretary.
provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest to avoid a The Compliance Committee meets fortnightly to monitor the breach of duty.
companys ongoing compliance with the requirements for There are safeguards in the companys articles which apply when investment trust status and to approve all investment activity the directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential from an investment trust compliance perspective.
It also conflict of interest.
First, only independent directors, being those monitors the potential impact of legal, tax and regulatory who have no interest in the matter being considered, are able to developments.
The Compliance Committee is chaired by the take the relevant decision and, second, in taking the decision, the Company Secretary and other members comprise the Finance directors must act in a way which they consider, in good faith, will Director, the Heads of Tax, Treasury and Finance, the Group be most likely to promote the success of the company.
The Financial Controller and the Deputy Company Secretary.
directors are able to impose time limits or conditions when giving The Valuation Committee formally reviews valuations of all of authorisations if they think this is appropriate.
the companys investments at each half-year and full-year.
It is chaired by the Chief Executive and other members comprise the Finance Director, the Head of Finance and the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The meetings are observed by representatives from KPMG LLP.
36 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information The board has adopted procedures to address the requirements of the company is required to enter into a written and legally binding the Companies Act 2006 in relation to directors conflicts of agreement which is intended to ensure that the controlling interest.
Each new director on appointment is required to declare shareholder undertakes to comply with certain independence any potential conflict situations, which may relate to him or her, or provisions, namely that: his or her connected persons.
These are reviewed by the board 1. transactions and arrangements with the controlling shareholder and, if necessary, also by the Governance Committee, which then and or any of its associates will be conducted at arms length considers whether these situations should be authorised and, if so, and on normal commercial terms: whether any conditions to such authority should be attached.
2. neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates will Each board meeting includes a standing agenda item on conflicts take any action that would have the effect of preventing the of interest to ensure that all directors disclose any new potential listed company from complying with its obligations under the conflict situations.
These are then reviewed, again if necessary also Listing Rules: and by the Governance Committee, and authorised by the board as 3. neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates will appropriate.
A register of directors conflicts of interest is maintained by the Company Secretary and is reviewed annually by propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder resolution which is intended or appears to be intended to circumvent the the Governance Committee.
proper application of the Listing Rules.
Relations with shareholders The board confirms that agreements specified under the Listing The company welcomes dialogue with investors in order to Rules as described above which were required to be in place by achieve a mutual understanding of objectives.
The Chief Executive 17 November 2014 were entered into by the company on and the Finance Director regularly hold meetings with institutional 30 October 2014 with The Cayzer Trust Company Limited investors, private client stockbrokers and fund managers.
The Cayzer Trust and separately with the Trustee of the Caledonia Chairman and other non-executive directors are also available to Investments plc Employee Share Trust Employee Share Trust, attend some of these meetings, if requested.
Any views put which is deemed by the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers to form forward by shareholders are reported back to the board, which part of the Cayzer Concert Party, and remain in place.
Under the periodically also receives presentations from the companys terms of its agreement, Cayzer Trust has undertaken to procure brokers on shareholder feedback and the general market the compliance with the independence provisions of all of the perception of the company.
In addition, the annual general other members of the Cayzer Concert Party, other than the meeting provides a forum for shareholders to meet the directors, Employee Share Trust.
The board confirms that, during the period under review and up to The Chairmen of all of the boards committees will be available to 23 May 2018, being the latest practicable date prior to the answer questions at the annual general meeting.
publication of this annual report: 1. the company has complied with the independence provisions Relations with controlling shareholders included in the agreements with Cayzer Trust and the Employee As at 23 May 2018, being the latest practicable date prior to the Share Trust publication of this annual report, the Cayzer family concert party 2. so far as the company is aware, the independence provisions Cayzer Concert Party held 48.46% of Caledonias voting rights.
included in the agreements have been complied with by Cayzer Under the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules, where a Trust and the Employee Share Trust premium listed company has a controlling shareholder or 3. so far as the company is aware, the procurement obligation shareholders being a person or persons acting in concert who included in the agreement with Cayzer Trust has been complied exercise or control 30% of more of the companys voting rights, with by that company.
David Stewart Chairman of the board 24 May 2018 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 37
