60 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Corporate governance statement Corporate Governance Code Board meetings and attendance Capita plc and its subsidiaries the Group remain committed to During 2018, the Board held nine scheduled meetings, excluding ad maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
Attendance of the Directors is shown below: the Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code applies to accounting maximum number of meetings a Director could attend is in brackets.
periods beginning on or after 17 June 2016.
Throughout the Board meetings accounting period to which this report relates, the Company complied with all relevant provisions set out in sections A to E of the Code.
Sir Ian Powell 9 9 TheUK Corporate Governance Code 2018 the 2018 Code was Jon Lewis 9 9 published in July 2018 and applies to accounting periods beginning Gillian Sheldon 9 9 onor after 1 January 2019.
Where appropriate, additional voluntary Matthew Lester 9 9 disclosures have been made in compliance with the 2018 Code.
John Cresswell 8 9 Copiesof the Code and the 2018 Code are available from the Andrew Williams 9 9 FinancialReporting Councils website www.
Baroness Lucy Neville-Rolfe 9 9 1 Nick Greatorex 6 7 Board changes during the year 2 Chris Sellers 0 The following changes to the composition of the Board took place during the year: 1 Nick Greatorex stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2018.
2 Chris Sellers stepped down from the Board on 23 January 2018.
Name Date Position Additional ad hoc meetings were held in the first half of 2018 in Chris Sellers 23 January 2018 Stepped down as Group connection with the rights issue and various related matters.
Meetings Business Development Director held outside the normal schedule need to be flexible and are often Nick Greatorex 30 September 2018 Stepped down as Chief held by telephone.
FinancialOfficer Any Directors absence from Board meetings was previously agreed Further information on changes to the Board is set out in the with the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer.
Nomination Committee report on page 70.
Patrick Butcher, Chief During 2018, the following formal Director meetings took place: Financial Officer, was appointed as a Director on 1 January 2019.
The Chairman held one-to-one individual review sessions with each Board composition Executive Director and each Non-Executive Director.
The composition of the Board at 31 December 2018 and from The Non-Executive Directors met without Executive Directors.
1January 2019 is shown below: The Non-Executive Directors met with just the Chief Executive Officer.
Independent Non-Executive Executive Directors Directors The Non-Executive Directors met without the Chairman, led by the 1 At 31 December 2018 Jon Lewis Sir Ian Powell Senior Independent Director.
Gillian Sheldon Board leadership Matthew Lester There is a clear division of responsibility between the running of the John Cresswell Board by Sir Ian Powell as Chairman and responsibility for the running Andrew Williams of the Groups business by Jon Lewis as CEO.
Baroness Lucy Neville-Rolfe 1 At 1 January 2019 Jon Lewis Sir Ian Powell During the year, Sir Ian as Chairman and Gillian Sheldon as Senior Patrick Butcher Gillian Sheldon Independent Director held meetings comprising solely the NonExecutive Directors.
Gillian also met with the Non-Executive Directors Matthew Lester without Sir Ian.
Both Sir Ian and Gillian are available to meet with John Cresswell significant shareholders when requested.
Andrew Williams Baroness Lucy Neville-Rolfe Governance and strategy 1 Independent on appointment in accordance with the 2016 Code.
The Group recognises the contribution made by good governance tothe Companys success and changes made at both Board and Executive Committee level demonstrate the importance of embeddingthe right structures with the right people to deliver theGroups strategy.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 61 Role of the Board The Board Role of the Board To promote Capitas long-term sustainable success, generating value for shareholders and contributing to wider society.
Matters reserved for the Board Strategy and management Financial reporting Shareholder communication Structure and capital Internal controls Board membership Major contracts Nomination Committee Audit and Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Board and committee composition External audit Remuneration policy Succession planning Financial reporting Remuneration principles Diversity Risk management and Incentive design and setting internal controls of targets People strategy Internal audit Executive and senior management remuneration Read more on page 70.
In addition to their statutory duties, the Directors must ensure that The Board determines the strategic objectives and policies of the the Board focuses effectively on all its accountabilities.
Group to best support the delivery of long-term value, providing overall strategic direction within an appropriate framework of rewards, Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 requires Directors to act in a incentives and controls.
The Board is collectively responsible for the way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the success of the Company: the Executive Directors are directly success of the Company for the benefit of shareholders as a whole.
responsible for running the business operations: and the NonIn doing so, the Directors must have regard among other matters to: Executive Directors are responsible for bringing independent The likely consequences of any decision in the long term.
judgement and scrutiny to decisions taken by the Board.
The NonExecutive Directors must satisfy themselves on the integrity of The interests of the Companys employees.
financial information and that financial controls and systems of risk The need to foster business relationships with suppliers, management are robust.
Following presentations by executive and clients and others.
divisional management and a disciplined process of review and The impact of the Companys operations on the community challenge by the Board, clear decisions on policy or strategy are and the environment.
adopted, and the executive management are fully empowered to The desirability of the Company maintaining a reputation for high implement those decisions.
Stakeholder interests and the matters listed above are factored into all The need to act fairly towards all shareholders of the Company.
62 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Corporate governance statement continued Ongoing training and briefings are also given to all Directors, including Board independence external courses as required.
Non-Executive Directors are required to be independent in character and judgement.
All relationships that may interfere materially with Group Company Secretary this judgement are disclosed as required under the conflicts of interest All Board members have access to independent advice on any matters policy.
The Board has determined that all the Non-Executive Directors relating to their responsibilities as Directors and as members of the who served during the year were independent and that, before and various committees of the Board at the Groups expense.
upon appointment as Chairman, Sir Ian Powell met the criteria of independence as outlined in the Code.
Francesca Todd, as Group Company Secretary, is available to all Directors and is responsible for ensuring that all Board procedures The Board does not believe that a Non-Executives tenure interferes arecomplied with.
materially with their ability to act in the best interests of the Group.
The Board also believes that each of the Non-Executives has retained The Group Company Secretary has direct access and responsibility independence of character and judgement and has not formed tothe chairmen of the standing committees and open access to all associations with management or others that may compromise their the Directors.
The Group Company Secretary has been appointed as ability to exercise independent judgement or act in the best interests Secretary to the Audit and Risk, Remuneration, and Nomination of the Group.
committees to ensure that there are no conflicts of interest.
TheGroup Company Secretary meets regularly with the Chairman The Board is satisfied that no conflict of interest exists for any oftheBoard, the chairmen of the Audit and Risk, and Remuneration Director.
This matter is a standing agenda item at Board meetings.
committees, and briefs them on areas of governance and .
Matters reserved for the Board A formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board has been adopted During the year, a new role of Chief General Counsel was created to and these include, but arenot limited to: oversee the Groups legal and regulatory capability, as a separate function from the role of Group Company Secretary.
The two roles Strategy and management, including responsibility for the overall collaborate closely but, in order to avoid a conflict of interest, leadership of the Group, setting the Groups values and standards, theGroup Company Secretary is solely responsible for Board and and overview of the Groups operational management.
Structure and capital, including changes relating to the Groups capital structure and major changes to the Groups corporate Shareholder engagement structure, including acquisitions and disposals, and changes to There is an active engagement programme with the Companys theGroups management and controlstructure.
The Executive Directors meet regularly with institutional Financial reporting, including the approval of the Annual Report investors to discuss and obtain feedback on the business, andAccounts, half-yearly report, trading statements, preliminary performance, strategy and corporate governance, and address any announcement for the final results and dividend, treasury and issues of concern.
This is undertaken through a combination of accounting policies.
roadshows, group or one-to-one meetings and attendance at Support Services conferences.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are Internal controls, ensuring that the Group manages risk effectively also available to meet with existing institutional shareholders by approving its risk appetite and monitoring aggregate risk throughout the year.
Contracts, including approval of all major capital projects and major The Investor Relations team has day-to-day responsibility for investments, including the acquisition or disposal of interests of managing investor communications and always acts in close more than 3% in the voting shares of any company or the making consultation with the Board.
All members of the Board, including the ofany takeover offer.
Non-Executive Directors, receive a report on any significant discussions with shareholders and anonymous feedback that follows Ensuring satisfactory communication with shareholders.
the annual and half-yearly presentations to investment analysts and Board membership and other appointments, including changes to institutional investors.
All analyst reports concerning Capita are the structure, size and composition of theBoard, and succession circulated to the Directors and the Board is kept informed of changes planning for the Board and senior management.
Board of Directors inductions and training Following the rights issue in April 2018, the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Head of Investor Relations and Chief Corporate Following appointment to the Board, all new Directors receive an Development Officer engaged extensively with existing and potential induction tailored to their individual requirements.
They are encouraged to meet and be briefed on the roles of key people across institutional investors, ensuring all investors fully understood the new the Group and have open access to all business areas and employees strategy, the transformation programme and the planned use of the to build up an appropriate level of knowledge of the business that rights issue proceeds.
extends beyond formal papers and presentations to the Board.
All In July 2018, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee consulted Directors have received an appropriate induction for their roles within with Capitas top 30 investors on proposed targets and measures for Capita, including some or all of the following: the 2018 long-term incentive plan.
Further details are set out in the The nature of the Group, its business, markets and relationships.
Meetings with the external auditor, lawyers, brokers and relevant In September 2018, the Chairman, Chairman of the Remuneration operational and functional senior management.
Committee and Senior Independent Director held a governance forum attended by the Companys top 30 investors.
This enabled Capitas Board procedures, including meeting protocols, committee activities largest shareholders to engage directly with Non-Executive Directors and terms of reference, and matters reserved for the Board.
on the Companys strategy, transformation programme, employee Overviews of the business via Monthly Performance Review MPR Board directors and wider corporate governance issues.
The Group approach to risk management.
