Corporate governance report OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Supporting the delivery of the Companys strategy.
Henry Staunton, Chairman Dear Shareholder, This Corporate Governance Statement and the Committee reports on the following pages explain Capcos approach to I am pleased to introduce Capcos 2018 Corporate Governance governance in more detail and how it applied the principles Report.
of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code during 2018.
During the year the Board evaluated and considered a number With the exception of Graeme Gordon who has decided to of strategic options for the business.
Throughout this process stand down from the Board, all of the Directors will be seeking the Board continued to operate within Capcos robust election or re-election at our forthcoming AGM.
Andrew Strang governance framework and my fellow Directors and I remain has served on the Board for more than six years.
Accordingly, highly committed to the continued successful and efficient before recommending that he be reappointed, the Nomination operation of all parts of the business.
Committee gave particular consideration to his contribution, Following an indication early in 2018 from Ian Durant, our continued independence and the overall balance of the Board.
former Chairman, that in light of his eight-year tenure and I would like to thank Graeme for his wise counsel during his external commitments he may wish to step down from the time as a Director of Capco.
Board at an appropriate time, a search for a successor candidate Capco has its primary listing on the London Stock Exchange was initiated, and I was delighted to be appointed as Ians and is also listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
A successor when he stepped down from the Board in June 2018 significant proportion of the Companys shares are held by following the announcement that the Board was considering a South African investors who may have different market demerger.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Ian for expectations to UK investors, particularly regarding the level his leadership over the last eight years and the strong of authority to issue new shares that shareholders expect to governance regime which he implemented.
The Board continues to feel that, to preserve As a result of my appointment as Ians successor, there were a flexibility, it is appropriate to seek the higher levels of authority number of changes to the Board Committees.
Gerry Murphy expected by UK shareholders where possible.
This has resulted was appointed as my replacement as Chairman of the Audit in significant votes against one of our resolutions at the 2018 Committee and Senior Independent Director, Charlotte Boyle AGM and Capcos inclusion in The Investment Associations was appointed as Chair of the Remuneration Committee and a public register of shareholder dissent.
The Board will continue member of the Audit Committee, and I have become Chairman to maintain dialogue with our South African shareholders on of the Nomination Committee.
I am pleased to report that there has been a successful handover of these roles during the year.
Further detail on the Chairman succession process is included in the Nomination Committee report on page 62.
The Board and Nomination Committee continue to monitor the composition, effectiveness and diversity of the Board.
Henry Staunton Chairman As evidenced by the publication of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code which applies to Capco from 1 January 2019 26 February 2019 and a number of reports and guidelines issued during the year, corporate governance remains at the forefront of a transparent, effective and responsible business.
Capco continues to place a STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK high level of importance on its approach to corporate CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE governance and its governance framework and reporting The Company has applied the principles and complied with systems reflect this.
the provisions of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code during 2018.
52 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements During the year a strategy day was held.
At this meeting the Board THE BOARD received detailed updates from external advisers and business The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of divisions, and was able to consider strategic issues in depth, the Company, and for its leadership, strategy, values, standards, and spend time with members of senior management in a less control and management.
Day-to-day management of the Group is formal environment.
delegated to the Executive Directors, subject to formal delegated authority limits: however, certain matters have been reserved for Board papers are generally circulated a week in advance of meetings Board approval.
These matters are reviewed annually and include to ensure that Directors have sufficient time to consider their Board and Committee composition, strategy, significant funding content prior to the meeting.
If matters require approval at short decisions and corporate transactions, delegated authority limits notice, written approval is sought from the Directors.
The Chairman meets regularly with the Non-executive Directors Board composition without the Executive Directors being present, and maintains As at 31 December 2018, the Board comprised the Chairman, regular contact with both the Chief Executive and members of three Executive Directors and five Non-executive Directors.
The table on page 54 summarises the membership of the As matters that require the Boards decision are often large, Board and Committees.
complex and evolve over a period of time, informal update Biographies of each of the Directors can be found on pages 50 and 51 meetings are held between Board meetings to allow Board and additional information on Directors skills and experience is members adequate time to explore, understand and challenge included on page 63. matters under consideration.
These provide an opportunity for the Non-executive Directors to meet senior management.
Three such Board independence updates were held during 2018.
The Code requires that, excluding the Chairman, at least half of the Board should comprise Non-executive Directors determined During 2018, the Board received regular asset, financial and to be independent.
performance updates from the Executive Directors and senior management from each asset and reports from the General Counsel The Board has considered the independence of the Non-executive & Director of Corporate Services General Counsel, the Company Directors, including potential conflicts of interest, and the table Secretary and Committee Chairs.
The table below shows the key on page 54 sets out those Directors considered to be independent areas considered by the Board during the year.
Each of these Directors has also confirmed that there is no reason why they should not continue BOARD COMMITTEES to be considered independent.
The Board has established Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees to enable the Board to operate effectively and ensure a In considering Director independence, the Board concluded that strong governance framework for decision-making.
Directors tenure should be counted from the date of their first election by shareholders to the Capco Board.
Each Committee has written terms of reference which are reviewed annually.
The terms of reference can be viewed on the Companys The key responsibilities of Board members are set out in the table on page 55. website.
Minutes of all Committee meetings are made available to THE BOARD IN 2018 all Directors.
The Committee Chairmen attend the AGM to answer The Board met formally throughout the year with main meetings any questions on the Committees activities.
timed around the financial calendar, and additional meetings A number of management committees support the business in convened to consider specific matters as required.
Attendance at delivering its strategy.
Board and Committee meetings held during 2018 is shown on page57.
A summary of the role of each Committee is shown on page 54, and the activity of each Committee during 2018 is described on pages 58 to 82.
MATTERS CONSIDERED BY THE BOARD IN 2018 Business Strategy, Governance, New Business and Directors Properties Financial Performance Internal Controls and Risk Potential demerger and other Property valuations Annual and half year results Risk appetite and principal risks strategic options and dividends Covent Garden performance Health and Safety, security risk and IT security updates New business opportunities Treasury and cash management Floral Court residential Internal Board evaluation and action plan Key investment decisions strategy Group tax position and AGM resolutions and voting structure Third-party interests Earls Court development, and Board Committees terms of reference and schedule Lillie Square construction Market and broker updates Market conditions and the impact of matters reserved for the Board completions and development of Brexit Budget and business planning Policy updates Acquisitions Disposal of the Empress State Internal audits Building Planning consents and Legal and regulatory updates including submissions Appointment of a new Chairman EU General Data Protection Regulation 2016 Board composition and 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code succession planning Tax policy www.
com 53 Corporate governance report continued LEADERSHIP STRUCTURE THE BOARD Collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
Management of strategy, leadership and risk Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Oversees financial reporting Sets remuneration policy Recommends Board appointments Monitors internal controls, including risk Sets Executive Director remuneration and Board succession planning management incentives Reviews Directors skills, experience and Monitors internal and external auditors Approves annual performance objectives independence Board evaluation Further information can be found in: Audit Committee Report on pages 58 to 60 Directors Remuneration Report on pages Nomination Committee Report on pages Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 64 to 82 61 to 63 16 to 19 Business Committees: Executive Risk Committee Disclosure Committee Executive management forum for review and discussion of risks, controls Monitors whether there is inside information within the business and mitigation measures Ensures disclosure requirements are met Ensures appropriate records are maintained Group Safety Leadership Team Corporate Responsibility Executive Committee Provides Group-wide oversight of management and implementation of Reports and coordinates sustainability, environmental management, Capcos Health and Safety Policy and Management System community engagement and charitable activities of the Group Provides Group-wide oversight of the management of security risk Implements the CR policy Sets targets and objectives and monitors progress BOARD INDEPENDENCE Year of first Audit Nomination Remuneration Name election Independent Committee Committee Committee 1 Henry Staunton Chairman from 5 June 2018 2011 Yes Ian Hawksworth Chief Executive 2011 No Situl Jobanputra 2017 No Gary Yardley 2011 No Charlotte Boyle 2018 Yes Graeme Gordon 2011 No Gerry Murphy SID from 5 June 2018 2015 Yes Anthony Steains 2016 Yes Andrew Strang 2011 Yes Ian Durant Chairman until 5 June 2018 2011 N A 50% independent 1.
Henry Staunton was independent on appointment as Chairman.
Following his appointment 50% of the Board is considered to be independent.
54 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements ROLES OF BOARD MEMBERS The following table sets out the key responsibilities of Board members: Roles of Board members Position Name Responsibilities Chairman Henry Staunton Leads the Board, ensures its effectiveness and sets its agenda.
Ensures an effective link from 5 June 2018 between shareholders, the Board and management.
Ian Durant until 5 June 2018 Chief Executive Ian Hawksworth Develops the Companys strategic direction, implements policies and strategies agreed by the Board and manages the business.
Chief Financial Officer Situl Jobanputra Responsible for developing and implementing financial strategy for the Group.
Managing Director & Chief Gary Yardley Responsible for leading the Groups real estate investment, overseeing significant real estate Investment Officer transactions.
Non-executive Directors Charlotte Boyle, Constructively challenge the Executive Directors and monitor the delivery of the agreed Graeme Gordon, corporate strategy within the risk and control framework set by the Board.
Gerry Murphy, Henry Staunton until 5 June 2018, Anthony Steains, Andrew Strang All Directors have access to the advice and services of: General Counsel & Director Anne Byrne Provides legal advice and guidance to the Board: reports on corporate services activities.
of Corporate Services Company Secretary Ruth Pavey Advises the Board on corporate governance matters and ensures a good flow of information within the Board and its Committees and between senior management and the Non-executive Directors.
com 55 Corporate governance report continued ENSURING AN EFFECTIVE BOARD Corporate website To ensure that Capcos Board continues to be effective, the Board Our corporate website allows visitors to access Company conducts an annual evaluation of its own performance and that of information, annual reports, results presentations and webcasts.
In 2018, an internal evaluation was The site also includes links to our division websites and contact managed by the Chairman and Company Secretary.
Using an online details for shareholder queries.
questionnaire, Directors were each asked to rate and provide Annual General Meeting anonymous feedback on a wide range of matters relating to the Our AGM allows the Board to update our shareholders on Capcos performance of the Board, its Committees and its Directors.
A progress, and provides an opportunity for shareholders to put report which summarised the responses to the evaluation was questions to the Directors, and meet senior executives.
considered by the Board and it was concluded that the Board continues to operate well.
A number of minor proposals arising Shareholders are encouraged to vote on the resolutions put to the from the evaluation will be implemented.
meeting, either in person, online or by submitting a proxy card.
We publish the results of the votes on all resolutions on our website In addition, the Senior Independent Director conducted an following the meeting.
appraisal of the Chairmans performance which confirmed the Boards continued confidence in the Chairman since his Our 2019 AGM will be held before 30 June 2019.
The notice of appointment earlier in the year and that the Directors are satisfied Annual General Meeting will be issued to shareholders at least that the Chairman continues to commit sufficient time to the 20 working days before the meeting.
Separate resolutions will be Company.
The Chairman also undertook appraisals of the other proposed on each issue and, in accordance with the Code, each Directors performance.
Director will offer themselves for election or re-election.
The Chairman, Chairs of the Board Committees and other Directors COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS will be available at the AGM to meet shareholders and answer Our policy any questions.
The Board is keen to ensure that our shareholders and potential investors have a good understanding of Capcos business and Should shareholders have any concerns that they are unable to performance, and that Directors are aware of any issues and successfully resolve following communication with the Chairman, concerns that shareholders may have.
The Company communicates Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer, they may raise them with stakeholders in a number of ways: through the Senior Independent Director.
2018 BOARD EVALUATION The Chairman and Company Secretary considered the approach to be taken for the 2018 Board evaluation The Nomination Committee considered the proposed approach and approved an  evaluation Each Director completed an online questionnaire developed by the Chairman and Company Secretary A report was prepared and provided to the Board for consideration A number of actions were agreed ACTIONS FOR 2018 PROGRESS ACTIONS FOR 2019 Create additional time for debate by Time for discussion prioritised Formalise considerations of considering certain matters on a by stakeholders exception basis Implement actions required under Continue to keep Board composition Board composition regularly reviewed 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code under review and proposals implemented during Continue to consider Board the year composition and succession planning Consider whether proposed strategies Board materials continually reviewed can be better highlighted within and improvements implemented Board materials Focus on culture and workforce Board received regular updates from management.
Further work to be undertaken in 2019 56 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS The table below shows Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings held during 2018.
In addition, the General Counsel attends each Board and Audit Committee meeting and the Company Secretary attends each Board and Committee meeting: Name Board Audit Remuneration Nomination 1,2 Henry Staunton Chairman from 5 June 2018 11 11 1 1 2 3 5 5 Ian Hawksworth Chief Executive 11 11 5 5 Situl Jobanputra 11 11 Gary Yardley 11 11 3 Charlotte Boyle 11 11 2 2 8 8 5 5 Graeme Gordon 9 11 Gerry Murphy 11 11 3 3 8 8 5 5 Anthony Steains 10 11 5 5 Andrew Strang 11 11 3 3 8 8 5 5 Ian Durant Chairman until 5 June 2018 7 7 2 2 Total meetings held during the year 11 3 8 5 1.
Stepped down from the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee on 5 June 2018 2.
Not invited to attend one meeting of the Remuneration Committee due to a conflict of interest 3.
Appointed to the Audit Committee on 5 June 2018 had an interest.
The interests of new Directors are reviewed during Communications with shareholders and other stakeholders the recruitment process and, if appropriate, authorised by the Communication with the Companys investors is a priority for the Board on appointment.
The Company runs an extensive investor relations programme, and the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and On appointment, and each subsequent year, Non-executive Head of Investor Relations hold meetings with institutional Directors are required to confirm in writing that they have investors throughout the year, including results presentations, sufficient time to devote to the Companys affairs.
In addition, webcasts, roadshows, one-to-one meetings and investor tours.
they are required to seek prior approval from the Chairman before taking on any additional external commitments that may affect The Companys major shareholders are encouraged to meet with their time available to devote to the Company, and the Board is the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director to discuss any advised of any changes.
matters they may wish to raise.
During 2018, Directors engaged with shareholders on matters including the potential demerger The Chairman is also Chairman of WH Smith PLC and was and authorities to allot shares subsequently approved at the Chairman of Phoenix Group Holdings until 31 October 2018.
previous Chairman was also Chairman of Greggs plc and DFS Furniture plc.
As part of the Senior Independent Directors annual The Directors receive regular updates on the Companys major evaluation of the Chairmans performance, Directors were shareholders, and receive reports on shareholder feedback at each specifically asked to consider whether the Chairmans external Board meeting.
The Non-executive Directors are invited to attend commitments prevent him from devoting sufficient time to the Companys results presentations.
perform his duties as Chairman of Capco, and it was concluded that Private shareholders may raise questions through the Company the Company continues to receive the appropriate time required.
Secretarys office either by telephone or by email feedback@ The Board is satisfied that all Non-executive Directors are capitalandcounties.
contributing effectively to the operation of the Board.
The Company maintains active relations with community stakeholders.
DTR DISCLOSURE The disclosures required under DTR 7.2 of the Disclosure and Please see pages 45 and 46 in the CR Report for more details of Capcos stakeholder engagement.
Transparency Rules are contained in this report, and the Audit Committee and Nomination Committee Reports, except for CONFLICTS OF INTEREST AND TIME information required under DTR 7.2.
6 which is contained in the COMMITMENTS Directors Report on pages 83 and 84.
The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise.
The Board has adopted a procedure under which Directors must notify the Chairman of any potential conflicts.
The Chairman then decides whether a conflict exists and recommends its authorisation by the Board where appropriate.
In cases where there is a potential conflict of interest, an appropriate protocol to be followed where a conflict of interest may arise is agreed.
In addition, a Director who had a conflict of interest would not be counted in the quorum or entitled to vote when the Board considered the matter in which the Director www.
