Strategic report Governance Financial statements Nomination Committee report NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Henry Staunton, Chairman of the Nomination Committee I am pleased to introduce Capcos 2018 Nomination Committee of reference and introduced changes to ensure that it will Report.
During 2018, the Committee devoted a significant continue to be compliant with the Code during 2019.
The main proportion of its time to consideration of Board succession change arising from the updates will be an increased focus on planning and composition.
succession planning below Board level.
In early 2018, Ian Durant, the Companys former Chairman, In 2019, the Committee will continue to monitor Board indicated that he might wish to step down from the Board at an composition, including Directors tenure, skills, experience appropriate time, should an appropriate successor be and diversity, to ensure that the Board is best placed to deliver identified.
Accordingly, the Committee initiated a search for a Capcos strategy, and will consider succession planning for all candidate to succeed Ian as Chairman.
The search and its Directors and senior management.
conclusions are described within this report.
In running the Andrew Strang has decided to step down from the Audit, succession process the Committee took care to ensure that any Nomination and Remuneration Committees with effect from conflicts of interest were appropriately managed.
Anthony Steains will join the Remuneration In light of the strategic options under consideration by the Committee with effect from 1 March 2019.
Board during the year, the Committee also spent time All the Directors except for Graeme Gordon will be seeking considering the appropriate compositions for the Boards and election or re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
In accordance Committees of each new business in the event that a demerger with best practice, the Nomination Committee gave particular is undertaken.
consideration before recommending that Andrew Strang, who The Committee also continued its search for an additional has served on the Board for more than six years, be reappointed.
Non-executive Director with property expertise, and made a I am pleased to report that the Committee concluded that recommendation to the Board in February 2019 that Jonathan Andrew continues to make a valuable contribution to the work Lane be appointed to the Board, Audit Committee and of the Board.
In reaching its decision the Committee gave consideration to the implications for Board diversity and weighed these against the skills and experience that Jonathan will bring to the Board.
Diversity remains high on our agenda and we will continue to consider this during the Henry Staunton course of 2019.
It is notable that Capcos senior management is Chairman of the Nomination Committee, 26 February 2019 gender diverse, as was reflected in the 2018 HamptonAlexander Review.
Members: Ian Hawksworth Anthony Steains Finally, in advance of the introduction of the 2018 UK Henry Staunton Charlotte Boyle Andrew Strang Corporate Governance Code, the Committee reviewed its terms Chairman Gerry Murphy MATTERS CONSIDERED BY THE COMMITTEE DURING 2018 INCLUDED: Chairman succession Board evaluation Board and Committee composition, including planning Directors skills, experience and training opportunities needed in respect of strategic options considered Directors time commitments and independence Non-executive Director recruitment 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code Succession planning Committee terms of reference Diversity at Board level and across the Company www.
com 61 Nomination Committee report continued DIRECTOR RECRUITMENT PROCESS Nomination Committee considers Board composition and determines desired skills and experience A person specification is prepared A shortlist of executive search firms is prepared and a selection process followed A list of candidates is identified The Chairman and Chief Executive meet with shortlisted candidates and provide feedback to the Committee All Directors and the Company Secretary are given the opportunity to meet the preferred candidate The Committee makes a formal recommendation to the Board The Nomination Committee has responsibility for making Prior to making a recommendation to the Board in February 2019, recommendations on Board appointments and succession to the Committee determined that it would be appropriate to appoint theBoard.
Jonathan Lane to the Board with effect from 1 March 2019.
Jonathan is the former Chief Executive and Chairman of Shaftesbury PLC and The members of the Committee as at 31 December 2018 and the brings a wealth of West End property experience to the Board.
date of this report are listed in the box on the previous page.
The During the course of the search, a diverse range of candidates was Nomination Committee met five times during the year, and considered.
In reaching its conclusion, the Committee recognised attendance at these meetings is shown in the table on page 57. that the appointment would not increase the Boards diversity: Board composition and succession however, it was concluded that, on this occasion, this was The Committee regularly considers Board composition and outweighed by the benefits that Jonathans considerable property succession planning for both Executive and Non-executive experience would bring to the Board.
In considering Executive Director succession, the Boards acknowledges the aspirations within the Board Diversity Policy strategy is to consider both internal and external candidates, whilst and will continue to seek opportunities to improve Board diversity aiming to develop a choice of internal potential successors.
focus of Non-executive Director succession planning is to ensure Strategic considerations: During the year the Committee also that the Board and its Committees continue to have the right mix spent time considering Board and Committee composition in the of skills and experience to deliver Capcos strategy.
A summary of event that a demerger is undertaken, to ensure that each new Directors core skills and experience is shown in the table to business would have an appropriate Board, if required.
Board succession and composition will continue to be considered at Chairman succession: Early in 2018, Ian Durant indicated that, Committee meetings during 2019, and the Committee will make in light of his eight-year tenure and other commitments, he may recommendations to the Board where appropriate.
This may wish to retire from the Board at an appropriate time, and it would include the appointment of an additional Non-executive Director be appropriate for the Board to plan for his succession.
Accordingly at such time as a suitable candidate is identified.
Lygon Group, which provides no other services to the Company, was engaged to identify potential external successor candidates.
Director recruitment A number of internal candidates also expressed interest in the role.
Capco operates a rigorous and transparent recruitment process for A sub-committee, led initially by Henry Staunton and subsequently new Directors, which is summarised above.
by Charlotte Boyle, considered proposed candidates before making Director induction a recommendation to the Committee and subsequently to the An induction programme is provided for each new Director, which Board that Henry Staunton would be the most appropriate is tailored depending on the individuals experience and expected candidate to succeed Ian as Chairman.
When the decision was taken role on the Board.
A typical induction programme for a Capco to announce that the Board was considering a potential demerger Non-executive Director will include individual meetings with the of the business, Ian Durant confirmed that, whilst supportive of the Chairman, Executive Directors, General Counsel, Company proposals, he felt it would be appropriate to put his successor in Secretary and members of senior management, site tours of Capcos place to see through this process.
Accordingly the Board resolved estates with management, and meetings with the Companys that Henry Staunton would succeed Ian Durant as Chairman of the brokers, advisers and lawyers.
The Director is also provided with Company with effect from 5 June 2018, that Gerry Murphy would copies of past Board and Committee papers and minutes, and become Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent individual briefings are arranged on topics such as Directors duties Director and Charlotte Boyle would become Chair of the and responsibilities, remuneration structure and regulations and Remuneration Committee.
Appointment of new Non-executive Director: As reported in The Company will provide Jonathan Lane with a full induction past years, the Committee had previously determined that it would programme on his appointment.
be desirable for an additional Non-executive Director with property expertise to be appointed to the Board.
The extensive search, supported by Lygon Group, was continued during 2018.
62 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Director development Capcos diversity in figures as at 31 December 2018 : The Chairman and the Committee together ensure that Directors Recommendation Capcos current keep their skills and knowledge up to date to allow them to fulfil position their roles on the Board and Board Committees.
The General Counsel and Company Secretary regularly update the Board on Hampton-Alexander Board 33% Female 11% legal and corporate governance matters, and information on Hampton-Alexander Executive 33% Female by 37.5% training opportunities and seminars is circulated to Directors.
The Committee or equivalent 2020 Company also arranges periodic briefings from external advisers, Hampton-Alexander Leadership 33% Female by 44% and Directors receive regular business updates from the Executive team 2020 Directors.
Directors may also take independent advice at the Companys expense where they feel this is appropriate.
Parker Review Board At least one director 1 of colour by 2024 Diversity Diversity is important to Capco and the Board recognises that diversity of experience and perspective can bring benefits across the business.
The Board Diversity Policy aligns with the Committees Summary of Directors skills and experience aim of ensuring that the Board has the right mix of skills and experience to deliver Capcos strategy, and properly reflects the Director Skills and experience Boards view of the benefits of diversity.
Henry Staunton Financial and commercial management Capcos Board Diversity Policy states that, when considering the Ian Hawksworth Global real estate investment and development nomination of new Directors, the Nomination Committee will Situl Jobanputra Corporate finance, capital markets and financial evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the management Board, to establish the particular skills, experience and aptitudes desirable for that appointment.
Such evaluations will pay particular Gary Yardley Global real estate investment and development attention to the merits of diversity, including diversity of gender, Charlotte Boyle People, talent and succession race, age and background.
Graeme Gordon A South African perspective and property investment The Board remains committed to encouraging diversity, and Gerry Murphy Auditing and commercial management intends that over the next few years, in the normal course of succession management, its composition will become more Anthony Steains Corporate finance and Asian markets reflective of the diversity across Capcos business, particularly in Andrew Strang Real estate investment respect of gender.
The Board Diversity Policy does not include targets for gender or other characteristics: however, in conducting searches, Capco will only use executive search firms that are signatories to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms, and will require diverse candidate shortlists, from which During the year, as part of its review of Board diversity, the appointments will be made on merit.
The Board believes that Committee reviewed the Groups diversity policies, and received diverse shortlists increase the likelihood of identifying the best an update on diversity initiatives supported by the Company, candidates for each appointment.
which promote diversity within the property industry including The composition of the Board will be kept under review to ensure Real Estate Balance, the RICS Inclusive Employer Quality Mark, that the best balance of skills and experience is maintained, and the Employers Network for Equality & Inclusion and Pathways effectiveness of the Board Diversity Policy will be monitored by the to Property.
More information on Capcos people practices and diversity initiatives can be found on pages 43 and 44 of the Corporate Responsibility Report Below Board level there is strong female representation within Capcos senior management team and their direct reports, which is summarised in the table to the right.
However, as a company with a relatively small headcount, a small number of changes can have a significant impact on the percentages.
Capco is supportive of employee development, including those who wish to seek Non-executive roles elsewhere, and provides development opportunities, including mentoring from our Non-executive Directors.
It is hoped that such initiatives will help develop the next generation of Board members either within Capco or in the wider business world.
