Audit Committee report AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Gerry Murphy, Chairman of the Audit Committee Having succeeded Henry Staunton as Chairman of the Audit not be compromised by the additional work undertaken Committee during 2018, I am pleased to introduce Capcos for the Company.
Finally, following consideration of the matters reviewed The Committee continues to play a key oversight role for during the year and the Groups principal risks, the Committee the Board, monitoring and reviewing all aspects of the concluded, and made a recommendation to the Board that, Groups financial reporting, internal controls and risk taken as a whole, these Annual Report and Accounts are fair, management procedures.
balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position, This report provides an overview of the work undertaken by performance, business model and strategy.
The most significant topics considered by the Committee during the year included the Groups property valuations, taxation and the accounting treatment of various significant or complex corporate transactions.
The Committee also reviewed the Companys risk and viability statement disclosures before they were recommended to the Board, and approved an amendment to Gerry Murphy the Companys non-audit services policy in line with recent Chairman of the Audit Committee, 26 February 2019 Financial Reporting Council FRC guidance, to allow the Groups auditors to provide services in respect of preparations Members: for the potential demerger considered by the Board.
Before Gerry Murphy Chairman approving the amendment, the Committee satisfied itself Andrew Strang that the objectivity and independence of the auditors would Charlotte Boyle The Audit Committee, reporting to the Board, oversees the The Audit Committee met three times during 2018.
Attendance at financial reporting process, monitors the effectiveness of internal these meetings is shown in the table on page 57.
The Committee control, internal audit, risk management and the statutory audit also met privately during the year with both the external and and monitors the independence of the statutory auditors and the internal auditors.
As at 31 December 2018 and the The Committee follows an annual programme, which is agreed date of this report, the Committee comprises three independent with the Committee Chair, management and external auditors Non-executive Directors and is chaired by Gerry Murphy who is prior to each financial year, and ensures it gives thorough considered to have significant, recent and relevant financial consideration to matters of particular importance to the Company, experience.
The Board believes that the Committee as a whole and additional matters are considered when appropriate.
The has competence in real estate matters.
Committees 2018 agenda is shown in the table on the next page, The Committees meetings were also attended by the Companys and the significant matters considered by the Committee during Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, General the year are also explained on the next page.
Counsel, Company Secretary and Group Financial Controller, The Company was not subject to any FRC reviews during 2018. together with senior representatives of the external and internal auditors.
EXTERNAL AUDITORS Committee responsibilities The valuers and members of senior management, including the The Committee oversees the relationship with Director of Finance and Group Tax Manager, attended meetings  LLP PwC, the external auditors, and by invitation to present reports required for the Committee to is responsible for developing, implementing and monitoring the discharge its responsibilities.
58 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements THE AUDIT COMMITTEE IN 2018 Regular meeting items February meeting July meeting November meeting Report from Group Financial Controller Going concern assessment Interim results announcement Effectiveness and independence of external auditor, and recommendation Accounting treatment of significant Preliminary results, Annual Report, 2018 Audit Plan for reappointment transactions viability statement and Management Liquidity forecasting Representation Letter Risk management review Accounting standards and policies Risk management Determining and recommending to the Internal controls Property valuations Board that the Annual Report taken as Viability statement review a whole was fair, balanced and External auditor report understandable Corporate governance policies, Regulatory update Non-audit services policy Effectiveness of internal audit and Committee terms of reference Internal auditor report from BDO EU General Data Protection Regulation 2019 Internal Audit Plan Tax update 2016 Alternative performance measures SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE COMMITTEE IN 2018 Matter considered What the Committee did Valuations As in previous years, the independent external valuers presented the year end and half year valuations to the Committee at the February and July meetings respectively.
The Committee reviewed the valuation process and component parts of the valuations, discussed the valuations with the external auditors and challenged the valuers on the assumptions used.
The Committee also advised the Board on the independence of the valuers and obtained confirmation that management had provided all requested information.
The Committee was satisfied that the approach taken by the valuers was appropriate.
Further information can be found in note 15 on pages 112 to 115 of the notes to the accounts.
Tax The Director of Finance and Group Tax Manager presented a report to the Committee at the February and July meetings, explained the basis of the Groups tax position, identified key taxation risks to the Group and updated the Committee on the ongoing relationship with HMRC.
The Committee challenged the assumptions made in arriving at the tax position and discussed with the external auditors the assumptions and judgements made in arriving at the tax position.
The Committee was satisfied that the policy was appropriate for the Group.
Further information can be found in note 11 on page 107 and in note 27 on page 125 of the notes to the accounts.
Significant and As in previous years, the Committee received updates from the Financial Controller on significant and complex transactions at each meeting.
complex transactions With regard to each transaction, such as the CLSA, the Innova Investment joint venture, impairments of other receivables and the sale of the Empress State Building, the Committee discussed the accounting treatments with management and the external auditors and is satisfied that the appropriate approach has been taken.
Companys policy on external audit, and for monitoring the This is the third year in which Jeremy Jensen has been the audit auditors independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical, engagement partner.
The external audit contract must be tendered professional and regulatory requirements.
by 2020 to comply with regulatory requirements.
The Directors plan to complete a tender of the 2020 external audit contract The external auditors are not permitted to perform any work that during 2019. they may subsequently need to audit or which might either create a conflict of interest or affect the auditors objectivity and The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market independence.
Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 statement Access to Committee of compliance The external auditors have direct access to the Audit Committee The Company confirms that it complied with the provisions of the Chairman should they wish to raise any concerns outside formal Competition and Markets Authoritys Order for the financial year Committee meetings.
Effectiveness of auditors Non-audit services The Committee monitored PwCs effectiveness and performance Non-audit services are normally limited to assignments that are during 2018, and considered a paper prepared by the Group closely related to the annual audit or where the work is of such a Financial Controller which confirmed that in managements view nature that a detailed understanding of the Group is necessary.
PwC was providing an independent and good-quality audit service and continued to deliver against all services considered at their The Company has adopted a non-audit services policy that is appointment.
Matters considered in reaching this conclusion consistent with the FRCs current Ethical Standard.
The purpose included audit partner rotation, continuity of audit team, of the policy is to ensure that the provision of non-audit services by commitment to understanding the Groups business and the external auditors does not compromise their independence or transactions, the level of technical challenge on the Groups objectivity.
A number of non-audit services, which reflect the FRCs accounts and accounting policies and the segregation of work list of prohibited non-audit services, are prohibited under the between audit and non-audit services teams.
The policy requires the Audit Committee Chairman to approve in advance any non-audit work with a cost exceeding The Committee is satisfied that the external auditors remain 75,000 for work related to the interim review or, for other independent and objective, are able to challenge management projects, the lower of 50,000 or 15 per cent of the estimated where appropriate, and that the Groups audit is robust and annual level of the auditors fees at that time.
The Committee has therefore recommended to the Board that PwC be reappointed in 2019.
With effect from 1 January 2020, unless an exemption has been obtained from the FRC, the total value of non-audit services in a Tendering of external audit contract financial year must not exceed 70 per cent of the average of the fees Capco tendered its external audit contract in 2010, and PwC paid to the external auditors in the last three consecutive years for wasappointed as Group auditors on an annual rolling contract.
the audit of Capco, its Group undertakings and joint ventures.
com 59 Audit Committee report continued Services below this limit are pre-approved by the Audit Committee INTERNAL CONTROL & RISK MANAGEMENT under the policy, subject to consideration and approval by an Risk management Executive Director.
Approval is only given following a full and The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups risk thorough assessment of the value case for using the auditors, the management framework and system of internal control and the skills and experience the auditors would bring and determination ongoing review of their effectiveness: it also determines the risk that the auditors are the most suitable provider of the service.
appetite of the Group and regularly reviews principal risks and Additionally, consideration must be given to the preservation of uncertainties.
The framework is designed to manage rather than auditor independence: and in advance of providing non-audit eliminate risk, and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, services the external auditors are required to report that they are assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has acting independently, that provision of the non-audit services does delegated responsibility for the review of the adequacy and not impair their objectivity and that they are not: effectiveness of the Groups internal controls relating to risk to the Committee and the Committee reviews the controls relating to auditing their own work: risks and the proposed principal risk disclosures.
making management decisions for the Company: A description of the Group risk management framework and the review undertaken creating a mutuality of interest: during the year is set out on page 16. being remunerated via a contingent success fee: Viability statement developing close personal relationships with the Companys As part of its work in reviewing the Groups financial statements, personnel: or the Committee reviewed the methodology for the preparation of acting in the role of advocate for the Company.
the viability statement including the principal risks, supporting The Committee is satisfied that the policy is operating effectively.
analysis, qualifications and assumptions to be disclosed.
The total fees paid and payable to PwC in 2018 were 2,081,000 of The viability statement can be found on page 19. which 1,757,000 related to non-audit work 2017: 435,000 of Internal controls which 66,000 related to non-audit work.
The significant 2018 The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the increase in non-audit work was as a result of assurance services in Groups internal controls and reports regularly to the Board on its connection with the potential demerger.
PwC were selected over work and conclusions.
In reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups another service provider for this undertaking due to their detailed internal controls, the Committee considers reports provided by the knowledge and understanding of the business.
The other non-audit Group Financial Controller, external auditors and internal auditor.
work relates to the interim review and agreed upon procedures on No significant failings or weaknesses were identified in the the verification of balances for contractual arrangements, the review process.
verification of share scheme performance outcomes and other assurance services.
The total fees for non-audit services represented Details of the Groups internal controls are set out below: 84 per cent of the total Group audit fees payable for the year 2017: Day-to-day procedures and internal control framework 15 per cent.
The total fees paid and payable to PwC in 2018 and 2017 Schedule of matters reserved for the Board are set out in the table below.
Remit and terms of reference of Board Committees 2018 2017 Delegated authority limits Total fees paid to PwC 2,081,000 435,000 Documentation of significant transactions Non-audit fees 1,757,000 66,000 The Executive Directors are closely involved in the day-to-day operations of the business and hold regular meetings with senior management to review aspects of the business, including risks INTERNAL AUDITOR and controls Internal audit plan Regular Board updates on strategy and project developments BDO LLP BDO has been appointed to act as Capcos internal auditor.
During 2018, BDOs audit plan included reviews of A whistleblowing policy and hotline under which staff may raise corporation tax, Covent Garden project management, Covent matters of concern confidentially.
No calls were received during Garden commercial leasing, Capcos crisis management and major the year.
incident plans, Lillie Square facilities management, accounts Specific controls relating to financial reporting and payable, the corporate governance framework and compliance with consolidation process the EU General Data Protection Regulation 2016.
No significant Appropriately staffed management structure, with clear lines issues were raised during the reviews.
of responsibility and accountability During 2019, it is expected that the audit plan will include reviews A comprehensive budgeting and review system.
Board and of Lillie Square health and safety, payroll, Earls Court site Audit Committee updates from the Chief Financial Officer management, Covent Garden asset management, Covent Garden which include forecasts, performance against budget and residential leasing, risk management, the Bribery Act and tax financial covenants evasion, Covent Garden rent collection and IT arrangements.
Led by the Chief Executive, the Group Finance team participates Committee responsibilities in the control self-assessment and policy compliance elements of The Committee reviews the work of the internal auditor, the audit the risk management framework and sets formal requirements plan, any matters identified as a result of internal audits and with business division finance functions which specify the whether recommendations are addressed by management in a reports and approvals required timely and appropriate way.
The Committee is satisfied that the BDO conducts regular audits of the Groups financial control internal auditor continues to be independent and its procedures and reports its findings to the Audit Committee services effective.
The Committee is satisfied that the Groups internal controls are Access to the Committee operating effectively and that systems are in accordance with The internal audit partner has direct access to the Audit Committee FRCguidance.
Chairman should they wish to raise any concerns outside formal Committee meetings.
The Committee meets with the internal auditor at least once per year without management being present.
