Corporate Governance Report LEADERSHIP AND APPROACH CODE COMPLIANCE The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate Save as set out in the paragraphs below, the Board has governance.
The Board understands the importance of its complied with and intends to continue to comply with the leadership on governance in setting the culture and values requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code instilled in the business, and in achievement of long-term published in September 2016 by the Financial Reporting strategic goals whilst successfully managing risks for Council the UK Corporate Governance Code or the Code a ourshareholders.
copy of which can be obtained from www.
The Company will report to its shareholders on its compliance with We believe that good governance is demonstrated by the UK Corporate Governance Code in accordance with the applying corporate governance principles and guidelines in a Listing Rules LRs.
way that enhances or protects the value of the business.
This ensures a pragmatic governance culture sits alongside the ROLE OF THE BOARD entrepreneurial spirit which has enabled Card Factory to The strategy for the growth of the business is determined by develop into the business it is today.
the Board in a manner that facilitates the development and growth of the Group over the long-term in the interests of its KEY GOVERNANCE ACTIVITIES shareholders.
We believe this requires the Company to Key activities during the year were: recognise the importance of our duties to colleagues, customers, the community in which we operate and the managing and supporting the induction of our Chief interests of our other stakeholders.
Financial Officer, Kristian Kris Lee, who formally succeeded Darren Bryant on 1 August 2017: BOARD COMPOSITION, BALANCE AND INDEPENDENCE appointing Roger Whiteside as an additional Independent The Board currently comprises seven members.
Non-Executive Director: The Code recommends that at least half the board of directors continuing to support our Chief Executive Officer, Karen of a UK listed company, excluding the Chairman, should Hubbard, in both her development of the Groups longercomprise Non-Executive Directors determined by the Board to term strategy and her reflection and refinement of the be independent in character and judgement and free from Groups current strategy taking into account the relationships or circumstances which may affect, or could opportunities, risks and challenges the Group faces over appear to affect, the directors judgement.
This included capturing Darren Bryants reflections on his time with the business prior to In the period between Kris Lees appointment to the Board, as his retirement in July: Chief Financial Officer Designate, on 3 July 2017 and Darren through the Nomination Committee, supporting Karen and Bryants retirement from the Board and the Group at the end Kris with the changes in and the development of the wider of July 2017, the constitution of the Companys Board did not management team and the introduction of a new structure technically comply with this recommendation as the Board for identifying and developing future leaders from within consisted of the Non-Executive Chairman, three Independent the Group: Non-Executive Directors and three Executive Directors.
This supporting the management team with their roll out of the non-compliance was only temporary and to allow for an orderly handover to Kris Lee following his appointment.
Groups mission, vision and values which underpin the Groups culture and strategy and will support its future Roger Whiteside was appointed to the Board as an additional development and growth: Independent Non-Executive Director with effect from reviewing the Groups people strategy for the next 4 December 2017.
Rogers appointment supports the Boards threeyears: continuing commitment to ensure it has the appropriate carrying out our first externally facilitated Board balance of skills and experience to support its exercise of its evaluation: duties and that succession planning extends to the Board itself.
reviewing the objectives and performance of the business in each of the four pillars of its growth strategy and The Board remains relatively small but is confident that, as monitoring progress with the key business projects currently constituted, it continues to be an effective and implemented during the year, including entry into the efficient decision-making body that supports the Groups Republic of Ireland and the introduction of new point of strategy and growth.
This is kept under constant review sale software in all the Groups stores: together with succession planning for the Board as a whole.
reviewing the Groups treasury policy in light of the Groups financial position and performance and the The Board considers all of the current Non-Executive continuing uncertainty over the UKs future relationship Directors as independent Non-Executive Directors within the with the European Union: meaning of the Code and free from any business or other relationships that are likely to interfere with the exercise of regularly evaluating the Boards current agenda during the their independentjudgement.
year as well as planning for the year ahead: and inviting external speakers from a range of backgrounds to Chairman Geoff Cooper Board meetings to share their business insights, The Code recommends that, on appointment, the chairman of experience and also their views on the prevailing a company with a premium listing on the Official List should macroeconomic environment and its impact on retailers.
meet the independence criteria set out in the Code.
On appointment, the Board considered Geoff Cooper to be independent but his appointment is subject to the terms of a letter of appointment dated 30 April 2014 under which, as part of his remuneration, Geoff was given the option to invest 38 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financials 330,000 in the Company by means of an acquisition of ordinary shares as part of, or alongside, the offer of shares conducted in conjunction with the Companys IPO at the offer price of 225p per share the Offer Price.
Geoff took up this offer at the time of the IPO and agreed to acquire 146,666 ordinary shares.
This entitled him, on the second and third anniversaries of the completion of the IPO, to make further investments on each occasion of 330,000 in the Company by purchasing a further 146,666 ordinary shares at the Offer Price.
Geoff exercised these options in full in May 2016 and 2017.
Notwithstanding these options and his role as an adviser to Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP who were the majority shareholder in the Company immediately prior to the Companys IPO in 2014, the Board considered Geoff to be independent onappointment.
Senior Independent Director Octavia Morley The Code recommends that the board of directors of a company with a premium listing should appoint one of the Non-Executive Directors as a Senior Independent Director to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary.
The Senior Independent Director should be available to shareholders if they have concerns, which contact through the normal channels of the Chief Executive Officer has failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Octavia Morley has been appointed as the Senior Independent Director of the Company and has considerable experience of acting as an Independent Non-Executive Director having been an Independent Non-Executive Director of John Menzies plc between 2006 and 2015.
BOARD RESPONSIBILITY The Company has a clear division of responsibilities between the Non-Executive Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
In general terms, the Non-Executive Chairman is responsible for running the Board and the Chief Executive is responsible for running the Groups business on a day-to-day basis.
This clear division of responsibilities, when taken together with the schedule of matters which the Board has reserved for its own consideration, ensures that no one person has unlimited and unchecked power to make decisions that may have a material impact on the Group as a whole.
A copy of the matters reserved for the Board is available on Card Factorys investor website www.
com and, on request, from the Company Secretary.
BOARD ATTENDANCE During the year, the Board held 11 scheduled meetings and various Board Committee meetings were also held with attendance asfollows: Board Remuneration Audit and Risk Nomination Meetings Committee Committee Committee Director Role 11 meetings 7 meetings 4 meetings 3 meetings Geoff Cooper Non-Executive Chairman and Chair of Nomination 11 7 3 Committee Octavia Morley Senior Independent Director and Chair of 11 7 4 3 Remuneration Committee David Stead Independent Non-Executive Director and Chair of 11 7 4 3 Audit and Risk Committee Paul McCrudden Independent Non-Executive Director 11 7 4 3 Roger Whiteside Independent Non-Executive Director 2 2 1 Karen Hubbard Chief Executive Officer 11 Darren Bryant Chief Financial Officer 5 Kristian Lee Chief Financial Officer 6 Darren Bryant retired from the Board on 31 July 2017.
Kris Lee joined the Board on 3 July 2017.
Roger Whiteside joined the Board on 4 December 2017.
Unless otherwise noted, all Directors have attended all relevant Board and Committee meetings during their appointment.
BOARD ACTIVITIES AND EFFECTIVENESS Board meetings are structured to ensure they focus on key strategic and operational matters that are affecting the business and examples of topics reviewed during the year are set out below.
Additionally, the Board considers any decisions that are within the matters reserved for the Board.
The Board had in place a schedule of matters that were discussed during the year and a similar schedule is in place for the current financial year.
As part of normal planning, the Board puts these schedules in place in advance of each financial year and they include regular reports from the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer on the operational and financial performance of the Group together with regular feedback from the Non-Executive Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors on their engagement with the business.
They also include a rolling agenda of other key strategic, operational, governance and risk topics, as well updates on key business programmes and periodic presentations from senior management team members.
These ensure that the Groups Non-Executive Directors remain informed of key developments within the Group.
The Board regularly reflects on this rolling agenda to ensure it is responding to the strategic and operational challenges faced by the business.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 39 Corporate Governance Report Continued The key topics discussed by the Board during the year were: Strategy Performance Governance Strategic planning Annual results External Board evaluation Group Budget Interim results Treasury policy Key investment plans Regular trading updates Governance and legal updates Pricing structure Key project updates New and retiring CFO reflections Group people plan Regularly tracking four pillars CFO handover plan Group talent review EPOS implementation Senior management reflection Product initiatives ROI performance NED reports Vertical integration initiatives Competitor updates Principal risks review Group treasury policy Property review Investor relations updates Brand review Board and Committee planner Online strategy Modern Slavery Act statement SAYE 2018 grant Health and safety review Tracking Board actions All Directors receive papers in advance of Board meetings including regular reports from the senior management team covering the parts of the business they are responsible for and which monitor achievement against the Groups key performance indicators, both financial and strategic.
As part of these papers, the Board also now receive progress updates on key business programmes together with a document which tracks progress within each of the four pillars of our strategy.
To aid efficient decision-making, we use a standard form Board decision paper for material matters requiring Board approval that includes managements clear recommendation on the decisions being taken.
The Board measures the time spent on strategy, governance and performance at each meeting.
Over the year, the majority of our time was spent on strategy, followed by performance and governance, which the Board considers to be appropriate.
Minutes of all Board and Committee meetings are taken by the Company Secretary and circulated for approval.
The minutes record actions, decisions and deadlines arising out of the topics discussed and a rolling list of actions accompanies the minutes for each Board meeting which enables the Board to regularly monitor the progress.
External speakers During the year, the Board continued to invite external speakers to our Board meetings as lunch guests.
These sessions, whilst relatively informal, provided valuable business insights and experience from our guests together with their views on the prevailing macroeconomic environment and its impact on retailers.
The Board intends to continue with this programme of speakers during the coming year with a focus on insights that will support the Boards strategic planning.
Board strategy day The Board held its annual strategy day in July 2017, at which it reviewed each element of the Groups four growth pillars together with longer term strategic opportunities.
Key actions from that day are reflected in managements planning for the business with the Board having the opportunity to review progress with key strategic projects throughout the year.
This year, our newly appointed CFO, Kris Lee, also shared his initial insights with the Board, supported by his considerable retail experience.
INVESTOR RELATIONS The Board recognises the importance of explaining financial results and key strategic and operational developments in the business to the Companys shareholders, and of understanding any shareholder concerns.
The Board regularly communicates and meets with shareholders and analysts and the Board will continue to adopt this approach.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have overall responsibility for investor relations.
They are currently supported by the Companys retained financial PR advisers, MHP Communications, and its joint corporate brokers, UBS and Investec, who help organise presentations and visits to the Groups operations and stores for analysts and shareholders.
The formal reporting of the Groups full and half-yearly results has been and will continue to be a combination of presentations, group calls and meetings and one-to-one meetings in a variety of locations where we have shareholders.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer report back to the Board after any investor-related events and also ensure that the Board is kept regularly informed of feedback from analysts and shareholders.
In addition, the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors regularly join the Executive Directors at these investor-related events and occasionally meet with shareholders separately to discuss the Groups approach to governance and other governance developments which affect the Group.
The Groups brokers also provide feedback after the full and half-year results announcements and, as appropriate, other investor-related events to inform the Board about investor views.
All the Non-Executive Directors and, in particular, the Chairman and Senior Independent Director are available to meet with major shareholders, if they wish to raise issues separately from the arrangements described above.
In addition, the Company intends to periodically host corporate governance presentations for the Groups major investors following positive feedback on the inaugural presentation at the beginning of 2017.
40 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financials The Company will also communicate with shareholders Non-Executive Directors, and that at least one member through the AGM, at which the Chairman will give an account should have recent and relevant financial experience.
The of the progress of the business over the last year and a review Audit and Risk Committee is currently chaired by David Stead, of current issues, and will provide the opportunity for and its other members are Octavia Morley, Paul McCrudden shareholders to ask questions.
All Directors will be available at and Roger Whiteside.
The Directors consider that David Stead the AGM.
has recent and relevant financial experience.
Card Factorys investor website is also updated with news and The Audit and Risk Committee met four times during the year information including this Annual Report and Accounts which and, in future, will meet no fewer than three times per year.
sets out our strategy and performance together with our plans for future growth www.
The Audit and Risk Committee has taken appropriate steps to ensure that the Companys Auditor is independent of the SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDERS Company and obtained written confirmation from the Details of the Groups significant shareholders and of Companys Auditor that it complies with guidelines on shareholder voting rights are set out in the Directors Report independence issued by the relevant accountancy and on page 69. auditingbodies.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR MEETINGS The Audit and Risk Committee has access to sufficient resources The Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors met to carry out its duties, including the services of the Group twice in the year without Executive Directors being present General Counsel and Company Secretary and the Groups loss and they intend to continue to meet regularly to ensure that prevention team.
In addition, Deloitte LLP, provide internal audit any concerns can be raised and discussed outside formal services to the Group.
Independent external legal and Board meetings.
On one of these occasion, the Senior professional advice can also be taken by the Audit and Risk Independent Director and the other Non-Executive Directors Committee if it believes it necessary to do so.
continued the meeting without the Chairman to review his performance.
The Audit and Risk Committee chair will be available at Annual General Meetings of the Company to respond to The Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors questions from shareholders on the activities of the Audit and regularly have informal meetings with the Executive Directors Risk Committee during the year, a report on which is set out and other members of the senior management team in the on pages 47 to 50 of the Governance section of this report.
business, often at a store location or at the Groups support centre.
The Audit and Risk Committees terms of reference, which are available on request from the Company Secretary and are BOARD COMMITTEES published on Card Factorys investor website The Board has three committees: www.
an Audit and Risk Committee: Remuneration Committee a Nomination Committee: and The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in determining its responsibilities in relation to remuneration, a Remuneration Committee.
including: making recommendations to the Board on the Companys If the need should arise, the Board may set up additional committees.
policy on executive remuneration: setting the over-arching principles, parameters and Audit and Risk Committee governance framework of the Groups remuneration The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board in policy:and discharging its responsibilities with regard to: determining the individual remuneration and benefits financial reporting: package of each of the Companys Executive Directors, its external and internal audits and controls, including Company Secretary and other members of the Groups reviewing and monitoring the integrity of the Groups senior management team.
annual and interim financial statements: The Remuneration Committee also ensures compliance with reviewing and monitoring the extent of the non-audit work the Code in relation to remuneration and is responsible for undertaken by external auditors: preparing an annual remuneration report for approval by the advising on the appointment of external auditors: Companys members at its AGM.
overseeing the Groups relationship with its external Non-Executive Directors and the Chairmans fees are auditors: determined by the full Board.
reviewing the effectiveness of the external audit process: reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls The Code provides that a Remuneration Committee should and risk management systems: and comprise of at least three members who are Independent Non-Executive Directors, free from any relationship or whistleblowing and loss prevention.
circumstance which may or would be likely to, or appear to, affect their judgement and that the Chairman of the Board of The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Directors may also be a member provided he is considered Annual Report and Accounts and the half-yearly reports independent on appointment.
The Remuneration Committee remains with the Board.
The Audit and Risk Committee will is chaired by Octavia Morley, and its other members are Geoff give due consideration to laws and regulations, the provisions Cooper, David Stead, Paul McCrudden and Roger Whiteside.
of the Code and the requirements of the Listing Rules.
The Code recommends that an Audit Committee should comprise of at least three members who are Independent Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 41 Corporate Governance Report Continued Given the review of the Companys Remuneration Policy Throughout the year, all of the Non-Executive Directors have during the year, the Remuneration Committee met seven continued to visit all of the Groups operations, both for times which is considerably more than in prior years.
In future, scheduled Board meetings and informally with members of it will meet not less than twice a year.
Feedback on visits is given at subsequent Board meetings.
The Board and the Remuneration Committee have employed Korn Ferry Hay Group Korn Ferry, a professional services Additionally, the Non-Executive Directors have continued business which specialises in executive remuneration, to their informal buddying up visits with members of the senior advise and assist in connection with the Groups executive management team to build on their day-to-day knowledge of remuneration arrangements and its reporting obligations.
specific areas of the business and support the team in Korn Ferry do not provide any other services to the Group.
sustaining and developing our strategy.
A report on the Remuneration Committees activities during New Directors are also given the opportunity to review the year is set out on pages 51 to 53 of the Governance information about the Group including Board and Committee section of this report.
papers and strategy documentation which they may find useful in preparing for their role.
The Remuneration Committees terms of reference, which are available on request from the Company Secretary The Groups Company Secretary and General Counsel and are published on Card Factorys investor website regularly reports to the Board on any new legal, regulatory www.
and governance developments that affect the Group and, where necessary, actions are agreed.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee assists the Board in discharging Please see the Directors biographies on pages 34 to 36 for its responsibilities relating to the composition and make-up of details of the skills and experience of each Director.
the Board and any committees of the Board.
It is also responsible for periodically reviewing the Boards structure and identifying potential candidates to be appointed as Directors or committee members as the need may arise.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience and the size, structure and composition of the Board and committees of the Board, retirements and appointments of additional and replacement directors and committee members and will make appropriate recommendations to the Board on such matters.
The Code recommends that a majority of the members of a Nomination Committee should be Independent NonExecutive Directors.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Geoff Cooper, and its other members are Octavia Morley, David Stead and Paul McCrudden.
The Directors therefore believe that the Company is in compliance with the Code.
The Nomination Committee met three times during the year and, in future, will meet not less than once a year.
A report on the activities of the Nomination Committee during the year is set out on page 67 of the Governance section of this report.
The Nomination Committees terms of reference, which are available on request from the Company Secretary and are published on Card Factorys investor website www.
TRAINING AND INDUCTION It is important to the Board that all Directors have the ability to influence and challenge appropriately so that the Board and the Group, as a whole, can maximise the benefit they derive from their business knowledge and experience.
New Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the Board, including meeting other members of the Board, the senior management team, other key team members and the Groups advisers.
The induction includes visits to the Groups stores, support centre, its design studio, Printcraft the Groups print facility and the headquarters of its online subsidiary, Getting Personal www.
Since joining in July and December 2017 respectively, Kris Lee and Roger Whiteside have been through tailored induction plans.
Details of Kris induction are set out in the Nomination Committee Report on page 68.
42 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financials BOARD EVALUATION As required by the Code, the Board conducted its first externally facilitated Board evaluation during the year.
This was led by the Chairman, facilitated by Lorna Parker and supported by the Company Secretary.
Lorna is an independent consultant with significant experience of conducting board effectiveness reviews for UK listed companies.
Prior to her engagement to facilitate this review Lorna had no other connection with the Company.
This detailed evaluation built upon the internal evaluations carried out during previous years and a summary is set out below.
External Board Evaluation 2017 How we did it thoroughly, inclusively and conclusively The Backdrop Card Factorys first externally facilitated Board review since its IPO in May 2014.
A Board that, over time, has taken the business, through the transition from private equity backed business to public company.
A Board, senior management team and business that have been through a period of considerable change and increasingly challenging market conditions since the IPO in May2014.
A Board that now has no significant pre-IPO experience of the business.
Lorna Parker, experienced board evaluator Groundwork?
Review explored a broad range of topics covering strategy, operational priorities, the Boards role, its structure and balance, succession, risk management and governance.
These themes were developed into a full written set of questions to ensure that the objectives of the Board review were met.
In addition to reviewing the responses by the Board and Company Secretary to these questions, the following elements formed part of the review: a review of the last 12 months Board and Committee papers: one-to-one Interviews with Board members, the Company Secretary and two members of the senior management team: observing the October 2017 Board meeting: and the preparation and presentation of a detailed evaluation report for the Board in December 2017.
The Boards strengths collaborative, aligned and committed Collaborative and challenging A collegiate, supportive and collaborative Board that engages in open, rigorous, straightforward debate with a high degree of mutual trust and respect and which would pull together well in a crisis.
Strategically aligned Clarity and alignment around strategic priorities, key challenges and risks.
Structured and efficient Effective, efficient and thorough Board structures and processes.
Chairman leads effective pre Board meeting preparation work.
Recruitment Good processes around the recruitment of Kris Lee and Roger Whiteside.
Committed NEDs Committed, hard-working and involved NEDs who all spend considerable time with the business, in addition to their Board responsibilities.
Effective Committees Board Committees are well chaired, prepared and operate well.
Helping the Board evolve and become more effective strategy, engagement and culture Longer-term strategy Whilst there is clarity and alignment on the immediate strategic priorities, the Board shouldcommit more time to the Groups longer-term strategy beyond the current Four Pillarstrategy.
Greater strategic focus As part of the Groups evolution from private equity ownership to FTSE 250 plc, the Boards agenda should evolve to become more strategic and less operational.
Reporting Refining financial reporting to focus in on key financials and KPIs with appropriate commentary to support analysis and decision-making.
Shareholder communication Build on the Boards current engagement with shareholders to ensure communication is constantly evolving and the Board builds on recent experience.
Culture and values Greater understanding, discussion and support of the Groups heritage, culture and values and how these can support business performance and change.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 43 Corporate Governance Report Continued External Board Evaluation 2017 continued NED engagement Current NED commitment is acknowledged and valued but there is a need to re-evaluate the NEDs role between Board meetings to get the most benefit from their engagement with the business and build greater rapport with the senior management team.
Location of meetings The Board has committed to holding more meetings at the Companys key locations and to plan additional engagement with the business around these.
NED succession The Board will consider Non-Executive Director succession well in advance of 2020 when four NEDs including the Chairman reach the end of their second three-year term with the business.
Ensuring smooth succession and maintaining Board cohesion and collective knowledge is critical to the Boards ability to effectively govern.
Board decision-making review Greater review and reflection on past Board decisions and how decision-making processes could be refined.
Develop and report The Board has committed to continuing to evolve and has carried out a review of the actions arising out of this externally facilitated evaluation.
As part of our internal evaluation of the Board in the current financial year, we will review our progress with these actions and provide an update in our next Annual Report and Accounts.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Companies Act 2006 allows the Board of a public company to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts of interest of individual Directors where the Articles of Association of the company contain an enabling provision.
The Companys Articles of Association give the Board this authority subject to the following safeguards: Directors who have an interest in matters under discussion at a Board meeting must declare that interest and abstain from voting: and only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to approve a conflict of interest and, in taking that decision, the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the success of theCompany.
The Directors are able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they feel this is appropriate.
All Directors are required to disclose any actual or potential conflicts to the Board and there are no current matters disclosed that are considered by the Board to give rise to a conflict of interest.
All conflicts are considered by the Board and any authorisations given are recorded in the Board minutes and reviewed annually bythe Board.
The Board considers that its procedures to approve conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest are operating effectively.
APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF DIRECTORS All Directors have service agreements or letters of appointment in place and the details of their terms are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 66.
The service agreements and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours.
The Articles of Association of the Company provide that a Director may be appointed by ordinary resolution of the Companys shareholders in general meeting, or by the Board so long as the Director stands down and offers him or herself for election at the next AGM of the Company.
The Articles also provide that each Director must stand down and offer him or herself for re-election by shareholders at the AGM at least every 3 years.
The Code recommends that directors of companies in the FTSE 350 index should be subject to annual re-election.
The Company complies with this recommendation.
Directors may be removed by a special resolution of shareholders, or by an ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The Articles of Association of the Company also provide that the office of a Director shall be vacated if he is prohibited by law from being a Director, or is bankrupt: and that the Board may resolve that his or her office be vacated if he or she is of unsound mind or is absent from Board meetings without consent for six months or more.
A Director may also resign from the Board.
The Nomination Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment and removal of Directors.
In accordance with the Code, all Directors will retire from the Board and offer themselves for election or re-election as appropriate at the AGM.
POWERS OF DIRECTORS The business of the Company is managed by the Board, which may exercise all of the powers of the Company, subject to the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, the Articles of Association of the Company and any special resolution of the Company.
As stated above, the Board has adopted internal delegations of authority in accordance with the Code and these set out matters which are reserved to the Board or committees and the powers and duties of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer respectively.
44 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financials At the AGM of the Company, the Board will seek authority to the Audit and Risk Committee regularly reviews the issue shares and to buy back and reissue shares.
Any shares Groups risk register and gives detailed consideration to bought back would either be held in treasury, cancelled or those risks which have been identified as principal risks sold in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act affecting the Group and the actions being taken and 2006.
For further details see the Notice of Annual General processes in place to mitigate them as well as providing Meeting which accompanies this report.
regular and rigorous challenge to the Executive Directors: the Board as a whole carries out a review of the principal ADVICE, INDEMNITIES AND INSURANCE risks affecting the Group twice a year as well as assessing All Directors have access to the advice and services of the whether the Group is striking an appropriate balance Company Secretary.
In addition, Directors may seek legal between its appetite for risk and the achievement of its advice at the Groups cost if they consider it necessary in strategic goals: and connection with their duties.
certain principal risks, for example, competitor activity and business strategy are, as part of the day-to-day The Directors of the Company, and the Companys management of the business, the subject of separate and subsidiaries, have the benefit of a third-party indemnity regular detailed discussions at Board meetings and provision, as defined by section 236 of the Companies Act meetings of the senior managementteam.
2006, in the Companys Articles of Association.
In addition, Directors and Officers of the Company and its subsidiaries are covered by Directors and Officers liability insurance as well The Board collectively recognise that the continuous robust as prospectus liability insurance which provides cover for assessment and control of risk are fundamental to the Group liabilities incurred by Directors in the performance of their achieving its strategic and operational objectives, and the duties or powers in connection with the issue of the Audit and Risk Committee seeks to ensure that the risk Prospectus in relation to the IPO.
Until his retirement on 31 management framework evolves with the business and the July 2017, Darren Bryant former Chief Financial Officer had trading environment in which the Group operates.
the benefit of these policies.
No amount was paid under any of these indemnities or insurances during the year other than The risk management framework is designed to manage, the applicable insurance premiums.
rather than eliminate, the risk of failing to achieve strategic objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Companys Articles of Association can only be amended by a special resolution of its shareholders in a general The Board and the Audit and Risk Committee have reviewed meeting, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. the effectiveness of the Groups risk management framework and the Companys risk register and their alignment with the GOVERNANCE AND RISK Companys strategic objectives in accordance with the Code The Board, as a whole, takes overall responsibility for ensuring for the period ended 31 January 2018 and up to the date of that the Company has a continuous and robust process in approving the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board as a place to identify, evaluate and manage any significant risks whole considered the principal risks and relevant mitigating that may affect the achievement of the Groups strategic and actions and determined that they were acceptable for a retail operational objectives.
Given the nature of our business and business of the size and complexity as that operated by the our operating model, we do not have a separate risk Group.
Our Audit and Risk Committee oversees our risk management framework as part of its activities, and ensures INTERNAL CONTROL AND AUDIT that it enables the Committee and the Board to carry out a Overall responsibility for the system of internal control and robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, reviewing its effectiveness lies with the Board.
In its day-toincluding those that would threaten its business model, future day operations, the Group continuously assesses the performance, solvency or liquidity.
performance of its internal controls and, where necessary, looks to enhance its control environments.
Additionally, The key elements of the process which have been established Deloitte LLP provide internal audit services to the Group.
by the Group to identify, evaluate and manage any significant Further details of the scope of their work during the year is risks are as follows: set out in the report of the Audit and Risk Committee on pages 49 and 50.
The internal audit plan that has been agreed the Board and the senior management team take a with Deloitte supports the Groups assessment of its controls leadership role in managing risk within the business and and processes.
look to embed the principles of sound risk management in the teams they are responsible for managing: specific risks are recorded in the Groups risk register and assessed in terms of impact and likelihood: responsibility for monitoring and managing these risks on a day-to-day basis is given to the relevant members of the Groups senior management team and they provide regular updates to the Groups Executive Directors and the rest of the senior management team: in the event there is a change in their assessment of the impact or likelihood of the risk or they identify a new risk which the Group may face, the Groups risk register is updated to reflect this: Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 45 Corporate Governance Report Continued The Groups system of internal control can be summarised The Board and the Audit and Risk Committee have monitored asfollows: and reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems in accordance with the Code for the period ended 31 Board January 2018 and up to the date of approving the Annual Report and Accounts and confirmed that they are satisfactory.
Takes collective responsibility for internal controls Internal control systems such as this are designed to manage Reserves certain matters for the Board rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business Oversees the control framework and responsibility for it objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute, Approves key policies and procedures assurance against material accounting misstatement or loss.
Monitors development of performance Where any significant failures or weaknesses are identified Audit and Risk Committee from the systems of internal control, action is taken to remedy these.
Oversees effectiveness of internal control framework Receives reports from external auditor DISCLOSURES UNDER DTR 7.2.
6R Approves internal audit programme The disclosures the Company is required to make pursuant Receives internal audit reports to DTR 7.2.
6R are contained in the Directors Report on pages 69 to 71.
Senior management team Responsible for operating within the control framework SHARE DEALING CODE Monitors compliance with policies and procedures The Companys share dealing code was adopted in 2016 and Recommends changes to controls where needed incorporates the requirements of the EU Market Abuse Monitors performance Regulation which came into force in 2016.
The code adopted applies to the Directors, members of the senior management Loss prevention team team and to other relevant employees of the Group.
Focus on cash losses and fraud in stores ANTI-BRIBERY Compliance and safety risk assessors The Company has implemented internal procedures and Review compliance with internal procedures that ensure good measures including the provision of an Anti-Corruption and health and safety standards are observed Bribery Policy designed to ensure compliance by it and other members of the Group with the UK Bribery Act 2010 Co-sourced internal audit function asamended.
Deloitte LLP WHISTLEBLOWING Specific elements of the current internal control framework The Group is committed to conducting its business with include: honesty and integrity, with high standards of corporate governance and in compliance with legislation and a list of matters specifically reserved for Board approval: appropriate codes of practice.
We expect all colleagues to clear structures and accountabilities for colleagues, well maintain such high standards but recognise that all understood policies and procedures, and budgeting and organisations face the risk of things going wrong from time to review processes all of which the Executive Directors are time, or of unknowingly harbouring illegal or unethical closely involved with: conduct.
every member of the senior management team having clear responsibilities and operating within defined policies We recognise that a culture of openness and accountability is and procedures covering such areas as capital expenditure, essential in order to prevent such situations occurring, or to treasury operations, financial targets, human resources address them when they do occur.
We maintain a management, customer service and health and safety: whistleblowing policy that is designed to encourage colleagues to report such situations without fear of the Executive Directors and the senior management team repercussions or recriminations provided that they are acting monitoring compliance with these policies and procedures in good faith.
By having early knowledge of any wrongdoing and, in addition, regularly reviewing performance against or illegal or unethical behaviour, we improve our ability to budget, analysis of variances, major business issues, key intervene and stop it.
The policy sets out how any concerns performance indicators and the accuracy of business can be raised and the response that can be expected from the forecasting: and Company and provides colleagues with the assurance that a continuous review programme of store compliance by they can do this in complete confidence.
Our loss prevention the loss prevention team as regards financial procedures team, in its day-to-day activities, seeks to reinforce this in stores, by risk assessors working in the health and message and, in addition, the Group periodically uses safety team and by other teams within the Group.
communication campaigns to supplement this.
The Audit and Risk Committee is notified of any whistleblowing reports.
The Audit and Risk Committee has responsibility for overseeing the Groups system of internal controls and of the This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on internal audit programme and receives the report of the 9 April 2018. external auditor as part of the annual statutory audit.
Geoff Cooper Chairman 9 April 2018 46 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
