Nomination Committee Report This report provides details of the role of the Nomination continue to develop the succession planning process for Committee, the work it has undertaken during the year and all key roles in our senior management team and, in details of how it intends to carry out its responsibilities particular, to monitor and support the Groups new talent goingforwards.
development programme which is aiming to support accession to senior roles from within the business and ROLE OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE reduce the Groups reliance on external recruitment.
The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board by keeping the composition of the Board under review and by In addressing these, succession planning policy will: conducting a rigorous and transparent process when new focus on the needs of the business over the medium to appointments to the Board are made.
longer term and the importance of maintaining the appropriate balance of skills and experience across the A more detailed explanation of the Nomination Committees executive management team and among the Non-Executive role is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 42 Directors and of supporting the development of the next and the Committees terms of reference, which are published generation of leaders from within the business: and on Card Factorys investor website recognise that the Groups best interests are served by www.
com, comply with the UK ensuring that the individuals who are in leadership roles in Corporate Governance Code.
the Group represent a range of skills, experiences, backgrounds and perspectives, including gender, race, MEMBERSHIP religion or sexual orientation but who at all times are most The Nomination Committee is chaired by Geoff Cooper, and suitable people for their roles.
its other members are Octavia Morley, David Stead and PaulMcCrudden.
GENDER AND ETHNIC DIVERSITY The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Our policy is that the Board should always be of mixed gender and ethnically diverse, but we feel that quotas are not MEETINGS appropriate as they are likely to lead to compromised As currently constituted, the Committee met three times decisions on Board membership, quality and size.
during the year with details of attendance set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 39.
We will, however, seek to ensure that specific effort is made to bring forward female candidates and those from a range of COMMITTEE ACTIVITY IN 2017 18 ethnic backgrounds for Board appointments.
We will also The Committees main activity during the year, as described in monitor the Groups approach to people development to more detail in the introductory letter to this report, was to ensure that it continues to enable talented individuals, from support the recruitment and induction of our new CFO Kris both genders and from all ethnic groups, to enjoy career Lee and the appointment of Roger Whiteside as an additional progression activities within the Group.
We published our first Gender Pay Gap Report in March 2018 WELCOMING OUR NEW CFO which, in addition to setting out the data required by the Kris Lees induction process took place over three months Government, details the great strides taken by the business with extensive input and involvement of the Groups CEO towards ensuring there is equality of opportunity between the Karen Hubbard.
His induction covered all parts of the Group, genders throughout the Group.
A copy of the report has been andincluded: published on Card Factorys investor website www.
com handover time with our former CFO, Darren Bryant, including meetings with analysts and investors: Details of the gender balance within the Group are set out in one-to-one meetings with senior management team members: the Corporate Social Responsibility report on page 31. meetings with the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors: BOARD EVALUATION attending Board and divisional board meetings, including The Board conducted its first externally facilitated Board the Board strategy day in July 2017: evaluation during the year which was led by the Chairman and immersion time at our online subsidiary, Getting Personal: facilitated by Lorna Parker.
Further details are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 43 and 44.
Board a tour and meetings with senior management at our evaluation will continue to be conducted on an annual basis in-house print facility, Printcraft: and the Board will, as required by the UK Corporate attending Card Factorys 2017 Christmas launch event with Governance Code, engage an external facilitator once every colleagues from throughout the business: three years to assist in the process.
an introduction to the design studio and how it operates: TENURE AND RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS working in Card Factory stores and the warehouses at the In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Groups distribution centre in Wakefield: the Directors will seek election or re-election as appropriate at the next AGM on 31 May 2018. store visits: and meeting the Groups key advisers.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 9 April 2018.
COMMITTEES FOCUS FOR THE FUTURE The Nomination Committees priority over the coming year will be to: Geoff Cooper focus on the further development and implementation of a Chairman of the Nomination Committee Board succession plan that addresses the current long service of the Chairman and a number of our Independent 9 April 2018 Non-Executive Directors: and 68 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
