Audit and Risk Committee Report This report provides details of the role of the Audit and Risk reviewing the findings of and the implementation of Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
actions arising from, the internal audit projects undertaken by Deloitte LLP during the year and agreeing the projects ROLE OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE they will undertake during the next year: The principal responsibilities of the Committee, which has reviewing the systems and controls which the Group has in received delegated authority from the Board, are to: place to enable the Board to make proper judgements on oversee the integrity of the Groups financial statements and a continuing basis as to the financial position and public announcements relating to financial performance: prospects of the Group: oversee the Groups external audit process including its monitoring the Groups approach to risk management, scope and the extent of the non-audit services provided ensuring that effective and robust risk management is an by our auditor: integral part of the Groups business planning and decision-making processes with the principal risks being monitor the effectiveness of financial controls: regularly reviewed by the senior management team, the evaluate the process for identifying and managing risk Committee and the Board: throughout the Group: and reviewing the Groups risk register in March and ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, September: balanced and understandable.
reviewing the Groups legal horizon scanner which sets out key future legislative changes that will affect the Group A more detailed explanation of the Audit and Risk and how these are being addressed within the business: Committees role is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 41.
The Committees terms of reference, which monitoring the implementation of the Groups new point are published on Card Factorys investor website www.
of sale software solution across its retail stores: cardfactoryinvestors.
com, comply with the UKCorporate reviewing the work carried out by the Groups loss Governance Code.
prevention team in detecting and preventing fraud and theft of cash and stock: MEMBERSHIP monitoring the Groups compliance with its policy for use The Audit and Risk Committee is chaired by David Stead, and of our auditor for non-audit work: its other members are Octavia Morley, Paul McCrudden and Roger Whiteside.
reviewing the Groups tax strategy: and with the support of both KPMG LLP and Deloitte LLP, As David Stead is a chartered accountant and was the Chief monitoring developments in legislation, reporting and Financial Officer of Dunelm Group plc from 2003 to 2015, the practice which affect matters for which the Committee Board considers that he has both recent and relevant financial isresponsible.
experience in accordance with the requirements of the Code and that within the Committee as a whole there is significant ACTIVITIES AFTER THE YEAR END experience of the retail sector in which the Group operates.
In the period following the year end, the Committee met once in April 2018 and reviewed the following: The Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Chairman of the Board usually attend meetings of the the Groups risk management framework, ensuring it Committee by invitation, along with representatives from our enables the Directors to identify and carry out a robust auditor, KPMG LLP, and our internal audit services provider, assessment of the principal risks facing the Group Deloitte LLP.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to including those that would threaten its business model, theCommittee.
future performance, solvency or liquidity: the process undertaken by management to support MEETINGS the Groups viability statement which is set out on pages The Committee met four times during the year with details of 70 and 71 including the time period assessed and the attendance at these meetings set out in the Corporate principal risks and combinations of risks modelled: Governance Report on page 39. the integrity of the draft financial statements for the year ROUTINE ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR ended January 2018, including the appropriateness of During the year, the work of the Committee has principally accounting policies and going concern assumption: fallen under the following areas: the external auditors report: reviewing the integrity of the draft financial statements for the systems and controls which the Group has in place to the year ended January 2017, the appropriateness of enable the Board to make proper judgements on a accounting policies and going concern assumptions and continuing basis as to the financial position and prospects considering the auditors report regarding its findings on of the Group: the annual results: whether this Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a assessing whether the Annual Report and Accounts for whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the year ended January 2017, taken as a whole, were fair, the information necessary for shareholders to assess the balanced and understandable and provide the information Companys position and performance, business model necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys andstrategy: strategy, business model and performance: the performance, effectiveness and qualifications of the approval of the Groups half-year results statements external auditor and recommendation for their published in September 2017: reappointment: and verifying the independence of the Groups auditor, the Companys policy on the use of auditors for non-audit approving their audit plan and audit fee and setting services.
performance expectations: 48 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financials SIGNIFICANT AREAS OF JUDGEMENT ASSESSMENT OF ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS Within its terms of reference, the Committee monitors the The Committee confirmed to the Board that it considered this integrity of the Groups annual and half-year results, including Annual Report and Accounts as a whole to be fair, balanced and a review of the significant financial reporting issues and understandable, to the extent possible whilst complying with all judgements contained in them.
applicable legal, regulatory and reporting requirements.
At its meeting in April 2018, the Committee: reviewed the INTERNAL AUDIT Groups results for the financial year: considered a paper Deloitte LLP provide internal audit services for the Group, prepared by KPMG LLP, which included comments on significant giving additional support in evaluating the effectiveness and reporting and accounting matters in the year under review: and robustness of the Groups system of internal control and its reviewed a paper from the Chief Financial Officer to support the approach to identifying and mitigating risks.
Directors going concern and viabilitystatements.
During the year, Deloittes work predominantly covered the The major accounting issues discussed by the Committee following areas: concerned: processes and controls over payroll, including right to the existence and accuracy of the Groups inventory: and work checks a comprehensive review of the design and operating effectiveness of controls governing Card the accounting relating to the Groups foreign exchange Factorys right to work and payroll processes taking into hedging instruments.
account the Groups growth and development and the systems currently in place as well as current legal and Inventory regulatory requirements: The Group holds significant volumes, and a broad range, of a follow up review from the 2016 Cyber Security review inventory.
Certain of the Groups inventory procedures are an update on the work undertaken by management in manual in nature as are certain controls around inventory response to the findings raised in the 2016 Cyber Security once it has left the Groups distribution centre and has been review by Deloitte, which identified areas requiring delivered to stores.
In light of these manual procedures and development and investment to achieve greater maturity controls, there is a heightened risk that a material in the strength of cyber defences: and misstatement could arise due to the volume or cost of inventory being incorrectly recorded.
controls over the inbound supply chain this review considered the design and operating effectiveness of The Group has a number of formal processes and procedures controls governing Card Factorys inbound supply chain to assess the reasonableness of the inventory value presented process, specifically in relation to supplier on-boarding in the Annual Report and Accounts.
These include: and contract management arrangements.
The review full inventory counts twice yearly both in-store and in the considered Card Factorys supply chain governance, the Groups distribution centre: supplier due diligence it carries out and how it manages supplier performance on a day-to-day basis.
additional store counts of seasonal inventory at the end of the key trading seasons for the business: LOSS PREVENTION reviews of inventory levels by store: During the course of the last year, both the scope of the loss prevention teams activities and its influence across the conducting a central reconciliation of store and warehouse Groups retail operations, have continued to develop and stock: and grow.
This growth, and the depth and variety of the teams detailed analytical review to assess the reasonableness of work, are reflected in well-established measures and the inventory figure.
performance indicators that are reported to the Committee, the senior management team and other key stakeholders.
The Committee is satisfied that the judgements made by These focus on the type and number of investigations raised management are reasonable and that appropriate disclosures by the team and the outcomes eg staff dismissals, have been made in the Annual Report and Accounts.
Accounting for foreign exchange hedging instruments The loss prevention team has also continued to develop the The business aims to hedge a significant proportion of planned investigative methods it deploys including its analysis of store foreign currency stock purchases.
A number of forward hedges transactions to identify anomalous behaviour and support including structured options are in place and, where appropriate interventions.
Whilst the teams core activity appropriate, hedge accounting is adopted by the Group.
remains fraud and theft detection, these are supplemented by a continuous programme of education, training and Hedge accounting is by nature complex and is subject to development.
These activities, which support a holistic documentary requirements and periodic effectiveness testing approach to loss prevention, are scheduled to grow over the involving a degree of judgement.
In order to ensure next 12 months and will continue to be refined and developed compliance with the requirements for hedge accounting the to better meet Group needs, emerging crime risks and to Group formally documents the designation of foreign engender a proactive approach to Group crime risk.
currency hedges at the outset of each hedging relationship and hedge effectiveness is tested on a monthly basis.
The Committee receives regular reports on the activities of Forecast foreign currency requirements and the level of the loss prevention team and the progress being made.
hedges in place are monitored on an ongoing basis.
The Committee is satisfied that accounting policies in respect of hedge accounting have been appropriately applied.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 49 Audit and Risk Committee Report Continued EXTERNAL AUDITOR Under the policy, our auditor is currently eligible for selection KPMG LLP have conducted the statutory audit for the to provide non-audit services where it is in the Groups best financial year ended 31 January 2018 and they attended all interest for it to do this and it is best placed to deliver the four of the Committee meetings held during that year as well required service in terms of quality and cost, taking into as the one held in April 2018.
The Committee had the account their skills and experience.
This is subject to the opportunity to meet privately with them during the period.
overriding principle that the auditor may not provide a servicewhich: The fee paid to KPMG LLP for the statutory audit of the Group places them in a position to audit their own work: and Company financial statements and the audit of Group results in them making management decisions for subsidiaries pursuant to legislation was 107,500.
A theGroup: breakdown of fees paid to KPMG LLP during the financial year is set out in note 4 to the financial statements on page 90. creates a mutuality of interest: or puts them in the role of advocate for the Company or any Resolutions to reappoint KPMG LLP as auditor and to member of the Group.
authorise the Directors to agree their remuneration will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
All work commissioned from our auditor is required to be sanctioned by the Chief Financial Officer, who consults with Our current policy is to tender the statutory audit at least the Committee Chairman if the fee involved is significant or if every ten years.
As KPMG LLP have been our auditor since there are any issues regarding independence, and the policy 2011 12, this means that the next tender will be for the 2021 22 has built in levels of authority to control the awarding of audit at the latest.
We intend to invite at least one firm outside non-audit work to the Companys auditor.
the Big Four to participate in the tender process.
The Chief Financial Officer also periodically provides the Whilst we have not now conducted a competitive tender for Committee with reports on audit, audit related and non-audit the audit for more than seven years, the Committee and the expenditure, together with details of any material non-audit Board continue to believe this is in the best interests of related assignments.
KPMG LLP have, during their time as the Groups auditor, developed an extensive knowledge of the The aggregate fees paid to KPMG LLP for non-audit work Group and they successfully supported the Group through its during the year were 11,000 equivalent to 10% of the audit IPO in 2014.
KPMGs knowledge and experience and the fee.
This comprised an independent review of our half-year stability this provides is important to the Group as it continues results.
Full details are given in note 4 to the financial through its initial years as a listed Group.
In line with audit statements on page 90. partner rotation requirements, a new audit partner, Nicola Quayle, was appointed by KPMG LLP to manage the Groups The Committee is satisfied that the overall levels of audit audit process from 2016 17.
Nicola has attended all of the relatedand non-audit fees, and the nature of services Committee meetings during the year and has separately met provided, are not such as to compromise the objectivity and with the Committee Chairman.
We comply with the Competition and Markets Authoritys A copy of our current policy regarding the use of audit firms Statutory Audit Services Order 2014. for non-audit services, which was reviewed in light of the EU Audit Directive, is available on Card Factorys investor website The Group has no contractual arrangements for example, www.
within borrowing arrangements that restrict its choice of auditor.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Committee on 9 April 2018.
USE OF AUDITORS FOR NON-AUDIT WORK The Committee recognises that the use of audit firms for non-audit services can potentially give rise to conflicts of interest and is therefore a sensitive issue.
The Group has a David Stead formal policy regarding its use of audit firms for non-audit Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee services and the Committee, in addition to being responsible 9 April 2018 for the oversight of our auditor on behalf of the Board, also has responsibility for monitoring how this policy is implemented.
50 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
