Principal Source Geographic Areas Carnival Corporation & plc Cruise Guests Carried inthousands 2018 2017 2016 Brands Mainly Serving Carnival Cruise Line, Princess Cruises, United States and Canada 6,790 6,440 6,100 Holland America Line, Seabourn and Cunard Continental Europe 2,340 2,290 2,170 Costa and AIDA Asia 1,140 1,240 1,130 Princess Cruises and Costa Carnival Cruise Line, Princess Cruises and Australia and NewZealand 1,020 1,060 1,010 P&OCruises Australia United Kingdom 810 800 840 P&OCruises UK and Cunard Other 310 270 270 Total 12,410 12,100 11,520 V. Cruise Programs Carnival Corporation & plc Percentage of Passenger Capacity by Itinerary 2019 2018 2017 Caribbean 32% 33% 32% Europe without Mediterranean 14 14 13 Mediterranean 13 13 13 Australia and NewZealand 7 8 8 Alaska 6 6 5 China 4 5 6 Other 25 23 23 100% 100% 100% VI.
Cruise Pricing and Payment Terms Each of our cruise brands publishes prices for the upcoming seasons primarily through the internet, although published materials such as brochures and direct mailings are also used.
Ourbrands have multiple pricing levels that vary bysource market, category of guest accommodation, ship, season, duration and itinerary.
Cruise prices frequently change in a dynamic pricing environment and are impacted bya number of factors, including the number of available cabins for sale in the marketplace and the level of guest demand.
Some cruise prices are increased due to higher demand.
We offer a variety of special promotions, including early booking, past guest recognition and travel agent programs.
We continue to identify and implement newstrategies and tactics to strengthen our cruise ticket revenue management processes and systems across our portfolio of brands, such as optimizing our pricing methodologies and improving our pricing models, as evidenced byour new state-of-the-art revenue management system implemented across six brands in 2018.
We also continue with initiatives to better coordinate and optimize our brands global itinerary strategies, maximizing guest satisfaction and profits.
We have invested in newmarketing technologies to further engage our guests bybringing to life the cruise experience.
Ourbookings are generally taken several months in advance of the cruise departure date.
Typically, the longer the cruise itinerary the further in advance the bookings are made.
This lead time allows us to manage our prices in relation to demand for available cabins through the use of advanced revenue management capabilities and other initiatives, with the typical strategy of marketing our ships to fill them while achieving the highest possible overall net revenue yields.
Thecruise ticket price typically includes the following: Accommodations Most meals, including snacks at numerous venues 15 Strategic Report Access to amenities such as swimming pools, water slides, water parks, whirlpools, a health club, and sun decks Child care and supervised youth programs Entertainment, such as theatrical and comedy shows, live music and nightclubs Visits to multiple destinations Attimes, weoffer value added packages to induce ticket sales to guests and groups and to encourage advance purchase of certain onboard items.
These packages are bundled with cruise tickets and sold to guests for a single price rather than as a separate package and include: Alcoholic non-alcoholic beverage packagesInternet packages Shore excursionsPhoto packages Air packagesOnboard spending credits Specialty  Ourbrands payment terms generally require that a guest pay a deposit to confirm their reservation and then pay the balance due before the departure date.
Ourguests are subject to a cancellation fee if they cancel their cruise within a pre-defined period before sailing, unless they purchase a vacation protection package for the ability to obtain a refund.
Asa convenience to our guests, wesell air transportation to and from airports near the home ports of our ships.
In 2018, approximately 10% of our guests purchased scheduled or chartered air transportation from us.
We also offer ground transfers from and to the airport near the ships home port as part of our transfer programs.
Seasonality Ourpassenger ticket revenues are seasonal.
Historically, demand for cruises has been greatest during our third quarter, which includes the Northern Hemisphere summer months.
This higher demand during the third quarter results in higher ticket prices and occupancy levels and, accordingly, the largest share of our operating income is earned during this period.
Theseasonality of our results also increases due to ships being taken out-of-service for maintenance, which weschedule during non-peak demand periods.
In addition, substantially all of Holland America Princess Alaska Tours revenue and net income is generated from May through September in conjunction with Alaskas cruise season.
Onboard and Other Revenues Onboard and other activities are provided either directly byus or byindependent concessionaires, from which we receive either a percentage of their revenues or a fee.
In 2018, weearned 25% of our revenues from onboard and other revenue activities and services not included in the cruise ticket price including the following: Substantially all liquor and some non-alcoholic beverage salesInternet and communication services Casino gamingFull service spas Shore excursionsSpecialty restaurants Gift shop salesArt sales Photo salesLaundry and dry cleaning services We enhance our guests onboard experiences and increase our onboard revenues byoffering value added packages and tailoring our onboard offers with our guest preferences.
We are also implementing initiatives to strengthen our onboard revenue byimproving our onboard retail offerings.
We use various marketing and promotional tools and are supported bypoint-of-sale systems permitting cashless transactions for the sale of these onboard and other products and services.
Asa convenience to our guests, all our brands allow their guests to pre-book, and in most cases, pre-pay certain of their onboard and other revenue-producing activities in advance of the cruise.
We offer a variety of shore excursions at each ships ports-of-call that include beach experiences, general sightseeing, cultural tours, adventure outings and local boat rides.
We typically utilize local operators who 16 provide shore excursions with guides whospeak the same languages as most of our shore excursion guests.
For our sailings to destinations in Alaska, shore excursions are operated byour wholly-owned company, Holland America Princess Alaska Tours, or provided bylocal independent operators.
We also offer revenue-producing activities onthe private islands and port destinations that weoperate that include beach bars and restaurants, water sports, cabana rentals, chair lifts and surf rider attractions.
Ourcasinos are all ownedand operated directly byus and are equipped according to the unique requirements of our brands and their guests.
We offer a wide variety of slot machines and a diverse mix of traditional and specialty table games, as well as other innovative games all designed to meet the desires of our guests.
We have also developed marketing and promotional arrangements with land-based casino companies in order to increase the number of casino players onboard several of our brands.
Thecasinos are generally open whenour ships are at sea in international waters.
Marketing Activities Guest feedback and research support the development of our overall marketing and business strategies to drive demand for cruises and increase the number of first-time cruisers.
Ourgoal is to increase the portion of TM consumers vacations targeted oncruises and growshare of suitcase for cruising onour brands.
We measure and evaluate key drivers of guest loyalty and their satisfaction with our products and services that provide valuable insights about guests cruise experiences.
We closely monitor our net promoter scores, which reflect the likelihood that our guests will recommend our brands cruise products and services to friends and family.
We also regularly initiate customer research studies among guests, travel agent partners, tour operators and others for input onbusiness decisions that enhance our cruise products and services for our guests.
We continue to improve the coordination of our marketing strategies across brands, which enables us to drive demand for cruising while generating significant efficiencies in media costs.
We continue to perform psychographic segmentation studies that allow us to better understand our guests needs, wants and expectations.
Theresults of these studies shape howwecommunicate and market, as well as refine the booking process, overall onboard experience and post-cruise interactions.
Ourability to identify the psychographic segments is a powerful differentiator, which allows us to guide guests to the right experiences with the appropriate brands and build advocates for life.
In addition, wehave tools and are implementing data analytic solutions that identify new market growth opportunities to expand our customer base.
We have implemented strategies to generate newdemand bytargeting newcruisers whotypically vacation at land-based destinations.
Ourmultiple brand marketing initiatives continue to drive increased consideration with print, TV, digital, social and field marketing elements, keeping a strong commitment and continuous investment to improve the digital journey with the goal of inspiring consumers to purchase a cruise vacation with us.
We continue our efforts to expand our original media content portfolio, which features three award winning TV TM showsand three digital shows, all featured onour owndigital channel, OceanView, as well as our new TM partnership with Univision, which developed the first OCEAN prime-time series.
Ourprograms airing on major networks, cable and digital video on-demand platforms, have reached over 400million views to date.
The showscreate compelling experiential content that engages all audiences while inspiring them to travel the world.
Theexpansion of our TVlineup across networks allows us to increase consideration and educate consumers about the cruise experience byshowcasing our portfolio of brands in iconic global destinations.
Ourbrands have comprehensive marketing and advertising programs across diverse mediums to promote their products and services to vacationers and our travel agent partners.
Each brands marketing activities are generally designed to reach a local region in the local language.
We continue to expand our marketing efforts to attract new guests online byleveraging the reach and impact of digital marketing and social media.
We have also invested in newmarketing technologies to deliver more engaging and personalized communications.
This helps us cultivate guests as advocates of our brands, ships, itineraries and onboard products and services.
We also have blogs hosted byship captains, cruise and entertainment directors, executive pursers and special guests.
Substantially all of our cruise brands offer past guest recognition programs that reward repeat guests with special incentives such as reduced fares, gifts, onboard activity discounts, complimentary laundry and internet services, expedited ship embarkation and disembarkation and special onboard activities.
