Fuel Price Risks Substantially all our exposure to market risk for changes in fuel prices relates to the consumption of fuel onour ships.
We have been installing advanced air quality systems onour ships.
These efforts are mitigating much of the impact from the ECArequirements.
Given the installation schedule, weexpect to use a greater percentage of lowsulfur fuel in 2020, which may increase our fuel costs.
Based ona 10% change in fuel prices versus the current spot price that wasused to calculate fuel expense in our December 20,2018guidance, weestimate that our adjusted diluted earnings per share December 20,2018 guidance wouldchange bythe following: $0.21per share onan annualized basis for 2019 $0.05per share for the first quarter of 2019 3.
Internal Control and Risk Assessment.
BOARDS OF DIRECTORS Oversee strategy and risk management programs.
AUDIT COMMITTEES HESS COMMITTEES RISK ADVISORY AND Responsible for operational Responsible for financial controls ASSURANCE SERVICES and compliance controls and compliance with non-HESS Responsible for providing assurance that controls related to Health, related legal and regulatory Environment, Safety, Security related to financial, operational, compliance and requirements.
Oversee strategic risks are well designed and operating managements processes to managements processes to effectively.
Facilitates reporting on principal risks and Monitor and review the internal Monitor and review the and external audit process and management capabilities.
internal and external HESS audit process.
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Responsible for managing the business and providing the Boards of Directors and Committees with appropriate information to enable them to carry out their responsibilities.
Carnival Corporation & plcs Boards of Directors TheBODshave overall responsibility for determining the strategic direction of Carnival Corporation & plc and the nature and extent of the risk assumed byit.
TheBODshave carried out a robust assessment to ensure that principal risks, including those that wouldthreaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity are effectively managed and or mitigated to help ensure Carnival Corporation & plc is viable.
Asa result of this assessment, the BODshave identified principal risks and their management and or mitigation as listed in Item 4.
Risk Management and or Mitigation of Principal Risks within this Strategic Report.
TheBODsoversight includes briefings bymanagement, review of audit results and corrective actions, and the results of risk assessment and risk monitoring activities.
Theframework above illustrates the interaction between the BODs, its Committees and Carnival Corporation & plc management in order to continuously and annually assess, manage and or mitigate risks.
In this regard, the BODsdelegate certain risk management activities to its Committees and principally to the Audit and HESSCommittees as follows: Audit Committees TheAudit Committees are responsible for oversight of Carnival Corporation & plc financial controls and compliance activities and oversee managements processes to identify principal risks.
Theymonitor Carnival 48 Corporation & plcs principal financial risks and non-HESSoperational and compliance risks identified bythe risk assessment processes and report their findings to the BODs.
Theyare also responsible for overseeing the adequacy of Carnival Corporation & plcs system of internal control policies and procedures for the identification, assessment and reporting of risk, including identifying newrisks as they arise.
Theyreview and make recommendations arising from management reports onthe effectiveness of internal controls and risk management systems.
In addition, the Audit Committees review audit coverage, the audit plan for the upcoming year and results of any testing carried out byCarnival Corporation & plcs internal audit department called Risk Advisory & Assurance Services RAAS, and its external auditors.
TheAudit Committees also review any concerns about improprieties in Carnival Corporation & plcs financial reporting and financial controls, which employees may confidentially raise.
Finally, in connection with their risk oversight role, the Audit Committees regularly meet privately with representatives from Carnival Corporation & plcs independent auditors and registered certified public accounting firm, the Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer, the Chief Audit Officer and as needed, with the General Counsel.
HESS Committees TheHESSCommittees monitor Carnival Corporation & plcs performance in managing and or mitigating principal non-financial risks, principally those arising in respect of health, environment, safety, security and sustainability and report their findings to the BODsona regular basis.
TheHESSCommittees oversee managements processes to identify principal HESS-related risks and review with management the actions required to minimize such risks.
In addition, the HESSCommittees review audit coverage, the HESSaudit plan for the upcoming year and results of any testing carried out byRAAS.
In connection with their oversight role, the HESSCommittees regularly meet privately with the Chief Maritime Officer.
Executive Management Executive Management is responsible for ensuring that wehave active plans to manage and or mitigate the principal financial and non-financial risks, including HESS-related risks, identified bythe business from the risk assessment processes that are integrated within Carnival Corporation & plcs operations to ensure ongoing viability.
Asnewrisks arise, Executive Management ensures they are properly reviewed and monitored.
RAAS RAASreports directly to the Chairs of the Audit and HESSCommittees.
RAASsupports the Audit and HESS Committees in fulfilling their governance and oversight responsibilities and are recognized as the BODsprimary partner for providing risk advisory and assurance services.
RAASis responsible for providing assurance that controls related to financial including the U. S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 SOX, operational, compliance and strategic risks are well designed and operate effectively.
This is achieved through the performance of annual audits and other reviews as requested bysenior executive management and the Audit and HESSCommittees.
In support of compliance with maritime regulations, RAASalso conducts annual HESSaudits of each brands head office and of each ship in Carnival Corporation & plcs fleet.
Theprimary purpose of RAASis to identify and evaluate risks in the business.
In doing so, RAASprovides senior management and the BODswith formal reports that include internal control opportunities related to Carnival Corporation & plcs global operations.
These reports also include managements action plans for addressing the opportunities and RAASactively tracks the status of implementation.
Anysignificant delays in plan implementations are highlighted and discussed with the BODs.
Tothe extent that opportunities at one of our business units is applicable to one or more of our other business units, RAAShas various mechanisms for facilitating sharing and lessons learned.
In carrying out its functions, the RAASDepartment works closely with the Global Accounting and Reporting Services and Corporate Legal Departments, the Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer as well as the Chief Maritime Officer.
TheCertifying Officers are required bySECrules to file written certifications ona quarterly basis certifying, among other items, that they have disclosed to the auditors and the Audit Committees all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect Carnival Corporation & plcs ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information and any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees whohave a significant role in Carnival Corporation & plcs internal control over financial reporting.
