CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Nomination report The Board has been refreshed with three new appointments and there is a pipeline of talent amongst the senior management team.
Edward Haslam Chairman of the Nomination Committee Dear shareholders an independent Non-Executive reviewed the policy on senior Director who will transition to and executive recruitment and I am presenting this report as Chair the Board.
Further details of this succession planning: Chairman of the Nomination process are set out below.
review of the new Corporate Committee, a committee established Governance Code and required by the Board of the Company.
The Committee met six times during changes to the Nomination the year, with one further meeting During the year, the Committee led Committee charter: and held by way of written resolution, and the process to identify two new tender process to identify and undertook the following activities: independent Non-Executive Directors engage an internationally and are delighted to welcome to the active requirement programme to recognised recruitment firm.
Board Alison Baker, who joined in identify a candidate for the role of It has been an active year for the February 2018 and Dr Ibrahim Fawzy, Non-Executive Chair: Committee, and as Chairman I am who joined in August 2018. recommended the appointment of pleased with the progress the two independent Non-Executive The Committee also reviewed the Committee has made during 2018.
Directors: succession planning for Executive The Board has been refreshed with reviewed the Board succession Directors on the Board and three new appointments and there is a plans and recommended the recommended the appointment of pipeline of talent amongst the senior appointment of the CFO to the Ross Jerrard, who became a member management team, which will ensure Board: of the Board in February 2018 as Chief we have the right experience and contributing to the succession Financial Officer, duly appointed from opportunity for succession.
There are planning and progress to fill within the Company.
challenges for the Committee in 2019, vacancies among the senior with three non-executive roles to fill, Throughout 2018, the Committee management team: one of whom will be the successor for carried out a competitive recruitment made recommendations to the the Non-Executive Chair.
The process to identify candidates for the Board on the appointments to the Committee will also assist with scoping role of Non-Executive Chair.
The committees: of roles and identifying individuals Committee successfully identified a made recommendations as to the among the senior management team short list of candidates and proceeded structure, size and composition of to ensure a strong and robust team as to the final interview stage in late the Board and Board committees: we continue delivering for November after which the Committee reviewed the competencies, skills, shareholders into the future.
felt that they were unable to knowledge and experience of recommend to the Board the The report provides more detail on Directors: appointment of any of the finalists and the activities, decisions and policies of made recommendations to the so took the decision to appoint the Nomination Committee and the Board for the appointment and recruitment consultant, Egon Zehnder Board.
re-election of Directors: to assist and extend the search.
In the intervening period, Josef El-Raghy considered the requirements for Edward Haslam agreed to change his role and serve Board diversity including gender Chairman of the Nomination on the Board as a Non-Executive and ethnic diversity : Committee Chair.
A key priority during 2019 for reviewed the Companys diversity the Committee will be to complete policy at Board, senior management 1 March 2019 the recruitment process and identify and operational level: 100 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Nomination Committee Developing a diverse workforce The Equality Act 2010 Gender Pay Gap Information As at the date of this report, the Centamin is an equal opportunity Regulations 2017 Nomination Committee comprises employer and the Companys code Edward Haslam Chairman, Alison of conduct prohibits any form of The Nomination Committee Baker and Mark Arnesen, all of whom discrimination.
However, no women considered the gender pay gap are independent Non-Executive are employed at Sukari Gold Mine.
The Nomination Committee This is mainly due to social conditions employee threshold with reference to welcomed Alison Baker, who joined in Egypt and in the Middle East where, relevant employees as meaning those on appointment to the Board on in general, female employees are not employees working in Great Britain 5 February 2018. encouraged to work at remote sites.
and employees working outside Great Local regulations include a number of Britain if there is a sufficiently strong Board diversity provisions to restrict the working connection with Great Britain.
The Nomination Committee believes hours between 7.00pm and 7.00am Centamin does not meet the that diversity of opinion and and type of work women on an stipulation set out by these regulations experience are of vital importance to operational mine site can undertake: and therefore does not have a Board effectiveness and diversity will these include restrictions on working reporting obligation.
The majority of continue to be a key consideration underground, working with explosives employees are based in Egypt, at our when recommending the planned and operating mobile equipment.
exploration sites in Burkina Faso and appointments this year.
In assessing An initiative, driven by the HSES Cte dIvoire and at our headquarters candidates for the position of Chair of Committee, has been undertaken in Jersey.
the Board and any other new to carry out a review of the gender Centamin does, however, work to non-executive appointments, the statistics for non-specific or prohibited ensure women have pay parity with Nomination Committee will continue roles.
The results of this review are men in similar positions across its to consider the size, composition and expected in March 2019 and the operations and at our corporate head length of service of the Board as a Nomination Committee will work with office and administrative offices.
whole, to ensure diversity of gender, the HSES Committee to consider any ethnicity, age and educational and proactive measures that could be In developing the Companys policy professional backgrounds.
taken to provide employment for on diversity, the Board has considered women at Sukari.
the requirements of the 2016 Code During the year, the Board, through and National Instrument 58-101 and the recommendations of the A greater percentage of women are the FCA Listing Rules.
Nomination Committee, considered employed throughout the Group in the Companys policy on diversity.
the administrative offices in Egypt, In reviewing the policy, the Board Alexandria and at the Companys considered the Lord Davies report and headquarters and on site in Burkina the Hampton-Alexander review and Faso and Cte dIvoire.
Of our West the Parker review on board African employees, over 10% are composition and will continue to have women working in Ouagadougou and regard to these reports and make as geologists based at camp.
Across every effort to adhere to the reports the Company, a number of women when undertaking the recruitment hold senior positions in the areas of process and making recommendations accountancy, investor relations, HSES to the Board.
and subsidiary directorships with a third of all direct reports to the Details of the current composition of executive being women.
Full details the Board and the wider management of the workforce can be found in the team are set out in the governance 2018 sustainability report, which is report.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 101 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Nomination report continued 2018 Corporate External evaluations: the Board rotation and refreshment Governance Code Nomination Committee engaged The Nomination Committee and with an external facilitator to run The Nomination Committee Board are mindful that three of the the Board evaluation in 2016.
The considered the requirements of the Companys independent evaluation was carried out through 2018 Code and FRC guidance and Non-Executive Directors will, this year, questionnaires and face to face noted below are the main additional have served on the Board for eight interviews with all Directors and features the Committee will take years.
The 2016 Code notes that any provided insightful evaluation.
forward in 2019: term beyond six years for a The Nomination Committee will Non-Executive Director should be Gender pay gap: further to the conduct an external Board subject to particularly rigorous review, notes above, the Nomination evaluation in 2019 and take and should take into account the need Committee will have regard to the into consideration the for progressive refreshing of the structure of the workforce and recommendations of the Board.
The 2016 Code also allows the plans to identify and reduce 2018 Code to ensure the Board to state its reasons if it instances of the gender pay gap evaluation continues to provide determines that a director is and will work closely with the meaningful insight.
independent notwithstanding a Remuneration Committee on Talent management: the director having served on the Board this matter.
Nomination Committee will take for more than nine years from the Workforce diversity: the an active interest in how talent at date of their first election.
Nomination Committee will work an operational and corporate level After carrying out the review and with the HSES Committee on is identified, assessed and ensuring giving due consideration to the initiatives to identify opportunities programmes are in place so that independence of the independent to improve diversity particularly individuals are sufficiently Non-Executive Directors on the gender diversity within the challenged and have a clear Board, the Nomination Committee workforce.
The HR department will, career path.
and the Board were in agreement that during 2019, report to the HSES Chair tenure: the Nomination all independent Non-Executive Committee on these initiatives.
Committee considered Provision Directors remained fully independent Overboarding: the Nomination 19 of the 2018 Code in detail when within the definition of independence Committee will be actively involved recommending the continuation of in the Canadian Securities in advising the Board when the now, Non-Executive Chair, on Administrators National Instrument approval for any new appointments the Board.
In line with the 2018 52-110 Audit Committees and the is considered, such that acceptance Code, the Nomination Committee 2016 Code.
It was noted that there of any new appointment does not and Board believe that it is in the was no immediate requirement for compromise the commitment and best interest of the Company and rotation, however a staged rotation effectiveness of the Directors.
All its stakeholders that the Chair is in progress with the appointment new appointments are subject to continue as Non-Executive Chair for of two independent Non-Executive Board approval.
the coming year, having consulted Directors in 2018 and plans to with major shareholders.
During this appointment three further time, the recruitment process to Non-Executive Directors which identify an independent will then allow for further committee Non-Executive Director to transition membership changes and Board to the role of Non-Executive Chair rotation.
102 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Nomination Committee had recommended to the Board the following key appointments: BOARD REMUNERATION NOMINATION CGC HSES COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Josef El-Raghy Non-Executive change in role Chair Ross Jerrard Director CFO Alison Baker Director Member Chair Mark Bankes Member Member until change in role 31 December 2018 Dr Ibrahim Fawzy Director Member Member Notes to the table: Dr Ibrahim Fawzy was appointed to the HSES Committee in January 2019 replacing Mark Bankes.
The following table to shows the appointments and role changes during the year.
ROLES INDIVIDUALS RECRUITMENT PROCESS INDUCTION AND TRAINING Change in role and Josef El-Raghy The Nomination Committee has As a long-standing member on the Board, the process to appoint an defined the role, character and induction and training was tailored to define Recruitment in progress independent attributes ideally suited for the the new role, scope and time commitment and for independent Non-Executive Chair successful candidate to succeed provide an update on the 2018 Code.
Josef Non-Executive Chair the Chair.
Internationally El-Raghy held discussions with the Nomination renowned recruitment adviser, Committee prior to accepting the Chairman Egon Zehnder, has compiled a position and transitioning from executive to list of candidates and Non-Executive Chair.
interviewed Board members to The discussions helped shape the role and ensure a clear understand of the expectations for 2019, understand the areas role and required attributes of where delegation of responsibilities to the the candidate.
executive needed to occur and the expected time commitments and priorities for 2019.
As a former executive, these discussions were important to manage expectations and ensure reporting lines were understood between the Chair, the Board and the executive.
Details of the executive roles are set out in the governance report.
Independent Recruitment in progress The Nomination Committee has A full induction will be carried out for the Non-Executive Directors defined the roles needed in the candidates.
Additionally, during the due near future, identifying diligence phase, shortlisted candidates will candidates with operational have an opportunity to visit the mine, meet background and those with a with the Non-Executive and Executive finance M&A background.
One Directors and senior management.
person is to transition to The newly appointed Chair may serve part of Non-Executive Chair and one is the year as an independent Non-Executive to become Senior Independent Director to ensure a smooth transition.
Recruitment adviser, Egon Zehnder, has compiled a list of candidates and interviewed Board members to ensure a clear understanding of the role and required attributes of the candidates.
Independent Alison Baker and See case study on page 104.
Non-Executive Directors Ibrahim Fawzy Chief Financial Officer Ross Jerrard See case study in the 2017 See case study in the 2017 annual report to the Board annual report Centamin plc Annual report 2018 103 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Nomination report continued Board rotation and refreshment continued CASE STUDY: RECRUITMENT PROCESS ALISON BAKER The Nomination Committee was active throughout 2018 in identifying suitable candidates to join the Board as independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee considered the skills, experience needed immediately and in the future.
The Committee also considered further the Companys policy on diversity, the current size, composition and length of service of the Board as a whole having regard to gender, ethnicity, age, race and educational and professional backgrounds.
The Committee considered a variety of different recruitment agencies to help the Committee identify potential candidates and also independently evaluate candidates that had been put forward by the Board.
In addition, candidates and CVs had been received through the Companys recruitment platform and online presence which needed to be evaluated.
Following consultation with a recruitment adviser a list of five candidates were shortlisted and interviewed.
Following the interview process, the Nomination Committee met to consider each of the shortlisted candidates.
The Committee then recommended three of the five interviewees to the Board for further discussion.
The Board evaluated all three candidates and following completion of due diligence process, the Nomination Committee finalised and approved the appointment of Alison Baker, with the full support of the Board.
Alison Baker was announced as the successful candidate in January 2018 and became a member of the Board on 5 February 2018.
Induction and training independent Non-Executive Directors A detailed induction pack was prepared for Alison, covering all key policy documents, relevant operational and financial reports and key papers about the Companys ongoing litigation and regulatory compliance.
During the recruitment process and prior to accepting the appointment, Alison had the opportunity to meet with all members of the Board in an open forum for discussion.
A summary induction was also arranged, providing a high level introduction to the Company and the roles to be undertaken for the Nomination and HSES Committees.
The initial induction process was conducted in an open forum allowing a Q&A with the members of the executive and senior management team.
Training requirements were discussed with Alison and external legal advisers delivered bespoke training and refreshed topics such as Directors duties covering the legal framework in Jersey, the LSE listing rules and the rules governing the TSX.
Following her appointment, Alison visited the site in Egypt to see first-hand the modern mining operation at Sukari.
Alison returned to site in July and September 2018, in her role as HSES Committee Chair, to review the site-based health and safety environment, see the existing community projects and met with key members of the community to identify projects for the future.
CASE STUDY: RECRUITMENT PROCESS NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIR Throughout 2018, the Nomination Committee carried out a competitive recruitment process to identify candidates for the role of Non-Executive Chair.
The Nomination Committee started by scoping the chair role by evaluating the strategic needs of the Group and the attributes the Chair would need to deliver those goals.
The Committee also considered the current Chairs role, the skills and abilities that the Board admired, such that those qualities could also be identified in potential candidates.
Consultants were used to assist in the early stages of the review to identify potential candidates.
The Nomination Committee considered over 40 individuals for the role, approached 15 individuals and ultimately shortlisted three individuals for interview.
From the shortlisted candidates, detailed discussions took place with one candidate and included a visit to Sukari.
Having identified a short list of candidates who proceeded to the final interview stage, in late November the Nomination Committee felt that they were unable to recommend to the Board the appointment of any of the finalists and so took the decision to appoint recruitment consultant, Egon Zehnder to assist and extend the search.
As a consequence, Josef El-Raghy, current Executive Chair, will remain at the Company in the role of Non-Executive Chair during the coming year to provide continuity during this period.
A key priority during 2019 for the Committee will be to complete the recruitment process and identify an independent Non-Executive Director who will transition to Non-Executive Chair.
104 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board effectiveness review Three key members reach eight years The internal annual performance service on the Board this year, and all evaluation of the Board was Each of the Board committees carries three individuals occupy Chair roles on completed in February 2019 for out a self-assessment evaluation of the Companys committees and one is the year ended 31 December 2018. their effectiveness over the year.
This the Senior Independent Director and review compares the responsibilities The next scheduled review of the Deputy Chair.
and objectives of each committee Boards effectiveness by an external against the activities carried out facilitator is due to take place during the year.
This evaluation is during 2019. presented to the Board for review.
Board effectiveness structure The Nomination Committee, in consultation with the recruitment Chairman adviser, consider the key dimensions effectiveness for a successful Board: balance, alignment, resilience, energy, openness and efficiency.
Questions posed to the Board members Board composition individually, are taking into account aligned to strategy when framing and scoping attributes, skills and experience for potential new Board members.
An assessment of the Relationship with executive team composition of the boards of peers shared purpose within the industry is considered, this covers the skills, experience and diversity of the Board see graphic.
Management and workforce team dynamics The Nomination Committee identified clarity of roles and responsibilities that the average number of years served on the Board needed to decrease, a process which is underway through appointment and rotation.
The Board size would likely increase during the period of appointment, handover and succession but the optimum size for the Company was considered to be eight Board members two of whom are Executive Directors.
Although mining experience was sufficiently prevalent across the Board, operational experience at a Non-Executive Director would need to be addressed in 2019.
Independence in strict compliance with the 2018 Code would need to be addressed during the year to ensure succession and timely handover of responsibilities.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 105 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Nomination report continued Q&A to assess Board effectiveness DIMENSIONS: QUESTIONS: BY: Balance: Diversity of relevant skills, How do we utilise the skills Are Board members Questionnaire and team styles and perspectives is recognised and knowledge of all Board respected and valued?
Do effectiveness review and effectively leveraged members?
Alignment: Board members How does the Board reach Does the Board focus on the Skill gap analysis understand objectives and consensus on issues?
deliverables and consistently focus on on the strategic priorities?
corresponding actions Resilience: Trust and respect support How well does the Board How is conflict managed and 360 degree feedback the constructive surfacing and operate under pressured do Board members stand viewed by key stakeholder resolution of issues, and sustains situations?
effectiveness under pressure Energy: The Board is energised by How ambitious is the Board?
What is the pace of the Board Board and management working together and is proactive and How does this manifest in and responsiveness to relationship effectiveness able to sustain momentum strategy setting?
Openness: The Board shares its ideas Give examples of where the How does the Board keep Benchmark analysis best with, and adopts new thinking from, Board has drawn in new ideas?
track of changes in industry?
practice and peer group the broader organisation and outside world Efficiency: The Board optimises How effective is the Board at Are there clear rules of Deep dive impact resources to achieve results through a making decisions?
Is the engagement for decision assessment of past decisions disciplined management process Board learning from making?
As a direct result of the internal evaluation process, the Board agreed that all independent Non-Executive Directors continued to demonstrate their independence and objectivity in all respects and provided continued value on the committees on which they served.
The Nomination Committee and the Board discussed during the year the need for any new appointments to the Board, either through the process of succession planning or external appointments.
These discussions culminated in the appointments during 2018 and the recommendation to appoint Egon Zehnder to recruit three independent non-executives, one of whom will succeed the Chair.
Evaluation of current Board skills, experience and diversity and target areas for 2019 8 13% 13% 56 63% 38% 25% 50% 75% 25% 25% 38% 75% 25% 6 2018 2019 Change during 2018: Increased Constant Reduced Nomination Committee targets in 2019: Increase Constant Reduce 106 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 BOARD SIZE GENDER DIVERSITY ETHNIC DIVERSITY MEDIAN AGE INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR QUALIFIED FINANCIAL EXPERT OPERATIONAL EXPERIENCE MINING INDUSTRY CAPITAL INTENSIVE INDUSTRY REGULATORY GOVERNMENT RISK MANAGEMENT CEO EXPERIENCE EMERGING MARKETS AFRICA HEALTH & SAFETY AVG.
YEARS ON BOARD Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Performance evaluation An evaluation of the Board and its Details of the appointment process committees was undertaken during for the independent Non-Executive The Senior Independent the year and concluded in February Director are set out earlier in the Non-Executive Director held meetings 2019.
The Board, in conducting its report.
with the Non-Executive Directors evaluation, reviewed the activity, without the Executive Directors The Nomination Committee continues composition and expertise of the present, providing feedback to the full to work closely with the Chairman and committees and considered their Board.
These meetings focused CEO to ensure that the roles and effectiveness taking account of primarily on the evaluation of the responsibilities are clearly defined, the following: Boards performance, a performance and that the CEO has the required evaluation of the Chairman and CEO, the responsibilities set out in their support of the Board and senior discussing the quality of reporting and respective charters: management to undertake the role information flows to the Board and effectively.
activities carried out during the discussions on the strategic aims and year, taking account of their The performance of all Directors is objectives for the Group.
mandated duties and constantly reviewed by the Chairman The Board is assisted by the responsibilities: and, periodically, by the Nomination Nomination Committee on its progress made in respect of their Committee.
The Company deployed evaluation of the Non-Executive duties and responsibilities: a formal process for evaluation of Directors.
attendance and contribution to the the Board, the Board members, the committees: and Boards committees and the Chairman The non-executives also discussed reporting and updates provided to during the relevant period, led by the openly with the Executive Directors the Board.
Senior Independent Non-Executive the areas they could assist further with Director.
in relation to business development, The Board reviewed its own succession planning and strategy membership and performance and The Board has also had training relating to the appointment and this review was concluded in February sessions on various topics during retention of key personnel.
The Nomination Committee the year, carried out by external noted that, in accordance with the legal advisers.
Companys Articles, all Directors be subject to re-election at the forthcoming AGM and that their re-appointment be recommended to shareholders.
