CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance The Board recognises the importance of keeping the market fully informed of the Groups activities and of communicating openly and clearly with all stakeholders.
Mark Bankes Chairman of the Compliance and Corporate Governance Committee Dear shareholders ACTIVITIES COMMITTEE COMMENTARY Review of progress in respect to Whilst the substantive merits of the case remain strong, I am presenting this corporate the Concession Agreement court Law no.
32 of 2014 which is legislation designed to governance report in my capacity appeal hearing see note 5.1 to protect and encourage foreign investment should as Chairman of the Compliance and the financial statements bring a resolution to this litigation in the Companys favour.
The Committee monitors the outcome of Corporate Governance Committee developments in the appeal challenging the validity of CGC Committee, a committee Law no.
32 and reviews the litigation process in the established by the Board of the Egyptian courts more widely.
The Committees primary Review of progress in respect to The State Commissioners report released in September functions, responsibilities and duties the DFO litigation see note 5.1 2016, which was non-binding, does not, in the are set out in the Committee charter.
to the financial statements Committees view, impact upon the strong merits of our case.
Our legal advisers do not believe the report Compliance and Corporate properly addresses the key arguments of the Governance Committee Companys case.
The Committee continues to monitor progress in the Egyptian courts to resolve this dispute.
As at the date of this report, the Monitoring of government The Committee reviews key correspondence between Compliance and Corporate relations relating to the senior management and government.
With the onset of Governance Committee has four Concession Agreement and profit sharing with the Egyptian government EMRA independent Non-Executive Directors, review of the mechanism of this year, the Committee wishes to ensure that the Edward Haslam, Mark Arnesen and profit share process is properly managed in accordance with the Concession Agreement and that all parties continue to me as Chairman with Dr Ibrahim be treated fairly and equitably.
Fawzy joining the Committee on Assisting with discussions on A formal Disclosure Committee met regularly during 1 January 2019.
Biographies of public announcements through 2018 to evaluate public announcements and matters members of the Committee can be the Disclosure Committee which may develop into inside information.
All Review of the reporting and The Committee is active in the review of public Committee members attended all disclosure requirements required disclosures and continues to review and comment on three scheduled meetings during by the LSE and TSX such disclosures to ensure messaging and information is clear and understandable to the market.
Governance and Board and The Committee monitored the recommendations of the The activities undertaken during the committee appointments Nomination Committee in respect to matters affecting year included the following: the Board composition and governance structure.
Cross jurisdictional legal and Monitors both legal and regulatory obligations across regulatory compliance the Groups corporate structure and in-country at an operational level.
2018 Corporate Governance The Committee considered the impact of the 2018 Code Code and the required changes at a Board, committee and operational level.
Details of the matters considered are set out on page 86 Regulatory and legal review and The Committee receives updates on changes to the advising on related training regulatory and legal environment.
These changes are requirements for the Board, considered when reviewing corporate policies.
The management and workforce training needs of the Board, management and wider workforce are also considered.
Feedback on site based training is provided to the Committee.
98 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Modern Slavery Act This process will allow the Company Shareholder communication is to focus its attention on higher risk maintained through the following The UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 suppliers within the supply chain key information channels: the 2015 Act consolidated the law and provide education to ensure relating to slavery, servitude, forced the annual report: awareness and understanding of and compulsory labour and human the notice of annual general the Act.
trafficking, coming at a time of meeting and management increasing concern regarding slavery The CGC Committee is also information circular: and human trafficking affecting global monitoring progress in Australia as the annual general meeting: supply chains.
Whilst Centamin is not they introduce new Modern Slavery the annual information form: in scope because it does not carry out Act legislation.
Adherence and quarterly and half-yearly financial business in the UK, the Committee reporting under the Australian and operational reports: considered, as a matter of good legislation will be assessed in 2019. corporate governance, peer continuous disclosure requirements Shareholder communication comparison and shareholder and regulatory announcements: expectation, that the 2015 Act should All shareholders are encouraged to webcasts on quarterly and annual be evaluated.
attend our AGM on 8 April 2019, financial and operational results: which will be held in Jersey.
This will the Companys website: The Committee considered the be an excellent opportunity to meet registrar services: and guiding principles of the 2015 Act and Board members and our senior electronic and postal notifications.
considered the Companys own management team.
positive track record for employee The Board recognises the importance The Board of Directors aims to ensure welfare and highest health and safety of keeping the market fully informed that shareholders are provided with standards.
The Committee noted that of the Groups activities and of important information in a timely the overriding goal would be to communicating openly and clearly manner via written and electronic identify any existing or potential with all stakeholders.
human rights impacts and remedies, the Group recognises the need to the use of leverage to remedy more The Chairman, CEO, Senior maintain communication with remote impacts to which businesses Independent Non-Executive Director governance and stewardship teams, are linked, and to prevent ones and Deputy Chairman, as well as our as well as proxy advisory groups.
The Head of Investor Relations, A large proportion of the Companys methodology would be based on communicate with major shareholders are guided by proxy working with potential offending shareholders on a regular basis advisers and their voting companies, mainly in supply, chains through face-to-face meetings, recommendations, which can to improve their human rights telephone conversations, and analyst significantly impact voting outcomes record rather than terminate the and broker briefings to help better at the Companys AGM.
Termination is seen as the understand the views of the Details of the Companys policies and last resort response.
Any material feedback procedures, including a copy of the is then discussed at Board level.
In The Committee recommended and Companys whistleblowing policy, can particular, the feedback from certain the HSES Committee agreed to review be found on the Companys website.
of the proxy advisory companies, the Act further with a view to which provide guidance and voting enhancing the Companys existing Mark Bankes recommendations to shareholders, human rights policies.
A review of the is discussed by the Board.
Chairman of the Compliance and Companys code of conduct, HSES Corporate Governance Committee policies, supplier charter and human rights policy is underway, taking 1 March 2019 account of local Egyptian laws and regulations.
Having given further consideration to the 2015 Act and related UK guidance on adherence with the Acts principles, the Company is also carrying out a risk assessment of its suppliers.
