Governance Directors and Corporate Governance Report Other Statutory Information The Directors submit their Annual Report and Accounts for Rights attaching to shares Centrica plc, together with the consolidated Financial Statements of Each ordinary share of the Company carries one vote.
Further the Centrica group of companies, for the year ended 31December information on the voting and other rights of shareholders is 2018.
The directors report required under the Companies Act 2006 set out in the Articles and in explanatory notes which accompany the Act comprises this Directors and Corporate Governance notices of general meetings, all of which are available on Report pages 66 to 112, including the Remuneration Report our website.
pages 90 to 109 and the Delivering our Responsible Business Repurchase of shares Ambitions section for disclosure of our carbon emissions in the Strategic Report pages 60 to 61.
The management report As permitted by the Articles, the Company obtained shareholder authority at the 2018 AGM to purchase its own shares up to required under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.
5R comprises the Strategic Report pages 2 to 65 which includes a maximum of 560,114,648 ordinary shares.
No shares were purchased under this authority in 2018. the risks relating to our business, Shareholder Information page 234 and details of acquisitions and disposals made by As at 31 December 2018, 31,277,124 shares were held as treasury the Group during the year in note 12 page 153.
These shares held in treasury represent 0.55% of the and Corporate Governance Report fulfils the requirements of Companys issued share capital.
Dividends are waived in respect the corporate governance statement required under Disclosure of shares held in the treasury share account.
Total shareholder return Articles of Association Articles Total shareholder return is a valuable key performance indicator to The Companys Articles were adopted at the 2010 AGM and assess the Companys performance in the delivery of shareholder were amended at the 2016 AGM.
They may only be amended value.
During the year under review, Centrica has outperformed by a special resolution of the shareholders.
The Company the FTSE 100 Index by 15.1%.
proposes to put amended Articles to its Shareholders at 130 the 2019 AGM.
Further information on the changes can be found in the 2019 Notice of Meeting centrica.
120 Centrica shares Substantial shareholdings 110 At 31 December 2018, Centrica had received notification of the following material shareholdings pursuant to the Disclosure 100 & Transparency Rules: 1 % of share capital 90 BlackRock, Inc. 6.05 Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Schroders Investment Management Limited 5.72 17 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 Majedie Asset Management Limited 4.99 Centrica Total shareholder return FTSE 100 Total return index Newton Investment Management Limited 4.99 Source: Bloomberg 1 Percentages are shown as a percentage of the Companys issued share Shares held in employee benefit trusts capital when the Company was notified of the change in holding.
As at 20 February 2019, there were no changes in the details shown in the above table.
The Centrica plc Employee Benefit Trust EBT is used to purchase shares on behalf of the Company for the benefit of employees, Share capital in connection with the Deferred and Matching Share Scheme, The Company has a single share class which is divided into and the Restricted Share Scheme.
The Centrica plc Share 14 ordinary shares of 6 81 pence each.
The Company was authorised Incentive Plan Trust SIP Trust is used to purchase shares on at the 2018 AGM to allot up to 1,867,048,825 ordinary shares as behalf of the Company for the benefit of employees, in connection permitted by the Act.
A renewal of this authority will be proposed with the SIP.
Both the Trustees of the EBT and the SIP Trust, at the 2019 AGM.
The Companys issued share capital as at in accordance with best practice, have agreed not to vote any 31 December 2018, together with details of shares issued unallocated shares held in the EBT or SIP Trust at any general during the year, is set out in note 25 to the Financial Statements.
meeting and dividends are waived in respect of these shares.
In respect of allocated shares in both the EBT and the SIP Trust, the Trustees shall vote in accordance with participants instructions.
In the absence of any instruction, the Trustees shall not vote.
110 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Employee involvement We remain committed to employee involvement throughout the Index to Directors Report business.
Employees are kept well informed of the performance and other disclosures and strategy of the Group through personal briefings, regular 79 AGM meetings, email and broadcasts by the Group Chief Executive 110 Articles of Association and members of the Board at key points in the year.
114 Audit Information Equal opportunities 68 Board of Directors The Group is committed to an active equal opportunities policy 16 Business Model from recruitment and selection, through training and development, 75 Conflicts of Interest performance reviews and promotion to retirement.
It is our policy 111 Directors indemnities and insurance to promote an environment free from discrimination, harassment 68 Directors service contracts and victimisation, where everyone receives equal treatment and letters of appointment regardless of gender, colour, ethnic or national origin, disability, 100 Directors share interests age, marital status, sexual orientation or religion.
All decisions 110 Disclosure required under relating to employment practices will be objective, free from Listing Rule 9.8.
4R bias and based solely upon work criteria and individual merit.
62 Diversity Note 11 page 152 Dividends Employees with disabilities Note 26 page 174 Events after the balance sheet date It is our policy that people with disabilities should have full and fair Notes 19, S2 and S6 Financial instruments consideration for all vacancies.
During the year we continued to on pages 162, demonstrate our commitment to interviewing those people with 184 and 195 disabilities who fulfil the minimum criteria and we endeavour to 2 to 65 Future developments retain employees in the workforce if they become disabled during 60 to 61 Carbon emissions employment.
This commitment was recognised in January 2018 111 Human rights by our achievement of level 1 Disability Confident Status and in 2017 we launched a Disability and Wellbeing Network to help 81 Internal control over financial reporting employees impacted by disability to access the support they 110 Material shareholdings need to thrive at work.
62 People 111 Political donations and expenditure Human rights Note S8 page 199 Related party transactions As an international company we have a responsibility and are 2 Results committed to uphold and protect the human rights of individuals 41 Risk Management working for us in the communities and societies where we operate.
110 Share capital We take steps to ensure that our people working in countries 56 Sustainability with a high risk to human rights are safeguarded, as set out in Our Code.
We also recognise the opportunity we have to contribute positively to global efforts to ensure human rights are understood and observed.
Employee participation in share schemes The Companys all-employee share schemes are a longOther Information established and successful part of our total reward package, Political donations encouraging and supporting employee share ownership.
Centrica operates on a politically neutral basis.
No political We offer tax-advantaged Sharesave SAYE schemes in the donations were made by the Group for political purposes during UK and Ireland, and a Share Incentive Plan SIP in the UK, the year.
However, in accordance with the United States Federal with good levels of take-up for all share plans across the Election Campaign Act, a Political Action Committee PAC called Group.
Currently, 44% of eligible employees participate in Direct Energy Employee Political Action Committee DEEPAC Sharesave, 33% of eligible employees participate in the SIP.
was formed to facilitate voluntary political contributions by its US employees.
DEEPAC is controlled by neither Centrica nor Direct Workforce Energy but instead by a governing board of individual employee Directors indemnities and insurance members of DEEPAC on a voluntary basis.
Direct Energy, as In accordance with the Articles, the Company has granted a authorised by law, has provided limited administrative support deed of indemnity, to the extent permitted by law, to Directors to DEEPAC.
DEEPAC has been organised to provide a vehicle and members of the Executive Committee.
Qualifying third-party to dispense voluntary contributions from eligible employees.
indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Act were Participation in DEEPAC is entirely voluntary for eligible employees, in force during the year ended 31 December 2018 and remain and political donations from DEEPAC are determined by a in force.
The Company also maintains directors and officers governing board of DEEPAC members.
In 2018, contributions to liability insurance for its Directors and officers.
DEEPAC by employees amounted to $53,682.50, and DEEPAC made 153 political donations totalling $105,700.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 111 Governance | Directors and Corporate Governance Report Other Statutory Information Significant agreements change of control Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the Financial Statements unless There are a number of agreements to which the Company is party they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or Company following a takeover bid.
The significant agreements loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these Financial of this kind relate to 2009, when Centrica entered into certain Statements, the Directors are required to: transactions with EDF Group in relation to an investment in the former British Energy Group, which owned and operated a fleet select suitable accounting policies and then apply them of nuclear power stations in the UK.
The transactions include consistently: rights for EDF Group and Centrica to offtake power from these make judgements and accounting estimates that are nuclear power stations.
As part of the arrangements, on a change reasonable and prudent: of control of Centrica, the Group loses its right to participate on state whether IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable the boards of the companies in which it has invested.
Furthermore, UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject where the acquirer is not located in certain specified countries, to any material departures disclosed and explained in the EDF Group is able to require Centrica to sell out its investments Group and Company Financial Statements respectively: and to EDF Group.
prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will Payments policy continue in business.
We recognise the importance of good supplier relationships to the overall success of our business.
We manage dealings The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting with suppliers in a fair, consistent and transparent manner.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R time the financial position of the Company and the Group and The Company is required to disclose certain information under enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements and the Listing Rule 9.8.
4R in the Directors Report or advise where such Remuneration Report comply with the Act and, as regards the relevant information is contained.
All such disclosures are included Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
in this Directors and Corporate Governance Report, other than They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the the following sections of the Annual Report and Accounts 2018: Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps Information Location in Annual Report Page s for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Directors compensation Remuneration Report 90 to 109 Furthermore, the Directors are responsible for the maintenance Capitalised interest Financial Statements 148, note 8 and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the borrowing costs UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial Details of long-term Remuneration Report 106 statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
incentive schemes The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts 2018, when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and Directors Statements provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Going concern Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
Accounting standards require that Directors satisfy themselves Each of the Directors confirms that to the best of their knowledge: that it is reasonable for them to conclude whether it is appropriate the Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared in to prepare the Financial Statements on a going concern basis.
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair The Groups business activities, together with factors that are view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss likely to affect its future development and position, are set out of the Group: in the Group Chief Executives statement on pages 8 to 13 and the Strategic Report contained on pages 2 to 65 together the Business Reviews on pages 20 to 27.
After making enquiries, with the Directors and Corporate Governance Report on the Board has a reasonable expectation that Centricaplc and pages 66 to 112, includes a fair review of the development and the Group as a whole have adequate resources to continue performance of the business and the position of the Group, in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this together with a description of the principal risks and reason, the Board continues to adopt the going concern basis uncertainties that it faces: in preparing the Financial Statements.
Further details of the as outlined on page 82, there is no relevant audit information Groups liquidity position are provided in notes 24 and S3 of which Deloitte LLP are unaware: and to the Financial Statements.
they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors responsibilities statement a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant The Directors, who are named on pages 68 to 70, are responsible audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors for preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration Report, the are aware of that information.
Strategic Report and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
By order of the Board Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Accordingly, the Directors have prepared the Group Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as Grant Dawson adopted by the European Union EU and have elected to prepare the Company Financial Statements in accordance with United Group General Counsel & Company Secretary Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including 20 February 2019 FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom 112 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Running Header I Running Header Financial Statements Contents 114 Independent Auditors Report 124 Group Income Statement 125 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 126 Group Statement of Changes in Equity 127 Group Balance Sheet 128 Group Cash Flow Statement 129 Notes to the Financial Statements 209 Company Financial Statements 211 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 220 Gas and Liquids Reserves Unaudited 222 Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 113
