6 BOARD AND COMMITTEE PERFORMANCE EVALUATION APPLICATION OF CODE PRINCIPLES The Board and its Committees have this year undertaken an The information below explains how the Company has applied internal evaluation of their respective performances.
Details the main principles of the Code.
The information required to of the evaluation can be found on page 43. be disclosed by Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 7.2.
6 is set out in the Directors Report on pages 67 to 72 and B.
7 RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS is incorporated into this statement by reference.
All Directors are subject to shareholder election or re-election at the AGM.
1 THE ROLE OF THE BOARD C ACCOUNTABILITY The Board met formally seven times during the year including C. 1 FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS REPORTING a strategy session and held other meetings on an ad hoc The Strategic Report is set out on pages 1 to 35 and provides basis as required.
There is a clear schedule of matters reserved information about the performance of the Group, the business for the Board, together with delegated authorities throughout model, strategy and principal risks and uncertainties relating to the Group.
2 DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES C. 2 RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are The Board decides the Groups risk appetite and annually clearly defined.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and and effectiveness of the Board and for overseeing the Boards internal control systems.
The activities of the Audit Committee, setting of strategy.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible which assists the Board with its responsibilities in relation to for leading the day-to-day management of the Group and the the management of risk, are summarised on page 51. implementation of the strategy.
C. 3 AUDIT COMMITTEE AND AUDITORS A.
3 THE CHAIRMAN The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the The Chairman sets the agendas for the meetings, manages Audit Committee, which is responsible for overseeing the the meeting timetable in conjunction with the Company Groups financial reporting processes, internal control and Risk Secretary and facilitates open and constructive dialogue Management Framework, the work undertaken by the External during the meetings.
Auditor, and the internal audit work of the Risk and Assurance team.
The Chair of the Audit Committee provides regular A.
4 THE ROLE OF THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS updates to the Board.
The Chairman promotes an open and constructive environment in Board meetings and actively invites the D REMUNERATION Non-Executive Directors views.
The Non-Executive Directors D. 1 LEVEL AND COMPONENTS OFREMUNERATION provide objective, rigorous and constructive challenge to The Remuneration Committee sets levels of remuneration management and meet during the year in the absence of appropriately with a view to ensuring the long-term success the Executive Directors.
of the Company, and structures remuneration so as to link it to both corporate and individual performance, thereby B EFFECTIVENESS aligning managements interests with those of the shareholders.
1 THE COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD Benchmarking exercises are carried out as appropriate by The Nomination Committee is responsible for regularly external advisors to ensure remuneration levels are appropriate.
reviewing the composition of the Board.
In making appointments to the Board, the Nomination Committee D. 2 PROCEDURE FOR DEVELOPMENT OFREMUNERATION considers the wide range of skills, knowledge, independence POLICY  PACKAGES and experience required to maintain an effective Board.
Details of the work of the Remuneration Committee and the approach to setting the remuneration policy and packages B.
2 APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages The appointment of new Directors to the Board is led by 55 to 66. the Nomination Committee.
Further details of the activities of the Nomination Committee can be found on page 46.
3 TIME COMMITMENT E. 1 SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND DIALOGUE On appointment, Directors are notified of the time The Board takes an active role in engaging with shareholders.
commitment expected from them and details are set The Board particularly values opportunities to meet with out in their letters of appointment.
External directorships shareholders and the Chairman ensures that the Board is of Executive Directors, which may impact existing time kept informed of shareholder views.
commitments, are discussed and cleared by the Chairman.
E. 2 CONSTRUCTIVE USE OF THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING B.
4 DEVELOPMENT The AGM provides the Board with an important opportunity All Directors receive induction training on joining the to meet with shareholders, who are invited to meet the Board and, as part of the annual effectiveness evaluation, members of the Board informally following the formal the development needs of each Director are checked.
5 INFORMATION AND SUPPORT The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensures that all Board members receive accurate and timely information.
40 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Part I: Strategic Report Part II: Corporate Governance Part III: Financial Statements MEMBERSHIP OF THE AUDIT, NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEES Membership of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees remained the same throughout the financial year, and was as follows: Chair Member Member Audit Committee Julie Southern Alicja Kornasiewicz Dean Moore Nomination Committee Rick Senat Scott Rosenblum Arni Samuelsson Remuneration Committee Dean Moore Rick Senat Julie Southern All the Committees remained compliant with the Code as regards their membership during the year.
Julie Southern will not be seeking re-election at the AGM in May 2019 and will step down at that point.
It is planned that Dean Moore will become Chair of the Audit Committee, and Alicja Kornasiewicz will become Chair of the Remuneration Committee, following Julies departure.
THE BOARD The Group is ultimately controlled by the Board of Directors of A schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision the Company.
The Board is responsible for the overall leadership by the Board has been agreed and adopted.
These matters of the Group and for determining its long-term objectives and include: setting Group strategy: approving an annual commercial strategy to create and deliver strong and sustainable budget and medium-term forecasts: reviewing operational financial performance to enhance shareholder value.
In fulfilling and financial performance: approving major acquisitions, its role, the Board ensures that necessary financial and other divestments and capital expenditure: approval of site resources are available to enable the Groups objectives to be selection: succession planning: approving appointments met.
The basis on which the Board seeks to preserve value over to the Board and of the Company Secretary and approving the longer term and the strategy for delivering the objectives is policies relating to Directors remuneration and contracts.
set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 35.
The Board is supplied on a monthly basis with detailed The Board meets regularly in the year for its scheduled management accounts and an overview of Group financial meetings and also annually for a strategy session.
Ad hoc and operational information.
Regular briefings by the meetings of the Board take place as required.
The meetings Executive Management Team are given to the Board, follow a formal agenda, which includes matters specifically to deepen the collective understanding of the business, reserved for decision by the Board.
The Board also meets, as leading in turn to more effective debate.
and when necessary, to discuss and approve, if appropriate, specific issues.
All Directors receive notice of such meetings and are given the opportunity to comment on the issues being discussed if they are unable to attend the meeting.
GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK THE BOARD Implementation of the Groups long-term strategy Audit Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee The Committee assists the Board The Committee is responsible The Committee makes in discharging its responsibility for evaluating the balance of recommendations to the Board for with regard to financial reporting, skills, knowledge and experience approval of the Groups broad policy the control environment, the work on the Board, the size, structure for the remuneration of the Chairman, of the External and Internal Auditors, and composition of the Board, the Executive Directors, the Company and the Risk and Assurance Team.
retirements and appointments of Secretary and Senior Management, additional and replacement Directors.
and for the design of performance Chair: Julie Southern related pay schemes and long-term Chair: Rick Senat incentive plans.
Chair: Dean Moore Audit Committee Report Nomination Committee Report Remuneration Committee Report page 50 page46 page 55 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 41 LEADERSHIP CONTINUED THE ROLES OF THE CHAIRMAN AND BOARD COMMITTEES CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER In accordance with best practice, the Board has The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are appointed three Committees, an Audit Committee, separate.
The division of responsibility between the Chairman a Nomination Committee, and a Remuneration Committee, of the Board, Anthony Bloom, and the Chief Executive Officer, to which certain Board functions have been delegated.
Moshe Greidinger, is clearly defined in writing.
Further details Each of these Committees has formal written terms of of the respective responsibilities are set out below.
reference which clearly define their responsibilities.
The terms of reference of each of the Boards three Committees are available on the Companys website www.
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE DIRECTORS ROLE NAME RESPONSIBILITY Anthony Bloom The Chairman, together with the Chief Executive Officer, leads the Board CHAIRMAN in determination of its strategy having regard to the Groups responsibilities to its shareholders, customers, employees and other stakeholders.
He is responsible for organising the business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness, and setting its agenda.
The Chairman also facilitates the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and oversees the performance evaluation of the Board and when appropriate, discusses matters with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
CHIEF Moshe Mooky Greidinger The Chief Executive Officer has direct charge of the Group on a day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board for the financial and operational EXECUTIVE performance of the Group.
He holds regular meetings with his Executive OFFICER Management Team.
NON-EXECUTIVE Camela Galano, Alicja The Non-Executive Directors provide objective, rigorous and constructive Kornasiewicz, Dean Moore, challenge to Management and meet during the year in the absence of the DIRECTORS Scott S. Rosenblum, Arni Executive Directors.
They play a key role in reviewing proposals, in particular Samuelsson, Eric Rick in respect of strategy.
Senat, Julie Southern SENIOR Eric Rick Senat The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief INDEPENDENT Executive Officer, Deputy Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer DIRECTOR has failed to resolve or for which contact is inappropriate.
Fiona Smith The Company Secretary is responsible for advising and supporting the COMPANY Chairman and the Board on corporate governance matters, ensuring Board SECRETARY procedures are followed and facilitating the good information flow within the Board and the Board-appointed Committees.
ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS The number of scheduled Board meetings and Committee meetings attended by each Director during the year was as follows: Board including strategy Audit Remuneration Nomination session Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings in year 7 5 4 2 Independent Attended Attended Attended Attended Directors 1 2 2 2 Anthony Bloom No 7 7 5 5 4 4 2 2 Nisan Cohen No 6 7 N A N A N A 3 Camela Galano Yes 3 3 N A N A N A Israel Greidinger No 7 7 N A N A N A Moshe Greidinger No 7 7 N A N A N A Alicja Kornasiewicz Yes 7 7 5 5 N A N A 1 Dean Moore Yes 7 7 5 5 4 4 N A Scott Rosenblum No 7 7 N A N A 2 2 Arni Samuelsson Yes 7 7 N A N A 2 2 1 Rick Senat Yes 6 7 N A 3 4 2 2 1 Julie Southern Yes 7 7 5 5 4 4 N A 3 Renana Teperberg No 3 3 N A N A N A 1 Chair of Board Board Committee.
2 Anthony Bloom, the Chairman of the Company, attended these meetings by invitation.
3 Camela Galano and Renana Teperberg were appointed as Directors on 19 July 2018.
Between 19 July 2018 and the year end, there were only three Board meetings, so they attended the maximum number of Board meetings possible.
42 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
