Part I: Strategic Report Part II: Corporate Governance Part III: Financial Statements BOARD STATEMENTS REQUIREMENT BOARD STATEMENT Compliance The principal governance rules applying to companies with a premium listing for the year covered by this with the UK statement are contained in the Code published by the UK Financial Reporting Council FRC in April Corporate 2016 the Code, and a copy is available on its website www.
For the year ended 31 December Governance 2018, the Board considers that the Company was compliant with the provisions of the Code, save that to Code ensure the timely execution of the Regal transaction, the Company considered it expedient to convene the general meeting approving the transaction on 14 days notice in accordance with the authority conferred by shareholders at the annual general meeting in 2017, rather than the 14working days notice provided for in the Code.
Going Concern The Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for at least 12 months from the date of signing these accounts.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual financial statements.
In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements, the Directors have considered the business activities as set out on pages 1 to 35 and the Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 22 to 27.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities, as well as the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing capital, are described on pages 31 to 35.
Financial risk management objectives, details of financial instruments and hedging activities, and exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk are described in Note 24 to the financial statements.
Viability The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a three year period, taking into account the Groups current position and the potential impact of the principal risks and uncertainties set out on pages 22 to 27.
Based on this assessment, and having considered the established controls for the risks, and the available mitigating actions, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period to 2021.
For more information on the viability assessment, please see page 27.
Robust The Directors consider they have undertaken a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, Assessment including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
Please of Principal refer to pages 22 to 27 for further information on the Companys principal risks and uncertainties, and Risks their impact on the prospects of the Group.
Review of The Directors have carried out a review of internal control and risk management.
Please refer to Internal Control pages 48 and 49 for further information.
and Risk Management Fair, The Directors consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and Balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups Understandable position and performance, business model and strategy.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 37 BOARD OF DIRECTORS At 31 December 2018 Anthony Bloom Alicja Kornasiewicz Moshe Mooky Greidinger Chairman Non-Executive Director and Deputy Chair Chief Executive Officer Date appointed as Chairman: October 2004 Date appointed to Board: May 2015 Date appointed to Board: February 2014 Tenure on Board: 14 years 2 months Tenure on Board: 3 years 7 months Tenure on Board: 4 years 10 months Independent: No Independent: Yes Independent: No Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Audit Committee Committee memberships: None No formal memberships, but has attended all Relevant skills, qualifications and experience: Relevant skills, qualifications and experience: meetings by invitation Alicja Kornasiewicz joined the Board in May Moshe Greidinger joined the Board in February 2015 as an independent Non-Executive Director, 2014 as Chief Executive Officer.
Prior to that he was Relevant skills, qualifications and experience: and is a member of the Audit Committee.
Ms Chief Executive Officer of Cinema City International Anthony Bloom joined the Board in October Kornasiewicz brings extensive Central and Eastern CCI.
Since 1984, 2004 as Chairman, and has served as Chairman Europe financial and political experience to the Mr Greidinger has held executive positions with since the business was founded in 1995.
Previously, she was the Chief Executive Cinema City, has served as a Director and Deputy previously Chairman and Chief Executive of The Officer of Bank Pekao SA.
She was also Head Managing Director of Israel Theatres Limited Premier Group Limited South Africa and a of Investment Banking for Emerging European since 1983, and as Co-Chairman of the Cinema director of Barclays Bank South Africa, South countries at Unicredit Group and a member Owners Association in Israel since August 1996.
African Breweries and Liberty Life Assurance.
Ms Kornasiewicz MrGreidinger is a Non-Executive Director of Mr Bloom holds Bachelor of Commerce and served as Secretary of State in the Polish Ministry Global City Holdings B. V. formerly CCI.
Bachelor of Law cum laude degrees from the of Treasury from 1997 to 2000.
Prior to that she Mr Greidinger achieved the Exhibitor of the University of Witwatersrand in South Africa and a worked for the European Bank for Reconstruction Year Award at ShoWest in Las Vegas in 2004, Masters of Law degree from Harvard Law School.
Over the last 20 years International Exhibitor of the Year Award at He was a Sloan Fellow at the Stanford Graduate she has held a number of supervisory board CineEurope, in Amsterdam in 2011, with special School of Business.
In 2002, Mr Bloom was positions.
Ms Kornasiewicz holds a PhD in recognition for having developed new markets awarded the degree of Doctor of Law H. C. by economics from Poznan University of Economics in Central and Eastern Europe, and the Global the University of Witwatersrand in recognition and graduated from Harvard Business School.
Achievement in Exhibition Award at CinemaCon of his contribution towards the establishment Principal external appointments: Senior Advisor in Las Vegas in April 2016. of a non-racial society in South Africa.
Mr Bloom for Investment Banking Division at MorganStanley: was awarded the Lifetime Achievement award Principal external appointments: Director of Israel Non-Executive Director of EuroCash Group.
at CinemaCon in Las Vegas in 2019.
Theatres Limited: Co-Chairman of the Cinema Owners Association, Israel: Head of the Board of Principal external appointments: Non Executive Trustees, the Hebrew Reali School of Haifa.
He is Director London Symphony Orchestra and a member of the National Association of Theatre Non Executive Director TechnoServe, Inc. Owners Global Cinema Federation NATO.
Israel Greidinger Nisan Cohen Renana Teperberg Deputy Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Chief Commercial Officer Date appointed to Board: February 2014 Date appointed to Board: January 2017 Date appointed to Board: July 2018 Tenure on Board: 4 years 10 months Tenure on Board: 2 years Tenure on the Board: 6 months Independent: No Independent: No Independent: No Committee memberships: None Committee memberships: None Committee memberships: None Relevant skills, qualifications and experience: Relevant skills, qualifications and experience: Relevant skills, qualifications andexperience: Israel Greidinger joined the Board in February 2014 Nisan Cohen joined the Board in January 2017 as Renana Teperberg was appointed to the Board as Chief Operating Officer.
In August 2014, his role Chief Financial Officer, and before that had been in July 2018, and has been part of the Cineworld changed to Deputy Chief Executive Officer.
part of the Cineworld Group for 16 years.
Previously, Group for over 20 years.
Ms Teperberg first as Vice President of Finance, he led the integration joined Cinema City International as a cashier From 1994 until 2014, he worked for Cinema City of the finance teams in the Cineworld Group in 1997, while studying for a BA in psychology International CCI and was appointed Chief across nine countries after the Cinema City at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.
Financial Officer of CCI in 1995.
Mr Greidinger has Combination in 2014.
More recently, he served also served as a Director of Israel Theatres Limited After progressing to General Manager, she as Deputy Chief Financial Officer.
since 1994. moved to the Cinema City International Head In 2018, Mr Cohen made a major contribution to Office where she subsequently became Head From 1985 to 1992, he was Managing Director of the successful acquisition of Regal Entertainment of Programming and Marketing.
C. A. T. S. Limited Computerised Automatic Ticket Group, including leading the integration of the UK, Sales, and from 1992 to 1994, he was President Following the combination with Cineworld, she ROW and US financial teams.
and Chief Executive Officer of Pacer C. A. T. S. Inc. became Senior Vice President of Commercial and Principal External Appointments: Mr Cohen then Chief Commercial Officer in 2016.
Recently, Principal external appointments: Director is a member of The Institute of Certified Public Renana played a major role in the acquisition of of Israel Theatres Limited since 1994: Chairman Accountants in Israel.
of the Israeli Friends of Rambam Health Care Campus.
Renana holds an executive MBA in business management from IDC Herzliya.
Principal External Appointments: Ms Teperberg is a Non-Executive Director of AC JV, LLC Fathom Events, National Cinema Media, Inc. Digital Cinema Media Limited, and Digital Cinema Distribution Coalition.
38 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Part I: Strategic Report Part II: Corporate Governance Part III: Financial Statements Eric Rick Senat Camela Galano Dean Moore Non-Executive Director and Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Date appointed to Board: July 2018 Date appointed to Board: January 2017  Date appointed to Board: July2010 Tenure on Board: 6 months Tenure on Board: 2 years Tenure on Board: 8 years 5 months Independent: Yes Independent: Yes Independent: Yes Committee memberships: None Committee memberships: Remuneration Committee Chair and Audit Committee Committee memberships: Nomination Committee Relevant skills, qualifications andexperience: Chair and Remuneration Committee Relevant skills, qualifications and experience: Camela Galano was appointed to the Board as an Relevant skills, qualifications and experience: Dean Moore joined the Board in January 2017 as independent Non-Executive Director in July 2018.
Rick Senat joined the Board in July 2010 and an independent Non-Executive Director.
He is Camela began her career at New Line is Chair of the Nomination Committee and a Chair of the Remuneration Committee, and a Cinema, progressing to the role of President member of the Remuneration Committee.
He is member of the Audit Committee.
Previously, he of International Sales, Marketing & Distribution, also Senior Independent Director.
acted as interim Chief Financial Officer, for a where she oversaw the international distribution period of 10 months, where his mandate was to Mr Senat has over 40 years experience in the film of innumerable titles, including the blockbuster focus on the Chief Financial Officer succession industry, joining Warner Bros in 1976 and becoming trilogy The Lord of the Rings.
planning process in respect of current Chief its Senior Vice-President for Business Affairs in Financial Officer, Nisan Cohen.
Subsequently, Camela became the President of Europe.
He retired from Warner Bros after 25 years International Film Acquisitions for Warner Bros. service.
Mr Senat was also a director of the Prior to this, Mr Moore worked as Chief Financial Following her time at Warner Bros. she served as legendary, and recently revived, film company Officer of NBrown Group plc for 12 years from President of Relativity International, overseeing Hammer Film Productions, and has previously 2003 to 2015, before which he was Chief Financial global sales, marketing and distribution management served as Vice Chair of the British Film Institute.
Officer of T&S Stores plc until it was acquired by of Relativitys own titles, acquisitions and Tesco plc in early 2003.
Until recently, he was a partner in the Blair third-party releases.
Partnership, a Non-Executive Director of Pottermore From 1996 to 1999 he was Chief Financial Officer Ms Galano is a longtime member of the Academy Limited and Bank Leumi UK plc.
and Nonof Graham Group plc, and he has held a number of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, and the Executive Chairman of the London Film Museum.
of other senior finance positions.
Mr Moore is a British Academy of Film and Television Arts.
Chartered Accountant ICAEW and graduate of Mr Senat is a graduate of University College University of Aston Business Management BSc.
Principal External Appointments: Ms Galano is London and a solicitor.
Principal External Appointments: Mr Moore is a Principal external appointments: Non-Executive Non-Executive Director, Audit Committee Chair, Chairman of Mad Dog Casting Limited.
and Senior Independent Director of Volex Plc.
Scott S. Rosenblum Arni Samuelsson Julie Southern Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Date appointed to Board: February 2014 Date appointed to Board: February 2014 Date appointed to Board: May 2015 Tenure on Board: 4 years 10 months Tenure on Board: 4 years 10 months Tenure on Board: 3 years 7 months Independent: No Independent: Yes Independent: Yes Committee memberships: Nomination Committee Committee memberships: Nomination Committee Committee memberships: Audit Committee Chair Remuneration Committee Relevant skills, qualifications and experience: Relevant skills, qualifications and experience: Relevant skills, qualifications and experience: Scott S. Rosenblum joined the Board in February Arni Samuelsson joined the Board in February Julie Southern joined the Board in May 2015 as an 2014 as a Non-Independent Non-Executive Director.
2014 as an independent Non-Executive Director.
Julie is Chair He is a member of the Nomination Committee.
He is a member of the Nomination Committee.
of the Audit Committee and a member of the Prior to his appointment, he was a member of the He has over 40 years of cinema exhibition and Remuneration Committee.
Supervisory Board of Cinema City International film distribution experience, principally through CCI, becoming its Chairman in 2011.
Ms Southern has decades of experience as a Chief SAMflagi Samfilm a cinema exhibitor and Financial Officer and Chief Commercial Officer, film distributor in Iceland, of which he has been Mr Rosenblum is licensed as a lawyer and is driving strategy, revenue and commercial planning.
joint owner and Chief Executive Officer since it admitted to the New York Bar Association.
For the was formed in 1975. past 28 years, he has been a partner in the law firm She has worked across multiple industry sectors of Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel LLP, New York, and sizes of organisation including PwC, WH Smith, Mr Samuelsson has been Chief Executive Officer where he was Managing Partner between 1994 and Porsche Cars and Virgin Atlantic.
Julie is a Chartered of Samfilm EHF SAMflagis distribution arm 2000 and a member of the Executive Committee Accountant ICAEW and graduate of Cambridge since 1975, and Chief Executive Officer of until 2018.
Mr. Rosenblum is also Co-Chairman of University Economics B. S. SAMcinema SAMflagis cinema arm since the the Corporate Department.
Prior to this, Mr Samuelsson was a Principal external appointments: Non-Executive Mr Rosenblum is a graduate of Dartmouth College Director and owner of Vikurbaer, a supermarket Director and Chair of the Audit Committee at and the University of Pennsylvania Law School.
business in Keflavik, from 1972 until its sale in 1982.
Rentokil-Initial Plc since 2014, a Non-Executive He has extensive experience in areas of general Director and Chair of the Audit Committee at DFS Principal external appointments: Chief Executive corporate and securities law, corporate finance, Furniture Plc since 2015 due to step down on Officer of Samfilm EHF SAMflagis distribution corporate governance, mergers and acquisitions 31March 2019, a Non-Executive Director and Chair arm since 1975: ChiefExecutive Officer of and joint ventures.
of the Audit Committee at NXP Semiconductors SAMcinema SAMflagis cinema arm since 1975.
N. V. since 2013, Non-Executive Director, Ocado Principal external appointments: Partner since Group plc: and Non-Executive Director, EasyJet plc.
1991 and Co-Chairman since 2000 of the Corporate Department of Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel LLP: Director and advisor to the boards of various public and private companies.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 39
