RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS OUR BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY ARE UNDERPINNED BY KEY RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS INTRODUCTION The Groups key relationships are with our customers, our people, our commercial partners and our wider communities.
How we behave and interact with each of these parties reflects on our reputation, which is ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION a key asset underpinning the successful delivery The Group has in place a range of governance-related policies, of our strategy.
including Whistleblowing, Gifts and Hospitality, and Health Our ethics policies seek to guide the behaviour of and Safety.
The Company has implemented these policies our people by specifying principles which establish and procedures to ensure it is prepared, to the extent possible, common values through which we do business.
We to prevent corrupt practices across our business relationships.
strive to ensure that we act in appropriate ways to The Group endeavours to conduct its business with integrity, maintain and enhance our reputation.
The Group aims to be a responsible employer, and adopts values and seeks to act with honesty and integrity in its dealings standards designed to help guide our staff in their conduct with customers, employees, shareholders, regulators, and business relationships.
suppliers and our wider community.
OUR CUSTOMERS Our customers are key to our success.
We believe that HEALTH AND SAFETY through listening and being responsive to what our customers Health and safety is of major importance to us when tell us about their visits, we are better able to deliver cinema considering the day-to-day health, safety and welfare experiences which make us the best place to watch a movie.
of our customers, employees and contractors.
The Group In 2018 we launched a new customer feedback programme seeks to maintain the highest standards in the effective in partnership with market leading customer engagement management of our health and safety obligations, and solutions provider Rant and Rave.
Our ambition: To amplify our duty of care to our customers and staff.
customer feedback within the business and generate actionable Each year, cinemas in the Group are subject to health and safety insights.
By empowering our teams to act on the feedback assessments including aspects of fire, food and occupation.
they receive in real time, we aim to deliver measurable Results are monitored, and any significant issues are followed improvements to customer satisfaction and brand loyalty.
up by management teams, with the assistance of specialist We focus on providing our customers with a wide variety of external consultants where needed.
movie genres, as well as a choice of how to watch movies in modern state-of-the-art cinemas, with the latest technology and a variety of retail offerings, all underpinned by great customer service.
NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT The Company has complied with the Non-Financial Reporting Directive contained in sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006.
Where to find related information: E Hn uv m ira on nm ental E Ant mp i-loyee So Prin cia cip l al H Bu us m in aes n s AntiPrincipal Business rights corruption and risks ri mg oh dte sl corruption and risks model anti-bribery anti-bribery S Se ee e p pag ages es S Se ee e p pag ages es S Se ee e p pag ages es S Se ee e p pag ages es See page See pages See pages 2 28 8- -30 31 a a nn d 6 d 79 1 2 28 8- -30 31 a a nn d 6 d 79 1 2 28 2-3 -20 6 1 22 8-1 -30 3 and 71 28 22-27 12-13 28 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Part I: Strategic Report Part II: Corporate Governance Part III: Financial Statements We also have initiatives which aim to extend the relationship with the customer beyond a single visit.
In the UK, we have the long established Unlimited membership service for a fixed monthly or annual subscription, enabling customers to watch as many films as they wish with uplifts available OUR PEOPLE if the customer wishes to see the movie in premium formats 2018 saw continued investment in a number of people-related such as ScreenX, IMAX or 4DX.
This scheme was successfully areas, and this includes the integration of Regal into the wider extended to Poland at the end of 2015.
Throughout the newly enlarged Group, In the US, members of the Regal Crown Club earn credits we remain committed to working with our people in the for each dollar spent at the Companys cinemas, and can then most engaging way.
redeem such credits for movie tickets, concession items, and During 2018, we have continued to invest in pay and reward movie memorabilia at the cinema, online, or via an app.
We structures offering various bonus schemes and competitive also have a number of other membership schemes across rates of pay throughout the Group.
We are fulfilling our the Groups territories which offer discounts, and allow us intention to invest in people-related IT systems, to enhance to interact frequently with our customer base.
HR processes and to allow our cinema management teams Event cinema screenings bring a wider range of content to to spend less time on administrative tasks, and more time our customers, enabling our audiences to see live shows taking working with their teams and customers.
We are very proud place around the world.
Operating in this way supports such of our blended approach to Learning and Development productions, making them more commercially viable, accessible initiatives: across the Group we offer a variety of workshops, to more people and, in turn, brings more people to the cinema.
online learning tools, and leadership and succession programmes please see the box Learning and Development in 2018.
The Group actively encourages our future cinema-going audience by specifically tailoring film schedules to attract families and Following the acquisition of Regal, work has been undertaken young people.
Where necessary, these performances are dubbed to align pay standards in the US to the new operational structure into the native language to ensure that all customers can enjoy the and, in 2019, we intend to roll out a new reward, succession, full cinema experience.
Concessionary rates are offered for senior and training philosophy.
We remain committed to driving citizens and students at certain times of the day.
engagement through best practice people-related initiatives, and we are proud of our feedback which demonstrates the Throughout the Group, all national regulators film classification important link between engaged teams, and customer experience.
guidelines are followed, unless local regulators require otherwise.
In some of our territories, there are no classification guidelines, and in such cases we provide information to customers about films so they can make informed choices about LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT IN 2018 the type of film being shown.
We also ensure that all trailers There are currently 203 Cineworld employees making are complementary in terms of suitability to the main feature.
their way through our succession programmes, which offer additional opportunities to complete qualifications, ranging from NVQ Level 2 through to ILM Institute of Leadership and Management Level 5.
In the past 2years, we have seen 170 Cineworld employees successfully complete a qualification.
In the US, the RETAIL Regal scholarship programme awarded 58 scholarships As many of our customers still consider going to the cinema to management staff, and we have continued our Regal as a treat or special occasion, they expect traditional cinema field management internship programme, which propels snacks as part of their experience.
We offer a range of products interns to gain employment at our corporate office after to our customers, and we work closely with our partners to an initial 8-week assignment.
Regal HR in the US has provide healthier alternatives where possible.
We ensure that partnered with an online education programme to offer we provide good nutrition and allergen advice to enable our college courses to corporate teams to support them customers to make informed choices.
In the UK, for the first time, Cineworld has launched a new advanced leadership programme, which aims to support General Managers progression to the role of Regional Manager.
This is the first time Cineworld has invested in a succession programme of this stature, and we are excited to evaluate its impact in 2019.
ACCESS FOR ALL The Group promotes a philosophy of access for all by offering accessible cinemas for the disabled that show a wide range of films and event cinema.
Employees receive disability awareness training and specific advice on welcoming disabled customers.
Many of our cinemas offer audio-descriptive, autism-friendly and subtitled performances, and in some countries, the Group allows customers with disabilities to be accompanied by a carer, DIVERSITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS free of charge.
All new cinemas are designed to exceed The Group is an equal opportunity employer and seeks current statutory requirements, and to provide buildings to recruit, retain and promote staff on the basis of their which are technically advanced, accessible, and safe.
qualifications, skills, aptitude and attitude.
A wide range When cinemas undergo major refurbishment as part of an of applicants are encouraged to apply for all roles.
In ongoing programme of improvements and renovations, the employment-related decisions, the business complies with opportunity is taken to enhance access within cinemas where all relevant legislation, including that which is specifically practicable to do so.
targeted at preventing discrimination, and such principles are embedded through the business by requisite policies.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 29 RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS CONTINUED OUR COMMERCIAL RELATIONSHIPS OUR COMMUNITIES Having strong commercial relationships is also key to operating Our work with charities, schools and community groups across our business successfully.
all our territories is very important to us.
We are involved with a wide range of activities including working with distributors With years of experience in the cinema industry, our teams on charity screenings, providing free shows for organisations, have worked hard to develop strong working relationships and working closely with local schools.
with a range of film studios and distributors, both major and independent.
Our focus on driving cinema admissions and We take part in a wide range of charitable activities throughout on providing our customers with a wide range of movies has the Group.
One example is the Regal Summer Movie Express, resulted in many opportunities for us to work with film studios where in summer cinema-goers of all ages can enjoy a great on simplifying the film buying process and on promoting selection of G or PG rated movies at participating cinemas smaller films to a wider audience.
for only a dollar, to benefit the Will Rogers Institute in the US.
A portion of the money raised from this campaign goes towards The Group is committed to protecting the intellectual property the Institutes mission in the areas of medical research, and rights of films and event cinema.
Policies and procedures health education.
In 2018, in the UK, for the third year, Cineworld are constantly reviewed and developed to ensure cinema partnered with BBCs Children in Need initiative, where as a management are able to effectively monitor and prevent team we raised 600,000. film piracy.
Night-vision technology is utilised and there is an increased vigilance around high profile titles which are The Group also works as a venue partner for numerous particularly vulnerable.
The Group will continue to work closely film festivals.
While many are well known and high profile, with relevant industry and law enforcement organisations in certain countries the Group sponsors festivals showcasing in order to help reduce and prevent film piracy.
local film producers work and runs short film competitions for students encouraging the development of future talent.
Building relationships with developers, landlords and local This involvement once again helps to promote the Groups planners is very important to be able to ensure we can brands through the wider film industry.
maintain an appropriate pipeline of new sites for the future and undertake our refurbishment programme.
We also work very closely with suppliers of innovative technological enhancements, for instance ScreenX, IMAX and 4DX, which enables us to ensure that we are delivering the best possible experience to our customers, as well as ENVIRONMENT looking to maximise box office revenues.
We seek to comply with all relevant environmental legislation Strong relationships with our principal retail suppliers enable and to operate in an environmentally sensitive manner.
The us to work together on promotions that help drive retail sales.
Board of Directors acknowledges the impact that the business We seek to manage relationships with our suppliers fairly, and has on the environment and seek to mitigate it.
Often changes to work in accordance with our aspirations as set out in our which help to mitigate our environmental impact also reduce ethical policies.
Being a multisite business, the Group is conscious of its total energy consumption and amount of waste materials generated and is actively working on reducing both.
The Groups mandatory greenhouse gas report can be found THE REGAL FOUNDATION in the Directors Report on pages 67 to 72.
Our cinema In the US, the Regal Foundation, a non-profit charitable websites enable e-tickets to be purchased and used, organisation formed in 2003 to coordinate support avoiding the need to print tickets.
In new and refurbished for numerous national and local philanthropic efforts, cinemas, poster cases are now digital, reducing the need supports the communities in which Regal operates by to deliver, install, and ultimately throw away large paper partnering with selected charities.
All these efforts help to reduce our use of resources and carbon footprint.
GENDER BREAKDOWN 1 2 Board of Directors Senior managers Total employees Male 8 Male 61 Male 20,073 Female 4 Female 29 Female 16,294 1 As at 31 December 2018.
2 Data is based on the average headcount for 2018.
30 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
