CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO GOVERNANCE OUR INTERNAL GOVERNANCE PROCEDURES SUPPORT OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Following an internal evaluation of the composition and effectiveness of the Board, I am pleased to report that it supported the view that the Board and its Committees are operating efficiently and productively.
An external evaluation will be conducted in 2019, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
A rigorous system of risk management and control is an essential element of good governance.
Details of the annual risk review, which took into account the impact of the Regal acquisition, are contained in the Accountability section starting on page 48.
The Audit Committee continued its key work in overseeing our internal control and risk management systems, which included a comprehensive review of the effectiveness of our internal audit systems and controls, in accordance with the Code, and more information on this exercise is on page 48.
The Remuneration Committee conducted a full review of the Companys Remuneration Policy in the early part of the year, to ensure it remains fit for purpose in the context of our newly enlarged business, and the new Policy was adopted at last DEAR SHAREHOLDERS years AGM.
Further details of the work of the Remuneration I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance Statement Committee in this area may be found in the Directors for 2018.
Remuneration Report on pages 55 to 66.
As mentioned in my Chairmans letter on page 2, the More recently, on 12 March this year, we announced that Julie acquisition of Regal Entertainment Group in February 2018 Southern will not be seeking re-election at the AGM in May and was transformational for the Company.
The size of the will step down at that point.
We thank Julie for her tremendous consideration, and the significant amount of due diligence and contribution since her appointment in 2015, and wish her every scrutiny necessary, required a strong corporate governance success for the future.
It is planned that Dean Moore will framework at Board level, and it is gratifying to report the become Chair of the Audit Committee, and Alicja Kornasiewicz systems and culture that we have put in place over the years will become Chair of the Remuneration Committee, following worked well and enabled the transaction to be completed Julies departure.
Plans for the recruitment of a new Nonboth timeously and efficiently.
Executive Director are under way.
Having served as Chairman of Cineworld since its original formation as Cine-UK Limited almost 25 years ago, I am particularly proud to have witnessed another year of growth as I look ahead to my planned retirement in 2020.
As announced Anthony Bloom in January of this year, Alicja Kornasiewicz has been appointed CHAIRMAN as Deputy Chair, and will become Chair of the Board at the 28 March 2019 conclusion of the 2020 Annual General Meeting AGM, when I will be stepping down.
Alicja joined in 2015 as an Independent Non-Executive Director and has played a valuable role on the Board.
She has had a distinguished career in business, finance, politics, and on regulatory bodies, and her experience and background will be an asset to the Company in the years ahead.
In July 2018, it was announced that Renana Teperberg was joining the Board as an Executive Director.
Renana has a long history with the business, having joined Cinema City International as a cashier in 1997.
Renana progressed to the role of Chief Commercial Officer in 2016 and played a major role in the acquisition of Regal.
Renana will lend considerable value and strength to the Board: she has an outstanding track record, and deep experience of the cinema exhibition business.
At the same time, it was announced that Camela Galano, an experienced international film executive based in the US, would join the Board as an Independent Non-Executive Director.
Importantly, Camela has excellent contacts and experience in the US, which now represents the majority of the Groups activities.
36 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
