The City of London Investment Trust pie Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance Statement The Corporate Governance Statement forms part of the Report of Directors the Directors.
Board Composition The Articles of Association provide that the total number of Directors Applicable Corporate Governance Codes shall not be less than three nor more than seven: the Board currently consists of five non-executive Directors.
All served throughout the The Board is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the year under review, with the exception of Ted Holmes who was Company's affairs.
As an investment trust, the Company's day-to appointed to the Board on 1 January 2018.
The biographies of the day responsibilities are delegated to third parties: the Company has Directors holding office at the date of this report, which are set out no employees and the Directors are all non-executive.
"Therefore not on page 16, demonstrate the breadth of investment, commercial and all the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the ""UK professional experience relevant to their positions as Directors."
"Code"" issued by the Financial Reporting Council ""FRC"" in April 2016 are directly applicable to the Company."
"The Board has therefore considered the principles and recommendations of the Directors' Appointment and Retirement Code of Corporate Governance published by the Association of The Board may appoint Directors to the Board and any Director so Investment Companies in July 2016 ""the AIC Code"" by reference to appointed must stand for election by the shareholders at the AGM the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies following appointment, in accordance with the Articles of Association."
"""the AIC Guide"" The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the applicable principles set out in the UK Code as All Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years."
well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
The FRC has The Articles of Association require one-third or the number nearest confirmed that, by following the AIC Guide, boards of investment to one-third of the Directors to retire by rotation at each AGM.
companies should fully meet their obligations in relation to the UK However, the UK Code and the AIC Code require all directors of Code and paragraph 9.8.
FTSE 350 companies to retire annually.
All the current Directors with the exception of Ted Holmes, will retire and, being eligible, have all Copies of the AIC Code, the AIC Guide and the UK Code can be stated that they will offer themselves for re-election.
Ted Holmes will found on the respective organisations' websites: www.
Under the Articles of Association, shareholders may remove a The Board have noted the new UK Corporate Governance Code Director before the end of his or her term by passing an ordinary published in July 2018 which the Company will report against for the resolution at a general meeting.
Board Independence New Zealand Listing All Directors have a wide range of other interests and are not It should be noted that the UK Code of Corporate Governance may dependent on the Company itself.
At the Nominations Committee materially differ from the New Zealand Stock Exchange's corporate meeting in July 2018, the Directors reviewed their independence and governance rules and principles of the Corporate Best Practice Code.
confirmed that all Directors remain wholly independent of Janus Henderson.
Simon Barratt is the Company's Senior Independent Statement of Compliance Director.
There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of The Directors believe that the Company has complied with the the year in which a Director of the Company is or was materially recommendations of the AIC Code during the year under review interested and which is or was significant in relation to the and up to the date of this report, and thereby the provisions of the Company's business.
UK Code, except as set out below.
Directors' Professional Development The UK Code includes provisions relating to: When a new Director is appointed he or she receives an induction the role of chief executive seminar which is held by Janus Henderson at the request of the Chairman.
Directors are also provided on a regular basis with key executive directors' remuneration information on the Company's policies, regulatory and statutory the need for an internal audit function requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting Directors' responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
Directors also For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK regularly participate in relevant training and industry seminars.
Code, the Board considers that these provisions are not relevant to Directors' individual training requirements are considered as part of the the Company as it is an externally managed investment company.
annual evaluation process which is led by the Chairman of the Board.
In particular, all of the Company's day-to-day management and administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no executive Directors, employees or internal operations.
30 The City of London Investment Trust pie Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance Statement continued Directors' Insurance and Indemnification Audit Committee Directors' and officers' liability insurance cover is in place in respect The Audit Committee is chaired by Samantha Wren.
The other of the Directors.
Under the Company's Articles of Association and members of the Committee are Simon Barratt and Ted Holmes.
subject to the provisions of UK legislation, a qualifying third party David Brief was a member of the Audit Committee until 5 April 2018 provision indemnity may be provided to Directors in respect of costs when he retired from the Board.
The Report of the Audit Committee which they may incur relating to the defence of any proceedings which forms part of the Corporate Governance Statement, can be brought against them arising out of their positions as Directors, in found on pages 34 and 35. which they are acquitted or judgment is given in their favour by the Court.
No indemnity was given during the year or up to the date of this report.
Nominations Committee All Directors are members of the Nominations Committee.
The Chairman of the Board acts as Chairman of the Committee The Board but would not chair the Committee when the Chairman's successor Responsibilities of the Board and its Committees was being considered.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing The Board's policy is for Directors to serve for no more than nine Board succession planning, the performance of the Board as a years, other than in exceptional circumstances.
The Chairman is whole and the Board Committees, and the appointment of new responsible for leading the Board and for ensuring that it continues Directors.
When considering succession planning, the Committee to deal effectively with all the aspects of its role.
He ensures that the bears in mind the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and Manager provides management, regulatory and financial information diversity including gender existing on the Board and will in a clear and timely manner.
During the year seven Board meetings recommend when the recruitment of additional non-executive were held to deal with the important aspects of the Company's Directors is required.
Given the size of the Board it is not affairs.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically considered appropriate to have set targets in relation to diversity.
reserved for its decision, which include management, structure, Once a decision is made to recruit additional Directors to the capital, financial reporting, internal controls, gearing, asset allocation, Board, a formal job description is drawn up and each Director is share price premium discount, contracts, investment policy, finance, invited to submit nominations and these are considered in risk, investment restrictions, performance, corporate governance and accordance with the Board's agreed procedures.
The Committee Board membership and appointments.
uses external agencies as and when the requirement to recruit an additional Board member becomes necessary.
Nurole Limited The Board is responsible for the approval of the annual and half year were used for the recruitment of Ted Holmes.
The Committee also results and other public documents and for ensuring that such reviews and recommends to the Board the Directors seeking documents provide a fair, balanced and understandable assessment re-election.
Recommendation is not automatic and will follow a of the Company's position and prospects.
process of evaluation of each Director's performance and consideration of the Director's independence.
The Committee also At each meeting the Board reviews the Company's investment takes into account the mix of skills and experience of the current performance and considers financial analyses and other reports Board members.
In accordance with the AIC Code any Director of an operational nature.
The Board monitors compliance with the serving for longer than six years would be subject to particularly Company's objective and is responsible for setting asset allocation, rigorous assessment of his her contribution.
investment and gearing limits within which the Manager has discretion to act.
The Board has responsibility for the approval of Performance Evaluation any investments in in-house funds managed or advised by the The Directors recognise the importance of the AIC Code's Manager.
It also has adopted a procedure for Directors, in the recommendation in respect of evaluating the performance of the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional Board as a whole, the Committees and individual Directors.
During advice at the expense of the Company.
In order to enable them the year, the Directors undertook a review of the Board structure, to discharge their responsibilities, all Directors have full and timely including an evaluation of the performance of the Board, the access to relevant information.
Committees and of individual Directors.
The appraisal of the Chairman was led by Simon Barratt.
This year the review was The Board has two principal Committees: the Audit Committee and the Nominations Committee.
The terms of reference for these undertaken internally using a questionnaire approach.
The evaluation concluded that the Board has a good balance of skills and Committees are available on the Company's website or via the Corporate Secretary.
The Company also has an Insider Committee experience and that the Board and its Committees continue to operate effectively.
The evaluation of the Chairman concluded to deal with the obligations of the Market Abuse Regulation.
that he continues to provide excellent leadership.
The Board has not formed a Management Engagement Committee As a FTSE 350 company, the Company is obliged to engage an as it remains the role of the Board as a whole to keep under review the terms of the management agreement between the Company and external facilitator for Board evaluation every three years.
A separate Remuneration Committee has not been and 2016 Lintstock Limited, who are unconnected to the Company, established as the Board consists of only non-executive Directors facilitated the external review: the next external review will be in 2019. and the Board as a whole considers the Directors' remuneration in line with the Remuneration Policy set out on page 28, which is subject to periodic shareholder approval.
31 The City of London Investment Trust pie Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance Statement continued Manager and Depositary, and reviews annual assurance reports Board Attendance on the effectiveness of the control environments at the The table below sets out the number of formal Board and Committee Company's key service providers: and meetings held during the year under review and the number of meetings attended by each Director.
All Directors attended the AGM Review of additional reporting provided by: in October 2017 except Ted Holmes who was appointed to the - the Manager's Operational Risk team on the control Board on 1 January 2018. environment in operation at the Manager and their view of the control environments in place at the third party service Board udit Nominat!ons providers used by the Company: and Committee Committee 111111111111111 - the Manager's Internal Audit team on areas of operation which Simon Barratt 6 7 3 3 0 1 are relevant to the Company.
1 David Brief 6 6 2 2 1 1 2 The Board noted that the audit report of one of the Company's third Ted Holmes 3 3 2 2 n a party service providers which covered controls during the reporting Martin Morgan 7 7 n a 1 1 period was qualified.
The Board is aware that the Audit Committee Philip Remnant 7 7 n a 1 1 has sought additional clarification in respect of the exceptions which Samantha Wren 7 7 1 1 3 3 resulted in the qualification and is satisfied that the matter has been considered in sufficient detail.
The Board has reviewed the 1 Ceased to be a Director on 5 April 2018 effectiveness of the Company's system of internal controls for the 2 Appointed a Director on 1 January 2018 period ended 30 June 2018.
During the course of its review the All Directors attended 100% of Board and Committee meetings of Board has not identified or been advised of any failings or weaknesses that have been determined as significant.
which they were members, with the exception of Simon Barratt who was unable to attend meetings of the Board and Nomination Committee held in July 2017.
Internal Audit Function Systems are in operation to safeguard the Company's assets and Internal controls shareholders' investments, to maintain proper accounting records and to ensure that financial information used within the business, The Board has overall responsibility for the Company's system of or published, is reliable.
The Company's management functions are internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has delegated to third parties and the Board monitors the controls in established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and place with support from the Manager's internal audit department.
managing the principal risks faced by the Company.
The process As such the Board has determined that there is currently no need accords with the FRC's guidance on Risk Management, Internal for the Company to have its own internal audit function.
The Board Control and Related Business and Financial Reporting published will continue to review this on an annual basis.
The system was in operation throughout the period and up to the date of this report.
The system is designed to meet the specific risks faced by the Company and takes account Accountability and Relationship with of the nature of the Company's reliance on its service providers Janus Henderson and their internal controls.
The system therefore manages rather than eliminates the risk of failure to achieve the Company's The Statement of Directors' Responsibilities in respect of the business objectives and provides reasonable, but not absolute financial statements is set out on page 27, the Independent Auditors' assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Report on pages 36 to 41 and the viability statement on page 19.
The key components of the internal control framework include: The Board has delegated contractually to external third parties, including the Manager, the management of the investment portfolio, Clearly defined investment criteria, specifying levels of authority the custodial services which include the safeguarding of the assets and exposure limits.
The Board reviews reports on investment which is delegated through the appointment of the Depositary as performance against and compliance with the criteria at each explained on page 22, the day-to-day accounting, company meeting: secretarial and administration requirements and registration services.
Regular financial reporting which allows the Board to assess the Each of these contracts was entered into after full and proper Company's financial position.
The management accounts and consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of the services forecasts are reviewed by the Board at each meeting: offered, including the control systems in operation in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
Contractual agreements with the Manager and all other third party service providers.
The Board reviews performance levels and The Board receives and considers regular reports from the Manager adherence to relevant provisions in the agreements on a regular and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as basis through reporting to the Board and conducts a formal required.
In addition, the Chairman is able to attend meetings of all evaluation of the overall level of service provided at least annually: the chairmen of the investment trust companies managed by Janus The review of controls at the Manager and other third party Henderson which provide a forum to discuss industry matters which service providers.
The Board receives quarterly reporting from the would then be reported to the Board.
32 The City of London Investment Trust pie Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance Statement continued The Manager takes decisions as to the purchase and sale of the annual review in July 2018 the Directors discussed the quality and continuity of the personnel assigned to handle the Company's individual investments.
The Manager also ensures that all Directors receive, in a timely manner, all relevant management, regulatory and affairs, with particular reference to performance and results achieved financial information.
Representatives of the Manager attend each to date.
In addition, they reviewed other services provided by the Manager to the Company, such as accounting, company secretarial Board meeting enabling the Directors to probe further on matters of and administration services, and the Manager's promotion of concern.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Corporate Secretary through its appointed representative who is investment and savings products linked to the Company's shares.
The Board noted the Manager's resources and experience in responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board and Committee managing and administering investment trust companies.
As a result procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are of their annual review, it is the opinion of the Directors that the complied with.
The proceedings at all Board and Committee meetings continued appointment of the Manager on the terms agreed is in are fully recorded through a process that allows any Director's the interests of the Company's shareholders as a whole.
concerns to be recorded in the minutes.
The Board and the Manager operate in a supportive, co-operative and open environment.
Share Capital The Corporate Secretary, Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, is a subsidiary of Janus Henderson with its own reporting lines and Please see the Report of the Directors on page 25. audited internal controls.
There are processes and controls in place to ensure that there is a clear distinction between the two entities, Relations with Shareholders particularly when dealing with any conflicts or issues between the Shareholder relations are given high priority by the Board.
The prime Company and Janus Henderson.
Any correspondence from shareholders addressed to the Chairman or the Company received medium by which the Company communicates with its shareholders is through the half year results and Annual Report which aim to at Janus Henderson's offices is forwarded to the Chairman of the provide shareholders with a clear understanding of the Company's Company in line with the audited procedures in place.
Any activities and their results.
This information is supplemented by the correspondence is submitted to the next Board meeting.
daily calculation and publication of the NAV per share at the London and New Zealand Stock Exchanges and a monthly fact sheet which Janus Henderson and BNP Paribas Securities Services, which acts is available on the website.
The Manager also provides information for Janus Henderson, have arrangements in place by which their staff on the Company and Fund Manager videos are on the website, via may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in various social media channels and through its HGi content platform, relation to financial reporting or other matters.
more details of which are on page 17.
Bribery Act 2010 The Board considers that shareholders should be encouraged to The Board has reviewed the implications of the Bribery Act 2010, attend and participate in the AGM, which will be available to watch which came into force on 1 July 2011, and confirmed its zero tolerance live by visiting www.
Shareholders to bribery and corruption in its business activities.
It has received have the opportunity to address questions to the Chairman of the assurances from the Company's main contractors and suppliers that Board, the Chair of the Audit Committee and all other Directors at they will maintain adequate safeguards to protect against any the meeting and the Fund Manager will make a presentation to potentially illegal behaviour by their employees and agents.
A summary of the proxy votes received on the resolutions proposed is displayed at the meeting and each substantial issue is dealt with in a separate resolution.
It is the Criminal Finances Act 2017 intention of the Board that the Annual Report and Notice of AGM The Board has also considered the changes made by the Criminal be issued to shareholders so as to provide at least 20 working days' Finances Act 2017, which came into effect in September 2017, notice of the meeting.
These documents are also included on the which introduced a new corporate criminal offence of failing to website.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance of the take reasonable steps to prevent the facilitation of tax evasion.
meeting, or raise issues or concerns at any time, are invited to do The Company has received assurances from the Company's so by writing to the Chairman at the address given on page 17. main contractors and suppliers that they maintain a zero tolerance policy towards the provision of illegal services, including the General presentations to both shareholders and analysts follow the facilitation of tax evasion.
publication of the annual results.
All meetings between the Manager and shareholders are reported to the Board.
Continued Appointment of Janus Henderson The Board considers the arrangements for the provision of By order of the Board investment management and other services to the Company on an ongoing basis.
The principal contents of the agreement with the Manager are contained on page 4.
Henderson Secretarial Services Limited The Board reviews investment performance at each Board meeting Corporate Secretary and a formal review of the Manager is conducted annually.
