The City of London Investment Trust pie Annual Report 2018 Report of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Samantha Wren who is a Policy on Non-Audit Services Chartered Management Accountant.
The other members of the The Audit Committee's policy is that the external Auditors will not be Committee are Simon Barratt and Ted Holmes.
engaged to provide non-audit services to the Company.
There may however be situations where a non-audit service is required to be Meetings carried out which is relevant to the annual audit, where legislation The Committee met three times during the year under review.
The requires the external Auditors to carry out this service or where it is Company's Auditors are invited to attend meetings of the Committee clearly more efficient for the Auditors to do so.
The Audit Committee on a regular basis.
Representatives of the Manager and BNP Paribas will assess and approve such services on a case-by-case basis by Securities Services may also be invited to attend if deemed necessary.
considering them against the criteria set out in the FRC's Revised Ethical Standard 2016 and the FRC's Guidance on Audit Role and Responsibilities Committees.
In any event, the external Auditors will not be engaged The role of the Committee is to assist the Board in applying financial to provide any non-audit services which are prohibited by the FRC's reporting and internal control principles and to maintain an Revised Ethical Standard 2016.
There were no non-audit services appropriate relationship with the Auditors.
The Audit Committee provided during the year.
formally reports to the Board.
The Committee's responsibilities are set out in formal terms of reference which are reviewed at least Audit Tendering annually.
As a Public Interest Entity listed on the London Stock Exchange, In the year under review the main duties undertaken were: the Company is subject to the mandatory auditor rotation consideration of the appropriateness of the Company's requirements of the European Union.
The Company will put the accounting policies and of the quality and effectiveness of the external audit out to tender at least every ten years, and change accounting records and management information maintained on auditors at least every twenty years.
This legislation will require the behalf of the Company: Company to put the audit out to tender for the 2025 year end.
The a review of the half year results and the annual report, including Committee will, however, continue to consider annually the need to the disclosures made therein in relation to internal controls and go to tender for audit quality or independence reasons.
risk management, viability, going concern and related parties and  LLP have been the Company's Auditors consideration of whether the report is fair, balanced and since 2009.
During the financial year ended 30 June 2014 the understandable and provides the information necessary for Company tendered its audit.
The tender was conducted on an shareholders to assess the Company's position and performance, integrated basis with the Manager and, upon consideration of business model and strategy in order to make recommendations the tenders received, the Board decided to reappoint to the Board:  LLP.
consideration of the internal controls in place at Janus Henderson, BNP Paribas Securities Services as administrator, and HSBC as External Audit, Review and Auditors Depositary and Custodian: Reappointment consideration of whether there is a need for an internal audit The Committee discusses the audit process with the Auditors function in order to make a recommendation to the Board: without representatives of the Manager present and consider the consideration of the Company's anti-bribery policy: effectiveness of the audit process after each audit.
The Audit consideration of the whistle blowing policy that Janus Henderson Committee remains satisfied with the effectiveness of the audit has put in place for its staff to raise concerns about possible provided by  LLP.
The Committee is improprieties, including in relation to the Company, in confidence.
satisfied that the Auditors are independent of the Company.
The The policy includes the necessary arrangements for independent Auditors are required to rotate partners every five years and this investigation and follow up action: is the fifth year that the current partner has been in place.
consideration of Janus Henderson's policies in relation to cyber  LLP have indicated their willingness risk and business continuity, meeting with representatives of to continue in office.
Accordingly, resolutions to confirm the Janus Henderson's internal audit and risk departments appointment of  LLP as Auditors to periodically: the Company, and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine consideration of the annual confirmation from the Company's their remuneration, will be proposed at the AGM.
Depositary: Fees paid or payable to the Auditors are detailed in Note 6 consideration of the key risks, risk management systems in place on page 49. and the Company's risk map: consideration of the appointment of the Auditors, the Auditors' performance and remuneration: and consideration of the nature and scope of the external audit and the findings therefrom, the Auditors' independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process.
34 The City of London Investment Trust pie Annual Report 2018 Report of the Audit Committee continued Audit for the year ended 30 June 2018 In relation to the Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2018 the following significant issues were considered by the Committee: Significant issue How the issue was addressed Valuation and ownership of The Directors have appointed the Manager, who outsources some of the administration and the Company's investments accounting services to BNP Paribas Securities Services, to perform the valuation of the assets of the Company in accordance with its responsibilities under the AIFMD rules.
As required under the AIFMD rules, the Manager has adopted a written valuation policy, which may be modified from time to time.
Actively traded investments are valued using stock exchange prices provided by third party pricing vendors.
Ownership of listed investments are verified by reconciliation to the Custodian's records and the Directors have received quarterly reports of the Depositary who has responsibility for overseeing operations of the Company, including verification of ownership and valuation.
Recognition of income Income received, including special dividends, is accounted for in line with the Company's accounting policy as set out on pages 45 to 47.
Special dividends, and their treatment as revenue or capital, have been reviewed by the Committee and agreed.
The Committee is satisfied that the Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2018, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company's position and performance, business model and strategy.
"Samantha Wren Chair of the Audit Committee 24 September 2018 35 The City of London Investment Trust pie Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditors' Report to the Members of The City of London Investment Trust pie Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion, The City of London Investment Trust pie's financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Company's affairs as at 30 June 2018 and of its return for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 ""The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland"", and applicable law : and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006."
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report, which comprise: the Statement of Financial Position as at 30 June 2018: the Income Statement and the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
"Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ""ISAs UK "" and applicable law."
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors' responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRC's Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRC's Ethical Standard were not provided to the Company.
We have provided no non-audit services to the Company in the period from 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018.
Our audit approach Overview Overall materiality: 15.2 million 2017: 14.3 million, based on 1% of net assets.
"The Company is a standalone Investment Trust Company and engages Henderson Investment Funds Limited the ""Manager"" to manage its assets."
"We conducted our audit of the financial statements using information from BNP Paribas Securities Services the ""Administrator"" to whom the Manager has, with the consent of the Directors, delegated the provision of certain administrative functions."
We tailored the scope of our audit taking into account the types of investments within the Company, the involvement of the third parties referred to above, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Company operates.
Valuation and existence of investments.
Key audit matters 36 The City of London Investment Trust pie Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditors' Report to the Members of The City of London Investment Trust pie continued The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Company and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Company which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Company's financial statements, including, but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006 and section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, enquiries with those charged with governance and testing the Company's compliance with section 1158 in the current year.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors' professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter We tested the valuation of the listed equity investments by agreeing the prices Valuation and existence of investments used in the valuation to independent third party sources.
Refer to page 35 Report of the Audit Committee, page 45 Accounting Policies and page 48 Notes.
We tested existence by agreeing the listed equity investments to an independent custodian confirmation from HSBC Bank pie.
The investment portfolio at the year-end principally No material differences were identified which required reporting to those charged comprised listed equity investments valued at 1,638 with governance.
We focused on the valuation and existence of investments because investments represent the principal element of the net asset value as disclosed on the Statement of Financial Position in the financial statements.
37 The City of London Investment Trust pie Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditors' Report to the Members of The City of London Investment Trust pie continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter We assessed the accounting policy for dividend income recognition for Dividend income compliance with accounting standards and the AIC SORP and performed testing Refer to page 35 Report of the Audit Committee, to check that dividend income had been accounted for in accordance with this page 45 Accounting Policies and page 48 Notes.
We found that the accounting policies implemented We focused on the accuracy, completeness and were in accordance with accounting standards and the AIC SORP, and that occurrence of dividend income recognition and its income has been accounted for in accordance with the stated accounting policy.
presentation in the Statement of Comprehensive We tested dividend receipts by agreeing the dividend rates from listed equity Income as set out in the requirements of The investments to independent third party sources.
"Association of Investment Companies Statement of Recommended Practice the ""AIC SORP""."
This is We also tested for listed equity investments, that dividends recorded had been because incomplete or inaccurate income could have declared in the market, and that dividends declared in the market had been a material impact on the Company's net asset value.
We tested occurrence by tracing a sample of dividends received to bank statements.
We tested the allocation and presentation of dividend income between the revenue and capital return columns of the Statement of Comprehensive Income in line with the requirements set out in the AIC SORP.
We tested the validity of special dividends to independent third party sources.
No material misstatements were identified by our testing which required reporting to those charged with governance.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which it operates.
"We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ""ISAs UK ""."
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
"The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as ""key audit matters"" in the table above."
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall materiality 15.2 million 2017: 14.3 million.
How we determined it 1 % of net assets.
Rationale for We have applied this benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice for investment trust audits.
benchmark applied We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 760,000 2017: 714,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
38 The City of London Investment Trust pie Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditors' Report to the Members of The City of London Investment Trust pie continued Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as fol lows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
However, because not to add or draw attention to in respect of the Directors' all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Company's ability to continue as a going concern.
statement in the financial statements about whether the Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the Directors' identification of any material uncertainties to the Company's ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the Directors' statement We have nothing to report.
relating to Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors' report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Report of the Directors, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Report of the Directors In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Report of the Directors for the year ended 30 June 2018 is consistent with the fi financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Report of the Directors.
CA06 The Directors' assessment of the prospects of the Company and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Company We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors' confirmation on page 19 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors' explanation on page 18 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
39 The City of London Investment Trust pie Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditors' Report to the Members of The City of London Investment Trust pie continued We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors' statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Company.
"Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors' process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the ""Code"" : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit."
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 27, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Company's position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 34 and 35 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors' statement relating to the Company's compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors' Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors' Responsibilities set out on page 27, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Company's ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors' responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors' report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRC's website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors' report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company's members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
40 The City of London Investment Trust pie Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditors' Report to the Members of The City of London Investment Trust pie continued Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion : We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Certain disclosures of Directors' remuneration specified by law are not made: or The financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed in 2009 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2009 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 10 years, covering the years ended 30 June 2009 to 30 June 2018.
Jeremy Jensen Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 24 September 2018 41
