Code compliance Governance is at the heart of delivering for all our stakeholders.
Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, published April 2016 the Code The Company complied with the principles and provisions of the Code during the year ended 31 December 2018 other than with the following provisions: Provisions A.
6.3: The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, should be responsible for performance evaluation of the chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
Given that James Hughes-Hallett was unable to fulfil his duties as Chair for most of 2018 due to illness, and that the Acting Chair intended to step down from the Board in 2019 following the appointment of a new Chair, it was agreed that it would not be relevant to undertake an appraisal of the Chairs performance in respect of 2018.
This approach has been followed on an exceptional basis, and an evaluation of the new Chairs performance will be undertaken at the end of 2019.
1.2: At least half the board, excluding the chairman, should comprise non-executive directors determined by the board to be independent.
Throughout 2018 there were three Executive Directors on the Board and six Non-Executive Directors.
As set out in the Code, the individual occupying the chair role notwithstanding his illness, James Hughes-Hallett through 2018 is not counted as an independent Non-Executive Director, and the Acting Chair Ed Warner was not considered to be an independent Non-Executive Director over the period that he stepped up to the chairmanship.
There was not therefore a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors on the Board over the period 26 March 2018 to 31 December 2018.
With effect from 13 February 2019, Bill Thomas was appointed as Chair, Ed Warner stepped down from the Board, and James Hughes-Hallett was confirmed by the Board as an independent Non-Executive Director, thereby resulting in a majority of the Directors being independent.
The Code is available at www.
74 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Corporate governance The Company is headed by an effective Board of Directors, whose roles and Leadership responsibilities are all clearly defined.
The Chair takes responsibility for leading the Board, whilst day-to-day management of the Group is delegated to the CEO.
Find out more about the Board of Directors on pages 76 to 79 and about the Boards role and activities during the year on pages 80 to 83.
The Nomination Committee oversees many of the activities which, together, Effectiveness underpin the effectiveness of the Board.
It takes the lead on succession planning, taking account of the size and structure of the Board: evaluates the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company on the Board: and reviews outputs from the annual effectiveness evaluation of the Board.
The Nomination Committee oversaw the appointment of a new Non-Executive Director and Chair during the year, and made recommendations to the Board regarding the election re-election of individual Directors.
Find out more about these activities on pages 84 to 95.
The Audit Committee plays a primary role in supporting the Boards compliance Accountability with the accountability principles.
It takes responsibility for assessing whether the Companys position and prospects are fair, balanced and understandable: monitoring the integrity of corporate reporting: ensuring that the necessary safeguards are in place through effective risk management and internal control systems: and advises the Board in this regard.
Within this context, the Audit Committee is well-positioned to review and recommend to the Board the principal risks facing the Company.
The Audit Committee regulates its relationship with the external Auditor through a number of policies and procedures and, during 2018, it oversaw an external audit contract tender and made a recommendation to the Board that the incumbent firm,  PwC, be reappointed.
Find out more about the principal risks facing the Company on pages 66 to 69, and the activities of the Audit Committee on pages 96 to 103.
An open dialogue is maintained with shareholders regarding strategic, Relations with governance and other objectives.
This is led by the CEO and the CFO & COO, shareholders whilst the Chair and other Non-Executive Directors also engage with shareholders as necessary.
The views and concerns of shareholders, as well as engagement with them more generally, is considered by the whole Board.
All Directors who are standing for election or re-election will be in attendance at the 2019 AGM.
The Directors Remuneration Policy was approved at the 2017 AGM.
The current Remuneration Policy was designed with the aim of promoting the long-term success of the Company.
However, the Board noted the significant vote against the Directors remuneration report at the 2018 AGM and is committed to understanding the concerns of shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee Chair has engaged with shareholders over the last six months, and further engagement will be undertaken prior to a new Policy being submitted for shareholder approval at the 2020 AGM.
The Remuneration Committee makes decisions regarding remuneration packages for Executive Directors and senior management within the framework of the agreed Policy.
No Director is involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
