Board of Directors Chair A refreshed team with the right mix of skills and experience.
Bill Thomas Chair Changes in Board membership Board structure Appointed during the year and to the date As at 8 March 2019 February 2019 of this report: Skills and expertise Ed Warner was appointed as Bill brings to the Board extensive Acting Chair on 26 March 2018 experience of non-executive roles in whilst James Hughes-Hallett listed companies, including significant recovered from an illness.
experience of chairing and membership Dr Tim Miller was appointed of board committees.
Through his executive as a Non-Executive Director career within international technology and Chair of the Remuneration organisations, Bill has developed a wealth Committee on 22 May 2018. of expertise in global people-intensive organisations, customer-focused service Bill Thomas was appointed industries and relationship-based as Chair on 13 February 2019. transactions with major clients, all of Ed Warner resigned as which can be applied to his role on the a Non-Executive Director Clarksons Board.
Executive Directors 33% Independent Non-Executive Directors 56% Board gender split Career experience As at 31 December 2018 and 8 March 2019 Bill spent most of his executive career in technology services providers where he had a strong track record in delivering strategy and major change.
He is a former Senior Vice President at Hewlett Packard and was on the executive committee of EDS plc as Executive Vice President.
Bill has also served as a Non-Executive Director on the boards of GFI SARL, XChanging plc, Balfour Beatty plc and VFS Global.
Male 89% Female 11% Principal appointments Chair of Spirent Communications plc Chair of Node4 Ltd Non-Executive Director of The Co-operative Bank p. l. c. Member of the International Advisory Board of FireEye, Inc.
Chair of the Board of Trustees of the Royal Navy & Royal Marines Charity N R 76 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Corporate governance Committee membership Audit Committee A Nomination Committee N Remuneration Committee R Chair Executive Directors 1 Andi Case Jeff Woyda Peter M. Anker Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer President of Broking & Chief Operating Officer and Investment Banking Appointed Appointed Appointed June 2008 November 2006 February 2015 Skills and expertise Skills and expertise Skills and expertise Having worked in shipbroking his entire Jeffs broad-based experience across a Peter has extensive knowledge of the career, Andi brings to the Board extensive number of disciplines is extremely relevant shipping industry with over 30 years knowledge and experience of global to his role at Clarksons.
In addition to his experience in leadership and brokerage integrated shipping services.
He is strong background in finance, Jeff brings services.
Having led RS Platou ASA now recognised in the market as an industry an impressive track record in managing Clarksons Platou AS until its acquisition leader.
His detailed knowledge of and delivering across broking, corporate by the Group, Peter brings to the Board Clarksons operations, combined with his finance, IT implementation and software a deep knowledge of the sectors in which commitment to drive the growth strategy, development, HR and regulatory Clarksons operates, and is accomplished make him ideally placed to inspire and compliance.
His career has spanned both in delivering strategy and performance.
publicly listed and private companies, as 1 P eter will not be offering himself for re-election at well as regulated industries.
Jeffs position the 2019 AGM, and will step down from the Board at Clarksons was expanded to include with effect from the date of the AGM 9 May 2019. the Chief Operating Officer role in 2015, recognising that his remit extended beyond Finance to IT, Legal, HR, Company Secretariat and Property Services.
Career experience Career experience Career experience Andi joined Clarksons in 2006 as Before joining Clarksons, Jeff spent After starting his career as an offshore Managing Director of the Groups 13 years at the Gerrard Group PLC, shipbroker with RS Platou ASAs Houston shipbroking services.
His shipbroking where he was a member of the executive office, Peter progressed to senior career began with C W Kellock & Co committee and Chief Operating Officer positions in the business, including and later the Eggar Forrester Group.
Jeff began his career with Vice President of RS Platou USA Inc Prior to Clarksons, he was with KPMG LLP and is a Fellow of the and Head of Platou Group and Offshore Braemar Seascope for 17 years.
From 1987 until the acquisition of RS Platou ASA in 2015, Peter served as Chief Executive Officer and Managing Partner of RS Platou Shipbrokers AS and Chief Executive Officer and Managing Partner of RS Platou ASA.
Principal appointments Principal appointments Principal appointments None Non-Executive Director None of the International Transport Intermediaries Club Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 77 Board of Directors continued Non-Executive Directors Peter Backhouse Marie-Louise Clayton James Hughes-Hallett, CMG Senior Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed Appointed Appointed September 2013 January 2017 August 2014 Skills and expertise Skills and expertise Skills and expertise Peter has over 40 years of experience Marie-Louise has significant financial James experience in global trading in the international energy business, leadership and strategic experience, markets spans a number of sectors gained both through his executive career having held a number of senior finance including shipping, transportation and and as a non-executive director.
He brings roles through her executive career, and is banking, and his expertise in these valuable experience to Clarksons through a seasoned audit committee chair in listed areas is invaluable in building Clarksons his involvement in offshore oil and gas companies.
She brings to the Board strategy.
He has had extensive exposure activity, liquefied gas and oil a wealth of knowledge and experience to Asian markets in particular, having transportation, finance and mergers in a variety of sectors, including lived in Hong Kong, Japan, Taiwan and and acquisitions, as well as extensive telecommunications, manufacturing, Australia.
James served as the Chair listed company expertise.
Furthermore, during of Clarksons from January 2015 before her executive career Marie-Louise stepping down in February 2019, and obtained extensive digital and technology during this period he oversaw the expertise which complements Clarksons completion of the acquisition of RS Platou commitment to delivering market-leading ASA now Clarksons Platou AS and the IT products.
Career experience Career experience Career experience Most of Peters executive career Marie-Louise served as Finance Director James executive career spanned 40 was spent at British Petroleum BP, of Venture Production plc today part years with the conglomerate Swire Group.
where he was Chairman and Chief of Centrica plc, Chief Financial Officer For his last ten years he served as Group Executive of european refining, marketing and IT Director of the primary food group Chairman in London, and prior to that and shipping, and head of both north sea division of Associated British Foods plc, as Chairman of Swire Pacific Limited oil development and global mergers and and Chief Financial Officer of Lincoln and Cathay Pacific Airways Limited.
He served 14 years as a Gas Turbines at GEC Alstom.
Her past He also served as Managing Director Non-Executive Director of BG Group non-executive appointments have and Chairman of The China Navigation p. l. c. the international energy company, included Audit Committee Chair of Company, and Chairman of Swire Pacific as well as a member of the Advisory Zotefoams plc, Diploma plc and Forth Offshore, United States Cold Storage Inc. Board of private equity firm Riverstone Ports plc, and Non-Executive Director and the Hong Kong Shipowners Energy Partners.
For the past seven of Independent Oil & Gas PLC and Association.
James is also a proven years, he has been a Director of HES Ocean Rig ASA.
non-executive director, having served International B. V. a major operator on the board of HSBC Holdings PLC of European bulk port storage Marie-Louise is a Fellow of the from 2005 to 2014. and handling facilities.
James is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and was made a CMG in the 2012 Queens Birthday Honours.
Principal appointments Principal appointments Principal appointments Chairman of the Supervisory Board Director and Treasurer of Dignity Non-Executive Director of John Swire of HES International B. V. In Dying & Sons Limited Governor of the Courtauld Institute of Art Chairman of the Esme Fairbairn Foundation A N R A N R A N R 78 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Corporate governance Committee membership Audit Committee A Nomination Committee N Remuneration Committee R Chair Non-Executive Directors Group Company Secretary Dr Tim Miller Birger Nergaard Rachel Spencer Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Group Company Secretary Appointed Appointed Appointed May 2018 February 2015 April 2018 Skills and expertise Skills and expertise Career experience Dr Tim Miller has over 30 years Birgers in-depth knowledge of capital Rachel has over 25 years listed company experience working in large-scale people markets and investment banking brings experience.
She joined Clarksons from businesses with significant international valuable expertise to Clarksons, Aldermore Group PLC where she was operations.
Whilst Tim has extensive particularly in developing and overseeing the Company Secretary of both the listed experience of HR and remuneration our banking strategy.
He has extensive entity and the regulated bank.
Prior to this, matters gained in his executive and knowledge of investing in Nordic she was the Deputy Company Secretary non-executive career, his executive roles technology companies, and is at Invensys PLC from 1999 until 2014 also gave him exposure across a broad experienced in taking an active role on the conclusion of its acquisition remit including compliance, audit, on the boards of these companies to help by Schneider Electric SA.
assurance, financial crime, property position them for long-term growth.
Tim has a proven track record is therefore well-positioned to provide Rachel is a Fellow of the Institute of serving as a non-executive director and unique insight into initiatives to innovate Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
remuneration committee chair in listed and develop new services for clients.
companies which, together with his HR background, make his experience very relevant to his role at Clarksons.
Career experience Career experience Responsibilities The majority of Tims executive career was After establishing Four Seasons Venture Rachel acts as secretary to the Board and within regulated industries, including roles today Verdane Capital in 1985, Birger its Committees and is accountable to the at Glaxo Wellcome and latterly Standard was the CEO until 2008.
He joined the Board through the Chair on all corporate Chartered, with global responsibility for a board of Clarksons Platou AS formerly governance matters.
wide variety of business services.
He was RS Platou ASA as Deputy Chairman previously a Non-Executive Director of in 2008 and has remained as a Director recruitment services provider Michael of this company since its acquisition Page Group plc, chairing their by Clarksons.
In 2006, Birger was awarded King Haralds gold medal for pioneering the Norwegian venture capital industry.
Principal appointments Principal appointments Non-Executive Director and Chair Director of Verdane Capital funds V, VI, of the Remuneration Committee VII and VIII of Equiniti Group plc Director of Clarksons Platou AS Non-Executive Director of Equiniti and Clarksons Platou Securities AS Financial Services Limited Director of Nergaard Investment Non-Executive Director of Otis Gold Partners AS Corporation Advisor to the P E fund Advent International Norway A N R R Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 79
