Leadership The role of the Board Governance framework The Board is collectively responsible for promoting The Board has implemented a governance framework the long-term success of the Group and is accountable which underpins our ability to meet our responsibilities.
to shareholders for the creation of sustainable value.
This enables effective decision-making within a structure We have overall responsibility for leading the Group and are of clear accountabilities.
An overview of the governance the decision-making body for matters which are significant framework is set out on the next page.
to the Group as a whole in particular, strategic and financial matters, and those which could have a material reputational We discharge some of our responsibilities through delegation impact.
We are cognisant that the continued growth of a to Board Committees.
The Board Committees bring an sustainable business is underpinned by its culture and the increased focus on key areas and probe them more deeply, tone we set from the top, and therefore seek to reinforce thereby gaining a greater understanding of the detail.
this through all of our actions.
The Chairs of the Board Committees provide a verbal update on the activities of their Committee at the next Board meeting, In developing the strategy, the Board takes account of, and recommendations from the Committee are presented not only our obligations to shareholders, but also the to the Board where appropriate.
considerable impact that the Group may have on other stakeholders including customers, employees, suppliers Any delegation of authorities to Board Committees is formally and the community in which we operate.
Thereafter, documented in writing through Terms of Reference, while the we provide guidance and oversight to management in Board maintains a schedule of key matters which are reserved the implementation of the strategy, taking into account the for our decision.
Furthermore, there is a clear division of agreed risk appetite, and monitor performance against it.
responsibilities between the Chair and the CEO.
The execution of the strategy and the day-to-day management of the Group and operational matters are delegated to the CEO.
The particular responsibilities of members of the Board are set out in more detail within the framework on the next page, whilst the schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board: the Terms of Reference of the Board Committees: and the roles of the Chair, CEO and Senior Independent Director are available on our website at www.
In addition to the principal Board Committees, the Board has also delegated some responsibilities to an Administrative Committee.
These include routine administrative matters and the approval of items where we have already approved the overarching principle.
The Groups governance structure has continued to evolve, and over 2018 a revised executive governance structure was developed by the CEO to streamline executive decisionmaking processes and provide both formal and informal engagement channels for the Executive Directors and senior management.
This structure will be implemented in 2019.
The embedding of the structure will be monitored by the CEO, and any changes necessary to further maximise efficiency will be implemented.
80 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Corporate governance Governance framework 2018 Board Key matters reserved for the Board: Strategy Board and Committee appointments Setting the Groups culture, standards and values Corporate governance matters Internal controls and risk management Stakeholder obligations Financial reporting and viability Material contracts Capital and liquidity Individual roles and activities Chair Chief Executive Officer Leads the Board, facilitating the contribution Responsible for the day-to-day management of all Directors and promoting an open and of the Group.
constructive relationship between the Executive Develops the strategy and commercial objectives and Non-Executive Directors.
for approval by the Board, and leads the executive Ensures the effectiveness of the Board.
management in delivering them within the risk Oversees the development of the Groups purpose, appetite approved by the Board.
Promotes the embedding of the Groups culture Promotes high standards of corporate governance.
Available to shareholders and fosters dialogue with Leads the relationship with institutional investors other key stakeholders.
Senior Independent Director Chief Financial Officer & Chief Operating Officer Acts as a sounding board for the Chair and leads Manages the Groups financial and operational the evaluation of his performance.
affairs and supports the CEO in the management Serves as a trusted intermediary for other of the Group.
Alongside the CEO, represents the Group in meetings Available to shareholders, particularly when with institutional shareholders and other stakeholders.
their concerns have not been resolved through other channels.
President of Broking and Investment Banking Co-ordinates and promotes the Groups activities Non-Executive Directors in investment banking and ship offshore broking.
Contribute to the development of the strategy Responsible for the Groups activities in Oslo.
and scrutinise its execution by management.
Supports the CEO in the management of the Group.
Provide both objective and constructive challenge, and support, to the development of Board proposals and the performance of management.
Nomination Committee Reviews the effectiveness of the Board, and its structure, size, composition and diversity.
Leads succession planning for the Board and senior management.
Executive Committee Audit Committee Assists the CEO in running the business.
Monitors the integrity of the financial reporting Reviews the development and implementation for the Group and manages the relationship of strategy, operational plans, procedures and with the external Auditor.
budgets, and monitors business performance Oversees the effectiveness of the risk including competitive pressures.
management and internal control systems.
Oversees the assessment and control of risk.
Remuneration Committee Sets the remuneration policy and packages for the Executive Directors and other members of the senior management team, whilst having regard to pay across the Group.
Approves the remuneration of the Chair.
Group Company Secretary Acts as first point of contact for the Chair and Non-Executive Directors, and facilitates the induction of new Non-Executive Directors.
Facilitates information flows between the Board and its Committees, and between executive management and the Board.
Updates the Board on corporate governance developments and ensures good governance practices throughout the Group.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 81 Leadership continued Board meetings Strategy sessions Six scheduled Board meetings and five further ad hoc The CEO and members of the senior management team Board meetings were held during the year.
Two of the ad hoc present their views of the market and forward view of the meetings were convened in order to approve changes to the coming year at Board strategy sessions.
The Non-Executive Board the appointment of Ed Warner as the Acting Chair and Directors collectively have a range of experience and the recommendation from the Nomination Committee that expertise, and the challenge and independent oversight that Dr Tim Miller be appointed as a Non-Executive Director, whilst they bring to the debate supports the building of a sustainable matters discussed at the other ad hoc meetings included the strategy.
The delivery of the strategy within the Groups risk trading update released to the market in April 2018 and the appetite, and ensuring that the Group has the appropriate outcome of the external audit tender process.
resources, skills and competencies to achieve the strategy responsibly are also key areas of focus.
Attendance at scheduled Board meetings is set out to the right.
If a Director is unable to join a meeting, they are The Board monitors the implementation of the strategy encouraged to provide comments to the Chair in advance through regular updates at Board meetings on key initiatives on the business of the meeting so that their views can be as they progress.
This also enables us to regularly review taken into account as part of the debate at the meeting.
whether the strategy remains appropriate.
The Group Company Secretary supports the Chair in setting Scheduled meeting attendance an annual programme of agenda items for the Board, which is driven by key strategic priorities, the schedule of Matters Andi Case 6 6 Reserved for the Board and the financial calendar.
The programme is flexed as necessary to take account of changes Jeff Woyda 6 6 in priorities and external developments.
In consultation with the Chair, the Group Company Secretary ensures that time Peter M. Anker 6 6 allocations on the agendas are appropriate to allow sufficient debate and discussion.
A similar process is followed with the Peter Backhouse 6 6 Chair of each Board Committee.
All agendas include a private session at the end of the meeting to allow the members to Marie-Louise Clayton 6 6 meet without management present.
1 James Hughes-Hallett 5 6 At each Board meeting, the CEO and the CFO & COO provide reports covering commercial developments, financial 2 Dr Tim Miller 3 3 performance, key people matters, investor relations, emerging external developments and the competitive environment.
3 Birger Nergaard 5 6 In addition to the formal meeting programme, Non-Executive Ed Warner Directors have full access to management which allows them 6 6 to explore significant matters in more depth and signal areas where more detail will be required when the matters are 1 Unable to attend due to illness.
These sessions provide Non-Executive 2 Appointed on 22 May 2018.
3 Unable to attend due to a prior commitment but Birger Nergaard reviewed Directors with an opportunity to engage with management the papers beforehand and provided feedback to the Chair.
82 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Corporate governance Key topics discussed at Board meetings in 2018 Business performance Financial matters Strategy and operations and investor relations Assessment of the acquisition of Regular updates from the Publicly released financial RS Platou ASA against the original CEO and CFO & COO including results and the annual report, objectives of the transaction key commercial developments, including going concern Key matters arising from the financial performance, people and viability statements annual strategic discussions matters, emerging external Dividend payments with Global Managing Directors developments and the Pre-close statement ahead of Updates on strategic matters, competitive environment the release of the full year results, including technological Annual insurance programme and trading updates released developments, banking strategy, to the market in April and May the impact of IMO 2020, and the Market feedback on results strategy for Clarksons operations and insights into movements in Houston in the shareholder register Risk management Governance Regular reports on the risk Changes to the Board and composition of Board Committees environment, the top risks facing Results of the annual effectiveness review of the Board, the action plan the Group and associated risk implemented as a result and progress against it appetite Governance disclosures in the annual report, including related matters Annual review of the systems such as the annual reappointment of the Directors and the external Auditor of risk management and internal Actions taken in response to the significant vote against the Directors control, including the Groups risk Remuneration Policy at the 2017 AGM profile, the internal control Gender pay gap report to April 2017 environment, the risk register and Changes in the revised UK Corporate Governance Code and actions mitigating factors and controls required to be able to comply, including the most appropriate method to risks included therein of engaging with the workforce Principal risks to be included Annual review of the Modern Slavery Act statement in the annual report Outcome of the external audit tender and confirmation of PwCs reappointment Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 83
