Resources and relationships To ensure we create long-term value for all our stakeholders, we make effective use of a range of resources and relationships.
32 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Strategic report Our reputation Industry partners Clarksons is a business built on long-term relationships and trust.
Our clients turn to us for our unrivalled breadth We continue to find new ways of service and our industry-leading range of products that span the maritime and financial markets.
Our expertise and in which to support the shipping knowledge gives us the ability to provide solutions and community.
services specifically tailored to their business requirements.
Throughout 2018, we partnered with a number of maritime Our culture and values associations which are paving the way for the future of As a global business with an international workforce we maritime.
We were delighted to host the inaugural Maritime represent over 60 nationalities across our 50 offices, allowing Masters event, supported by HRH The Princess Royal, at us to continually deliver the highest quality service to our client our London HQ.
Students from eight leading UK universities base.
Each and every member of the Clarksons team shares and business schools were chosen to present findings from our common values of integrity, excellence, fairness and their dissertation theses to a number of industry leaders.
transparency, and we aspire to conduct our business in an The university courses represented ranged from naval ethical, honest and professional manner wherever we operate.
architecture to maritime economics, ship management to We have created an environment in which employees can speak shipping law.
The research projects, proposed by industry up and highlight any concerns through our whistleblowing and tailored by university academic staff, were directly arrangements.
We are enhancing these arrangements to related to contemporary issues concerning the UK maritime provide a means for concerns to be raised anonymously.
sector and its position within the globe.
As a Group, we are committed to our corporate social Clarksons involvement with this event supports the responsibility programme supporting maritime, children and significant role we play in encouraging and developing overseas causes.
We encourage our employees across the young talent in shipping.
globe to put forward causes that are close to their hearts so that our support makes a difference to not just the charity, but also to them.
Our endeavours to offer our support, both financially and through the volunteering of our staff, has many benefits, but ultimately we aim to bring about positive social change and provide a lasting impact on the people and communities that we help.
Our employees At Clarksons we believe that the quality of our people has always been the biggest differentiating factor for us in the market.
We believe in inclusion and developing the very best people regardless of race, gender or background, and supporting them in a role and environment where they can thrive and perform to their best.
This ethos is underpinned by our four values: integrity, excellence, fairness and transparency.
Employees are key stakeholders in our business and, as our most important asset, we invest in our people and take employee engagement seriously.
We regularly communicate with our employees on matters relating to both the Group and the wider maritime industry using a variety of methods such as our monthly online newsletter Clarksons Voyage and our annual Company magazine Horizons, as well as providing ongoing training and development opportunities as detailed further on page 34.
Financial results and material announcements that we release to the market are made available to all employees across the Group at the same time.
In line with the recommendations of the new 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code and the importance that the Maritime Masters competition supported by HRH The Princess Royal.
Board puts on engagement with the workforce, a forum is being established at which representatives from the business will have the opportunity to provide their views on the Group in respect of a range of topics.
Dr Tim Miller, Chair of the Remuneration Committee, who has been appointed as the designated Non-Executive Director, will attend the employee forum meetings to act as the conduit between the workforce and the Board, and to gather employee views.
We recognise this as a positive step towards strengthening the voice of the employee and as a way to maintain regular dialogue with the workforce.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 33 Resources and relationships continued Attracting and retaining talent Clarksons is committed to investing in talent retention and staff development, ensuring that as we grow both organically and through acquisition the right people are identified and developed.
Over 47% of Clarksons employees have been with the organisation for more than five years, and nearly 24% have been employed with the business for ten years or more.
We take our employees physical and mental health and well-being seriously, and offer a range of benefits to support this such as private health insurance, a cycle to work scheme and discounted gym memberships.
We also support formal qualifications such as the ICS Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers, CIPD Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development and CIMA Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
We offer a multitude of training opportunities, encouraging employees at all levels to broaden their knowledge of the industry and markets.
Regular seminars can be attended in person, via a webinar or accessed on demand via our internal video channel.
In addition, all employees globally have access to iQ, a tool created by Clarksons for Clarksons.
Each department provides insights and market updates in the form of video content, which supports current market rates, business briefings and presentations from each area of the business.
iQ proves to be a valuable internal channel to empower every employee with the most up-to-date information and help them provide the best service to their clients and colleagues.
As well as providing training to our employees, we also train the shipping leaders of the future with our Jon Marshall Lectures Week aimed at the dry cargo market and Tanker Training Week.
These two events take place in London and Dubai, and are offered to junior employees as well as clients who are looking for a comprehensive and intensive introduction to shipping.
Covering various commercial, financial, technical, legal and operational topics via lectures and workshops, the programmes finish with the students partaking in a group challenge.
The winning team is presented with a coveted award.
We encourage the involvement of employees in the Companys performance through inviting eligible employees to participate in our ShareSave Plan.
Further detail can be found on page 105 about employee share ownership.
34 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Strategic report Diversity and inclusion A global business Clarksons is an equal opportunities employer which entrusts its reputation and market leading position to the best global Our workforce represents workforce in shipping.
Our business is meritocratic and we seek to appoint the best candidate for each and every role.
Candidates are considered against fair and objective criteria which enable all employees, irrespective of gender, race or Gender diversity disability, to advance in their career.
Our equal opportunities policy supports the employment, promotion and career Group gender split development of all people, including disabled persons.
As at 31 December 2018 Our people are our assets and we strive to be recognised as the place where the best people are empowered to do their best work.
Of the 1,576 employees within the Group as at 31 December 2018, 410 or 26% were female 26% in 2017.
There were 339 managers within the Group, of which 59 or 17% were female 16% in 2017.
Of total new hires made in 2018, 28% were female 27% in 2017.
The quality of our people has always been a differentiating factor for us in the market.
We will not compromise on the intent to continue bringing in and developing the very best people, and putting them into a role and an environment where Male 74% they can thrive and perform.
Whilst we recognise we face the Female 26% same challenges as the wider sector with regard to attracting, recruiting and retaining women, we have females who are influential figures within our business and our sector due Management gender split to their accomplishments.
We ensure that these role models As at 31 December 2018 are actively involved in hosting seminars, speaking at careers events and offering advice in order to inspire other women to pursue a career in our organisation.
Through our collaborative relationship with WISTA the Womens International Shipping & Trading Association and WOMAG Women in Agribusiness Asia, we host events and implement recruitment initiatives in order to encourage more women to grow and develop their careers in our sector.
Male 83% Female 17% Employees with people management responsibilities.
New hires gender split In 2018 Male 72% Female 28% Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 35 Resources and relationships continued We have worked with many of our clients for generations and as their business grows and adapts to the changing world we are at the forefront with them.
36 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Strategic report Our clients Society Our position at the heart of the shipping industry has been built over 167 years, based on a fundamental dedication to our As our business evolves, so does clients and providing them with a unique, tailored service that offers an unrivalled understanding of the sector.
our commitment to corporate social responsibility.
We have worked with many of our clients for generations and as their business grows and adapts to the changing world we We endeavour to support our chosen causes, both are at the forefront with them.
Our aim is to navigate financially and by bringing about positive social change, challenges and identify opportunities together.
providing a lasting impact on the people and communities that we help.
Our investment in technology continues to drive growth and provides our clients with market-leading intelligence and We contribute to our society in a number of ways across innovative tools for trade.
Whether through participating in charitable events, donating to causes, fundraising, or sharing our We work ethically and build strong client relationships where expertise with the maritime industry, we ensure that our knowledge builds trust.
we continually give back to society.
Our technology and innovation The 2018 Clarksons Charity Giving Day saw teams Clarksons technology assists our employees and clients to from Clarksons global offices compete in The Clarksons make informed and timely commercial decisions, and allows Playoffs, a challenge that consisted of a series of High them to interact and work efficiently together.
By ensuring our Intensity Interval Training exercises across a knock-out clients receive the best information through our technological stage, semi finals and finals.
The day involved over 200 solutions, we provide them with the tools they need to make participants and volunteers from our offices across the key business decisions.
world in our largest charitable event on record and raised in excess of 81,000.
Each participating team raised funds Some of the technological solutions we have developed have specifically for a charity close to their hearts, based within transformed the way of working for both our employees and their geographic region.
for many clients in the shipping industry.
Charity Giving Day, The Clarksons Playoffs.
Over 1m raised for charities across the world since 2013.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 37 Business review Broking Share of revenue Strong finish to the year Despite a challenging start to the year, performance in the second half was encouraging, particularly across sale and purchase and 74% dry cargo markets.
Services Revenue Dry cargo Containers Tankers Specialised products Gas 251.7m LNG 2017: 238.9m Sale and purchase Offshore Segment underlying profit Futures Number of employees 44.0m 2017: 43.9m 1,110 Forward order book for 2019 US$107m 2017: US$93m Directors best estimate of deliverable forward order book FOB.
38 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Strategic report Broking in action How do Clarksons unique data and analytical services help clients navigate the LNG market?
The decision to spend US$180m on a new LNG carrier or to charter a vessel for up to US$190,000 per day has significant ramifications for a company if it gets its strategy wrong.
Timing and market intelligence are key to making the right decision whether you are a charterer or an owner.
Our access to the most current data in the market combined with our deep and established relationships with market players means that Clarksons LNG brokers have a unique insight into the market, which is a crucial service for customers when advising on the best strategy to meet their requirements.
A dedicated analytical function on the LNG broking desk also gives a richer and more in depth understanding of the fundamental factors driving the market.
The services and insight from our LNG broking desk is complemented by other company services including real-time shipping on SeaNet, World Fleet Register and Clarksons Research datasets and reports.
High quality data and analysis is important in this industry.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 39 Business review continued Containers Following the improvements seen in 2017, 2018 was a Broking more mixed year for the containership sector.
Containership earnings fluctuated, as improvements in the first half of the year were followed by an easing back in the second half.
continued Meanwhile, the box freight market saw volatility across the year, as well as a clear divergence between the performance Dry cargo on the key Transpacific and Far East-Europe trade lanes in Dry cargo vessel earnings increased across all sectors the second half.
Year-on-year fuel price increases also placed reaching the highest level in seven years.
Year-on-year sectoral significant pressure on liner company financials.
performance is reflected by an 18% improvement in the Baltic Dry Index compared to 2017.
The capesize market was Globally, container freight rates throughout the year were responsible for the highest volatility and peaked during the fairly flat compared to 2017.
The full year 2018 SCFI composite third quarter, while the smaller sizes continued the upward index averaged only 1% up on the 2017 average, though still trend towards the end of the year to finish with the strongest up by 28% on 2016.
It is however noteworthy that in the quarter.
On average the capesize sector improved by 9%, the second half of 2018, benchmark China-US West Coast freight panamax sector by 19%, the supramax sector by 22% and the rates were up 54% year-on-year whilst China-North Europe handysize sector by 14%.
Period rates and asset values both freight rates were up just 3% year-on-year.
increased on the stronger market fundamentals.
On the charter market, earnings continued to make positive Newbuild deliveries slowed to a 10-year low, which kept progress in the first half, backed by limited supply expansion tonnage tight and reduced demolition to a minimal level.
outside the largest ship sizes and rapidly expanding regional As a result, the fleet expanded by a mere 2.9%.
The charter market basket index increased of the improved earnings, newbuild orders slowed year-on-year by 32% to 68 points in the first half, but then eased back in with the majority scheduled for delivery in 2020 or later.
the second half to 52 points at the end of 2018, a level only marginally higher than at the end of 2017.
Nevertheless, the The year was impacted by the well-documented US-China average basket index level across the year stood at 60 points, trade war, which started in April.
For the dry cargo market, 28% up on the 2017 full year average, with the average 2,750 Chinas announcement to retaliate on the imposed trade TEU ship one year rate up by 23% on the same basis.
Volume tariffs, by limiting US grain imports and soybeans in particular, growth moderated a little, with rates for some of the larger weighed on market sentiment.
Yet, the market remained asset classes holding up better than for their feeder balanced as non-Chinese buyers took advantage of the counterparts, a reversal of the previous trend.
The one year heavily discounted US grain prices, while China took charter rate for a 2,750 TEU ship stood at US$9,500 per day advantage of other suppliers, mainly from East Coast South at the end of 2018, 2% above the end of 2017 level, having America ECSA.
The market weakened towards the end previously increased to US$12,100 per day at the end of of the year when the ECSA crops were depleted.
The one year rate for a 9,000 TEU ship stood at US$29,000 per day at the end of 2018, 71% above the The manufacturing sector in emerging Asian economies end of 2017 level.
expanded during 2018, which ensured healthy demand for industrial materials.
However, seaborne trade growth was In 2018, demand remained fairly robust, though risks from the limited by a variety of supply disruptions, such as environmental world economy have clearly escalated.
Global trade volumes and labour strike-related mine and railway closures.
Those are estimated to have expanded by 4.5% to 201m TEU in the lost volumes will return to the market in 2019 and will offset full year 2018, following growth of an estimated 5.5% in 2017. some of the expected losses due to recent iron ore tailings The rate of expansion on trades involving developing dam collapse in Brazil.
Chinas industrial manufacturing output economies proved strong, though growth on the main lane expanded throughout 2018, but succumbed to the uncertainty east-west trades appears to have been more moderate.
of the outcomes of the trade dispute with the US and Expansion on the key westbound Far East-Europe was limited contracted in December.
The Chinese government intends in part due to declining import levels to the UK and Germany, to stabilise economic growth through monetary and fiscal and a sharp drop in volumes into Turkey, though growth on policy measures.
The allocated capital towards infrastructure the Transpacific was much firmer, partly supported by a rush spending as part of such an economic stimulus package to ship cargo before the potential imposition of more stringent is supportive of demand for industrial materials.
Containership fleet capacity growth accelerated in 2018, through the ongoing delivery of new mega-ships.
Irrespective of the many disruptions in 2018, dry bulk seaborne In 2018, capacity expanded by 5.6%, pushing the balance trade grew by 2.6% and with the signs of amicable trade between supply and demand growth in favour of the former.
solutions between the US and China, dry bulk trade is well However, surplus capacity in the sector remains much positioned to accelerate growth.
reduced, with around 2% of fleet capacity on average standing idle through 2018 compared to 7% back at the start of 2017.
The incoming IMO 2020 sulphur cap legislation on marine fuels has been the subject of many discussions as it is shrouded with uncertainty regarding the most economical solution for shipowners.
However, the time leading up to enforcement in 2020 is limited and the new regulations will limit available fleet supply to some extent as ships go out of service to prepare for compliance, thereby keeping the expansion of the active fleet below 3%.
40 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Strategic report Looking ahead, boxship capacity expansion is set to slow Dry cargo to around 3% in both 2019 and 2020.
Whilst trade growth could well remain robust and supportive of market progress, Year-on-year sectoral performance demand side risks have grown and will need to be tracked closely.
The trade war between the US and China could is reflected by an 18% improvement potentially have an impact on 5% of global container trade.
in the Baltic Dry Index compared There are, however, a number of wild cards related to the potential impact of the IMO 2020 global sulphur cap on vessel to 2017. recycling, operating speeds and time out of service, which could help further containership sector rebalancing.
On the Containers supply side, despite a steady flow of feeder ship ordering, at an aggregate level, the ordering of newbuildings remained Containership fleet capacity relatively moderate with 1.2m TEU contracted in 2018: the order book now stands at a historically low 13% of fleet capacity.
Liner company consolidation has continued, and for operators and owners alike, fuel economics are now firmly in play.
Tankers Tankers The tanker market was The tanker market was extremely weak for much of 2018, extremely weak for much of 2018, but rebounded strongly in the final quarter.
In spite of the early weakness, annual average earnings for VLCCs on the main but rebounded strongly in the Middle East-Far East route declined by just 2% versus the 2017 average.
Meanwhile, average annual earnings for final quarter.
suezmaxes and aframaxes increased by 7% and 17% respectively versus 2017 levels.
In the products tanker sector, the strong end to the year meant that annual average earnings for LR2s and LR1s trading in clean products on the key Middle East-Far East route increased by 9% and 2% respectively versus 2017 average levels.
However, average earnings for MRs in 2018 declined by 14% versus 2017 levels.
In the first half of the year, the crude tanker market was held back by a combination of strong voluntary compliance with OPEC and non-OPEC production cuts and additional unplanned output reductions.
However, in the second half of the year, sharp increases in production and exports from a combination of OPEC countries, Russia and the US, together with weather-related delays to vessels in the fourth quarter, conspired to drive earnings back up to higher levels.
In the products tanker sector, the market continued to feel the effects of the strong fleet growth of the previous three years and the oil products trade was hampered by backwardation in forward price curves for much of the year, albeit earnings started to recover in November and December.
Forward price curves for a number of oil products returned to contango and some long-haul arbitrage opportunities were seen.
In addition, the clean products tanker market was assisted by the strength of the crude tanker market, as several LR2 products carriers switched to crude oil or fuel oil trade.
Meanwhile, a number of other LR2s were delayed in discharging clean products cargoes in Asia.
Crude tanker fleet growth fell sharply in 2018 due to a combination of reduced deliveries and a sharp increase in vessel demolition.
The overall crude tanker fleet in dwt grew by just 0.6%, compared to growth of 5.2% in 2017 and 6.0% in 2016.
In the products tanker sector, fleet growth also fell sharply, principally due to a further reduction in newbuilding deliveries.
Deep sea products tanker fleet growth fell to 1.2% in 2018, which was the lowest growth in percentage terms since 2001, lower than the 4.0% in 2017 and 6.2% in 2016.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 41 Business review continued Overall, the volume of seaborne trade for specialised products in 2018 was however encouraging, with estimated annual Broking growth of around 6%.
Organic chemicals such as methanol, benzene and styrene and inorganic chemicals such as caustic soda, sulphuric and phosphoric acids growth was continued particularly evident throughout the year, along with a rapidly increasing lubricants and base oils sector.
For the first time Tankers continued ever, annual seaborne trade in this sector is now greater than In 2019 crude tanker fleet growth is expected to be 3.1% 300m mts, more than double that of 15 years ago.
Seaborne due to a slight increase in newbuilding deliveries, and reduced trade in this sector has only declined once 1992 by just 0.6% demolition due to an anticipated increase in vessel earnings.
Despite geo-political uncertainty generally Products tanker fleet growth is expected to increase to 2.7% flowing through to downgraded economic expectations, the due to increased deliveries of MR products tankers after market experienced continued import demand from a number a year of very low deliveries in 2018. of key end-user locations, with China and India recording 7% and 5% year-on-year import increases respectively.
US-China Tanker earnings are expected to soften temporarily in the first trade wars have thus far had little direct impact on our overall half of the year from the strong levels seen in late 2018 due to market as the trade lane only accounts for just over 0.5% of a combination of new OPEC and non-OPEC oil production total seaborne trade.
cuts, a concentration of newbuilding deliveries in the early part of the year, refinery maintenance, and a seasonal reduction in Turning to the other part of the tonne-mile demand equation, oil demand and vessel delays in the spring.
distance growth, chemical carriers on average travelled 0.6% further in 2018 when compared to the previous year, meaning Nevertheless, unless a significant global economic downturn more ships were needed to satisfy the same volume obligation.
or unpredictable geopolitical factors intervene, both crude and products tanker markets are expected to strengthen On the supply side, real net fleet growth was slightly higher on average in 2019. in 2018 compared to 2017, with an influx of modern products tankers.
That said, the order book is still well below the A number of factors are expected to support the markets long-run average and we expect the available fleet to contract including: the removal of tankers from the market for the in the medium-term.
The fleet of chemical tankers, including installation of exhaust gas cleaning systems ahead of the 10% of IMO 3 product tankers, stood at 53.7m dwt at the IMO 2020 reduction in the sulphur content of bunker fuels: start of 2018.
By the end of the year, we believe 2.7m dwt geo-political disruption to oil markets that may favour increased of deliveries and 1.3m dwt of removals were registered.
spot market shipments of crude oil: the commissioning of The overall fleet of chemical tankers at the end of 2018 substantial new refining capacity in Asia: rising US crude oil was more than three times the size of the fleet in 2001. exports: and potential changes in crude oil and oil products cargo flows ahead of the impending bunker fuel sulphur Whilst earnings and market sentiment were somewhat content reduction.
These factors are expected to be depressed throughout much of 2018, fundamentals continue particularly supportive of tanker markets in the second to point to a potential increase in utilisation over the medium half of the year.
Specialised products Gas Early optimism in 2018 quickly changed as earnings for 2018 saw some improvement in fortunes across most of the chemical tankers came under substantial pressure, negatively sectors of the LPG carrier market, albeit more pronounced influenced by challenging market conditions in the increasingly in some segments than in others.
This recovery was supported interlinked deep sea products tanker world.
by a slowdown in newbuilding deliveries combined with an acceleration in the pace of older vessel removals.
In Whilst the Clarksons Platou Bulk Chemical Index actually conjunction with the continued expansion of LPG trade, recorded a 6% increase from January to December 2018, average freights for the year edged above the average and the index was on average 9% higher than 2017, increased 2017 levels.
voyage costs compressed net earnings for owners for much of the year.
In a similar manner to the prevailing spot markets, Following a slowdown in the growth of US LPG exports in the the period charter and asset sectors were also bereft of the first quarter, which negatively impacted tonne-mile demand, usual activity with deal volume reduced, especially in the volumes have since recovered.
However, the movement of US summer period.
Uncertainty surrounding the impending tonnes into China was adversely impacted from the second IMO 2020 regulations and their impact was undoubtedly a quarter by the imposition of trade tariffs.
Whilst these volumes contributory factor to lower deal volume and also increased have been largely displaced by Middle Eastern suppliers, the short-termism with initial periods of time charter.
redirection of US cargoes into Middle Eastern import markets such as Indonesia, Japan and South Korea has served to support laden distances overall.
Despite the ongoing delay of new flows from the Mariner East II terminal expansion in the US, high utilisation levels from the existing terminals in the US Gulf in particular, have continued to drive the lions share of the growth in seaborne trade, which is estimated to have expanded at a rate of just below 4% year-on-year.
42 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Strategic report Net growth in the VLGC fleet shrank to 1.3% in 2018, following Specialised products the addition of ten newbuildings and the removal of six units which, in combination with volume growth, saw the benchmark The volume of seaborne trade Arabian Gulf-Japan rate jump by 25.1%.
Higher bunker prices eroded some of these gains, but the time charter equivalent for specialised products grew earnings were still up by over 21% at an average of just over by an estimated 6% in 2018.
As a result of improved trading conditions, there has also been an increase in secondhand sales and acquisitions this year.
Partially on the back of a firming larger Gas vessel market, rates for the mid and handysizes also 2018 saw some improvement in experienced some improvement, although growth in both fleets segments of 2.7% year-on-year has moderated the fortunes across most of the sectors impact of this.
Benchmark handysize semi-refrigerated freights have risen by 11% to average US$14,800 per day.
In contrast, of the LPG carrier market.
despite ammonia trade growth of over 4%, midsize freights have fallen by 2% as they were not able to capitalise on the longer haul petrochemical market, which continued to provide an increasingly large number of the handy units with employment.
The absence of any notable growth in overall petrochemicals trade prevented any significant recovery in term charter levels for the 12,000 and 8,000 cbm units, which generally flatlined overall during 2018.
However, spot levels started to edge upwards in the second half of the year.
The smaller units have fared much better and the recovery in the pressure sector has continued the gradual improvement started last year and the 12 month assessed time charter levels for pressure carriers in the East have risen by 19.4% to US$8,000 per day, whilst those in the West have jumped 24%, driven by an ageing fleet, an absence of newbuildings and healthy coastal LPG and petrochemical gas trades.
The outlook for LPG trade remains positive next year, with the pace of growth to rise slightly to an estimated 5% per annum, as volumes from Mariner East II start to flow and as the Enterprise terminal in the US Gulf Coast undergoes another phase of expansion.
There are however a number of factors which may moderate the scale of this expansion, including lower arbitrage opportunities from the US into Asia, with the new Australian projects now up and running.
However, Middle Eastern flows to China should remain healthy, particularly as new propane dehydrogenation plants in China build production in the second half of 2019.
Ammonia trade should show some further upside next year, although growth expectations are fairly restrained at 1.5%, with further possibility of increased exports and growth from Russia.
On the petrochemical gas side, most of the upside is set to come with the start-up of the new ethylene terminal in the Gulf Coast which should help absorb some of the fleet growth which will take place in the handysize segment.
Whilst fleet growth is expected to be modest in most sectors of the fleet, the VLGC fleet is expected to undergo a further phase of growth next year as another wave of newbuildings deliver.
This will be moderated by the removal of older units but we will still expect the scale of the expansion to offset some of the positive impact of trade growth, as well as the shift in trade flows to soften tonne-miles.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 43 Business review continued New Atlantic basin production in the US and European transshipments of Russian Yamal cargoes, combined with the Broking long-haul to supply Asian buyers, raised the average distance travelled globally by each cargo.
In 2018, average distances were up by 4.4% to around 4,077 nautical miles compared continued with last years average of 3,904 nautical miles.
LNG Traded volumes are expected to increase again in 2019, The LNG shipping market experienced significant growth with seven large projects to come online including Shells in 2018.
The near-term LNG shipping market was strong Prelude FLNG project in Australia, and six onshore US throughout 2018 with rates reaching all-time highs later in liquefaction facilities.
The spot freight rate assessment for tri-fuelled diesel electric TFDE vessels averaged US$88,700 per day for 2018, Some 48 conventional LNG carriers and four FSRUs were up 93% compared with 2017.
Spot TFDE rates reached record delivered in 2018, double the number of LNG vessels delivered levels of US$190,000 per day in November.
64 conventional LNG carriers and one FSRU were ordered in 2018, the highest for 14 years.
Most High shipping demand was driven primarily by new projects were placed against long-term contracts for upcoming export ramping up production and early winter restocking by projects, however, a number of speculative orders were also northeast Asian importers.
placed by new and existing entrants, who anticipate tonnage requirements into early 2020s and beyond.
Newbuild ordering Global LNG trade volumes were up 9.4% to 322.5m mts per is expected to continue into 2019, with a number of year, with Australian exports jumping by 22.8% to 69.3m mts.
liquefaction projects anticipated to reach final investment The Wheatstone project second liquefaction train T2 and decision in 2019.
Ichthys project started production in 2018, and the Gorgon facility, which started in 2017, continued to ramp up exports Sale and purchase into 2018 which added to growth.
Secondhand Following a slow start to the year, we are pleased to report that Although Qatar was still the worlds largest exporter at just 2018 ended with our year-on-year figures up both in terms of over 77m mts, Australia is expected to become the biggest volume of transactions and value of income generated when in 2019 once its new export projects reach full capacity.
The US and Russia also increased exports significantly in 2018.
US production was up by 54.7% to 22.1m mts and Market conditions across all shipping sectors remained fairly Russian LNG loadings from both Sakhalin and Yamal projects challenging which when combined with the tightening of the were up by 71.8% to 18.2m mts.
capital markets as a source of funds for our publicly quoted clients, meant that we had to work especially hard to find Elsewhere, rising upstream gas production also resulted in meaningful business to transact.
In Oman, the Khazzan gas project has meant the country could boost its LNG production by 16.8% We won a number of major exclusive mandates which, to 9.5m mts and in Trinidad exports increased by 14.3% to alongside our other more regular business, gave us deep 13.0m mts.
Additional domestic gas production in Egypt insight into market flow.
This meant we were able to better resulted in climbing LNG exports, with shipments up 93.9% service our clients leading to success when compared to our to 1.51m mts.
In West Africa, Cameroon also started exporting competitors.
The standout exclusive mandate was for a fleet LNG from a floating LNG FLNG production unit in June and of 27 vessels which had gone into Chapter 11 via the US shipped around 0.7m mts in 2018. courts and was a modern fleet of suezmaxes, aframaxes and kamsarmax bulkers, all of which we successfully disposed of On the demand side, Asia remained the largest and fastest in an orderly fashion during the second half of the year without growing importing region.
Japan remained the largest importer allowing the asset prices to be significantly eroded.
This was at 82.6m mts, but year-on-year growth was flat.
The second the second time we have been appointed in such a way by largest buyer, China, continued its growth with imports up a US liquidator on behalf of the US Supreme Court to handle 30.5% to 51.7m mts, driven by environmental policy to switch a fleet sale and, when combined with the major appointment to gas from coal and economic growth.
South Korea remained we won during 2017 from the Korean Banks during the collapse the worlds third largest buyer and increased imports by 11% of Hanjin, cements our position as the only broking house to 41.9m mts.
Meanwhile, India also increased imports by worldwide who has either the experience or the resources 12.3% to 21.4m mts.
to professionally handle such business.
Looking forward to 2019, it is difficult for us to predict whether this volume of business is repeatable.
However, with all the regulatory changes concerning fuel and Ballast Water Treatment Systems, there are sure to be differing views amongst shipowners worldwide as to how best to manage their fleets and that in itself should provide the foundations for sale and purchase activity.
44 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Strategic report Newbuilding LNG 2018 showed a steady level of contracting against 2017, remaining above the 2016 lows.
64 conventional LNG carriers and In value terms, US$64.7bn of orders were placed compared one FSRU were ordered in 2018, to US$69.2bn in 2017 and US$36.7bn in 2016.
Although in dwt the highest for 14 years.
terms ordering fell 14% year-on-year, contracting volumes by cgt were up 2%, reflecting increased orders for high value LNG and large containerships.
Sale and purchase secondhand Our secondhand volume of Tanker ordering fell by around a third to 23m dwt, including 39 VLCCs 2017: 56 while bulker order volumes dropped 25% transactions and value of income to 31m dwt.
A run on LNG ordering developed over the year, both driven by speculative and project demand, with 69 orders generated increased compared of US$11.7bn being placed.
LPG ordering increased to 41 to 2017. vessels 2017: 27 and containership orders increased to 190 2017: 140.
Cruise and ferry also remained active sectors.
Sale and purchase newbuilding Korean yard order intake increased 67% and, driven by a 98% 2018 showed a steady level share of LNG orders, achieved a 44% global share of orders by cgt, compared to 32% for China and 13% for Japan.
of contracting against 2017, The equivalent numbers in dwt are Korea 43%, China 39% and Japan 15%.
Shipyard output declined by 10% during 2018 to reach 30.2m cgt, with a steeper decline when measured in dwt, reflecting an 18% year-on-year reduction in tanker and bulker tonnage delivered.
The market continues to fragment with respect to a division of focus between high value technology asset classes such as gas and offshore, where the Korean yards continue to place an increased focus, and dry and wet conventional tonnage, where the Chinese yards are continuing to press their intentions to maintain and grow market share.
From a regional perspective, Chinese yards retained their lead position with a 36% market share by cgt, followed by Korea and Japan both at 25%.
The equivalent numbers in dwt are China 43%, Japan 25% and Korea 25% with Japanese output actually slightly higher than Korea.
Whilst contracting levels were relatively consistent, much of the activity that took place was catalysed by what remained bottom cycle pricing and yards took challenging deals to secure production and maintain market share.
The likely consequence of this is that they will seek to increase their pricing policy for 2019 to mitigate against challenging contracts placed over the last 18 months.
Our performance remained up year-on-year, with significant contributions from both Sweden and Norway in the passenger and container sectors driving real volume and value into our order book.
We continue to capitalise on our position in the industrial space, on the relationships that this volume of contracting activity creates, and on the strong synergies existent throughout the Group.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 45 Business review continued Rebalancing of the broader rig market continues to progress further on the back of low utilisation and rates, financial stress Broking and contractors realisation of the need to reduce capacity across the industry.
As such, contractors have retired approximately 40% of the total floater fleet since late 2014. continued While the pace of retirements in the jackup segment has been slower for various reasons, a positive update is that 2018 Offshore witnessed the largest number of scrapping announcements.
General Continuing industry consolidation is also anticipated to be 2018 has, in general, been another challenging year for the a driver of further retirements in the industry.
During the first half of the year, oil prices strengthened significantly, inducing much needed The subsea and field development market optimism across the industry, and operators signalled In spite of oil prices strengthening during the first half of 2018, increasing activity levels moving forward.
The strong oil price leading to operators generally reporting strong cash flow, drop towards the end of the year, however, has once again sanctioning of new offshore field developments has not yet increased uncertainty with regard to future market conditions, seen a significant uptick.
A large number of offshore oil which could adversely affect the recovery for offshore projects seem to be economically viable even after oil prices oil services.
have dropped and, consequently should not prevent operators from increasing sanctioning activity.
Actual sanctioning in 2018 During 2018, we have observed a steady increase in rig seems to have been broadly in line with that observed in 2017, tendering and fixing activity and slightly improving utilisation indicating stable development in sanctioning activity, rather for selected rig and OSV segments.
Field development activity than an uptick.
This impacts the subsea and field development is, however, still progressing slowly and operators did not market, where backlog for leading contractors generally increase sanctioning of new developments notably compared remains flat.
The order backlog is however, down significantly to last year.
Offshore contractors and suppliers, however, from levels seen in 2015 and 2016, and as a consequence, regained some optimism and seem to be preparing for fleet utilisation for leading subsea contractors has continued increasing activity levels.
This is evidenced by increasing sale to be under pressure during 2018.
This has adverse knock-on and purchase activity and a few noteworthy M&A transactions, effects for vessel providers, leading to low global subsea fleet particularly in the offshore rig segment.
In spite of the careful utilisation.
A slight increase in the market for subsea optimism, utilisation and rates in general across the different inspections, maintenance and repairs and strong activity in the offshore service segments remain at depressed levels.
offshore wind segment has compensated somewhat, but this is far from sufficient to cover the shortfall in subsea EPC Drilling market project work.
Furthermore, as backlogs for leading contractors Total offshore rig demand improved slightly through 2018 have not yet started to build, the outlook for improving fleet having bottomed in early 2017.
The global offshore rig count utilisation is also subdued for the near-term future.
rigs on contract was at 462 units as at the end of December 2018, up from 449 units at the end of 2017.
Active utilisation Offshore support vessels PSV and AHTS currently is around 71% for jackups and 65% for floaters The market for OSVs remains challenging, characterised by versus 66% for both segments at the end of 2017. significant vessel overcapacity, low utilisation and day rates marginally above operating expenses in most regions.
Global A deeper analysis of the rig market displays significant fleet utilisation taking into account stacked vessels for large regional and sub-segment variances.
In shallow water, OSVs is currently around 67% and 78% for AHTS and PSV we see increased rig demand in the Middle East, Asia and respectively, while active utilisation levels in some regions West Africa.
For the deep water and ultra-deep water floater naturally remain substantially higher 87% and 92% globally segment, we see indications of demand growth in Brazil, for AHTS and PSV respectively.
In these severe market West Africa and Asia.
The North Sea Harsh Environment HE conditions, most or all vessel operators are struggling, and we semi-submersible market remains the strongest floater segment, have continued to witness high corporate activity in terms of especially in Norway.
This segment has experienced refinancing, restructuring and consolidation.
Some US players pronounced tightening due to rising demand and significant have managed to reduce their debt substantially as a result, supply side attrition, resulting in day rates doubling from making them more competitive going forward.
Increased trough levels, and HE-focused players picking up all of consolidation and significant vessel attrition bodes well for the HE semis stranded at yards in Singapore and Korea.
the longer-term rebalancing of the segment, but on the back of the substantial overcapacity, we anticipate a recovery to 2018 also saw a number of secondhand jackup transactions, more sustainable day rate levels to still be several years out.
with more buyers acquiring secondhand and stranded As for rigs, regional differences do apply, and rates have newbuild units.
In addition, there has finally been movement come up slightly already, for example in the North Sea where in the market for stranded newbuild ultra-deep water drillships both spot and term rates have come up noteworthy from for the first time since the downturn.
46 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Strategic report Futures Offshore general 2018 was another year of improvement in the dry indices, albeit less substantial than had initially been anticipated.
During 2018, we have observed a Capes averaged US$16,528 US$15,128 in 2017, panamaxes US$11,653 US$9,766 in 2017 and supramax 6TC averaged steady increase in rig tendering and US$11,196 US$9,168 in 2017.
Supramaxes are slowly migrating fixing activity and slightly improving from the 6TC 52,000 dwt to the 10TC 58,000 dwt 10TC index averaged 11,486 in 2018. utilisation for selected rig and OSV segments.
Volumes for the year were mixed with capes deteriorating from 501,511 lots in 2017 one lot is 1,000 tonnes to 488,234 lots in 2018.
This was compensated in part by an increase of over Offshore drilling market 40% in options volumes, particularly in the cape sector, from 192,779 lots in 2017 to 272,666 lots in 2018.
Panamax volumes Total offshore rig demand improved improved from 519,387 lots in 2017 to 576,040 lots in 2018, slightly through 2018 having re-establishing panamaxes as the highest volume futures contract.
Supramaxes lost minimal ground from 150,297 lots bottomed in early 2017. in 2017 to 142,128 lots in 2018 in part due to the split liquidity between the old 6TC average and the newer 10TC, which has Offshore the subsea and field development market taken a long time to gain traction.
In spite of oil prices strengthening The headline cape index was volatile throughout the year, particularly in the fourth quarter, when expectations of a strong during the first half of 2018, end to the year ultimately failed to materialise.
This volatility sanctioning of new offshore field together with the improved notional values resulted in an improved year for the division with stronger revenues developments has not yet seen particularly in the options area.
2018 marked the re-entry of the Company into the wet FFA market, with a team that built in numbers through the year, Offshore OSVs achieving full strength only in the fourth quarter.
The team have made a solid start and quickly established themselves in the The market for OSVs remains market.
The year saw a minor drop in clean volumes from challenging, characterised by 144,127 lots in 2017 to 131,106 lots in 2018, but a substantial growth in dirty volumes from 126,911 lots in 2017 to 191,975 significant vessel overcapacity, lots in 2018. low utilisation and day rates Iron ore volumes shrank for much of the year, dropping for an marginally above operating average of 5m mt per day during 2017 to 3m mt per day for the first three quarters of the year.
This was predominantly due to expenses in most regions.
the market falling from a US$41.50 high low range in 2017 to US$20 range for much of 2018.
This was only remedied in the Futures fourth quarter when volumes returned to the 5m mt per day mark on the back of a spike in volatility, taking the market 2018 marked the re-entry of the out of its narrow range.
Company into the wet FFA market.
The team have made a solid start and quickly established themselves in the market.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 47 Business review continued Financial Share of revenue Investing for the future Against a backdrop of volatile markets and regulatory change, we executed a number of key transactions and positioned 14% ourselves to take advantage of opportunities as they arise.
Services Revenue Securities Project finance Structured asset finance 46.1m 2017: 52.0m Segment underlying profit Number of employees 8.0m 2017: 10.1m 11 4 48 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Strategic report Financial in action How has Clarksons Platou Securities helped its clients to service funding needed to execute their strategy?
Across the verticals of shipping, oil services and metals and mining, Clarksons Platou Securities has been lead in servicing finance in both Oslo and the US for clients covering cargo and its journey.
Clarksons Platou Securities has been lead in raising US$38bn in capital for energy and maritime industries from 2010 to 2018: US$20.7bn in equity and US$17.3bn in debt.
Clarksons Platou Securities seamless execution services has led to a significant amount of repeat business, with 39 equity and debt transactions completed in 2018.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 49 Business review continued During the first half of 2018, we established a new convertible bond desk, and by the end of December this totalled six Financial people: in Oslo, New York, Frankfurt and Calgary.
This team completed its first convertible bond transaction of US$350m in Borr Drilling Limited in May 2018 and has an evolving pipeline.
continued In our core industries of shipping, offshore and metals and Securities mining, low ordering, robust global demand and regulatory 2018 was unquestionably volatile.
Stock markets, in particular, changes all fuel positive expectations, albeit balanced against suffered mainly due to raised interest rates.
During the fourth global macro-economic uncertainty.
quarter, global stocks experienced their worst performance since 2010.
The US Federal Reserve feared an overheating in Project finance the US with high inflation, and raised interest rates faster than Shipping expected, which affected the market negatively.
Throughout The Norwegian project finance market experienced a growing the first three quarters of 2018, most global economic level of deal activity in 2018 compared to the previous year.
Global equities rallied amid strong The Norwegian KS structure is still popular among shipowners corporate earnings and solid economic growth in developed who are seeking investors to co-invest in their projects.
The markets, having shrugged off the heated-up trade tensions typical deal size is US$10-15m with 50-100% equity finance.
In Norway, the Oslo Brs Domestic and international investors seeking direct investment Benchmark Index had consecutive highs during September, in the shipping market, often find the project market in culminating in a new all-time high set on 26 September due Norway a good platform to make such investments.
In addition, to the increased oil price.
However, the trend was short-lived.
the investor market seeks fixed yield investments through In the final quarter global stocks fell almost 7% and any gain long-term bareboat leases.
Competition in the leasing space earned during the first nine months were erased due to is growing, with several new players having raised equity for concern over Chinese economic growth, fear of higher interest leasing funds with capital ready to be deployed.
Clarksons rates, trade wars and the fear of a hard Brexit.
The S&P fell Platou Project Finance placed two leasing projects in 2018 almost 13%, FTSE down almost 11% and the OSE fell 15.5%.
and will focus on growing its market share going forward.
In the first half of 2018, the demand for oil increased due to Clarksons Platou Project Finance transaction volume reached the cut in production from OPEC and bargaining disturbances its highest level since 2009 with 17 vessels financed through from Venezuela, Angola and Libya.
In addition, the decision 12 transactions, totalling US$170m of invested capital.
The to abandon the Iranian agreement has also influenced the oil majority of projects placed have been within the container, price.
Despite the gloomy performance globally, Norway did bulk, tanker and offshore markets.
not see an extremely negative impact in 2018, and the energy index which contains a large proportion of companies active Real estate in the oil sector climbed 3%, mainly due to the performance The Nordic real estate market delivered solid volume in 2018 of Equinor, DNO and Aker BP.
although a slight decrease from the volumes seen in 2017.
Throughout the Nordic market, yields on prime assets and 2018 also came with the implementation of some significant long leases compressed as institutional funds, private equity regulatory changes, including MiFID II and GDPR, which have funds, family offices and other investors sought yielding assets had a negative impact on Investment Banking earnings as with stable dividends in low volatility macro-economies like continued pressure on commissions due to research the Nordics.
In 2018, prime yields in Stockholm and Oslo were payments has become more evident.
During 2018, Clarksons similar to major European cities like Berlin, Paris and Madrid.
Platou Securities established a subsidiary in Calgary, Canada in order to introduce our services into the Canadian metals The vacancy rate in the Oslo office market is expected to and mining and E&P sectors.
In addition, we have applied to decline over the coming years as a result of conversion and establish a branch in London under our current licences held demolition of older office buildings to residential properties, in Norway, for which we expect to receive the approval to start combined with few new office buildings.
The growth in business during the first quarter of 2019. rent levels exceeded 10% even in 2018, and the consensus expectation for 2019 is that the rent levels will continue with Contrary to the first quarter of 2018, the second was extremely strong growth making office buildings with short leases good for Clarksons Platou Securities.
During the first half of an attractive investment opportunity.
2018 we completed a total of 21 transactions, raising US$900m in equity and US$1.6bn in debt and in the second During 2018 Clarksons Platou Real Estate completed half of 2018 we closed 18 transactions raising approximately 24 projects and sold two projects, generating substantial US$1.3bn in equity and US$1.1bn in debt.
Key transactions during the year were the closure of the In addition, we have established a new fund management acquisition of Songa Offshore ASA for Transocean and the company with two employees.
This company launched its first acquisition of all vessels from Songa Bulk ASA by Star Bulk opportunistic real estate fund in the fourth quarter, where we Carriers Corp.
These transactions totalled approximately raised NOK500m in committed equity in less than a week.
US$1.4bn and continued to build our position as a trusted The fund has already concluded two investments and is M&A advisor.
We have also continued our focus on metals considering others.
and mining and participated in several deals, including the US$350m bond offering for Nemaska Lithium.
50 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Strategic report Structured asset finance Securities As expected, the challenging financing landscape has persisted throughout 2018 with a fundamental undersupply Throughout the first three quarters of credit to the shipping industry.
We have seen banks adopt a more cautious approach to ship finance given market of 2018, most global economic regulation alongside Basel III and IV and have seen that the indicators strengthened.
traditional relationship banking approach is beyond only the very few top tier owners.
Project finance shipping Global ship finance has fallen 25% since 2008, whilst the global The Norwegian project finance fleet has increased by 28% during the same period.
Although the Chinese, Japanese and Korean leasing companies have market experienced a growing level filled some of the lending gap, banks are lending less and less to shipping and sources of capital are getting tighter.
It is also of deal activity in 2018 compared noteworthy that the leasing solutions are only for owners with to 2017. sizeable fleets and consolidated financials.
Alternative capital providers targeting smallto medium-sized Project finance real estate owners have also been on the rise to fill some of the gap, The Nordic real estate market however finance is not cheap, with the price of capital very much matched to the quality of risk.
The fundamental shifts delivered solid volume in 2018. in the banking industry and the lack of financing have created some interesting dynamics with owners having to think carefully about new ways to finance their assets.
Structured asset finance The challenging financing We expect that in 2019 shipping finance will remain testing as the shipping finance landscape evolves.
landscape has persisted throughout 2018, with a fundamental undersupply of credit to the shipping industry.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 51 Business review continued Support Share of revenue Capitalising on activity The breadth of services offered to our clients enables us to capitalise on increasing levels of market activity wherever they arise.
7% Services Revenue Agency Gibb Tools Stevedoring Freight forwarding and logistics 23.9m 2017: 18.5m Segment underlying profit Number of employees 2.3m 2017: 2.1m 240 52 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Strategic report Support in action How does one of the worlds major energy providers benefit from working with Clarksons Port Services?
If a turnkey solution for an offshore energy project is required, we have the ability to assist our client from start to finish, providing them with a unique and bespoke service that utilises our experience in logistics management, broking, bunker supply, port agency, stevedoring and procurement services and freight services.
Using the Groups extensive data and global connections, our client can be entirely reassured that we can co-ordinate every aspect of their offshore project, be it sourcing suitable vessels, managing logistics, securing ports, procuring equipment and goods or arranging necessary supplies of bunkers and water, as well as adhere to strict deadlines to ensure that no costly delays to the project will be incurred.
Our ability to contribute such a broad range of services as a result of our intelligence not only generates significant cost savings but ensures maximum efficiency for our clients.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 53 Business review continued Our offshore services have been further bolstered by a continued increase in the renewables market as the UK Support continues to invest in the construction of offshore wind farms.
We have now seen several large projects start off the Scottish coast, which are set to give us sustained work for the next continued few years.
Agency UK Agency Egypt A poor 2018 grain season caused by extremes in weather During 2018, Clarkson Shipping Agency in Egypt has conditions leading up to the harvest resulted in a marked successfully expanded its range of services through the reduction in activity for our offices that concentrate on the signing of a long-term contract with one major customer liner export of grain.
We saw some movement of malting barley, business.
Consequently, we have commenced the execution but very little feed or milling wheat moving.
of outsourced customer service centres across all Egyptian ports with the addition of about 50 new joiners to our agency The announcement towards the end of the year that two and chartering team.
bioethanol plants on the east coast of the UK were suspending production created some welcomed optimism in the grain Gibb Tools market, with the hope that more of the UK surplus will now Our supply business has had a good year on the back of the be released for export.
increase in activity in the oil, gas and offshore wind sectors.
In Aberdeen, we have seen customers increase their levels of Grain imports remained steady, even seeing increased volume spend with us and are pleased to see contracts for the supply being shipped from the US and Canada.
of tools and consumables being renewed into 2019.
As a result of the wet weather conditions in the early part Stevedoring of the year, we have seen an increase in animal feed volumes As with our agency business, our stevedoring operation in being imported throughout the UK offices, and have taken the Ipswich has suffered from the reduced levels of grain exports opportunity to open a new office on the Clyde in support of from the UK.
The lower levels of grain available in the UK did, however, The import of biofuels remains steady through our Liverpool naturally lead to increased import demand.
Although providing and Tyne offices and aggregates continue to be an important welcome tonnage through the port, higher levels of imports part of our business, with imports handled by our east coast do rely on increased storage capacity being readily available.
offices and exports taking place from Ireland.
With this in mind, we were delighted to be given sole use of Associated British Ports recently completed purpose-built There was a marked improvement within the offshore oil and warehouse facility.
The greatly increased storage capacity gas sector albeit that levels of activity are still nowhere near within the port will allow us to accommodate the growing those seen in 2014. needs of our customers.
54 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Strategic report Freight forwarding and logistics Agency UK We continue to expand our freight forwarding operations in Aberdeen, Great Yarmouth and Belfast.
Our offshore services have been We have now achieved Authorised Economic Operator status bolstered by a continued increase with HMRC, enabling us to increase the service we can offer in the renewables market.
to our customers when handling their import and export needs, and have also invested in new dedicated software allowing us to streamline our links with customs, carriers Agency Egypt and warehouse requirements.
During 2018, our Egyptian agency We are proud to offer a dedicated bespoke service to our business successfully expanded customers, meeting a demand and service level not always available from some of the larger freight forwarding companies.
its range of services through the signing of a long-term contract with one major customer liner business.
Gibb Tools Our supply business has had a good year on the back of the increase in activity in the oil, gas and offshore wind sectors.
Stevedoring The greatly increased storage capacity will allow us to accommodate the growing needs of our customers.
Freight forwarding and logistics We continue to expand our freight forwarding operations in Aberdeen, Great Yarmouth and Belfast.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 55 Business review continued Research Share of revenue Leading the way Driving innovation to improve our product offering and expand our client base, thus cementing our market-leading position.
5% Services Revenue Digital Services Reports 15.9m 2017: 14.6m Segment underlying profit Number of employees 5.0m 2017: 4.8m 1 20 56 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Strategic report Research in action How has Clarksons Research improved intelligence flows around ship refurbishment and retro-fit?
The demand for intelligence around the repair, refurbishment and retro-fitting of vessels has increased in recent years, in response to new environmental regulations and the increased opportunities for service support of the expanded world fleet.
However, intelligence around this area has traditionally been less comprehensive than that available for the newbuilding market.
Utilising algorithmic techniques to derive data from a combination of our vessel, marine equipment, vessel movement, geo-spatial and shipyard databases, Clarksons Research has created an intelligence flow that tracks activity at ship repair yards around the world.
This intelligence covers special surveys, refurbishments, conversions, off hire time and the retro-fitting of eco-equipment such as scrubbers and ballast water management systems.
This data is integrated into our World Fleet Register, SeaNet and data feeds to clients providing them with insights to support their decisionmaking and sales and marketing programmes.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 57 Business review continued Digital Sales from our digital product range grew by an encouraging Research 19% 2017: 16% and there are now over 6,000 individual users across our single access integrated platform.
Investments into our digital offer continue, with specific development plans for continued each of our digital products to ensure that all systems capture the benefits of our expanded database, utilise latest technology Research revenue grew by 9% to reach 15.9m 2017: 14.6m, including new data visualisation and customisation tools and with profits of 5.0m 2017: 4.8m.
Clarksons Research is remain market relevant.
Investment into the underlying a globally respected leader in the provision of data and architecture of our digital offer has also supported wide intelligence across shipping, trade, offshore and energy and ranging benefits.
we have invested heavily to expand our proprietary database, to improve our product offering through technology and Major digital products include: innovation and to grow our wide client base through an expanded sales capability.
Research continues to be a core Shipping Intelligence Network data provider to the broking, financial and support teams Sales from our market-leading commercial shipping database of Clarksons, including to the Clarksons Cloud initiative, grew strongly, further enhancing our market position.
Across and helps enhance Clarksons profile across the shipping 2018, our newly-developed intelligence management tool has industry with its wide distribution.
allowed us to publish regular briefings on the shipping context of major geopolitical events such as the US-China trade war Research focuses on gathering, validating, processing and Brexit.
Investment across our time series and indices and analysing data around the shipping and offshore database in 2018 has also increased the volume of intelligence markets to support our clients with their strategy and general available to our clients.
Total global research headcount is over 120, with a significant Asia Pacific presence.
Recent World Fleet Register headcount expansion has focused on our IT development Sales from our online vessel register have grown robustly and data analytics teams as well as our business development across 2018, benefiting in part from strong client interest and sales capabilities.
Over 75% of research sales are in the accelerating environmental regulatory timetable facing annuity-based and client retention levels remained high in the shipping industry.
The register focuses on providing 2018.
Research maintains a regionally broad and diversified intelligence around the world fleet, environmental regulation, client base, including good market penetration across the the tracking of new technology on-board ships and market financial, shipowning, insurance, supplier, governmental, trends in the shipbuilding market.
A range of new features private equity, energy, commodity, shipyard, fabrication introduced in early 2018 have been extremely well received and oil service sectors.
by our client base and the roll out of a new ship repair module, focusing on retrofitting of new technology on ships, is Our wide-ranging and proprietary database continues to scheduled for release in early 2019. expand with an ongoing focus on market relevance, depth and breadth.
Our new data analytics team are now deriving Offshore Intelligence Network a range of additional data utilising innovative techniques.
This system benefited from a major upgrade in the first half Across shipping and trade, our database provides coverage on of 2018, including the roll out of regional OSV utilisation time over 140,000 vessels totalling 2bn dwt, over 40,000 companies, series developed by our data analytics team using new over 25,000 machinery models including environmental algorithmic techniques.
Other improvements include database packages on ships, over 600 active shipyards and fabricators, driven intelligence alerts, rig availability charting, lifecycle over 600,000 fixtures, capital market and shipping loan data project tracking and oil company investment profiles.
and over 100,000 commercial and trade time series, including coverage of 11.9bn tonnes of seaborne trade and commodity World Offshore Register flow data.
Our ports and infrastructure database has seen Our comprehensive offshore register provides detailed significant expansion in 2018, including a total of 6,000 ports, intelligence on all offshore oil and gas fields, oil company 20,000 berths, 1,000 refineries and 400 LNG plants, all investment activity, the infrastructure involved and the mobile integrated within a Geographical Information System platform.
assets that support the offshore sector.
A new module Our offshore and energy database provides comprehensive focused on the growing global renewables market was added coverage of 7,000 offshore fields producing 25m barrels of oil to the offer in 2018, as was intelligence on decommissioning per day and 121bn cubic feet per day, tracking of over 2,000 projects.
Despite the continued challenging market, sales investment projects through their lifecycle, 8,000 production across our combined offshore digital product range grew platforms, 8,000 subsea trees, 1,000 offshore rigs, 5,000 by 13%.
We have retained our market-leading position support vessels and construction vessels.
This data flows in the insurance market.
through into our Research offering and into systems used across the Clarksons operating divisions.
SeaNet Our vessel movement system blends satellite and land-based AIS data with our proprietary database of vessels and ports, utilising innovative technology developed in-house and in conjunction with Clarksons Cloud.
Across 2018, the development of intelligence around vessel speed, deployment patterns and port activity began to be rolled out across the system.
This new intelligence leverages off our programme to create a market-leading port and infrastructure database.
Further enhancements to SeaNet are planned for 2019.
58 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Strategic report Services General Our specialist services team, which concentrates on managing retainers and providing bespoke data, consultancy and Our new data analytics team are seminars for a range of corporate clients, achieved some notable successes in 2018 and is working closely with our now deriving a range of additional IT team to offer new delivery options and with our expanded data utilising innovative techniques.
sales teams to generate new business.
These bespoke services typically become embedded within our clients workflows, supporting good client retention.
Important client Digital groups include banks, shipyards, fabricators, engineering Investments into our digital offer companies, insurers, governments, asset owners and other corporates.
There was expansion of the client base across continue, with specific development ports during 2018. plans for each of our digital products.
Clarksons Valuations performed well in 2018.
Clarksons Valuations work closely with all major ship finance banks, leasing Services companies and asset owners, and are recognised as the market leader in the provision of authoritative valuations.
The successful Our specialist services team project to digitalise workflows, supported by significant achieved some notable successes investment into the teams operating platform, has substantially improved workflow efficiency and client deliverables.
in 2018 and is working closely with Reports our IT team to offer new delivery Our comprehensive market intelligence report series continues options and with our expanded to generate provenance and profile across the industry, benefiting from over 50 years of heritage.
The series is widely sales teams to generate new recognised across the industry as a source of trustworthy business.
intelligence and, in addition to being available individually, are increasingly accessed via our digital offer.
Our flagship shipping reports include Shipping Intelligence Weekly, Reports Shipping Review and Outlook and LNG Trade and Transport.
Our offshore intelligence series includes Offshore Review and Our comprehensive market Outlook, Offshore Drilling Rig Monthly and Offshore Support intelligence report series continues Vessel Monthly.
to generate provenance and profile across the industry, benefiting from over 50 years of heritage.
