74 Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 | Governance Risk Committee Report Membership and meetings The Risk Committees principal The Committee comprises Geoffrey Howe, the senior independent director, and Oliver Corbett and Bridget Macaskill roles and responsibilities are to who chair the Audit and Remuneration Committees respectively, and me as chairman.
Six scheduled meetings were held during support the board in its the year.
oversight of risk management Full details of members attendance at these meetings during the year are set out on page 68. across the group.
In addition to the members of the Committee, standing invitations are extended to the chairman of the board, the The identification, management and mitigation of risk is executive directors, the group chief risk officer, the group head of fundamental to the success of the group.
The following sections compliance and the group head of internal audit.
All attend our set out the Committees membership, its key responsibilities and Committee meetings as a matter of course and have supported the principal areas of risk upon which we have focused during and informed the Committees discussions.
The Committee plays an important role in setting the tone and culture that promotes effective risk management Other executives, subject matter experts, risk team members across the group.
and external advisers are invited to attend the Committee from time to time as required, to present and advise on reports Risk Committee commissioned.
Chairmans overview The continuing evolution of the macroeconomic environment and I meet frequently with the group chief risk officer and his risk political landscape alongside a demanding regulatory agenda team in a combination of formal and informal sessions, and with aimed at bolstering the strength and conduct of the banking senior management across all divisions of the group, to discuss industry have again kept the Risk Committee fully occupied the business environment and to gather their views of emerging throughout the year.
risks, business performance and the competitive environment.
I am pleased to report that enhancements to our risk Committee effectiveness management framework, and a consistent and prudent risk As described in more detail on page 70, an external evaluation appetite, have each helped to reinforce the groups strong credit of the effectiveness of the board and its committees was performance again this year.
We continue to build out our risk undertaken during the year in line with the requirements of the capabilities and are satisfied that we have both retained and UK Corporate Governance Code.
recruited the skills and talent that we need to meet the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead.
The Committee considers that during the year it continued to have access to sufficient resources to enable it to carry out its As in previous years, the Committee apportions its time between duties and has continued to perform effectively.
the planned periodic review of key portfolio risks and the close scrutiny of new business risks as they develop.
This approach Activity in the 2018 financial year allows us to ensure that emerging risks are identified and The risk function has continued to evolve in 2018.
The three lines debated and that managements plans for risk mitigation are of defence model is now fully embedded, while the governance well understood and appropriately resourced.
structure facilitates effective oversight of risk, both at a group and business level.
The risk design has been further Committee roles and responsibilities strengthened through the organisation of additional specialist The Committees key roles and responsibilities are to: skills and resource, in particular with regard to operational oversee the maintenance and development of a supportive resilience oversight.
These actions have continued to improve culture in relation to the management of risk: the flow of management information to the Committee, review and set risk appetite, which is the level of risk the group increasing the effectiveness of its challenge and oversight and is willing to take in pursuit of its strategic objectives: enhancing visibility on risk and compliance issues identified at all monitor the groups risk profile against the prescribed appetite: levels across the group.
review the effectiveness of the risk management framework to ensure that key risks are identified and appropriately managed: and provide input from a risk perspective into the alignment of remuneration with performance against risk appetite through the Remuneration Committee.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 75 01 The risk appetite framework has been supplemented by the use Our focus on cyber crime has accelerated during the year, as an of additional quantitative analysis, supporting the groups risk increasing number of industry attacks reinforced the importance management capabilities, particularly in response to market of strong cyber defences to protect our systems and customer events.
This has allowed us to adopt and refine risk appetite data.
The groups GDPR programme is complete, ensuring measures at a more granular level within portfolio management, regulatory alignment and generating enhancements to customer individual credit-decisioning and risk reporting.
The specific documentation, third party contracts, internal processes, portfolio review approach has continued, with particular attention systems changes and the supporting operating model.
Our given to the Property, Premium and Motor portfolios, which have cyber detection and monitoring capabilities have continued to all benefited from deep dives by the Risk Committee.
improve, while our cyber security strategy remains under 02 constant review by the board and this Committee to ensure that Management of emerging risks has again continued to improve, we are keeping pace with, and responding to, the latest facilitating organisational readiness for external volatility.
Emerging risk assessment remains a standing agenda item for Ensuring that we are fully compliant with the numerous and the Committees discussion and indeed, all risk committees ever-changing regulatory requirements for financial services firms within the group while stress testing capabilities have continued remains challenging.
We continue to engage actively with to evolve on a more quantitative basis to support what if regulators and industry bodies to ensure that our compliance analysis for one-off events.
The potential impacts of Brexit framework remains appropriate and relevant for all of our continue to receive focus albeit, given the groups footprint, businesses.
The Compliance team works closely with first and these are likely to be secondary in nature.
Nevertheless, until we second line colleagues, providing regulatory advice in support of 03 have a clearer idea of the final negotiated treaty, they will merit divisional business strategies, as well as shaping policies, regular review.
We continue to develop appropriate contingency delivering training and conducting assurance reviews.
plans, and these have been subject to regular challenge by the Committee.
We remain satisfied that the group is well positioned Remuneration to address any foreseeable Brexit outcome.
The linkage between culture, risk and compensation is an important one and the Risk Committee and the group chief risk The groups use of finance and risk models continues to evolve officer have provided input to the Remuneration Committee at pace with the development of our IFRS 9 models advancing again this year to ensure that risk behaviours and the our overall model inventory.
In addition, we have seen the management of operational risk incidents over the course of the evolution and use of the model risk framework and governance financial year were appropriately reflected in decisions taken structure.
The board and the Committee continue to assess about performance and reward.
various options for advancing our future modelling approach with the aim of enhancing our risk management capabilities.
Looking ahead to 2018 Key priorities for the coming year include: The Committee has also overseen the introduction of a new Effective management of emerging risks, specifically key asset and liability management system which supports more impacts of the UKs exit from the EU, as well as any other quantitative modelling capabilities and sophisticated stress material developing concerns.
Continued review and assessment of the groups modelling capabilities, including the development of a wider models Operational risk continues to develop in its complexity and we strategy as appropriate.
have responded by investing further in systems and process Further evolution of quantitative stress testing.
enhancements to support the early identification of negative Refinement and advancement of the groups operational trends.
Our operational resilience has been the subject of much resilience framework.
debate at the Committee as we continually review our estate, our Embedding of affordability assessment processes across the IT capabilities and our contingency and disaster recovery plans.
Incident simulations have been utilised to good effect and have Extension of the Senior Managers and Certification Regime proved valuable to the Committee in continuing to challenge our SMCR to Winterflood and Asset Management.
Lesley Jones Chairman of the Risk Committee 25 September 2018
