66 Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 | Governance | Annual Report 2018 66 Corporate Governance Report Chairmans Introduction The board recognises its role in establishing and monitoring the I am pleased to introduce the groups purpose and values.
To that end, the board spent time in the year overseeing the development of the groups purpose Corporate Governance Report statement and key cultural attributes, which are set out at the beginning of this Annual Report.
The board has been unchanged this year.
However, in January It includes an overview of the we announced that after 10 years as group finance director, Jonathan Howell will be leaving the company following the groups governance structure, forthcoming Annual General Meeting to pursue the next stage of his career.
The Nomination and Governance Committee oversaw its risk and control framework, an extensive search process, involving internal and external candidates, to identify Jonathans successor.
In June, we were and a description of the key pleased to announce that Mike Morgan, chief financial officer of our Banking division, will succeed Jonathan as group finance activities of the board and its director.
Mikes appointment as a director will be proposed for approval at the AGM.
On behalf of the board, I would like to committees during the year as thank Jonathan for his significant contribution to the group over so many years.
part of its oversight of the This year, in line with the Corporate Governance Code, the board groups strategy, business appointed an external evaluator to review its effectiveness and performance.
The review concluded that the board is strong and model and performance.
The board welcomes the findings and we will work to consider opportunities for incremental improvements during the year ahead.
Further details of the evaluation can be found on pages 70 and 71.
The board strongly believes that robust corporate governance makes a significant contribution to the long-term success of the The boards four committees continue to play an important role group and the achievement of its strategy.
We are committed to in the governance of the group, and in helping the board operate ensuring that the principles of good corporate governance are effectively and efficiently.
Reports from each of the committees, reflected throughout the groups governance framework.
I am describing their activities during the year, are set out later in pleased to report that, as in prior years, the company has this report.
complied with the principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code during the year.
Further details of the Executive remuneration remains an important topic, and I was companys approach to corporate governance and how it pleased that the groups new remuneration policy received the complies with the Code can be found later in this report.
strong support of shareholders at last years AGM.
The Directors Remuneration Report, which includes further detail on 2018 has been a busy year for corporate governance reform in the application of the new policy during the year, can be found the UK.
The board has monitored developments closely, later in this section of the Annual Report.
including the publication of a new Corporate Governance Code.
The strength of the groups existing corporate governance Engagement and dialogue with shareholders continue to be very framework means it is well placed for the implementation of the important to the board.
Personally, I have been pleased to meet new Code, which will first apply to the company in the financial with a number of our shareholders during the year.
The board and its committees have companys AGM, which will take place on 15 November 2018, is already spent time assessing the implications for the group and a valuable opportunity for me and my fellow directors to meet over the coming months we will continue to consider the actions with shareholders, and for shareholders to raise questions about required in a small number of areas to deliver compliance with the performance of the group.
I very much look forward to the new Code.
discussing the groups progress and the work of the board with shareholders at that meeting.
During the year the board has used formal meetings and other opportunities to discuss the groups performance and delivery of Michael N. Biggs its strategy with group and divisional executives.
As part of its Chairman decision-making and scrutiny, the board has considered the interests of the companys stakeholders, as well as risks arising 25 September 2018 from the wider regulatory, economic and political environment.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 67 UK Corporate Governance Code The board comprises three female and five male members.
This The UK Corporate Governance Code, as published by the means that more than a third of the directors are women.
Financial Reporting Council FRC in April 2016 the Code, has been applied by the company throughout the financial year.
The board actively considers its diversity as part of discussions A copy of the Code can be found on the FRCs website: around succession planning and talent management throughout www.
It is committed to making board appointments on the basis of merit against objective and defined criteria, following a The Code sets out guidance on best practice in the form of consideration of the balance of skills, experience, knowledge principles and provisions on how companies should be directed and diversity required.
The Nomination and Governance and controlled to follow good governance practice.
The Financial Committee ensures that the external search firms that it uses to 01 Conduct Authority FCA requires companies with a premium assist with board appointments engage with candidates from a listing in the UK to disclose, in relation to the Code, how they have broad and diverse range of backgrounds and experience in applied its principles and whether they have complied with its drawing up long-lists for consideration.
provisions throughout the financial year.
Where the provisions have not been complied with, companies must provide an explanation.
The board will look for opportunities to further improve the diversity of the board, where it is consistent with the skills, It is the boards view that throughout the year the company has experience and expertise required at a particular point in time.
complied with the principles and provisions set out in the Code.
Further detail as to how the company has complied with the Code The board remains committed to improving diversity at all levels is set out in the remainder of this Corporate Governance Report.
As such, it supports, and is updated on, diversity initiatives in place below board level across the In July 2018, the FRC published a revised version of the Code group.
Further information on these initiatives can be found on 02 the Revised Code, which applies to accounting periods pages 46 and 47 of the Strategic Report.
beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The Revised Code is therefore not applicable to the company in the year under review, Matters reserved to the board but the company will report under it with respect to the financial A number of key decisions are reserved for, and may only be year ending 31 July 2020.
Further information on the Nomination made by, the board.
These specific matters and decisions are and Governance Committees consideration of the Revised set out in a formal schedule, which enables the board and Code can be found in the Committees report on page 79.
A executive management to operate within a clear governance copy of the Revised Code can be found on the FRCs website: framework.
The schedule of matters reserved to the board is www.
reviewed annually and is published on the companys website.
The Board The matters and decisions specifically reserved for the board 03 Leadership of the board include: The boards primary role is to provide leadership, and to ensure responsibility for the overall direction of the group and that the company is appropriately managed and delivers oversight of the groups management: long-term shareholder value.
It sets the groups strategic approval of the groups strategy and monitoring its delivery: objectives, monitors managements performance against those oversight of risk management, regulatory compliance and objectives and provides direction for the group as a whole.
The internal control: board also supervises the groups operations, with the aim of ensuring adequate financial resources, including approving the ensuring that it maintains a framework of prudent and effective groups Recovery and Resolution Plans, and the Internal controls which enables risks to be properly assessed and Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP : appropriately managed.
changes to the groups dividend policy and significant changes in accounting policies: Board size and composition approving acquisitions, disposals, other transactions and The board has eight members: the chairman, three executive expenditure over certain thresholds: directors and four independent non-executive directors.
The changes to the capital structure of the group: boards members come from a range of backgrounds and it is approval of communications to shareholders: structured to ensure that no individual or group of individuals is changes to the structure, size and composition of the board, able to dominate the decision-making process and no undue following recommendations from the Nomination and reliance is placed on any individual.
Governance Committee: approval of corporate governance matters, including the Details of the individual directors and their biographies are set evaluation of the performance of the board and its out on pages 58 and 59. committees: leading the development of the groups culture framework: and Board diversity approval and oversight of the groups policy framework.
The board acknowledges the benefits that diversity can bring to the board and to all levels of the groups operations.
It recognises the importance of having a board with a range of skills, knowledge and experience.
It also embraces the benefits to be derived from having directors who come from a diversity of backgrounds, bringing different perspectives and the challenge needed to ensure effective decision-making.
68 Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 | Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Board and committee meeting attendance 2017 2018 During the year the board held seven regular scheduled meetings.
In addition, all members of the board attended an off-site strategy session with senior management over two days in May.
The annual schedule of board meetings is decided a substantial time in advance in order to ensure, so far as possible, the availability of each of the directors.
In the event that directors are unable to attend meetings, they receive papers in the normal manner and have the opportunity to relay their comments and questions in advance of the meeting, as well as follow up with the chairman if necessary.
The same process applies in respect of the various board committees.
The attendance of directors at scheduled board and committee meetings of which they were members during the financial year is shown in the table below.
Some directors also attended committee meetings as invitees during the year, which is not reflected in the table.
Specifically, all members of the board were present at all meetings of the Audit and Risk Committees in the year.
Remuneration Nomination and Board Audit Committee Committee Risk Committee Governance Committee Attended Total Attended Total Attended Total Attended Total Attended Total Executive directors Preben Prebensen 7 7 Jonathan Howell 7 7 Elizabeth Lee 7 7 Non-executive directors Mike Biggs 7 7 5 5 Oliver Corbett 7 7 5 5 5 5 6 6 5 5 Geoffrey Howe 7 7 5 5 5 5 6 6 5 5 Lesley Jones 7 7 5 5 5 5 6 6 5 5 Bridget Macaskill 7 7 5 5 5 5 6 6 5 5 The board held two additional ad hoc meetings in the year to consider matters relating to the ICAAP and the creation of the companys Euro Medium Term Note Programme.
The Nomination and Governance Committee held one additional ad hoc meeting during the year to consider, and recommend to the board, the appointment of Mike Morgan as the new group finance director.
These additional meetings are not reflected in the table above.
At the end of each of the seven board meetings in the year, the chairman and the other non-executive directors met without any of the executive directors.
In addition, the non-executive directors met throughout the year on an informal basis to discuss matters relevant to the group.
Governance Framework Board governance structure The board committee structure is shown in the diagram below.
The board has delegated responsibility for certain matters to its committees, as set out in written terms of reference which are reviewed annually.
These terms of reference outline each committees role and responsibilities and the extent of the authority delegated by the board.
They are available on the companys website at www.
The chairman of each committee reports regularly to the board on matters discussed at committee meetings.
Reports for each of the boards committees are set out later in this report and they include further detail on each committees role and responsibilities, and the activities undertaken during the year.
The Board Audit Remuneration Risk Nomination and Committee Committee Committee Governance Committee Meetings of the board At each scheduled meeting the board receives reports from the chief executive and group finance director on the performance and results of the group.
In addition, the Banking division managing director, the Banking division chief financial officer, the Asset Management chief executive and the Winterflood chief executive attend each meeting to update the board on performance, strategic developments and initiatives in their respective areas, and the head of legal and regulatory affairs provides updates on legal and regulatory matters.
In addition, the board receives regular updates from the group human resources, corporate development, risk, compliance and internal audit functions.
There is an annual schedule of rolling agenda items to ensure that all matters are given due consideration and are reviewed at the appropriate point in the financial and regulatory cycle.
Meetings are structured to ensure that there is sufficient time for consideration and debate of all matters.
In addition to scheduled or routine items, the board also considers key issues that impact the group, as they arise.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 69 The directors receive detailed papers in advance of each board and risk appetite, implementing the decisions of the board and meeting.
The board agenda is carefully structured by the facilitating effective communication with shareholders and chairman in consultation with the chief executive and the regulatory bodies.
He also has responsibility for overseeing the company secretary.
Each director may review the agenda and adoption of the groups culture and values as part of the propose items for discussion with the chairmans agreement.
day-to-day management of the group.
Additional information is also circulated to directors between meetings, including relevant updates on business performance Preben chairs the Executive Committee, the forum that exercises and regulatory interactions.
management oversight of the group, including through the monitoring and implementation of strategy and budgetary Each board meeting includes time for discussion between the objectives, as determined by the board.
The members of the 01 chairman and non-executive directors without the executive Executive Committee are shown on page 60. directors.
The chairman and chief executive have various prescribed Key board activities during the year responsibilities under the Senior Managers regime overseen by During the year, the board has spent time particularly on: the PRA.
considering the strategic aims and performance of businesses across the Banking division and the Asset Management Independent non-executive directors division and Winterflood: There have been no changes in the period to the companys customer matters, including the groups customer experience independent non-executive directors, who are Geoffrey Howe, programme: Oliver Corbett, Lesley Jones and Bridget Macaskill.
The IT and cyber strategy, and associated transformation projects: independent non-executive directors are responsible for the development of the groups culture framework and contributing sound judgement and objectivity to the boards 02 purpose statement: deliberations and the decision-making process.
They also capital planning and the implications of regulatory changes provide constructive challenge and scrutiny of the performance during the year: of management and delivery of the companys strategy.
consideration and approval of the companys issue of notes under its newly created Euro Medium Term Note Programme: Senior independent director reviewing the competitive landscape: The senior independent director is Geoffrey Howe.
The senior engagement with regulators and regulatory developments independent director acts as a sounding board for the chairman during the year, including the General Data Protection and executive directors and leads the chairmans annual Regulation GDPR, Brexit and MiFID II: performance review.
In addition to the existing channels for the review and approval of the groups Recovery and shareholder communications, shareholders may discuss any Resolution Plans: issues or concerns they have with the senior independent director.
03 considering and approving the ICAAP and the Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process: Non-executive directors independence the annual review of group risk appetite statements: and The board has assessed the independence of each of the the triennial external board and committee effectiveness non-executive directors and is of the opinion that each acts in an evaluation.
independent and objective manner and therefore, under the Code, is independent and free from any relationship that could Chairman and chief executive affect their judgement.
The boards opinion was determined by The roles of the chairman and chief executive are separate and considering for each non-executive director, among other things: there is a clear division of responsibilities between the two roles.
whether they are independent in character and judgement: how they conduct themselves in board and committee The chairman is Mike Biggs.
His other significant commitments meetings: are set out in his biography on page 58.
The board has whether they have any interests which may give rise to an considered Mikes chairmanship of Direct Line Insurance Group actual or perceived conflict of interest: and plc and remains satisfied that those commitments do not restrict whether they act in the best interests of the company, its him from devoting such time as is necessary to discharging his shareholders and other stakeholders at all times.
duties effectively as the companys chairman.
The company has therefore complied with the Code provision As chairman, Mike is primarily responsible for leading the board that at least half the board, excluding the chairman, should and ensuring the effective engagement and contribution of all the comprise independent non-executive directors.
His other responsibilities include setting the agenda for executive director is required to confirm at least annually whether board meetings, providing the directors with information in an any circumstances exist which could impair their independence.
accurate, clear and timely manner and the promotion of effective decision-making.
The chairman is also charged with ensuring In addition, the board is satisfied that each non-executive that the directors continually update their skills and knowledge director is able to dedicate the necessary amount of time to the and that the performance of the board, its committees and the companys affairs.
individual directors is evaluated on an annual basis.
Mike also has responsibility for leading the development of the groups Powers of directors culture by the board and for ensuring that the board sets the The directors are responsible for the management of the tone from the top.
They may exercise all powers of the company, subject to any directions given by special resolution and the articles of The chief executive is Preben Prebensen, who is primarily association.
The directors have been authorised to allot and responsible for the day-to-day management of the groups issue ordinary shares and to make market purchases of the business.
His other responsibilities include coordinating all companys ordinary shares by virtue of resolutions passed at the activities to implement the groups strategic objectives, companys 2017 AGM.
Further detail regarding these managing the groups risk exposures in line with board policies authorisations is set out on pages 61 and 62.
70 Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 | Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Appointment and removal of directors Company secretary The appointment of directors is governed by the companys The company secretary is responsible for ensuring that board articles of association, the Companies Act 2006 and other procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed.
Directors may be elected by All directors have direct access to the services and advice of the shareholders in general meeting or appointed by the board of company secretary, who also acts as secretary to each of the directors in accordance with the provisions of the articles of board committees.
The company secretary provides advice and association.
support to the board, through the chairman, on all governance matters and on the discharge of their duties.
Directors are able In accordance with the Code, all directors retire and submit to take independent external professional advice to assist with themselves for reappointment at each AGM.
The board will only the performance of their duties at the companys expense.
recommend to shareholders that executive and non-executive directors be proposed for reappointment at an AGM after Conflicts of Interest evaluating the performance of the individual directors.
The articles of association include provisions giving the directors authority to approve conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of Letters of appointment or service contracts as applicable for interest as permitted under the Companies Act 2006. individual directors are available for inspection by shareholders at each AGM and during normal business hours at the companys Directors are responsible for notifying the chairman and the registered office.
company secretary of any actual or potential conflicts as soon as they become aware of them.
A procedure has been established, The articles of association provide that in addition to any power whereby actual and potential conflicts of interest are regularly to remove directors conferred by the Companies Act 2006, the reviewed and appropriate authorisation sought.
This procedure companys shareholders can pass a special resolution to remove includes mechanisms for the identification of conflicts prior to the a director from office.
appointment of any new director or if a new conflict arises during the year.
The decision to authorise a conflict of interest can only Reappointment of directors at the 2018 AGM be made by non-conflicted directors and in making such a Following performance evaluations undertaken during the year, decision the directors must act in a way they consider, in good the board has confirmed that each director continues to be faith, will be most likely to promote the success of the company.
effective and demonstrate commitment to their role.
On the The company secretary maintains a register of conflicts recommendation of the Nomination and Governance Committee, authorised by the board.
The board believes this procedure the board will therefore be recommending that all serving operated effectively throughout the year.
directors standing for re-election at the 2018 AGM be reappointed by shareholders.
As previously announced, Board and Committee Effectiveness Jonathan Howell will not be submitting himself for re-election at Annual board and committee evaluation the AGM.
During the year, in accordance with the Code, the board appointed an external evaluator to carry out an independent Induction and professional development review of its effectiveness and that of its committees.
The On appointment, all new directors receive a comprehensive and Nomination and Governance Committee considered a shortlist personalised induction programme to familiarise them with the of potential external evaluators drawn up by the company group and to meet their specific requirements.
The company secretary and appointed Margaret Exley CBE of SCT also provides bespoke inductions for directors when they are Consultants Ltd to undertake the evaluation.
Neither Ms Exley appointed as a committee chairman or member.
Induction nor SCT Consultants Ltd have any other connections with programmes are tailored to a directors particular requirements, the company.
but would typically include site visits, one-to-one meetings with executive directors, the company secretary, senior management The scope and timing of the evaluation were discussed by the for the business areas and support functions and a confidential Nomination and Governance Committee, and the chairman and meeting with the external auditor.
Directors also receive company secretary then discussed and agreed the process to guidance on directors liabilities and responsibilities.
be followed with Ms Exley.
There is a central training programme in place for the directors, Each of the directors and the company secretary completed a which is reviewed and considered by the board.
In addition, the confidential questionnaire and then held one-to-one interviews chairman discusses and agrees any specific requirements as with Ms Exley.
In advance of these sessions, Ms Exley was part of each non-executive directors regular reviews.
During the provided with a wide range of documents in response to a year, training and development activities took a number of forms, request list and observed a meeting of the board.
including informal meetings with senior management within the businesses and control functions, in-depth business reviews, The evaluation focused on a range of different areas relevant to lunches with emerging leaders and with members of the groups board effectiveness and corporate governance, including: graduate and Aspire programmes, attendance at external the role and composition of the board: seminars and briefings from management and external advisers the work of the board on strategy: covering topics such as corporate governance updates, performance oversight of the business: regulatory developments, changes in remuneration regulation management of the work of the board: and practice, accounting changes including IFRS 9 and risk talent and succession planning: modelling.
In addition to training organised by the group stakeholder engagement: specifically for the board, directors attend a range of other committee effectiveness: training and development sessions as part of other roles risk management: and they hold.
Training and development records are maintained by the Ms Exley presented her report to the board for discussion at its company secretary and reviewed annually by the chairman and meeting in July 2018.
The directors also spent time considering each individual director.
the evaluation at an informal board session in September 2018.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 71 The evaluation concluded that the board is strong and effective.
The group maintains a range of internal controls relating to It found the board to be clear on its role and diligent in its financial management, reporting and control processes, which execution of that role.
Ms Exley noted that the boards are designed to ensure the accuracy and reliability of its financial composition provides a range of skills and experience which information and reporting.
The main features of these controls effectively meet the needs of the business.
Her report also include consistently applied accounting policies, clearly defined referred to the strength of the boards engagement with lines of responsibility and processes for the review and oversight stakeholders.
The evaluation found the boards committees to be of disclosures within the Annual Report.
These internal controls well chaired, with effective decision-making processes.
are overseen by the Audit Committee.
The board welcomes the positive findings of the evaluation but Identification, measurement and management of risk are 01 will focus during the next financial year on a number of areas fundamental to the success of the group.
Over the past with the aim of further improving its effectiveness.
The board 12months the group has continued to strengthen its risk also considers that improvements have been made in the areas management framework and further develop the organisations identified for improvement in the internal evaluations undertaken risk committees, at both a group and business level.
These in the previous two years.
Recommendations for further continue to work efficiently and effectively.
incremental improvements arising from this years evaluation include: considering ways in which the board could gain The groups risk and control framework is designed to support additional exposure to front line operations: and finding time for the capture of business opportunities while maintaining an further opportunities for board members to spend informal, appropriate balance of risk and reward within the groups agreed unstructured time together.
It further ensures that the risks to which the group is, or may become, exposed are appropriately identified, and that Directors performance those which the group chooses to take are managed, controlled 02 During the financial year, the chairman holds regular meetings and, where necessary, mitigated, so that the group is not subject with individual directors at which, among other things, their to material unexpected loss.
These discussions form part of the basis for recommending the reappointment of The group closely monitors its risk profile to ensure that it directors at the companys AGM.
These discussions include continues to align with its strategic objectives as documented consideration of the directors performance and contribution to on page 18. the board and its committees, their time commitment and the boards composition.
The group reviews and adjusts its risk appetite annually as part of the strategy setting process.
This aligns risk-taking with the Chairmans performance achievement of strategic objectives.
Adherence to appetite is As in previous years, Geoffrey Howe, the senior independent monitored by the groups risk committees.
03 director, has led an annual performance assessment process in respect of the chairman.
This involves review meetings during The board considers that the groups current risk profile remains the year with the other non-executive directors, without the consistent with its strategic objectives.
chairman being present, and consultation with the chief executive.
The senior independent director subsequently Throughout the year the Risk Committee undertakes a robust provides feedback to the chairman.
assessment of the principal risks facing the group, and reviews reports from the risk function on the processes that support the Directors fitness and propriety management and mitigation of those risks.
As part of this In line with its regulatory obligations, the group undertakes ongoing review process, a specific review of the principal risks annual reviews of the fitness and propriety of all those in Senior and uncertainties facing the group is also carried out by the Manager Functions, including all of the companys directors and board.
A summary of the groups principal risks and a number of other senior executives.
This process comprises uncertainties is provided on pages 20 to 23. assessments of individuals honesty, integrity and reputation: financial soundness: competence and capability: and continuing In addition, the Risk Committee and the Audit Committee, professional development.
This years reviews have confirmed between them, assess and review the adequacy and the fitness and propriety of all of the companys directors and effectiveness of the groups risk management and internal other senior executives who perform Senior Manager Functions.
control arrangements in relation to the groups strategy and risk profile for the financial year.
This covers all material controls, Risk and Control Framework including financial, operational and compliance controls.
The The board has overall responsibility for maintaining a system of board reviews the effectiveness of both committees on an internal control to ensure that an effective risk management and annual basis and considers that it has in place systems and oversight process operates across the group.
The risk controls appropriate for the groups profile and strategy.
management framework and associated governance arrangements are designed to ensure that there is a clear organisational structure with distinct, transparent and consistent lines of responsibility and effective processes to identify, manage, monitor and report the risks to which the group is, or might become, exposed.
The board has a well defined risk appetite with risk appetite measures which are integrated into decision-making, monitoring and reporting processes.
Early warning trigger levels are set to drive the required corrective action before overall tolerance levels are reached.
The risk management and internal control framework, overseen by a number of committees, including the Risk Committee and the Audit Committee, is the mechanism that ensures the board receives comprehensive risk and control information in a timely manner.
72 Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 | Governance Corporate Governance Report continued The risk management framework is based on the concept of three lines of defence, as set out in the table below.
The key principles underlying risk management in the group are that: business management owns all the risks assumed throughout the group and is responsible for their management on a day-to-day basis to ensure that risk and return are balanced: the board and business management together promote a culture in which risks are identified, assessed and reported in an open, transparent and objective manner: the overriding priority is to protect the groups long-term viability and produce sustainable medium to long-term revenue streams: risk functions are independent of the businesses and provide oversight of and advice on the management of risk across the group: risk management activities across the group are proportionate to the scale and complexity of the groups individual businesses: risk mitigation and control activities are commensurate with the degree of risk: and risk management and control supports decision-making.
Risk Management Framework First line of defence Second line of defence Third line of defence The Businesses Risk and Compliance Internal Audit Group Risk and Compliance Committee Risk Committee Audit Committee Reports to the Risk Committee Reports to the board Reports to the board Chief executive delegates to divisional Risk Committee delegates to the group Audit Committee mandates the head of and operating business heads chief risk officer day-to-day responsibility group internal audit with day-to-day day-to-day responsibility for risk for oversight and challenge on risk-related responsibility for independent assurance.
internal control and conduct in running Internal audit provides independent their divisions or businesses.
Risk functions including compliance assurance on: provide support and independent first and second line of defence: Business management has day-to-day challenge on: appropriateness effectiveness of internal ownership, responsibility and the design and operation of the risk controls: and accountability for: framework: effectiveness of policy implementation.
identifying and assessing risks: risk assessment: managing and controlling risks: risk appetite and strategy: Key Features measuring risk key risk indicators early performance management: Draws on deep knowledge of the group warning indicators : risk reporting: and its businesses: mitigating risks: adequacy of mitigation plans: Independent assurance on the activities reporting risks: and group risk profile: and of the firm, including the risk committee structure and reporting.
management framework: Assesses the appropriateness and Key Features Key Features effectiveness of internal controls: and Promotes a strong risk culture and focus Overarching risk oversight unit takes Incorporates review of culture and on sustainable risk-adjusted returns: an integrated view of risk qualitative conduct.
Implements the risk framework: and quantitative : Promotes a culture of adhering to limits Supports through developing and and managing risk exposures: advising on risk strategies: Promotes a culture of customer focus Facilitates constructive check and and appropriate behaviours: challenge critical friend trusted Ongoing monitoring of positions and adviser: and management and control of risks: Oversight of business conduct.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 73 Substantial Shareholdings The table below sets out details of the interests in voting rights notified to the company under the provisions of the FCAs Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
Information provided by the company pursuant to the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules is publicly available via the regulatory information services and on the companys website.
16 September 2018 31 July 2018 Voting Voting rights rights % % 1 Standard Life Aberdeen plc group 16.99 17.57 01 M&G Investment Management 6.58 6.58 Royal London Asset Management 5.03 5.03 1 On 6 August 2018, the Standard Life Aberdeen group notified the company that its interest in voting rights had decreased from 17.57% to 17.24%.
On 23 August 2018, the Standard Life Aberdeen group notified the company that its interest in voting rights had decreased from 17.24% to 17.12%.
On 31 August 2018, the Standard Life Aberdeen group notified the company that its interest in voting rights had decreased from 17.12% to 16.99%.
Substantial shareholders do not have different voting rights from Asdiscussed further in the Directors Remuneration Report, those of other shareholders.
thechairman of the Remuneration Committee takes part in consultations with major institutional shareholders on Stakeholders remuneration issues from time to time.
The board recognises that, for the company to be successful 02 over the long term, it is important to build and maintain Periodically, the group runs seminars covering different parts of successful relationships with a wide range of stakeholders.
its business to provide additional detail to investors and analysts.
When taking decisions, the board considers the interests of, and Relevant presentations, together with all results announcements, impact on, key stakeholders, including its relationships with its annual reports, regulatory news announcements and other customers, employees and regulators.
Further detail on the relevant documents, are available on the IR section of the companys stakeholders and examples of how the company companys website www.
engages with them is included in the Strategic Report on pages 44 to 54.
The group also engages with leading institutional shareholder bodies and proxy advisers throughout the year.
Engagement with Shareholders Investor relations Annual General Meeting The board believes it is important to maintain open and The directors regard the companys AGM as an important 03 constructive relationships with shareholders and for them to opportunity for all shareholders to engage directly with the have opportunities to share their views with the board.
All shareholders are able to raise questions with the has a comprehensive investor relations IR programme to board at the AGM, either in person or by submitting written ensure that current and potential shareholders, as well as questions in advance.
The chairmen of each of the board financial analysts, are kept informed of the groups performance committees attend the AGM and all other directors are expected and have appropriate access to management to understand the to attend the meeting.
All directors were in attendance at the companys business and strategy.
The groups IR team, reporting to the group finance director, has At the AGM, the chairman and the chief executive present a primary responsibility for managing the groups relationship with review of the groups business.
All voting at general meetings of shareholders, and they run a structured programme of meetings, the company is conducted by way of a poll.
All shareholders calls and presentations around the financial reporting calendar, have the opportunity to cast their votes in respect of proposed as well as throughout the year.
The IR team regularly seeks resolutions by proxy, either electronically or by post.
Following investor feedback, directly and via the groups corporate brokers, the AGM, the voting results for each resolution are published and which is communicated to the board and management.
The made available on the companys website.
board is regularly updated on the IR programme through an IR report, which is produced for each board meeting and By order of the board summarises share price performance, share register composition and feedback from any investor meetings.
Alex Dunn Company Secretary The chief executive and group finance director engage with the groups major institutional shareholders on a regular basis.
In 25 September 2018 addition, the chairman arranges to meet with major institutional shareholders to discuss matters such as strategy, corporate governance and succession planning.
Separately, the senior independent director is available to meet with shareholders, should they wish to discuss any concerns they may have.
