78 Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 | Governance Nomination and Governance Committee Report Nomination and Governance Committee Membership and meetings Chairmans overview The Committees membership was unchanged during the year This report sets out an overview of the Committees roles and and comprises Geoffrey Howe, the senior independent director, responsibilities, and its key activities during the year.
Oliver Corbett, Lesley Jones and Bridget Macaskill, who chair the Audit, Risk and Remuneration Committees respectively, and In the year, the Committee oversaw the process to appoint a me as chairman.
The composition of the Committee satisfies the new group finance director, culminating in the decision of the relevant requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
board to appoint Mike Morgan.
Further information on the process is set out below.
In addition, the chief executive attends meetings by invitation.
The group head of human resources attended a number of Once again, the Committee has played an active role in meetings during the year, including when presenting reviews of overseeing talent management and succession planning for the talent and executive management succession planning, and group, including through making sure that appropriate activities updating the Committee on the progress of the external search and initiatives are undertaken to develop the groups talent to appoint a new group finance director.
This will continue to be a key area for the Committee in the year ahead.
Five scheduled meetings of the Committee were held during the year and details of members attendance are set out on page 68.
Throughout its discussions, the Committee has had regard to In addition, one ad hoc meeting was held to consider the the benefits of promoting diversity at all levels of the groups nomination of Mike Morgan as the new group finance director operations.
To that end, the Committee ensures that the and an executive member of the board.
recruitment searches it oversees consider candidates from a diversity of backgrounds and experiences.
Group finance director succession During 2018, the Committee oversaw the extensive process that As in previous years, the Committee has also spent time culminated in the decision by the board to appoint Mike Morgan considering the composition of the board, non-executive director as group finance director and an executive member of the board, succession and the range of skills and experience represented following Jonathan Howells decision to leave the group at the among its members and, as described further below, has started conclusion of the forthcoming AGM in order to pursue the next a search to identify an additional non-executive director to be stage of his career.
The Committee approved a detailed specification for the role of Committee roles and responsibilities group finance director, with input from the group chief executive The Committees key roles and responsibilities are: and the group head of human resources, and engaged external regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the search consultancy firm, Odgers Bernstein, to find appropriate board, and making recommendations to the board with regard candidates.
The firm is not connected to the company in to any changes: any way.
considering the leadership needs of the group and considering succession planning for directors and senior executives: The search process included consideration of both external and considering the appointment or retirement of directors: internal candidates and, at all stages, the Committee took steps to reviewing the continued independence of the non-executive ensure that external and internal candidates were treated equally.
directors: assessing the boards balance of skills, knowledge and Odgers Bernstein produced a long-list of candidates from a experience: diversity of backgrounds and representing a breadth of talent evaluating the skills, knowledge and experience required for a and experience.
A shortlist of external and internal candidates particular appointment, normally with the assistance of was agreed and candidates were interviewed by non-executive external advisers used to facilitate the search for suitable and executive directors and senior management.
Following these candidates: and interviews, and assessments undertaken by Odgers Bernstein, assessing the contribution of the non-executive directors.
the Committee recommended the appointment of Mike Morgan.
The board then considered and approved the recommendation.
The Committees role and responsibilities are set out in written The PRA and FCA have each given their approval to Mikes terms of reference and are available at www.
Mikes appointment as a director will be proposed for approval by shareholders at the AGM in November.
Key activities in the 2018 financial year During the year the Committees activities included: The decision to appoint Mike Morgan was taken in June, considering board composition and succession, including ensuring that there was a period of nearly five months for oversight of the process to appoint a new group finance Jonathan Howell and Mike to work together to ensure a smooth director: transition in the period until Jonathan steps down at the reviewing talent and executive management succession conclusion of the AGM in November.
planning: planning for the triennial external board evaluation undertaken Non-executive directors skill sets during the year: During the year, the Committee considered and reaffirmed the monitoring proposed changes to the UKs corporate skill sets and experience of the companys four independent governance regime and the implications for the company and non-executive directors, including their extensive experience the board: and within financial services.
Geoffrey Howe is the senior assessing the non-executive directors skill sets, knowledge independent director and has extensive experience within the and experience to ensure that an appropriate balance of skills, industry, including as a chairman.
Oliver Corbett has strong knowledge and experience has been maintained.
financial skills and a track record of audit committee experience, Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 79 including as a finance director.
Lesley Jones has familiarity with Reappointment of directors FCA PRA and EU risk regulations, and wide experience as a Prior to the companys AGM each year, the Committee considers, committee chairman and non-executive director within the and makes recommendations to the board concerning, the financial services sector.
Bridget Macaskill has significant reappointment of directors, having regard to their performance remuneration committee credentials and familiarity with FCA and ability to continue to contribute to the board.
Following this PRA and EU remuneration regulations.
Further information on years review in advance of the 2018 AGM, the Committee has the background and experience of each of the non-executive recommended to the board that all serving directors be directors can be found in their biographies on pages 58 and 59. reappointed at the AGM, with the exception of Jonathan Howell who will not be seeking reappointment at the meeting.
Succession planning board and management 01 The Committee spent considerable time during the year Geoffrey Howe has served as a non-executive director of the reviewing talent and considering the groups succession company since January 2011.
As it is now more than six years planning at board and senior management level.
This included since his appointment as a director, and as required by the UK a formal review by the Committee of senior management Corporate Governance Code, the Committee has undertaken a succession planning, looking at the capability and potential of particularly rigorous review of Geoffreys performance and incumbents in key roles, and the succession pipeline, emergency independence.
It has concluded that he remains independent cover arrangements and external market for those roles.
and continues to make a significant contribution to all activities of Succession planning for non-executive roles has also been an the board and its committees.
The Committee and the board important focus of the Committee.
have also noted the valuable contribution that Geoffrey makes as the companys senior independent director and in his support for As part of its discussion of the skills and experience of the the chairman, who completed his first full year in post during non-executive directors and associated succession planning, 2018.
The Committee and the board value the continuity, 02 during the year the Committee decided to begin a search to knowledge and experience that Geoffreys continued appoint an additional non-executive director.
This appointment is appointment as a director would bring.
intended to further strengthen the range of skills and experience represented on the board.
Whilst the Committee is seeking to Corporate governance reform select a candidate with the capability and experience to The Committee has monitored the various reforms to corporate contribute to the full range of board activities, it has identified a governance in the UK that have been announced during the desire to seek a candidate with particular experience of year.
These include the publication of the new Corporate customer behaviour and technological change.
The search is Governance Code, which will first apply to the company in the being undertaken in conjunction with external search firm, financial year ending 31 July 2020.
The Committee has received Heidrick & Struggles, who have been instructed to consider updates from the company secretary on the new Code and the candidates from a diversity of backgrounds and experiences.
It will continue to discuss the 03 The firm is not connected to the company in any way.
The implications and resulting actions required over the coming search is ongoing and the company will make a further months to ensure that the company complies with the announcement on the outcome of the process as required in new Code.
due course and will include further commentary in next years Annual Report.
Committee effectiveness As described in more detail on page 70, an external evaluation of Diversity the effectiveness of the board and its committees was Diversity continues to be a key focus of the Committee.
The undertaken during the year in line with the requirements of the Committee embraces the benefits of diversity and it has been a UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committee was involved topic of discussion throughout the year, including in the context in the selection of the evaluator and in determining the scope of the board-level appointments considered by the Committee and timing of the review.
and as part of the Committees review of talent and executive management succession planning.
The Committee considers that during the year it continued to have access to sufficient resources to enable it to carry out its The Committee considers that the board remains diverse, duties and has continued to perform effectively.
drawing on the knowledge, skills and experience of directors from a range of backgrounds, but will seek to take opportunities Michael N. Biggs to further improve the diversity of the board, where it is Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee consistent with the skills, experience and expertise required at a particular point in time.
Currently, three of the companys eight 25 September 2018 directors are women, meaning that the representation of women on the board exceeds the minimum percentage set out in the recommendations of the Hampton-Alexander Review published in November 2016.
However, the Committee recognises that due to the relatively small size of the board, the appointment or departure of a single director can have a significant impact on its ability to achieve recommendations in relation to the composition and diversity of the board as a whole at a particular point in time.
More detail on the groups approach to diversity can be found in the Sustainability Report on pages 46 and 47 and the Corporate Governance Report on page 67.
