76 Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 | Governance Audit Committee Report Committee effectiveness This report sets out the principal As described in more detail on page 70, an external evaluation ofthe effectiveness of the board and its committees was responsibilities of the Audit undertaken during the year in line with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Committee, its membership The Committee considers that during the year it continued to and meetings as well as the key have access to sufficient resources to enable it to carry out its duties and has continued to perform effectively.
activities under review during Activity in the 2018 Financial Year the year.
Key accounting judgements The Committee has spent considerable time during the year focusing on the key areas of accounting judgement taken by Audit Committee management in preparing the financial statements.
The key Chairmans overview judgements were unchanged from the prior year reflecting the The principal roles and responsibilities of the Committee groups adherence to its business model and consistency of continue to be to: approach to financial reporting.
assess the integrity of the groups external financial reporting: review the effectiveness of the groups internal controls: and Credit provisioning monitor and review the activities and performance of both The Committee views credit provisioning as the key accounting internal and external audit.
judgement area for the group.
As in previous years, it received presentations from management explaining key judgement During the year under review the Committee has again had a full areas, consistency of approach and the groups business mix.
The Committee has placed particular focus on the After challenging management and the new external auditor, the transition to the new external auditor following the tender Committee concluded that the provisioning approach and key undertaken in the 2017 financial year as well as oversight of judgements were reasonable.
managements project to ensure readiness for the implementation of IFRS 9.
Further details of the Committees Revenue recognition work in respect of these and other key issues are set out in the The Committee reviewed managements approach to revenue sections below.
recognition, noting the consistency of approach with prior years.
The Committee also assessed the expected impact of IFRS 15 Membership and meetings on the group.
The Committee concluded that both the revenue The Committee met five times during the year with meetings recognition approach for each of the groups key businesses and aimed to coincide with the groups financial reporting schedule.
the application of IFRS 15 were appropriate.
Details of members attendance are set out on page 68.
The Committee comprises Geoffrey Howe, the senior independent IFRS 9 director, and Lesley Jones and Bridget Macaskill who chair the The Committee has spent considerable time this year receiving Risk and Remuneration Committees respectively, and me as updates at each of its five meetings from management on the Chairman.
The biographies of each of the members are outlined final preparations prior to the adoption of IFRS 9 on 1 August on pages 58 and 59.
The composition of the Committee satisfies 2018.
This included specific training sessions explaining the key the relevant requirements of the UK Corporate Governance areas of judgement as well as consideration of the initial Code.
The board considers that I have the appropriate recent disclosures on adoption of the new standard.
The Committee has and relevant experience.
paid particular attention to the governance process around the credit and macro economic models and the new auditors view of In addition to the Committee members, standing invitations are managements progress.
The Committee will continue to monitor extended to the chairman of the board and the executive this key area of accounting judgement in the coming year.
In addition, the group head of internal audit, the group head of compliance, the group chief risk officer and the group Other financial reporting financial controller attend meetings by invitation.
I meet with this Going concern and viability statement group as well as the group finance director ahead of each The Committee reviewed a paper from management in support meeting to agree the agenda and to receive a full briefing on all of the going concern basis and the longer-term viability of the relevant issues.
The external auditor attends each meeting and I group.
The Committee noted the stability of the groups business had regular contact with the lead audit partner during the year.
model, its successful track record, the groups three-year The Committee met with both internal and external audit without business plan and the results of internal stress testing and management present at each meeting of the Committee held concluded this provided sufficient evidence to support the during the year.
boards viability statement set out on page 64.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 77 01 In particular the Committee reviewed the audit plan and has had Fair, balanced and understandable the opportunity to discuss the new auditors initial assessment of On behalf of the board, the Committee reviewed the financial statements as a whole in order to assess whether they were fair, the group and its control environment.
The Committee discussed and The Committee will assess the independence, qualification and challenged the balance and fairness of the overall report with the effectiveness of PwC after the completion of their first audit.
executive directors and also considered the views of the external auditor.
The Committee was satisfied that the Annual Report could be regarded as fair, balanced and understandable and proposed The evaluation will be focused on: the quality of audit expertise, judgement and dialogue with the that the board approve the Annual Report in that respect.
02 Committee and senior management: Policy oversight the independence and objectivity demonstrated by the audit Whistle-blowing team: and the quality of service including consistency of approach and The Committee oversees the groups whistle-blowing policy, and responsiveness.
I act as the groups whistle-blowing policy champion.
The group continues to place a high priority on employees understanding of the process to enable them to speak out with confidence The process will be facilitated by a survey of the groups finance teams and a review of audit and non-audit fees.
underwent a similar process for the previous auditor Deloitte Other policies LLP, and concluded that that firm was independent and their The Committee has also reviewed and approved the groups audit was effective in respect of the prior year.
03 Recovery and Resolution Plans, tax policy and statement, The company confirms that it complied with the provisions of the approach to hedging for share awards and the policy for the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
Competition and Markets Authoritys Order regarding statutory audit services for the financial year under review.
Internal Audit The Committee oversees the groups policy on the provision of The Committee reviewed and approved the internal audit plan during the year as well as pre-approving any changes to that non-audit services by the external auditor.
The groups policy is plan.
At each of its meetings during the year, the group head of that permission to engage the external auditor will always be refused when a threat to independence and or objectivity is internal audit presented a summary of key audits, highlighting perceived.
However, the Committee will give permission where it key themes as well as updating the Committee on progress on agreed actions from previous audits.
During the year 33 audits sees benefits for the group where: were completed, including three reviews requested by the work is closely related to the audit: a detailed understanding of the group is required: and groupsregulator.
the external auditor is able to provide a higher quality and or The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit better value service.
The review for the year under review was During the year non-audit fees amounted to 0.5 million and conducted internally and was supported by a biennial feedback represented 29% of the audit fee.
Non-audit fees related to: survey of business stakeholders across the group.
The Committees policy is that an external effectiveness review will be million carried out at least every five years.
The next such review will take place not later than the year ended 31 July 2020.
Assurance work on: Systems and controls 0.4 The Committee continued to keep both the level and Funding 0.1 independence of the internal audit resource under review during the year.
Following the prior year appointment of Ernst & Young The corresponding amounts for the prior year were 0.8 million LLP as the new co-source provider from 1 August 2017, the and 62% when Deloitte LLP was the groups external auditor.
Committee also received feedback on the performance of thatfirm.
The Committee was satisfied that these fees, individually and in aggregate, were consistent with the non-audit services policy External Audit and did not believe they posed a threat to the external auditors As outlined in my report last year, the Committee underwent an independence.
audit tender in 2017 and  LLP PwC were subsequently appointed at the 2017 AGM with Mark Oliver Corbett Hannam as the groups lead audit partner.
The Committee has Chairman of the Audit Committee spent significant time overseeing the transition to PwC this year.
