Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information Relationship with shareholders The Company values its dialogue with The Group issues its annual financial At the 2019 Annual General Meeting, both institutional and private investors.
report to each of its shareholders.
the Company will comply with the The Boards primary contact with In accordance with the UK company Listing Rules in respect of the voting institutional shareholders is through disclosure regulations the Group does not requirements for the re-election of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief distribute its half-yearly financial report to independent Directors where a Company Financial Officer, along with the Head shareholders but makes it available on its has a controlling shareholder.
of Group Property, who have regular website.
Copies are available on request.
JOINT VENTURE They also undertake analyst All financial reports and press releases AND ASSOCIATES presentations following the Companys are also included on the Groups website This Corporate Governance report applies half-yearly and annual financial results.
to the Company and its subsidiaries.
They are supported by a financial It does not include associates.
The Group relations adviser and two corporate All shareholders have at least 20 working has no joint ventures.
brokers, all of whom are in regular days notice of the Annual General contact with institutional and retail Meeting at which all Directors who are shareholders, and with analysts.
A report available to attend are introduced and are of feedback from each institutional available for questions.
All shareholders investor meeting is prepared by the are welcome to attend the Companys broker who organised it, and a report Annual General Meeting and to arrange of unattributed feedback from analysts individual meetings by appointment.
on analyst presentations is prepared by The views received at such meetings are the financial relations advisor.
All such fed back to the Board.
reports and coverage of the Company by analysts are circulated to the Board.
PROXY VOTING Consequently, all Directors develop an The proxy forms for the Annual General understanding of the views of institutional Meeting which was held in 2018 included shareholders and commentators.
Details of the proxies lodged for this meeting were Analyst presentations following the announced to the London Stock announcement of half-yearly and Exchange and are on the Companys annual financial results are webcast and website at www.
available on the Companys website.
Shareholders may also choose to register their vote by electronic proxy on the Companys website.
KEY SHAREHOLDER EVENTS 7 Institutional investor meetings Annual General Meeting MARCH APRIL AUGUST 25 22 Institutional investor meetings Institutional investor meetings Analyst presentation Analyst presentation CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 | 53
