Corporate governance Leadership Board Statements Requirement Board Statement Further information Compliance with the Code The principal corporate governance rules which applied to the Company Page 38 to 60 inthe year under review were those set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in April 2016 the Code, the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA Listing Rules and the FCAs Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
The Board fully supports the principles of good governance as set out in the Code, which is publicly available on the FRCs website www.
uk, and its application of the Main Principles are set out on pages 42 to 60.
Save as identified and explained in this report, the Board considers that throughout 2018 it complied with the provisions of the Code.
Going Concern basis The Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Page 77 Annual Report and Accounts.
Viability Statement The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Page 52 Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they falldue over the period of their assessment.
Robust Assessment of The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing Pages 18 and 19 the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future the Group performance, solvency or liquidity.
Annual review of systems The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys Pages 51 and 52 of risk management and risk management systems and internal controls and found them to be internal control appropriate for the Group.
Fair, balanced The Directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, Page 79 and understandable is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Modern The Board has implemented a Modern Slavery Policy which we have Page 33 and Slavery Statement communicated to all staff.
The Board is confident that as a result of the Groups our website management and reporting structure, there are no such practices taking place.
Health and Safety The Board recognises that the control of all health and safety matters arising Page 34 from our activities is an essential feature of our operations and ensures it meets its civil and statutory obligations.
THE BOARD The Boards composition and responsibilities are set out in a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decisions.
The Board is assisted by the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, the terms of reference for which can be obtained from the Company Secretary or our website.
42 | CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK The Board HENRY KLOTZ EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN 3 other Executive Directors 4 Independent Non-Executive Directors 2 other Non-Executive Directors Ensuring the Companys growth and shareholder value Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee 3 Independent Non-Executive Directors 2 Independent Non-Executive Directors 3 Independent Non-Executive Directors Monitors the arrangements for corporate 1 Executive Director Develops the Companys policies on reporting, risk management and 1 Non-Executive Director executive remuneration and sets the internal controls Monitors and evaluates the remuneration packages of individual Maintains a direct relationship with Boards skills and experience to ensure Executive Directors the Auditor full Board discussion For more information on our cost drivers For more information on our cost drivers For more information on our cost drivers seepages 56-60 seepages 54-55 seepages 61-74 Executive Committee Disclosure Committee Reviews the daily running of the Monitors inside information and Groups business close periods Financial Investment Committee Asset Management Committee Health & Safety Committee Analyses financial investment Reviews the Groups property Reviews and moderates the Groups opportunities and reviews investments in each country policy and best practices for Health investment portfolios and Safety The implementation of Board decisions The Company does not comply with structure of meetings made by the and the day-to-day operations of the Group provision A.
3.1 of the Code, as the Executive Chairman.
are delegated to the Executive Directors.
Executive Chairman was not independent on appointment.
There have been no As highlighted by this years external DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES significant changes to the commitments of board evaluation, the Board was satisfied The responsibilities of the Executive the Executive Chairman during the year.
with the experience, expertise and Chairman, who is responsible for the performance of each Board member: overall strategy of the Group, the NonNON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS they continue to add significant value Executive Vice Chairman who supports A formal meeting of the Non-Executives to the operation of the Company the Executive Chairman, and the Chief Directors took place during the year, through their combined knowledge and Executive Officer, who is responsible for without the Executive Directors or the experience, and exercise objectivity in implementing the strategy and for the Executive Chairman present, at which decision-making and proper control of day-to-day running of the Group, are a thorough review of the performance the Companys business.
A written statement of of the Executive Chairman took place.
the division of these responsibilities is It was considered that the way in which reviewed and approved by the Board the Board operated had improved, each year.
led by changes to the agendas and CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 | 43 Corporate governance Leadership continued The implementation of Board decisions INSURANCE ROLES AND and the day-to-day operations of The Company has arranged insurance RESPONSIBILITIES OF the Group are delegated to the cover for its directors and officers, as set THE DIRECTORS Executive Directors.
out in the Directors Report on page 77.
The Boards composition and responsibilities are set out in a formal CONFLICTS OF INTEREST schedule of matters specifically reserved The Companys Articles of Association to it for decisions.
Matters reserved contain procedures to deal with Directors for Board decisions include identifying conflicts of interest.
The Board considers strategic long-term objectives, approving that these have operated effectively the annual Group budget, and approving during the year.
substantial property transactions and investment decisions over 5 million.
Role Name Responsibility Executive Chairman Henry Klotz Proposing the overall strategy of the Group and ensuring the effective running of the Board Non-Executive Anna Seeley Supporting the Executive Chairman with developing Group Vice Chairman strategy and managing the effective running of the Board Chief Executive Officer Fredrik Widlund Implementing Group strategy and the day-to-day running of the Group Chief Financial Officer John Whiteley Implementing Group strategy in relation to and ensuring compliance with all financial matters Executive Director Sten Mortstedt Supporting the Executive Chairman with proposing the overall Group strategy 1 Providing a channel of communication for shareholders who do Senior Malcolm Cooper not wish to approach the Executive Chairman, Executive Vice Independent Director Chairman or Chief Executive Officer Leading the Non-Executive Directors, and providing feedback to the Executive Chairman on his performance 1 Non-Executive Directors Elizabeth Edwards Providing independent oversight, objectively challenging the 1 Christopher Jarvis Executive Directors in Board discussions and decision making 1 Lennart Sten Bengt Mortstedt 1 Determined by the Board to be independent in accordance with Code provision B.
44 | CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information BOARD ACTIVITY Topic Key activities Key priorities STRATEGIC 1.
Reviewed the strategic aims of the Group 1.
Focus on high yielding properties or portfolios and proposed action plan for growth over the in our key locations.
Ensure risks are adequately managed and 2.
Discussed macroeconomic events and how monitored such that the Group can react to a they may impact the Group e. g. Brexit, EU and change in circumstance.
global political and financial uncertainty.
Implement the findings of the portfolio review.
Portfolio review update and action plan discussion.
Reports from HR regarding diversity, turnover 1.
Implement all key initiatives that staff survey and head count.
Focus on non-UK share schemes discussion as to ways to improve culture.
Monitored implementation of the results of 2.
Undertake vision and values project to staff survey.
Discussed the impact of the changes to the and culture.
UK Corporate Governance Code relating 3.
Implement framework to enhance to culture.
Approved annual operating budget and its 1. Review Groups Treasury strategy.
monitoring against key performance metrics 2.
Monitor the Groups cost of debt and at each meeting.
Ensured key risks and uncertainties were 3.
Implement and upgrade a number of key appropriate and regularly reviewed.
systems to provide management information 3.
Discussed internal controls and risk to monitor budgets more effectively.
Focus on cost control and restraint to ensure 4.
Continual review of all finance, tax and treasury matters, to ensure they are in line with Group strategy.
Reviewed Board composition and the 1.
Focus on Board composition and alignment of independence of Mr Cooper and Mr Jarvis, shareholders interests.
having served more than 9 years.
Implement findings of the report.
Implement changes to governance structures 3.
Updated governance topics and impact on to comply with provisions of the new UK the Group e. g. changes to the UK Corporate Corporate Governance Code.
Governance Code and wider stakeholder 4.
Succession planning and independent process for appointment of CFO.
Reviewed and discussed strategic review 1.
Focus on portfolio meeting business plan.
OPERATIONS for all properties within the portfolio, taking 2. Review further property purchases and decisions as to business plan for each to mitigate risks within the portfolio.
Drive IT initiatives across the Group.
Respond to feedback from customer surveys and disposals against the Groups to improve our offering and meet their needs.
Upgraded the Groups IT infrastructure and capabilities.
Reviewed feedback from customer surveys.
CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 | 45 Corporate governance Leadership continued ATTENDANCE TABLE Audit Remuneration Nomination Board No.
of attendance meetings attendance meetings attendance meetings attendance meetings Henry Klotz 5 5 Anna Seeley 5 5 1 1 Fredrik Widlund 5 5 John Whiteley 5 5 Sten Morstedt 5 5 1 1 Malcolm Cooper 5 5 4 4 3 3 Lennart Sten 5 5 3 3 1 1 Elizabeth Edwards 5 5 4 4 1 1 Christopher Jarvis 5 5 4 4 3 3 Bengt Mortstedt 5 5 In addition to attending Board meetings, senior management meet regularly to discuss management issues relating to the Group both formally and informally.
February March Board activity Approvals Approvals The Board met five times during the Updated Group Strategy document Approval of the 2017 Annual Report year.
Key strategic and operational items and Accounts and associated Key agenda items responsibility statements were discussed at each meeting, and Report on geopolitical and macroApproval of the going concern and it received presentations from various economic impact viability statements externalparties during the year.
Board Evaluation report and discussion Key agenda items The Board had a strategy meeting to Report from Remuneration and Report from Audit Committee on Audit Committees the 2017 Audit, principal risks and review and monitor progress against our uncertainties and internal controls strategy andthe wider risk environment Presentations Report from Remuneration affecting theGroup.
CEO presentation on updated Committee on the KPI review and growth strategy and key targets targets for 2018 Presentations UK valuation presentations from Cushman & Wakefield 46 | CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information ENSURING THE RIGHT CULTURE CLSs culture and the role of the Board The Board recognises the need to establish the correct culture, values and ethics to ensure good standards of behaviour carries through the Group.
In order to understand how the culture of the Group evolves, feedback mechanisms have traditionally been through informal groups or workshops.
In its discussions this year, and in light of the new UK Corporate Governance Code, we will formalise our procedures to ensure we receive direct feedback via a Workforce Advisory Panel.
The Board also wishes to undertake a wider project on its vision and values, with the workforce, which it believes will strengthen its culture and therefore overall performance.
THE BOARD IN ACTION The Board recognised the importance of seeing first hand the challenges and opportunities faced by its teams in France and Germany, whilst also meeting and speaking to customers and employees to understand their views on our product and our working environment.
This feedback provided invaluable insight which the Board were able to consider when discussing strategic and cultural matters affecting the Group.
The feedback from our customers and employees on the Boards visibility were very positive.
May August November Key agenda items Approvals Approvals Executive Reports Approval of the Half-Yearly Financial Report Approval of the 2019 Budgets Portfolio acquisitions and disposal proposals Approval of the going concern statement and Forecasts Review of Internal Controls and Presentations Key agenda items Risk Management Paris property tour and Report from Remuneration and customer engagement Audit Committees Key agenda items Half-Yearly Financial Report Report on the Non-Executive Directors Succession planning Meeting Report from Audit and Presentations Nominations Committees French valuation presentation from JLL 2019 Budget and 20202022 Forecasts German valuation presentation from IT strategy update Cushman and Wakefield Principal Business Risks Review & Internal Controls and Risk Management Independence review of Mr Cooper and Mr Jarvis Presentations Hamburg property tour and customer engagement CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 | 47
