Corporate governance Effectiveness INDEPENDENCE INFORMATION, SUPPORT PERFORMANCE EVALUATION Provision B.
1.2 of the Code recommends, AND DEVELOPMENT The Board undertakes a formal review for FTSE 350 companies, at least half Board members are sent board packs in of its performance and that of its the Board, excluding the chairman, advance of each Board and Committee Committees each financial year, and should comprise independent nonmeeting, and senior executives attend is required to conduct an external executive directors.
Board meetings to present and discuss evaluation once every three years.
In making In accordance with provision B.
6.2 of At the year end, the Board comprised four commercial assessments, the Directors the Code, the Board undertook its first Executive Directors, four independent review detailed plans, including financial externally facilitated board performance Non-Executive Directors and two other viability reports which, amongst other evaluation in November 2018 and will Non-Executive Directors.
The Company things, detail the return on equity and the undertake its next externally facilitated was not compliant, therefore, with likely impact on the income statement, evaluation in 2020.
However, the Board cash flows and gearing.
was based on a questionnaire which considers that having a mix of Nonaddressed the following key areas: Executive Directors who are either Directors are able to obtain independent strategy, leadership and accountability, independent as defined by the Code, professional advice at the Companys effectiveness of the board, board culture, or have an in-depth knowledge of the expense and have access to the services information flows to the board and risk Company, provides better oversight and of the Company Secretary.
Each Committee also governance than having predominantly given appropriate training and assistance undertakes a review of its performance, independent non-executive directors.
on appointment to the Board and later, effectiveness and accountability.
The performance of individual directors Of the independent Non-Executive is carried out through individual meetings directors, Mr Cooper and Mr Jarvis The Company offers all Directors the with the Executive Chairman during the have served on the Board for more than opportunity to update their skills and year.
The findings and outcomes of the nine years.
1.2 the knowledge, and familiarity with the evaluation are set out below.
Board undertook a rigorous review as Company, in order to fulfil their role on the to whether it considered them to remain Board.
In addition, meetings with senior The Board reviewed the 2017 outcomes independent.
The discussion focused managers within the Company have been that it focussed on in 2018, It concluded on Mr Coopers current non-executive arranged to further familiarise Nonthey had largely been achieved: directorships, one of which as Chairman Executive Directors with the Company.
of the Audit Committee of a FTSE smallAs part of every new Board members Reviewed the succession cap company, and Mr Jarviss full time induction, we encourage them to meet planning process.
role with Jarvis and Partners, together with the Head of Group Property in each developed a programme for board with the amount of time dedicated to their of the UK, France and Germany so as to members to spend more time in roles as non-executive directors and their understand the portfolio.
Board members the business, with visits to key contributions to the Board in discussions also attended site visits to properties.
properties and team meetings in Paris generally.
The Board was satisfied that and Hamburg.
they maintained the necessary levels of increased the time spent on strategy independence in addition to the Codes and culture with dedicated meetings independence criteria and they continued and reports.
improved meeting discipline with no papers being talked through.
set aside more time to discuss how the non-executive directors can add value by direct discussions with executives.
48 | CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information BOARD PERFORMANCE EVALUATION CYCLE 2018 YEAR 2 Year 1 Years 2 and 3 Externally facilitated questionnaire using Independent Audits Internal questionnaire and follow up on results of previous Thinking Board software performance evaluations Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Design and scope of Completion of the Review of the results Presentation of report questionnaire to address questionnairebythe Board ofthe questionnaire to the Board for core areas and key themes, and Committee members andbenchmark findings discussion and prepare and facilitate the ability against 2017 outcomes a plan for achieving to provide confidential desired outcomes.
written responses to whereimprovements couldbe made Findings Outcomes An understanding of the need to refresh Board membership.
Review the succession planning process to ensure that it is more transparent and consultative.
The Board should do more to keep up to date with topical issues Extend the programme of site visits in order that Board and have more insight into what is happening in the day-tomembers spend more time in the business and with key day business.
Arrange presentations to provide more in-depth information on topical issues.
The Board could improve on assessing and discussing culture, Increase time spent discussing organisational culture and and meet more regularly with employees.
receiving feedback from the workforce.
Board culture continues to be positive.
There could be more Setting aside time for the non-executive directors and regular contact with executive directors away from the executives directors to discuss how best the Board can add business environment.
CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 | 49 Corporate governance Effectiveness continued RE-ELECTION BOARD GENDER DIVERSTY Under the Articles of Association, which can be amended by a special resolution of the shareholders, the Board has the power to appoint directors and, where notice is given signed by all the other directors, to remove a director from office.
All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
In accordance with the Codes Men 8 requirements for FTSE 350 companies, Women 2 all directors must seek re-election by shareholders annually.
Accordingly, all directors will be seeking re-election at APPOINTMENTS TO the forthcoming AGM.
Their details are THE BOARD contained on the Board of Directors As recommended by the Code, the Board section on pages 40 and 41. has a Nomination Committee to lead the process for Board appointments and The terms and conditions of appointment make recommendations to the Board.
of non-executive directors are set out in a letter of appointment, which provides for The Nomination Committee report can be their removal in certain circumstances, found on pages 54 and 55. including under s168 Companies Act 2006.
Their letters of appointment also set out what is expected of them and the time expected for them to meet their commitment.
Non-executive directors are expected to serve two three-year terms, although the Board may invite them to serve for an additional period, subject to a rigorous review.
The terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors can be obtained on request to the Company Secretary and will be available for inspection 15 minutes before, and during, the AGM.
DIVERSITY The Groups policy is set out in the Nomination Committee Report, which can be found on pages 54 and 55.
50 | CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
