Corporate governance Nomination Committee Report COMMITTEE MEMBERS ATTENDANCE DURING THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 Sten Mortstedt Chairman 1 1 Anna Seeley 1 1 Elizabeth Edwards 1 1 Lennart Sten 1 1 The independence of both Mr Cooper and Mr Jarvis, having served for over 10 years, was reviewed by the Committee and discussed with the whole Board.
The Committee recognises that, despite the comply and explain principal, some STEN MORTSTEDT institutional shareholders and proxy Executive Director and Chairman advisers consider the Codes provision oftheNomination Committee on the independence criteria as a rule.
Following a rigorous review, the Committee recommended to the Board that Mr Cooper DEAR SHAREHOLDER MEMBERSHIP OF and Mr Jarvis remained independent in The Nomination Committee is responsible THE COMMITTEE character and judgement such that there for ensuring that the Board comprises The Committees membership remains are no relationships or circumstances individuals with the most appropriate unchanged, and comprises one executive which would affect, or could appear balance of experience, skills and director, and three non-executive directors, to affect, their judgement, which they knowledge to help develop and support two of whom are independent nonsupported.
The Board considered that the Company strategy.
The Company their contribution in Board meetings, time makes recommendations to the Board on Secretary acts as secretary to commitment and other significant roles the nomination, selection and succession the Committee.
outside of CLS warrant this conclusion.
of directors and senior executives.
The Committee notes that it is not Nevertheless, as part of its ongoing review The Committee discusses how this compliant with Code provision B.
2.1 but of Board composition, the Committee overarching principle: considers that because the Group has a discussed how a managed process could Controlling Shareholder, its composition be implemented in order to refresh Board links the Companys strategy to future reflects the need for independent oversight non-executive membership in light of the changes on the Board whilst recognising the shareholder base.
discussions with Mr Cooper and the search evaluates Board effectiveness, the for his successor.
performance of individual directors The Committees terms of reference are and how the results affect the rest of available on the Companys website at SUCCESSION PLANNING the Boards work www.
com While identifying and developing talent ensures a comprehensive induction, across the Group remains primarily the training and continuing development COMPOSITION AND SIZE OF responsibility of management, we have a of directors THE BOARD duty to secure the long-term success of the oversees the executive pipeline and Having reduced the size of the Board in Group.
The Committee received updates talent development response to shareholder feedback, the from the Executive Chairman and Chief Committee will now focus on its composition Executive Officer in relation to succession and balance of skills and experience.
planning, both at Board and senior executive level to ensure there is a good quality pipeline in place and to challenge the 54 | CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information executive management teams actions to The Committee has noted the enhance the pipeline.
recommendation in the HamptonAlexander Review for a new voluntary Nomination Following the announcement that target of one-third of all Board members John Whiteley would retire in 2019, the in FTSE 350 companies by 2020 to Committee Committee underwent a process to be women and the wider diversity recruit a new Chief Financial Officer.
targets proposed in the Parker Review.
ataglance Following the appointment of an external Our recruitment decisions throughout Committee objectives executive search consultancy, a long list the organisation are driven by the need Review size, structure and was reviewed by the Chief Executive Officer, to ensure the longer-term success of composition of the Board.
which produced a shortlist of candidates the Company, by appointing the person Consider succession planning for a three stage interview process.
that most closely fulfils the requirements for directors and other The final candidates were interviewed by for the position, regardless of their senior managers.
the Committee, together with the Chief background or gender.
Review leadership needs of Executive Officer.
The Board expects to the organisation.
conclude the process shortly and announce BOARD VALUATION PROCESS Identify and nominate suitable a successor.
The Committee noted the outcomes of candidates for the approval of the 2018 Board evaluation process, which the Board.
DIVERSITY highlighted the positive steps that had been The Boards policy is that the selection of taken to address succession planning and What we have done new Board members should be based communication with employees below Undertaken a review of on the best individual for the role and Board level, highlighted by the visits to Paris Board composition and that the Boards composition should and Hamburg and meetings with their established a managed process have an appropriate balance of skills respective teams.
and diversity to meet the requirements Initiated the process for of the business.
Whilst the Nomination PERFORMANCE OF recruiting a new CFO.
Committee continues not to set specific THE COMMITTEE Received updates from representation targets for women The Nomination Committee undertakes the executive team on at Board level currently 20%, on a review of its performance each year.
recruitment, our policy is that we expect During 2018 the Committees review was Reviewed and recommended our search consultants to ensure, where internally facilitated and found that it to the Board the continuing possible, there is a diverse selection of performed effectively but it would ensure independence of Mr Cooper and candidates.
We consider this to mean that it met more frequently and in a Mr Jarvis.
more than just gender, but also ethnically formal capacity.
diverse candidates: a policy that we Committee focus encourage throughout the Group when Monitoring of the correct skills recruiting.
We recognise that there are and balance of experience of significant benefits of diversity, including the Board.
age, gender, core skills, experience and Ensuring diversity agenda educational and professional background, On behalf of the Board is addressed when making which we continue to consider whenever Board appointments.
changes to the Boards composition Sten Mortstedt are considered.
Chairman Nomination Committee 7 March 2019 CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 | 55
