Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information Accountability The Board is required to present a The Directors recognise that such There is an established organisational fair, balanced and understandable systems can only provide a reasonable structure which has clearly defined lines assessment of the Companys position and not absolute assurance that there of reporting and responsibility.
The Group and prospects, which are explained in this has been no material misstatement has in place control processes in relation Annual Report.
The Board regularly reviews to all aspects of its financial dealings, the management structure, HR such as the authorisation of banking THE AUDIT COMMITTEE policies and reward systems so as to transactions, capital expenditure and The Board has established an Audit ensure that management is aligned treasury investment decisions.
Committee to monitor the formal to the Groups values and supports and transparent arrangements for the risk management and internal The Group has a comprehensive system its corporate reporting and its risk control systems.
for budgeting and planning whereby management and internal control quarterly and annual budgets are principles, and for maintaining an The key elements of the process by which prepared, monitored and reported to the appropriate relationship with the Auditor.
the systems of internal control and risk Board at Board meetings.
Three-yearly Its report can be found on pages 56 to 60. management are monitored are set rolling cash flow forecasts are updated out below.
and distributed to the Executive Directors RISK MANAGEMENT AND on a weekly basis to ensure the Group INTERNAL CONTROL INTERNAL CONTROLS has sufficient cash resources for the The Company has internal control and The Company has an established short and medium-term.
risk management systems in place framework for internal controls, which for its financial reporting process and is regularly reviewed and monitored by Set out on pages 6 to 35 is the Strategic the preparation of the Group accounts.
the executive management and the Audit Report, describing the Groups operations It considers these systems appropriate Committee, who update the Board on its and the strategy which it employs to for the size, diversity and complexity effectiveness during the year.
maximise returns and minimise risks.
of the Groups operations, and they are monitored, reviewed and recommended The Board is responsible for the RISKS by the Audit Committee in the first Companys overall strategy, for approving In line with the most recent guidance instance, and then approved by the Board budgets and major investment decisions, on risk and internal controls from the as a whole on an annual basis.
and for determining the financial FRC, the risks which the Group faces structure of the Group.
are reviewed and monitored in Board It is the Companys aim to manage risk and executive meetings throughout the and to control its business and financial The Audit Committee assists the Board in financial year.
affairs economically, efficiently and the discharge of its duties regarding the effectively so as to be able to exploit Groups financial reports and provides Each business area operates a process profitable business opportunities in a direct link between the Board and to ensure that key risks are identified, a disciplined way, avoid or mitigate the Auditor through regular meetings.
evaluated, managed and reviewed risks that can cause loss, reputational The Board has requested that the Audit appropriately.
This process is also damage or business failure, and enhance Committee reviews the content of the applied at Board level to major business resilience to external events.
The Board Annual Report and Accounts and advises decisions such as property acquisitions acknowledges that the Directors are it on whether, taken as a whole, it is and disposals, and significant strategy responsible for the Groups systems of fair, balanced and understandable and changes.
Furthermore, a monthly internal control and risk management provides the information necessary for property activity portfolio update is and has established procedures which shareholders to assess the Companys circulated to the Board which identifies are designed to provide reasonable position and performance, business key business risks, developments assurance against material misstatement model and strategy.
These procedures have operated review, it recommended the same to management processes, which include for the entire financial year and up to the Board.
health and safety and sustainability risk the date of signing the Annual Report management, are employed within the and Accounts.
businesses and updates are reported to the Board at each meeting.
CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 | 51 Corporate governance Accountability continued Whilst there were no areas of weakness The forecasts provide a comprehensive or failings identified by the Audit view of the Groups entire operation, Committee and reported to the Board covering: during their review of the Groups risk management and internal controls, cash flows management has set up a rolling financial resources programme to review and test the long-term funding principal areas of internal control risks capital expenditure commitments throughout the Group.
The results are administration costs reported to the Audit Committee and reviewed by the Board during the year.
Cash flow forecasts are updated weekly and circulated to the Board.
The budget In accordance with provision C. 2.1 of and three year forecasts are set in the Code, and as supported above, the November and updated in May and Directors confirm that they have carried August to take into account changes out a robust assessment of the principal to assumptions and are reviewed by risks facing the Group, including those the Board.
which would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency As explained in the Audit Committee or liquidity.
The Groups principal risks report, the forecasts are also stressand uncertainties, the areas which they tested to reflect our principal risks, impact and how they are mitigated are ensuring the Group has sufficient described on pages 18 and 19. resources in severe cases, such as a steep property downturn, the loss of key VIABILITY STATEMENT tenants and significant rises in the costs In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of of medium-term funding.
the Code, the Board has assessed the prospects of the Group over a longer As a result, the Directors can confirm period than the twelve months that has that they have a reasonable expectation in practice been the focus of the Going that the Company will be able to continue Concern statement.
in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of The Board concluded that the Viability their assessment.
Statement should correspond with the way in which the Group models its REMUNERATION forecasts.
The Group produces a budget The Board has a Remuneration for the current year and forecasts over Committee which develops the a further three years reflecting the Companys policies on executive Groups business model, strategy, and remuneration and sets the risk appetite, including the potential remuneration packages of individual impact of Brexit.
The Board considers Executive Directors.
this period to be the most appropriate as it provides a detailed and realistic Its report can be found on pages 61 to 74. forecast.
The forecast is built up from a tenant level and considers the Groups weighted average lease length of 5.3 years 2017: 5.4 years and the maturity profile of the Groups debt of 3.5 years 2017: 3.6 years.
52 | CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
