Corporate governance Audit Committee Report COMMITTEE MEMBERS ATTENDANCE DURING THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 Malcolm Cooper Chairman 4 4 Chris Jarvis 4 4 Elizabeth Edwards 4 4 HOW THE COMMITTEE SPENDS ITS TIME MALCOLM COOPER Senior independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman oftheAudit Committee Reports from the Auditor 37% DEAR SHAREHOLDER PERFORMANCE OF Governance 31% The Audit Committee reviews and reports THE COMMITTEE Financial reporting 24% Meeting with valuers 8% to the Board on financial reporting matters, The Audit Committee undertakes a including the valuation assumptions for review of its performance each year.
the property portfolio, internal control During 2018 the Committees review was and risk management.
It also reviews the internally facilitated and found that the performance, independence, effectiveness Committee performed effectively.
and annual remuneration of the auditor.
AUDIT COMMITTEE COMPOSITION OF REGULAR ATTENDEES THE COMMITTEE byinvitation For the purposes of the Code, Mr Cooper, Ms Edwards and Mr Jarvis are regarded Georgina Robb Deloitte LLP, Auditor as having recent and relevant accounting Fredrik Widlund Chief and financial experience, and all have Executive Officer sector competence.
John Whiteley Chief Financial Officer The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial David Fuller Company Secretary Officer, certain senior management and Secretary to and the Auditor are normally invited the Committee to attend the meetings.
At each Cushman & Independent meeting there is a standing agenda Wakefield external valuer UK item facilitating the opportunity for the and Germany Auditor to meet without management Jones Independent external present.
The Company Secretary acts as Lang LaSalle valuer France secretary to the Committee.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website at www.
com 56 | CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information Audit Committee ataglance Committee objective What we have done Committee focus Monitor the integrity of the financial Reviewed the year end and half-year Together with the Auditor, ensured statements, and assist the Board results ensuring that they were fair, the valuations and assumptions with other formal announcements.
surrounding the valuations Review the narrative reporting to Met with each of the Groups valuers were appropriate.
ensure, taken as a whole, it is fair, and asked searching questions on Monitoring of Principal Risks and balanced and understandable.
the markets in which we operate.
Uncertainties to ensure they remain Review and monitor internal controls Received reports and presentations relevant and appropriate.
from the Auditor at the full and halfReviewed and monitored Approve the statements concerning year in respect of: internal controls and risk principal risks, viability, internal property valuations management systems.
significant accounting, reporting Maintained good communication Review the adequacy of and judgemental matters, links with the Auditor with a focus on whistleblowing and antiincluding going concern the key issues outlined in each audit fraud arrangements.
Maintain a relationship with the Undertook a review of the internal Monitored impact of relevant Auditor including the setting of fees.
controls and risk management and changes to corporate governance.
requested regular updates from management during the year.
Undertook a review of whistleblowing arrangements to ensure they remained appropriate for the Group.
Together with input from the Auditor, confirmed that there was no requirement for an internal audit function given the size and complexity of the Group.
Received the Auditors planning report, reviewed the year end audit scope and materiality, and agreed 2018 audit fee.
Reviewed and challenged the viability statement to ensure that it remained relevant to the Group and in line with its budgetary forecasting model.
Received and discussed implementation of key changes brought about by new UK Corporate Governance Code.
CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 | 57 Corporate governance Audit Committee Report continued SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL JUDGEMENTS Issues How they were addressed Property valuations The Committee met with the Groups valuers, Cushman and Wakefield UK and Germany, and Jones Lang LaSalle France to which it invited the whole Board, and discussed the methodology used for the six monthly valuations of the Groups properties.
Independently, the Auditor also met with the Groups valuers using real estate specialists and provided the Committee with a summary of their review contained within their report at the half-year and year end.
The Committee was satisfied with the explanations in relation to the portfolio and its associated key risks, such as specific local market updates, vacancy levels and rental demand, which management were addressing.
Significant transactions The Committee also focused on the managements accounting treatment for significant transactions during the year, such as the 28.7 million sale of First Camp to a Norwegian campsite operator.
Key financial judgements that were considered related to the classification of the First Camp investment as a discontinued operation and its remeasurement to fair value less cost to sell which resulted in a loss being recognised.
The treatments were discussed with the Auditor and the Committee agreed with the accounting treatment.
Accounting for other In conjunction with the Auditor, the Committee reviewed how management accounted for its other financial investments financial investments, principally in corporate bonds and in the shares in Catena AB.
The Committee agreed with the approach taken by management and the value of these investments.
Brexit The Committee continued to look at the impact of Brexit on the principal risks and uncertainties and provided the full Board with the Committees views in their wider discussion as set out in the Strategic Review.
Management override The Committee assessed the framework for financial controls to be regularly reviewed by of controls management and brought to the Committee for review.
The Auditor confirmed to the Committee that there were defined lines of reporting and control processes in place within the Group such that the Auditor and Committee were satisfied that the risk was adequately mitigated.
58 | CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information A key risk that the Committee discussed was the financial impact of Brexit, which Viability and Going Concern it considered could have an effect on the property sector and the ability to obtain Viability Statement Going Concern financing, and how the Group would The Committee remained of the view Whilst a matter for the whole Board mitigate its effects.
Whilst these risks that the statement should correspond see page 77, the Committee reviews were considered to have a relatively high with the way in which the Group the Groups financial forecasts, debt impact, the likelihood that they would models its forecasts, being the current maturity forecasts and associated occur remained low.
year plus a further three years.
With supporting in which the model was stress tested reviews from the Auditor, and a The Group also reassessed the impact of for changes in the Groups operating recommendation from management, the development risk within the portfolio, environment were considered the Committee remained of the which, since the sale of Vauxhall Square, appropriate and clearly supported view that the going concern basis had reduced significantly.
Further details are was appropriate.
contained in the Corporate Governance INTERNAL CONTROL AND Report on page 52.
RISKMANAGEMENT The Committee has a further standing discussion item in relation to monitoring and reviewing all of the Groups material The Committee discussed the results of KEY AREAS DISCUSSED controls and risk management systems, this review and were pleased to note that AND REVIEWED BY with a continuous control testing and the limited improvements required had THE COMMITTEE reporting programme throughout been implemented as part of Deloittes EXTERNAL AUDIT PROCESS the organisation.
Further details are audit work for 2018.
The Committee reviewed the external contained in the Corporate Governance audit strategy and the findings of the Report on pages 51 and 52.
The Committee assessed the effectiveness Auditor from the review of the Half-Yearly of the full-year and half-year external Financial Report and from the audit of the INTERNAL AUDIT audit processes, the performance of the Annual Report and Accounts.
It reviewed Following its annual review, the Auditor and, separately, sought the views the letters of representation at both the Committee recommended to the of senior management.
The Committee full year and half year and recommended Board not to establish an internal audit concluded that the external audit strategy the same to the Board for signature.
function, due to the existence of current had been met, and that key accounting and Additionally, the Committee met with the controls and review systems, and as the auditing judgments had been identified Auditor prior to the final sign-off meeting Company was neither of sufficient size by the Auditor.
The Committee concluded for this Annual Report and Accounts in nor complexity to warrant it.
This line that Deloitte LLP had undertaken the order to receive the report on the external of reasoning was consistent with other external audit in line with the audit plan, audit process.
The Committee is pleased property companies of a similar size.
and it was agreed to recommend to to report that at both the half year and the This view was supported by the Auditor.
the Board that Deloitte LLP be asked to full year, after reviewing the significant The Committee notes the changes to continue as the Auditor at the forthcoming risks identified by the Auditor and how the UK Corporate Governance Code AGM.
The Committee discussed with management had mitigated them, there and has asked management to report management and subsequently agreed was no issue of a material nature which on how internal assurance is achieved.
the statutory audit fee and the scope of the needed to be addressed or brought to the The absence of an internal audit function statutory audit.
will continue to be reviewed annually.
PRINCIPAL RISKS During the year the Committee were In order to seek assurance that The Committee introduced a standing notified by the Financial Reporting Council internal controls are rigorously discussion item in relation to monitoring FRC that their Audit Quality Review Team tested, management have set up a and reviewing the Groups principal AQR were intending to review the work rolling programme to review and test business risks, and challenging Deloitte LLP performed in conducting the the principal areas of risk, with the management on the appropriateness audit of The Groups 2017 results.
results reported to the Committee and of those risks and how they were to be subsequently reviewed by the Board.
mitigated, details of which can be found This ongoing review has not highlighted on pages 18 and 19. any matters of concern.
CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 | 59 Corporate governance Audit Committee Report continued NON-AUDIT FEES ANTI-BRIBERY AND The Committee is also responsible WHISTLEBLOWING for monitoring the compliance of the The Company has implemented an Companys policy on the provision of anti-bribery policy and provided training non-audit services by the Auditor, so as for all staff.
An additional annual to safeguard the Auditors objectivity compliance check is undertaken for all and independence.
The Committee reviewed as being appropriate the whistleblowing policy, The Committee has implemented a policy under which employees may report so as to ensure it complies with the EU suspicion of fraud, financial irregularity, Audit Regulations.
modern slavery or other malpractice.
No reports of any such matters were The policy categorises non-audit services received during the year.
as either: On behalf of the Board excluded as defined by the EU Audit Regulations : or permitted, without approval from the Malcolm Cooper Committee, but subject to approval by Chairman the Chief Financial Officer of up to 10% Audit Committee of the annual aggregate Group audit 7 March 2019 fee: or permitted with approval from the Committee.
The non-audit services provided by the Auditor during the year were 52,000 2017: 53,207, the majority of which related to the auditors work on the Interim Review.
All such fees were approved by the Committee or Chief Financial Officer in accordance with the policy.
As set out above, the Committee considers that it has complied with the provision of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
We note the technical breach of independence referred to in the Auditors Report on page 82 and concur with their view that the services provided did not impact upon their integrity, objectivity and independence given the minimal level of fees incurred and inconsequential impact on the financial statements.
60 | CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
