Corporate Governance Board Risk Committee Report Legacy risk retirement confirmed as an operational priority of the Group The Board has delegated responsibility for the monitoring and reviewing of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems to the Audit Committee.
The risk management process covers financial, operational and compliance controls, as well as the Groups Principal Risks.
The Board Risk Committee ensures that a robust assessment of the emerging and principal operational risks, including arising risks, facing the Company has been undertaken by the Group Executive, and reviews and monitors the mitigation of those risks.
Business unit, Sector and functional teams are responsible for day to day management and reporting of risks.
They identify new and emerging risks, escalate where appropriate, and take action to manage risks as required.
Michael Wareing Internal Audit provides independent and objective assurance on the adequacy Chairman and effectiveness of our risk management and internal control processes.
It CMG, FCA, FCCA, MCSI executes a range of risk audits across the Group.
Committee members Assessment of principal operational risks and the Alison Wood, Ren Mdori, Norton Schwartz Groups appetite for risk The risk data that is identified throughout the business is aggregated and Number of meetings held in 2018 analysed in order to identify the principal operational risks and uncertainties that 3 affect the Group.
The Principal Risks, which have been detailed on pages 36 to 41, represent the highest level of risk data that is used as a part of the risk management Dear Shareholder process.
Each of the Principal Risks has an identified owner and a set of controls The Board Risk Committee was established during 2017 to provide assurance and actions that have been put in place in order to effectively mitigate them.
to the Board regarding the management of principal operational risks as set out on pages 34 to 41.
During 2018, the Board Risk Committee has focused on As part of its activities during 2018, the Board Risk Committee has also ensuring that the Groups operational risks are properly understood and considered the capacity of the Group to accept any significant additional risks, defined and that the Groups risk management activities have been operating over and above those that are either inherent to the markets in which the effectively to appropriately manage and mitigate the risks.
Group operates or those that relate to the historic activities of the Group.
The Committees assessment has been that the capacity of the Group Activities during the year toaccept additional risk is constrained in a number of areas, and as a result, During the year, the Committee considered the following main items: themitigation and ultimately the retirement of these risk items remains Review of the processes in place to identify operational risks throughout anoperational priority of the Group.
As risks are retired, it is anticipated the Group, from a bottom-up basis through risk registers held at various that capacity will be released which should allow the Group to accept levels within the Group, combined with a top-down view of the principal additional risk in line with its long term appetite for risk, in support of its and strategic risks that could impact the Group in the future: strategic objectives.
Management of the risk mitigation activities being conducted within the Group, with a particular focus on the role of the Group Executive in mitigating the principal operational and strategic risks: Identification of the ability of the Group to take risks across several different resource constraints such as financial capacity, management Michael Wareing bandwidth and technical capability: and Board Risk Committee Chair Identification of the risks capable of being managed down, and the 7 March 2019 monitoring of milestones against mitigations.
Systems of risk management and internal control The Board has ultimate accountability for the execution of risk management and internal control systems, with the Group Executive responsible for the execution of the management of risk throughout the Group.
70 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
