Corporate Governance Board of Directors The right skills and experience todeliver our strategy Full biographies can be found at www.
com our-business our-board Michael Wareing John McAdam David Lockwood Chairman Senior Independent Director Chief Executive Officer, Executive CMG, FCA, FCCA, MCSI BSc, PhD Director OBE, BA, FCA, FRSA, FAeS Tenure on Board: 8 years, including 2 years Tenure on Board: 1 year 5 months Tenure on Board: 2 years asChairman Independent on appointment in December 2010 Independent on appointment in August 2017 Independent: No Committee membership: Chair of the Committee membership: Member of the Audit Committee membership: Chair of the Nomination Committee: Chair of the Board Risk Committee, Remuneration Committee and Executive Directors Committee.
Nationality: British Nationality: British Nationality: British Relevant skills: Michael had a global career Relevant skills: John has a wealth of executive Relevant skills: David has senior management holding senior executive and non-executive roles experience in blue chip companies, most notably experience in international operations including in FTSE 100 companies Intertek plc, Wolseley ICI plc, as well as holding senior non-executive with BAE Systems plc, Laird plc and Thales Group plc, KPMG and as an envoy and advisor to the roles in FTSE 100 companies including in the aerospace and electronics sectors.
He brings extensive Rolls-Royce plc amongst others.
He brings held advisory positions in the fields of cyber international commercial and financial experience valuable senior leadership experience gained security and technology and was awarded the to the Board.
across a range of sectors to the Board.
OBE for services to industry in Scotland.
Key external appointments: none Key external appointments: Chairman at Key external appointments: Member of the Rentokil Initial plc stepping down in May 2019 Dunedin International Advisory Board.
and United Utilities Group plc: Non-executive Director at Wilmcote Holdings plc.
Overall Board and Committee meeting attendance table The figures represent attendance at formal meetings.
Audit Board Risk Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Michael Wareing 7 of 9 3 of 3 3 of 4 John McAdam 9 of 9 5 of 5 4 of 4 4 of 4 Alison Wood 9 of 9 5 of 5 3 of 3 4 of 4 4 of 4 Ren Mdori 8 of 9 7 of 7 3 of 3 4 of 4 Norton Schwartz 8 of 9 5 of 5 3 of 3 4 of 4 Marion Blakey 3 of 3 3 of 3 David Lockwood Executive Director 9 of 9 David Mellors Executive Director 9 of 9 Alan Semple 3 of 3 3 of 3 Birgit Nrgaard 3 of 3 3 of 3 Michael Hagee 3 of 3 3 of 3 Michael Wareing missed two Board meetings and one Nomination Committee meeting due to surgery ill health.
John McAdam, in his capacity as Senior Independent Director, deputised as Chairman in his absence.
Ren Mdori and Norton Schwartz missed one Board meeting each, due to travelling.
52 Alison Wood, John McAdam and Norton Schwartz joined the Audit Committee on 25 April 2018.
Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate Governance Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 David Mellors Alison Wood Ren Mdori Chief Financial Officer, Executive Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Director MA, ACA MA, MBA Economics Doctorate Degree, Finance Masters Tenure on Board: 2 years Tenure on Board: 7 years 5 months Tenure on Board: 1 year Independent: No Independent on appointment in July 2011 Independent on appointment in January 2018 Committee membership: Member of the Committee membership: Chair of the Committee membership: Chair of the Audit Executive Directors Committee.
Remuneration Committee: member of the Audit Committee: member of the Board Risk Committee, Nomination Committee and Board Committee and Nomination Committee.
Nationality: British Nationality: British Nationality: French British Relevant skills: A chartered accountant, David Relevant skills: Alison brings extensive strategic Relevant skills: Ren brings considerable has extensive senior management experience in experience and understanding of the aerospace, technical financial expertise to the Board, gained the defence, security and aerospace market in defence and regulated capital intensive from a global finance background, in the mining, the FTSE 250, in a Chief Financial Officer and businesses from her previous executive roles at multinational industrials and utilities sectors, interim Chief Executive Officer capacity.
Previous BAE Systems plc and National Grid plc.
She has most notably at Anglo American plc.
He also roles have afforded global finance experience in valuable knowledge and understanding of the brings a strong reputation for integrity and the IT, software and mining sectors.
executive reward arena gained at other blue chip excellent investor relations.
Key external appointments: None Key external appointments: Non-executive Key external appointments: Chair of Petrofac Director and Chair of the Remuneration Limited: Non-executive director at Newmont Committee of Costain Group plc, TT Electronics Mining Corporation and at Vinci SA where he will plc and The British Standards Institution a be appointed Audit Chair in April 2019. non-listed Royal Charter Company.
Norton Schwartz Marion Blakey Changes to the Board of Directors Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Ren Mdori Ren was appointed as BSc, MA BA aNon-executive Director on 1January 2018 Tenure on Board: 1 year Tenure on Board: 5 months Norton Schwartz Norton was appointed as Independent on appointment in January 2018 Independent on appointment in August 2018 aNon-executive Director on 1January 2018 Committee membership: Member of the Audit Committee membership: Member of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, and Committee.
Michael Hagee Michael retired from the Board Risk Committee.
Board at the 2018 AGM, 26April 2018 Nationality: US Citizen Nationality: US Citizen Birgit Nrgaard Birgit retired from the Relevant skills: Nortons long and distinguished Relevant skills: Marion brings a commercial Board at the 2018 AGM, US Air Force career brings invaluable insight into strength to the Board, alongside extensive 26April 2018 the US military process and programmes, with a experience in the airline industry arena.
Her particular strength in defence technology.
He customer focus, evidenced in her role as Chair, Alan Semple Alan retired from the held a number of senior military positions President and CEO of Rolls-Royce North America Board at the 2018 AGM, culminating in the role of 19th Chief of Staff of Inc and at the Federal Aviation Administration, 26April 2018 the US Air Force.
He brings SSA experience from arole requiring White House Senate approval, Marion Blakey Marion was appointed as his role at CAE USA Inc. complements and strengthens the skills on aNon-executive Director theBoard.
on 3 August 2018 Key external appointments: Member of the Key external appointments: Non-executive Board of Wesco Aircraft Holdings, Inc: Board of Director of Alaska Air Group Inc.
Chair of its For more details see Directors of CAE Inc: President and CEO of Compensation Committee and a member of the www.
com our-business Business Executives for National Security BENS Safety Committee.
Chair of Board of Trustees of our-board 53 in the US.
