Corporate Governance Nomination Committee Report A refreshed Board We now have an extremely strong Board, with a good mix of backgrounds and experience to support the Executives and to provide constructive challenge.
On the next page you will see the results of the skills and experience review undertaken by Egon Zehnder to support the Board refreshment programme and succession planning.
Egon Zehnder have provided support for recent Board and other senior management appointments but have no other connection with the Group.
During 2018, I had surgery, which together with the recuperation period, took me away from the business for a 3 month period.
In that time, John McAdam, Senior Independent Director, and an experienced Chairman in his own right, deputised as Chairman and received a relevant proportion of the Chairmans fee.
In turn, I waived the Chairmans fee for the period of my absence.
I thank Michael Wareing John, and the rest of the Board, for their support through this time.
Chairman CMG, FCA, FCCA, MCSI We committed to completing an in depth external Board and Committee evaluation during 2018, the last external evaluation having been undertaken Committee members in 2015, see details on page 59.
John McAdam, Alison Wood, Ren Mdori We restructured the Committee during 2018: part of this process focused on Number of meetings held in 2018 strengthening succession planning below Board level, resulting in a much 4 clearer view of strengths and development required in our senior management team.
We will build on this during 2019 as we have better data through the Dear Shareholder implementation of an enterprise wide HR Information System excluding the As we reported last year, Ren Mdori and Norton Schwartz joined the Board CAES business.
Succession has also been invigorated by a number of senior with effect from 1 January 2018.
Ren took over the role of Audit Committee management appointments made at both Group Executive level and in their Chair in April, immediately after the AGM.
We also announced the appointment of Marion Blakey on 3 August 2018.
For With the support of the Board, the executive team launched a new purpose this appointment, our specific brief was to look for a candidate with US statement and values, with a stronger focus on team working across the commercial and SSA expertise.
After completing a search exercise through Group, this launch was supported by leadership assessment and development Egon Zehnder, a long list of potential individuals was identified, from which a programmes and will be embedded in the business through 2019. short list of candidates who met the agreed criteria on paper was compiled.
I then interviewed candidates and took up personal references.
Marion, our Having recently reviewed the performance of the Non-executive Directors preferred candidate, had meetings with the majority of the current Board and their time commitment, I am confident that we do not have an issue with members and full due diligence was undertaken before her formal overboarding with any members of our Board.
appointment was recommended to the Board for approval.
Further details of Marions skills and experience can be found on our website at In summary, during 2018 the Nomination Committee has helped lay the www.
foundations for much stronger talent and succession planning, and has made plans to realign the organisational culture to support the continued operational In sourcing candidates for Board positions, Egon Zehnder are required to and financial performance.
2019 will focus on embedding these plans.
support our objective of building a diverse and inclusive board.
The representation of women on the Board at 31 December 2018 was 25%.
Michael Wareing Nomination Committee Chair 7 March 2019 64 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate Governance Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strong UK corporate governance experience International operations Other current Nonexecutive Director roles FTSE 100 NYSE experience NED ED Foreign Ownership Control and Influence US defence experience Aerospace & defence sector Engineering expertise Financial qualification expertise Programme management & contracting Risk management Commercial Product technology People development Nationality Gender Committee membership Tenure years, months as at 31 December 2018 Board skills matrix Committees: A Audit N Nomination R Remuneration K Board Risk c denotes committee chair Non-executive Directors c c Michael Wareing 8,0 N, K M British Chairman John McAdam SID 1,4 A, N, R M British c Alison Wood NED 7,5 R, A, N, K F British French c Ren Mdori NED 1,0 A, N, K M British Norton Schwartz NED 1,0 A, K, R M American Marion Blakey NED 0,5 A F American Executive Directors David Lockwood CEO 2,1 M British David Mellors CFO 2,0 M British Key events for 2018 Directors professional development Continued oversight of the Board refresh, offering two appointments On appointment, Directors undertake a structured induction during the year: programme during which they receive information about: Reviewed the impact of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code and The role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision: updated terms of reference accordingly: The Groups corporate governance practices and procedures: Reviewed the development, retention and succession plans for the Their duties and responsibilities as Directors of a listed company: Executive Directors, the Group Executive team and the Top 75 roles: and and Completed a Board evaluation plus a composition and skills review.
A strategic overview of the business, for the Group and by Sector.
Priorities for 2019 This is supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings with, and Chairman succession: presentations by, members of the senior management team.
Oversight of succession, retention and development for the Executive Directors and the senior management team: As most of the Board members are newly appointed, the May 2018 Ensure the recently launched purpose and values are embedded into meeting was devoted to a full induction session.
This covered Cobham thebusiness: history and context, supply chain, culture and talent review, and Support and oversee the cultural realignment: and Sector deep dives.
The materials were updated and re-run for Marion Agree and embed mechanisms for employee engagement.
Blakey on a one to one basis when she joined in August.
The Committees terms of reference are available on Cobhams website or by Development for Directors is available as required and is provided application to the Company Secretary.
mainly by means of internal briefing from senior management or advisors and external courses.
In addition, Directors knowledge of the legal and regulatory environment is updated through the provision of information by the Groups advisors and by regular updates from the Company Secretary and the legal team.
There is also time reserved in the Boards work plan and within those of its committees to receive updates and teach-ins from advisors and subject matter experts.
Board members are required to provide details of other professional development they undergo on their own account.
