Corporate Governance Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Membership of all committees can be found on page 52 B.
Provision of information and support The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensures that all Statement of compliance with provisions of the Code Board members receive accurate and timely information.
All the Directors The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
In accordance have access to independent professional advice at the Companys expense, with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the Company confirms that where they judge it necessary in order to discharge their responsibilities.
throughout the year ended 31 December 2018 and at the date of this Annual B.
Board and Committee performance evaluation Report, it was compliant with the provisions of the Code.
An external evaluation of Board and Committee performance was held in 2018.
See page 59 for details of the evaluation.
The Boards role All Directors are subject to shareholder vote at the AGM.
Refer to page 56, and to page 58 for Board and Committee structure andpurposes.
A clear division of responsibilities C. 1.
Financial and business reporting The Boards policy is that the roles of Chairman and CEO should be performed The Statement of Directors Responsibility is set out on page 85, and the by different people.
Independent Auditors Report commences on page 86.
Role of the Chairman business model is explained on pages 12 and 13.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the Board.
Risk management and internal control systems He sets the agendas for meetings and manages the meeting timetable.
The The Board, through the Board Risk Committee, conducts a robust assessment Chairman facilitates open and constructive dialogue between Executive and of the operational principal risks.
An annual review of the effectiveness of the Non-executive Directors and also ensures effective communication with Groups risk management and internal control systems is undertaken by the shareholders.
The Chairman has held regular meetings with the NonAudit Committee.
Further details on the work of the Audit Committee and the executives, both collectively and individually, in the absence of Executive Board Risk Committee can be found on pages 66 and 70 respectively.
Directors, providing an opportunity for any concerns to be discussed.
Role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee A.
Role of the Non-executive Directors Details of how the Committee has discharged its responsibilities during the The primary role of the Non-executive Directors is to constructively challenge year are provided in the Audit Committee Report on page 66.
The terms of and help the CEO formulate proposals on strategy.
They also scrutinise the reference for the Audit Committee are reviewed at least annually and are performance of management in meeting agreed objectives, monitor the available on the Company website.
reporting of performance and satisfy themselves on the integrity of the financial information and that financial controls and risk management D. Remuneration processes are robust and defensible.
The Board has appointed a Senior D. 1.
Levels and components of remuneration Independent Director to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and to The Board believes that the Groups Remuneration Policy is appropriately serve as an intermediary for the other Directors, where necessary.
designed to promote the long term success of the Company, while enabling the Group to attract, retain and motivate the executive talent required for the B.
Effectiveness delivery of its business strategy.
For further information, see the Directors B.
The Boards composition Remuneration Report on page 71.
Details of the composition of the Board are set out on page 56.
Development of remuneration policy and packages determines, through the Nomination Committee, the independence of The terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee are reviewed at least its members.
Conflicts of interest are also monitored and updated at annually and are available on the Company website.
Committee has the delegated authority for setting the remuneration of B.
Board appointments Executive Directors and the Chairman.
The fees payable to the Non-executive The appointment of new Directors to the Board is led by the Nomination Directors are determined by the Chairman, on recommendation from the Committee see Board and Committee structure on page 58.
The Nomination Executive Directors Committee.
Committees terms of reference, as published on the Company website, document its responsibility regarding Board appointments.
Further details of E. Relations with shareholders succession planning and the Boards policy on diversity, including gender, can E. 1.
Shareholder engagement and dialogue be found on pages 64 and 56 respectively.
Effective communication and engagement with investors is of paramount B.
Time commitments importance to the continued success of the Company, and roadshows are The time commitments of Non-executive Directors are defined in their held during the year between investors and the Chairman and Director of appointment letters and are regularly reviewed.
The impact of any new role Investor Relations.
The CEO and CFO have held meetings with existing proposed by a Non-executive Director on existing time commitments is shareholders through the investor relations programme during 2018, see considered by the Chairman before approval is granted.
Further details of the Capital Markets Day can be found on page 63.
Constructive use of general meetings A structured induction programme is available to each new Board member, The Board values all general meetings as an important opportunity to engage which is supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings with with investors.
Attendees at general meetings have the opportunity to ask management.
Further training for Directors is offered when taking a new role questions to the Board and to speak to individual Directors following the on a committee and is otherwise available as required.
Further details can be formal business of the meeting.
This year the AGM is being held in the found in the Directors professional development section on page 65. afternoon, in response to shareholder requests.
55 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued The Board composition inclusive work culture.
Further it states that recruitment, development, The Board comprises a Non-executive Chairman, a CEO, a CFO, a Senior reward, promotion or any other work-based opportunity must be based solely Independent Director and four other Non-executive Directors.
All Nonon performance, ability and the demonstration of Cobhams values, and that executive Directors, except the Chairman, are considered to be independent such decisions must be recorded to confirm compliance with this policy.
and the Chairman was considered to be independent on appointment.
The Boards policy is that the roles of Chairman and CEO should be performed by The Board is, by necessity, a diverse group of individuals, some with business different people.
The division of responsibilities is documented and clearly backgrounds, and others with defence specific or more general management understood.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness experience.
This level of diversity of thought is needed to make sure the of the Board and the CEO is responsible for leading the day to day management decisions made have the right input and challenge, and assists the Board in of the Company, formulating the strategy and delivering against the strategy understanding and influencing the culture around the business.
This was a key when approved by the Board.
focus for the Groups Board through 2018 and into 2019.
Biographies of the Directors are set out on pages 52 and 53.
The attendance The Nomination Committee ensures and oversees a diverse pipeline for of Directors at Board meetings is set out on page 52. succession to both Board and GE positions.
The rules for the appointment and replacement of Directors are set out in the Other Board proceedings Companys Articles of Association the Articles, copies of which can be The Board has adopted procedures relating to the conduct of its business, obtained from Companies House in the UK or by contacting the Company including the timely provision of information.
The Company Secretary is Secretary.
Changes to the Articles must be approved by shareholders passing responsible for ensuring that these are observed and for advising the Board on a special resolution.
The Directors and the Company in the latter case by corporate governance matters.
The Company Secretary is appointed by, and ordinary resolution may appoint a person who is willing to act as a Director, can only be removed by, the Board.
either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director.
Matters reserved for the Board All the Non-executive Directors have confirmed that they have sufficient time The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its specific approval.
to meet their time commitments to the Group.
Copies of their appointment The schedule provides the framework for those decisions that can be made by letters are available on request to the Company Secretary and will be available the Board and those that can be delegated.
Among the key matters on which for inspection at the AGM.
the Board alone may make decisions are the Groups strategy, its three year financial plan, its consolidated budget, Group policies, dividends, acquisitions All Directors currently in office will retire and those eligible and wishing to be and disposals, and all appointments to and removals from the Board.
Authority reappointed will seek re-election at the AGM.
The Chairman confirms to is delegated to management by way of a delegation matrix in accordance with shareholders when proposing reappointment that the individuals the provisions of the Groups Corporate Framework, ensuring that proper performance continues to be effective and that the individual continues to management oversight exists at the appropriate level.
Matters delegated in demonstrate commitment to the role.
Non-executive Directors are subject to this way include, within defined parameters: the approval of bids and Companies Act provisions relating to the removal of a Director.
contracts: capital expenditure: and financing arrangements.
Board proceedings Board meetings Board meetings, scheduled in accordance with the annual timetable, were held six times during the year on a face to face basis and three times by telephone.
In addition, there were two short notice meetings to support Board decisions required between scheduled meetings.
There is also contact between Board meetings to progress the Groups business as required.
Meetings are held in London, Wimborne and at other UK and international operational locations.
Performance reviews The Senior Independent Director, together with the Non-executives, appraised the Chairmans performance.
The Chairman held meetings with the Non-executives to assess the Executive Directors performance, and held one to one appraisals with each Non-executive Director and the CEO.
Board appointments and induction As the Group continued its Board refresh programme, and recognising the short tenure of most Board members, a complete induction session was held with the full Board present.
Materials covered the history of the Group, supply chain management, culture, talent and a deep dive into each Sector.
Board diversity The Diversity and Inclusion Policy applies to employees, non-permanent staff, and Board members.
Specifically it states that all persons covered by the 56 policy must promote and role model the development of a diverse and Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate Governance Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategy Risk Governance Key Activities and discussions Key Activities and discussions Key Activities and discussions Confirmed strategic focus of the business Received a brief on cyber security matters.
Oversight of the KC-46 programme and to remain space, aerospace and defence.
Completed an analysis of the capacity of Boeing relationship, and other major Oversight of organisational restructure the Group to deal with additional risk.
See also the work of the Board Risk Appointment of Marion Blakey as a NED.
Review and approval of divestment Committee at page 70.
Full co-operation with the FCA through oftheAvComm and Wireless test Key Priorities for 2019 their now discontinued investigation.
Continued emphasis on embedding risk Completed an external Board evaluation.
Review and approval of the management into business activities.
Held indepth induction session with the electromagnetic simulation software fullBoard.
Completed an extensive audit tender Consideration of the Groups process.
Key Priorities for 2019 Undertook a supply chain review.
Monitoring of progress against onerous Held an Investor Capital Markets Day.
Oversight of all transformation activity, Chairman succession and induction.
Strengthen succession planning Key Priorities for 2019 fromBoard, through the senior Continued oversight of transformational management team.
activities, including: Sector restructure: Consideration of how to deliver employee culture change and talent management: feedback into the Boardroom.
supply chain management: operational Review processes to achieve an performance focusing on cost of enhancedrole for the Board in key qualityand execution.
The markets we serve to be kept underreview.
Board Activity Financial Culture Safety, Health and Environment SHE Key Activities and discussions Key Activities and discussions Monthly review of operational and Undertook third culture assessment using Key Activities and discussions financial performance metrics.
Heidrick and Struggles Organisation Monthly monitoring of SHE performance Review and approval of the financial Assessment Questionnaire.
metrics, annual review and assessment statements in support of the divestment Started an exercise to identify and launch completed.
ofthe AvComm and Wireless test new purpose and values.
Received a brief on environmental matters.
Revised talent and senior management Key Priorities for 2019 Consideration of capital allocation policy.
Oversight of the strengthening of SHE See also the work of the Audit Committee Key Priorities for 2019 resource and the performance in the on page 66.
Support the cultural realignment, primarily second year of a 3 year SHE strategy.
Key Priorities for 2019 focusing on bedding in the new purpose Approval of capital allocation policy.
and values across the businesses.
Ongoing focus on closure of the remaining Develop KPIs to monitor cultural change legacy items and reduction of remaining provisions as a consequence.
Oversee the transfer of the external audit to EY, if approved at the AGM.
Continued strengthening of the financial control environment.
57 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Board and Committee structure Board of Directors The Boards role is to lead the Group with a view to the creation of strong, sustainable financial performance and long term shareholder value, to review and approve the Groups strategic plan, and to supervise the conduct of the Groups activities within a framework of prudent and effective internal controls.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its specific approval.
For other matters, authority is delegated to management by way of a delegation matrix in accordance with the provisions of the Groups Corporate Framework.
Principal Board Committees The Audit The Board Risk The Remuneration The Nomination The Disclosure Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee monitors the integrity of provides assurance to the determines the Remuneration reviews the composition of ensures that policies, systems financial statements and has Board regarding the Policy for the Executive Board, considers succession and controls exist so that ultimate responsibility for management of the Groups Directors and is responsible planning at both Board and potential share price sensitive internal control systems.
for oversight of the senior management level and information is escalated, remuneration policies and leads the process of considered, verified and For full details of the For full details of the principal practices of the wider appointments to Board.
promptly released to the Committees work see report risks see pages 36 to 41 and workforce.
on page 66. for details of the Committees For full details of the work see report on page 70.
For full details of the Committees work see report Committees work see report on page 64. on page 71.
The Executive Directors Committee assists the CEO in the performance of his duties.
Its terms of reference include the discharge of obligations arising under the Companys share plans: the recommendation ofthe remuneration of the Non-executive Directors: the approval of banking facilities: and the approval of bids and contracts above the limits delegated to the Sectors.
Principal Management Committees The Group Executive GE reviews the performance of the Company and of individual Business Units, Sectors, and functions against the financial budgets and operational targets approved by the Board: retains accountability for the effective management of operational risks, including mitigating actions, controls, ownership and risk register maintenance: monitors SHE performance and customer metrics: promotes a corporate risk culture, through the raising of risk awareness and sharing knowledge and best practice.
Oversees, at a strategic level, the process to identify, develop and retain key talent in the business, feeding in to the Nomination Committee as appropriate.
The Safety, Health The Corporate The Business Ethics The Governance The Disclosure and Environment Responsibility and and Compliance Committee Panel oversees and approves oversees potential price Committee Sustainability Committee policies ensuring effective sensitive information and oversees the Groups oversees the Cobham Ethics Committee implementation across evaluation to ensure prompt organisational SHE culture.
is accountable for CR&S theGroup.
disclosure, reporting up to strategy, including climate Technical expertise is Reports into the Audit theDisclosure Committee, change and carbon provided through a Group Committee and oversees the asappropriate.
SHE Council comprising Groups Ethics Champions senior business unit SHE programme, the Ethics Reviews the effectiveness professionals under the Helpline and compliance ofcontrols in place for leadership of a dedicated training and communications.
identifying and managing Group SHE Senior Director risks and opportunities, and the VP Corporate challenging Group Responsibility and performance, and Sustainability.
58 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate Governance Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Board and Committee performance evaluation Cobham engaged the services of Lintstock to assist with the 2018 evaluation of Board performance.
Lintstock is a corporate governance advisory firm that specialises in facilitating board reviews.
The first stage of the evaluation involved Lintstock engaging with the Chairman and Company Secretary to set the context for the evaluation and to tailor the survey content to the specific circumstances of Cobham.
All Board members were then invited to complete an online survey addressing the performance of the Board and its Committees.
The anonymity of the respondents was ensured throughout the process in order to promote an open and frank exchange of views.
The process was divided into four stages Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Completion of questionnaire Evaluation of responses Debriefing session with Confirmation of actions to be byall Board members and byLintstock theBoard undertaken as a result of the seniormanagement evaluation process The exercise was weighted to ensure that core areas of Board and Committee The awareness of, and readiness to comply with, the new culture provision in the performance were addressed, as well as having a particular focus on the following areas: recently revised UK Corporate Governance Code: The adequacy of succession plans in place for members of the Board, and the The quality and timeliness of the materials distributed in advance of Board attributes and backgrounds that should be sought in future Non-executive meetings, as well as the updating of Directors on major developments between appointments: meetings: and The management of the agenda and the allocation of time at the Board meetings, The effectiveness of the Board Committees over the past 12 months, as well as as well as the balance struck in the choice of location: the main challenges facing each Committee over the next few years.
The quality of the Boards strategy session held in October 2018, the performance As a result of the evaluation, the Board has amongst other things considered its of the Company in capturing strategic opportunities and specific ways in which plans for addressing the Companys strategy over the coming year, agreed to devote the Board could contribute further to strategic oversight: greater time to human resource oversight over the coming year, and identified scope The oversight of principal risks, and the clarity of the roles of the Audit and Board for improvement in the Boards agendas.
Risk Committees with respect to risk management: The CAES Sector SSA Governance result in unauthorised access to classified information.
Cobham maintains its The CAES Sector participates in classified US Defence programmes.
involvement in CAES activities primarily through participation of Cobhams Ittherefore operates under a US DoD SSA as required by the US National CEO and CFO as Inside Directors in the deliberations and decisions of the Industrial Security Program.
The SSA is designed to mitigate FOCI so that CAES Board and authorised committees, or interactions through a series of CAES can maintain the required facility security clearances to participate shared services provided pursuant to an AOP.
All CAES Board Directors have a incertain US Government, including DoD, programmes.
There are certain fiduciary duty to Cobham plc, as shareholder, and the Outside Directors need areas in which CAES and the wider Group operate under an Affiliate Operations to perform their duties reasonably and in good faith in a manner believed to be Plan AOP, pursuant to which certain services can be shared by the Group and in the best interests of the shareholder but consistent with the national security the SSA.
The CAES Board has been refreshed during the past two years to strengthen Cobham plc, as shareholder, retains the right to remove or replace any member the governance within CAES and is currently made up of: of the CAES Board, subject to clearance from the DSS in the case of an Outside i t he Groups CEO and CFO whose biographies can be found on pages 52 Director.
In addition, under the current SSA, the CAES Board cannot carry out and 53 and General Michael Hagee retired, known as Inside Directors a number of actions without Cobhams express approval, including amongst under the SSA: others the following: ii t he CAES Sector President and CFO, known as Officer Directors under the Sell, lease, acquire or dispose of property or assets otherwise than in the SSA: and usual course of business: iii a number of other individuals who have no prior relationship with Cobham Merge, consolidate, reorganise, dissolve or wind up the business: or plc, known as Outside Directors under the SSA, who are approved by the Mergers and acquisitions.
US DSS, and identified below: General Kevin Chilton USAF retired former Commander US Strategic CAES must act in a manner which is compliant with Cobhams obligations as a Command and former NASA astronaut: UK listed company.
Admiral Steve Abbot USN retired former Deputy Commander in Chief US European Command: The effectiveness of governance and assurance procedures between the Cindy Moran President and managing partner of IT consultancy, Pikes Group and the CAES Sector is regularly reviewed.
The main elements of these Way LLC, and former Director of Network Services, US Defense procedures include: Information Systems Agency: and CAES management signing a Letter of Representation to Cobham plc twice Scott Webster Co-founder and former Executive Director of Orbital a year confirming that systems of risk management and internal control Sciences Corporation.
within CAES have operated without significant exceptions during 2018, and that procedures are broadly consistent with the Groups controls: Outside Directors and Officer Directors, who must be US citizens with the outcome of risk assessments at business unit and sector level being appropriate US security clearances, also make up the Government Security presented to the CAES Audit Committee: Committee GSC of the CAES Board.
The SSA does not permit Inside Directors CAES management confirming that key controls, including the budget to be members of the GSC, which is responsible for maintaining independent process, are in place to form the basis of monthly reporting: policies and processes facilitating insulation of CAES operations as a US cleared key oversight functions being in place, and CAES management confirming defence contractor from the foreign parent.
The SSA restricts the level of that a fully functioning GSC has operated throughout the year: participation that Cobham can have in certain CAES activities.
For example, it the CAES Audit Committee charter aligning to that of the plc: and limits Cobhams ability to decide matters affecting the management or defining levels of authority delegated to the CAES Board, above which operations of the US cleared defence contractor CAES in a manner that may 59 approvals are escalated to the plc Board.
