Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Board statements Where to find Requirement Board statement further information The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
In accordance See page 55 which Compliance with with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the Company confirms that describes how the throughout the year ended 31 December 2018 and at the date of this Annual Company has applied, theCode Report, it was compliant with the provisions of the Code.
and complied with, the Code.
The Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC and is available from its website www.
The Board believes that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks Groups going concern Going concern successfully.
Accordingly, after making enquiries, the Directors have formed a assessment on page 33. judgement at the time of approving the financial statements that it is their basis expectation that the Company and the Group as a whole have adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements.
Based on the assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and robust Groups viability Viability statement downside sensitivity analysis, all of which are described on pages 36 to 41, the statement on page 35.
Board has a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to December2021.
The Board regularly reviews the Group Principal Risks reported across the Principal risks are set Robust assessment Groupby businesses and functions, and is satisfied that these risks are managed outon pages 36 to 41. within the Groups appetite for risk.
The Board ensures that the Groups risk of the principal exposure remains appropriate and that this links to the effective delivery of its risks facing strategic objectives.
theGroup The Board has reviewed all material controls, including financial, operational and Refer to pages 68 and 69 Annual review compliance controls and risk management systems.
It has gained the for further details on the appropriate assurance that the day to day risk management and internal control risk management and of systems of risk systems which are embedded in the business, have operated effectively in the internal control review management and review period.
internal control The Board considers the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts to be fair, balanced Refer to page 69 for Fair, balanced and and understandable.
In forming its opinion, the Board reflected on the further details on the information it had received and its discussions throughout the year.
fair, balanced and understandable The assessment was assisted by an internal verification of the factual understandable review contentbymanagement, a review at different levels of the Group to ensure undertaken.
consistency and overall balance, and a comprehensive review by the senior management team.
54 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
