Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report Talent review: to ensure appropriate succession planning is in place for all A robust audit senior finance roles: Tracking the implications of the changes to the regulatory environment: Reducing the Groups most material balance sheet risks, with a focus on tender successfully KC-46 and uncertain tax positions: and Ensuring the CAES Board and Audit Committee mirror, as far as is allowed, the Groups policies and strengthens the CAES Internal Audit function.
completed Audit tender  LLP PwC has been the auditor of the Company and Group since inception.
Its performance has been reviewed annually and audit partner rotation requirements have been observed.
An external audit tender was conducted in 2018 with a view to replacing PwC from the 2019 financial year onwards.
PwC were not invited to participate in this audit tender process to comply with audit firm rotation requirements.
The audit tender process was completed in October 2018 when the Board concluded that EY were the most suitable firm for the role.
This decision was based on the quality and industry experience of the proposed audit team, their plans for an effective audit process and approach as well as their understanding of Cobham, based on interactions with our senior management team members.
Those interactions have ensured EY have already been able to spend time with those of our subsidiaries that have high transaction complexity including our Ren Mdori SSA and areas of significant accounting judgements.
Audit Committee Chair EY have also been able to start their transition process, including shadowing Committee Members the Audit Committee.
During our October hard close exercise and the 2018 John McAdam, Alison Wood, Norton Schwartz, Marion Blakey year end, they have observed the PwC clearance meetings and certain PwC walkthroughs to leverage their own work from existing procedures.
The EY Number of meetings held in 2018 team has performed its initial audit scoping and risk assessment, including 7 design of a detailed transition plan for 2019.
Dear Shareholder PwC will resign after the firm has concluded the 2018 external audit process.
The second year of the turnaround has seen the Group report financial results in Shareholders will be invited to appoint EY as Cobhams statutory auditor at line with expectations, against the backdrop of a more resilient and robust balance the 2019 AGM.
Control improvements have continued through the year.
There has been a refreshment of the Audit Committees membership, with a successful transition to Once the appointment is made, EY will host group academies to on-board a new Committee Chair taking effect from the 2018 AGM.
their local teams and communicate the audit vision and approach to local audit partners.
The engagement will start with initial insight reports which will Key issues for 2018: be presented to the Audit Committee ahead of the 2019 interim closing.
Focus on the key programme watchlist review process has continued, Asuccessful transition is a key priority for the Audit Committee in 2019. including KC-46 programme cost assertions and overdue debts, and WARP qualification status: Conclusion of FCA investigation Presentation and disclosures: the implementation of IFRS 15 has concluded As we announced in March 2017, the Enforcement and Market Oversight successfully, with a restatement impact to the 2017 underlying operating Division of the FCA had been investigating Cobham in relation to its profit of 2.8m.
Preparation for the adoption of IFRS 16 is now complete: compliance with the Listing Rules, Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the see note 1 to the Group Financial Statements for more details.
Market Abuse Regulations between April 2016 and February 2017.
Audit tender: the external audit tender was completed, with shareholders being invited to approve EYs appointment at the 2019 AGM.
Details of the The Company fully co-operated with this investigation throughout.
tender process are set out on this page.
TheFCAinformed the Company in August 2018 that it had decided to The Group divested its AvComm and Wireless test and measurement discontinue the investigation.
businesses to Viavi Solutions Inc.
This gave rise to a profit on disposal of 218.4m including a review of all relevant judgements.
At the 2019 AGM, I and my fellow members of the Audit Committee will be Pensions: the pension deficit has reduced to 46.6m 2017: 63.2m.
This is available to respond to any questions shareholders may wish to raise on this in part due to the completion of the UK triennial valuation which led to report or the Committees activities.
Priorities for 2019: First insights and reflections from the newly appointed auditors EY who Ren Mdori will be undertaking process walkthroughs at all main sites as part of Audit Committee Chair 66 theirfamiliarisation: 7 March 2019 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate Governance Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial reporting and significant financial judgements these matters.
The Committee identified the issues below as significant in the The Committee reviews whether suitable accounting policies have been context of the 2018 Group Financial Statements with regard to the facts and adopted and whether management has made appropriate judgements and circumstances then existing, taking account of the level of materiality and the estimates, and also seeks support from the independent auditors to assess degree of judgement exercised by management.
Area of focus Role of the Committee Conclusion Going concern basis The Committee considered the outcome of managements The Committee confirmed that the application of the half-yearly reviews of current and forecast net debt positions and going concern basis for the preparation of the financial for the preparation the various financing facilities and options available to the Group, statements continued to be appropriate.
of the financial including the risk and potential impact of unforeseen events.
statements The Committee considered the estimated costs to complete, The judgements of management as regards estimated Programme working capital levels and profitability of material development costs to complete, outcome of negotiations with watchlist projects and production contracts.
Customer performance customers and amounts recoverable, as well as revenue obligations under these contracts were also considered to ensure amounts recognised and related disclosures were Revenue contract appropriateness of accounting following the adoption of IFRS 15 deemed appropriate.
Refer to notes 21 and 30 to the Group Financial Statements.
The Committee has had regular updates on the balance sheet Whilst some matters have been closed within their Provisions and review items from 2016, provisions and material disputes ahead of original estimates, the final outcome of a number of material disputes and during the year end process.
Refer to note 21 to the Group items remains uncertain.
There has been appropriate Financial Statements.
control and consideration of these amounts, so that we are satisfied with their use and the year end position.
The Committee has had regular updates on balance sheet values Inventory remains a focus for working capital Inventory and the levels of provisions against these.
There has also been a management, with a series of masterclasses having been provisions review of the methods used for calculating provisions to improve held by management in business units to record lessons consistency.
Refer to note 13 to the Group Financial Statements.
learned and improve buying and utilisation patterns in the future.
Adequate provision has been made for risks identified at year end.
The Committee has reviewed the judgements made to account The Committee is satisfied that the material estimates Uncertain tax foruncertain tax positions.
Refer to note 7 to the Group made at the year end reflect advice that has been taken positions and FinancialStatements.
by management from relevant experts and specialists, deferred tax while taking into account that there may be more than one route to settlements.
The Committee has reviewed managements computation of The Committee considers the management conclusion Impairment thepresent value of future cash flows from the three year plan.
that no new impairment charges for goodwill and reviews These have been compared to goodwill and acquired intangibles acquired intangibles have been required for 2018 to be inorder to test for impairment, refer to note 10 to the Group appropriate.
Conclusions leading to an impairment Financial Statements as well as the recoverability of investment charge against the recoverability of investments in insubsidiaries in the Parent Company Balance Sheet Refer to subsidiaries held by the Parent Company have also been note6 to the Parent Company Financial Statements.
The Committee received an update from management on the UK The Committee satisfied itself that all assumptions were Pensions scheme triennial valuation and any impact of changes in within acceptable ranges, and reflected the most assumptions for mortality, inflation and discount rates.
Recent appropriate available data as at the year end.
court rulings in relation to Guaranteed Minimum Pension equalisation and their potential impact for Cobham were considered.
Refer to note 23 to the Group Financial Statements.
The Committee has reviewed the conclusion of the exercises The Group has adopted IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 from Presentation, foradoption of IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 and their restatement impact 1January 2018 broadly in line with the estimates disclosures and new for the Group Financial Statements.
The completeness of presented in the prior Annual Report note 2. accounting management exercises to identify and estimate the future Adequate disclosures have been made for the impact of standards impactof adopting IFRS 16 as from 1 January 2019, was also IFRS 16 being adopted from 1 January 2019 note 1. subject to evaluation.
External audit The Committee is responsible for overseeing relations with the independent, The provision of non-audit services is controlled by a policy which states that external auditors who were PwC throughout 2018, including the approval of the external auditors will not be engaged to provide any element of non-audit fees.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the auditors services, without approval in advance from the CFO for fees up to 10,000, appointment and reappointment.
Total fees paid to PwC in the year ended from the Chair of the Audit Committee for fees between 10,000 and 31December 2018 equalled 2.6m, with non-audit fees of 0.7m, representing 100,000 and by the Audit Committee for fees over 100,000.
The Committee 27% of the total.
An analysis of the fees paid to the external auditors in respect recognises that there may be some element of non-audit services for which of audit and non-audit work during the year can be found in note 5 to the the Group might wish to use the external auditors.
The work must also be Group Financial Statements.
permitted under relevant regulations and must not impinge on the independence of the audit firm.
67 Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report continued Total fees paid to the external auditors 2018 Internal Audit and Assurance The Head of Internal Audit and Assurance attended every Audit Committee Audit fees meeting throughout 2018.
In addition, they had ongoing contact with 1.9m 73% members of the Audit Committee throughout the year with and without Non-audit fees 0.7m 27% management present, including private sessions with members of the Audit Committee.
The Head of Internal Audit also had access to and met the Chairman of the Board without management present.
The findings of each Internal Audit review are summarised for the Committee, which focuses its discussions on unsatisfactory findings and on the action Total fees paid to the external auditors 2017 plans in place to address them.
Particular areas of focus for Internal Audit during 2018 included continuation of financial control audits in line with the Audit fees increased focus on control improvements, programme-related Internal Audits 2.1m 91% in line with the Programme Watchlist review process, the continuation of a Non-audit fees 0.2m 9% specialised IT audit programme and a number of risk-based reviews focusing on the second line of defence activities.
In addition, Internal Audit has continued to maintain a programme of followup audits to assess the timely implementation of Internal Audit recommendations by the businesses and key matters from the Internal Audit reviews.
A monthly tracking progress to ensure Audit Recommendations are Significant engagements included work related to the audit of the Form 8K addressed on a timely basis has continued throughout the year.
filing of VIAVI Solutions Inc Viavi following completion of the divestment of the AvComm and Wireless test and measurement businesses, at Viavis The Committee received regular updates against the 2018 Internal Audit Plan request.
The engagement was approved by the Audit Committee Chairman in throughout the year.
advance of work starting and all fees, 0.6m, payable to PwC by Cobham have been recovered from Viavi.
The Committee approved the Internal Audit plan for 2019, including the proposed audit approach, coverage and allocation of resources.
The 2019 plan PwCs presentation of their audit plan to the Committee set out the scope and was prepared considering a number of factors, including the principal risks of objectives of the audit, together with an overview of the planned approach, the Group.
The key points of focus in the 2019 plan include: an assessment of the Groups risks and controls, and proposed areas of audit Continued focus on internal financial controls assurance: focus.
The Committee reviewed and approved the terms, areas of responsibility Increased focus on non-financial areas of risk: and and scope of the December 2018 year end audit.
Increased focus on IT controls and cyber security.
The external auditor is expected to report to the Committee any material Taking account of the above, the Committee is satisfied with the performance departures from Group accounting policies and procedures that they identify of Internal Audit and Assurance.
The next formal effectiveness review will be during the course of their audit work.
None were found or reported in 2018. undertaken during 2019.
The Independent Auditors Report to the members of the Company can be found on page 86.
Where the operation of the SSA results in limitations of visibility when compared to other areas in the Group, the Audit Committee gains its assurance The Committee received feedback from each business unit, compiled by the over CAES internal controls via the CAES Audit Committee of which Cobhams Group finance function, on the performance of the external auditors through CFO is a member, and with Cobham plcs CEO and CFO representing Cobham the year end process.
On consideration of this feedback, the Committee on the CAES Board, in their capacity as Inside Directors.
Further details can be confirmed that it was satisfied with the effectiveness of the external auditors.
found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 59.
The Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and Risk management and internal control systems monitoring of the Groups policies on services from external auditors, which The Board has the ultimate responsibility for risk management and internal are designed to maintain the objectivity and independence of the external control systems, and has delegated to the Audit Committee responsibility for auditors.
These policies set out the approach to be taken when using the monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of these systems in order to assist external auditors for non-audit work and regulate the appointment by the the Board in meeting this responsibility.
Group of former employees of the external auditors.
The Committee reviews internal financial controls, that is, the systems In addition to an independence review conducted by management, PwC has established to identify, assess, manage and monitor financial risks.
The GE, provided specific assurance and the Committee has considered the chaired by the CEO, retains accountability for the management of operational arrangements and safeguards that PwC has in place to maintain its risks, including mitigating actions.
Sector Presidents are required to ensure independence and objectivity.
The external auditors follow regulatory that appropriate processes, including the maintenance of business unit and requirements to maintain the objectivity of the audit process: these stipulate Sector risk registers, exist to identify and manage risks and to regularly carry a five year rotation policy in relation to the senior engagement auditor.
Pauline out formal risk assessments.
The Board Risk Committee, which was established Campbell was appointed lead audit partner in 2014.
The Committee continues during 2017, is responsible for providing assurance to the Board regarding the to be satisfied that PwC remains independent and objective.
Details of the management of operational principal risks.
The Board Risk Committee report audit tender are set out on page 66. can be found on page 70.
68 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate Governance Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Group operates under a system of internal controls which has been Financial expert on the Committee developed over time to meet the needs of the business and the risks and Given Ren Mdoris experience as Finance Director at Anglo American plc, at opportunities to which it is exposed, recognising differences in the nature and The BOC Group plc, and his Audit Committee Chair experience at Petrofac and type of each of the Groups operations.
SSE plc, the Board has designated him as the financial expert on the Committee for the purposes of the Code.
See page 52 Board of Directors for These controls include: Committee membership and meeting attendance.
The preparation and consideration of the three year plan: A comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget which is Objectives and responsibilities approved by the Board: The Committees main objectives and responsibilities are set out in its terms Review of business and financial performance in the month and year to of reference, which are available on the Groups website.
The terms of date and monthly update of financial forecasts for the year: reference are reviewed at least annually and were reviewed in 2018 to align The monitoring of financial performance and key dependencies for the more closely to best practice, and to reflect the changes required by the 2018 fullyear: UK Corporate Governance Code effective 1 January 2019.
The monitoring of key financial controls: The monitoring of project and programme management through lifecycle At least twice a year, immediately before a Committee meeting, the management: and Committee meets separately with the independent lead audit partner and the The appropriate delegation of authorities to operational management.
Head of Internal Audit and Assurance, to give them the opportunity to discuss matters without executive management being present.
In addition, regular Legacy control systems still exist from previous acquisition activity and other contact is maintained between the Chairman and the Independent Lead key control processes, including IT, are not fully standardised and implemented Audit Partner and the Head of Internal Audit and Assurance between across the Group.
The implementation and operation of certain key controls meetings, often without the presence of management.
is decentralised in the business units.
Sector, functional and central oversight activities and controls are in place to support this.
Fair, balanced and understandable report and accounts At the request of the Board, the Committee considered whether, in its opinion, During the year, we have continued to embed and strengthen controls over the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts were fair, balanced and understandable.
This has included strengthened financial controls In forming its opinion, the Committee reflected on the information it had through increased independent review of the most material development received and its discussions throughout the year.
The assessment was assisted contracts: extended governance and regulatory training: monthly Sector and by an internal verification of the factual content by management, a review at business unit reviews by the CEO and CFO: the communication of a regularly different levels of the Group to ensure consistency and overall balance, and a updated delegation matrix and Letter of Representation: ongoing tracking comprehensive review by the senior management team.
and reporting of open and overdue audit recommendations: updates to our Minimum Standards of Financial Control and our Group Finance Manual: and Following its review, the Committee was of the opinion that the 2018 Annual an October hard close exercise, ahead of the year end.
Report and Accounts was representative of the year and presents a fair, balanced and understandable overview, providing the necessary information Delegated authorities and other controls are contained in the Corporate for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business Framework and the Group Finance Manual.
Specifically with regard to the model and strategy.
financial reporting process and the preparation of the Group Financial Statements, the system includes a semi-annual representation letter from all In reporting on Alternative Performance Measures, the Group followed Sector and business units.
Included in those letters are written the FRC recommendation to consider the Guidelines on Alternative acknowledgements that financial reporting is based on reliable data, that Performance Measures, as published by the European Securities and Markets there is compliance with the Groups Minimum Standards of Financial Control Authority, Account has also been taken of the disclosures of our peers and and that the results are properly stated in accordance with Group policies.
Letter of Representation process has not highlighted any material weaknesses.
Code of Business Conduct violations and fraud The Committees review covers all material controls, including financial, The COBC, which incorporates the Groups whistleblowing policy, contains operational and compliance controls and risk management systems, and is arrangements for an independent external service provider to receive, in designed to give assurance that the day to day risk management and internal confidence, complaints on suspected violations of the COBC for reporting to control systems which are embedded in the business, have operated the Committee as appropriate.
Details of the COBC are provided in the CR&S effectively, with no significant failings or weaknesses identified during the section of this report, on page 42.
The Committee regularly received reports review period, notwithstanding that management continues to implement on matters relating to the COBC.
plans to improve those systems.
Evaluation of the effectiveness of the Committee The three principal lines of defence are outlined on page 35.
The Committee An external review of the effectiveness of the Board and all its Committees receives assurance from the Inside Directors on the CAES Board on matters commenced towards the end of 2018.
Feedback and input was sought from relating to CAES.
It should be noted that due to the restrictions of the SSA, our Committee members, regular meeting attendees and the independent assessment of the control environment in CAES differs from that operated auditors.
The results were considered by the Board, see page 59, and actions elsewhere in the Group.
In order to meet the requirements of the SSA and US required are in progress.
DSS, oversight is indirect and flows primarily through the Inside Directors.
Further details on how governance procedures are maintained in the SSA may be found on page 59.
