Governance and Directors Report AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Effective controls and rigorousoversight Mr Anthony Sykes, who has been the Companys senior statutory DEAR SHAREHOLDER auditor since KPMG LLP KPMG was appointed as external auditor On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Audit in 2014, will rotate off the Companys external audit on completion Committees Report for the financial year ended 30 September of the audit of the Companys financial statements for the year under 2018.
The Committee plays a key role in overseeing the integrity of review.
He will be succeeded by Mr Paul Korolkiewicz.
the Companys financial statements and the robustness of the Groups systems of internal control and financial and regulatory risk RISK APPETITE, PRINCIPAL OPERATIONAL management systems.
In the pages which follow we give an insight RISKS AND RISK ASSURANCE into the activities and workings of the Committee during the year.
The Boards attitude to and appetite for risk are communicated to the Groups businesses through the strategy planning process.
In THE YEAR IN REVIEW determining its risk appetite, the Board recognises that a prudent The Committee continued to focus on key issues related to the and robust approach to risk mitigation must be carefully balanced Groups financial reporting, such as accounting judgements, internal with a degree of flexibility so that the entrepreneurial spirit which has control activities, compliance matters and the ongoing quality of greatly contributed to the success of the Company is not inhibited.
related disclosures, the importance of which have been underlined The Committee and the Board remain satisfied that the Companys by recent high-profile UK corporate failures.
We also covered other internal risk control framework continues to provide the necessary important areas such as a review of the Companys viability and element of flexibility without compromising the integrity of risk going concern statements, and performed the related financial management and internal control systems.
stress testing in order to meet the requirements of the Code.
We continue to develop and grow our business but, of course, in In addition to routine committee work, we spent time assessing the some of the territories where we operate, the concept of corporate impact and reporting implications of IFRS 15, dealing with revenue governance is still underdeveloped.
In these regions in particular, it from contracts with customers, which will apply to Compass for the is important to have a clear, well-established system of risk financial year ending 30 September 2019.
We have also begun to management and internal control to ensure that growth is assess the impact of IFRS 16, which will require all material underpinned by solid business practice.
In this regard, we have operating leases to be recorded on the balance sheet for the strengthened our Regional Governance Committees RGCs with the financial year ending 30 September 2020. aim of further embedding the Groups risk management culture Two new non-executive directors were appointed during the within the business.
yearand I would like to take this opportunity to welcome Anne-Francoise Nesmes and John Bryant to the Committee.
56 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 GOVERNANCE The Group Risk Management Committee RMC, comprising a FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE multi-disciplinary team of key individuals, assists the Audit The Code provides that, through its financial reporting, the Board Committee with its work.
The Chairman of the Committee is the should provide a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of Group Finance Director and the membership comprises the Group the Companys prospects.
At the Boards request, the Committee General Counsel and Company Secretary, the Director of Group has reviewed the 2018 Annual Report to determine whether it Internal Audit, the Group Financial Controller, the Investor Relations considered that the document, taken as a whole, meets this and Corporate Affairs Director, the Group HR Director and the Group standard and provides the information necessary for shareholders to Director of Strategy and M&A.
The RMC, in conjunction with the assess the Companys position and performance, business model efforts of its colleagues in the Groups RGCs, further embeds the and strategy.
The Committee has concluded that this requirement Groups risk management culture within the business.
provides an additional layer of oversight to help underpin the On pages 18 and 19 and throughout this Report, we track our assurances given by the Committee to the Board in connection with performance against a mix of financial and non-financial KPIs, the appropriateness of the Groups financial reporting, the which the Board and executive management consider best reflect effectiveness of the internal and external audit functions, the our strategic priorities.
The Committee has considered these KPIs management of the Groups systems of internal control and business and is satisfied that the information that has been selected by the risks, and related compliance activities.
Board and the executive management will help to convey an The Committee had oversight of a robust annual review and understanding of the culture of the business and the drivers assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties of the Group.
whichcontribute to its ongoing success and will be of interest The review was conducted internally by a multi-disciplinary team.
The purpose of the review was to determine in the context of the macro environment and Group strategy: i if the principal risks THE YEAR AHEAD anduncertainties disclosed in the 2017 Annual Report applied to The Committee fulfils a key role within the Group.
We have a busy the current financial year: ii whether there had been any year on agenda and in the coming 12 months we will continue to exercise year variance to the status of each risk: iii what should be removed our oversight role, assisting the Board to ensure that the integrity of or added?
the Groups published financial statements, and the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls and risk management systems As set out in the Principal Risks section on pages 35 to 37, last continue to be protected.
years risks continue to be pertinent, albeit our perception of how these risks have, as appropriate, remained static, increased or diminished may have changed.
We are a global business operating in countries and regions with diverse economic and political conditions and, because of this, the John Bason Groups operations and earnings may be adversely affected by Chairman of the Audit Committee political or economic instability.
20 November 2018 As more fully described on page 35, potential changes in US trade policy and tax regulations, and the terms of the UKs departure from the European Union are expected to have an effect on the Group.
The full impact is not clear at this stage and the Committee will continue to monitor developments and any reporting or accounting matters that need to be considered once the full impact of the US reforms and Brexit is known.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 57 Governance and Directors Report Audit Committee Report continued MEETING ATTENDANCE THE AUDIT COMMITTEE MAXIMUM NUMBER OF % OF MEMBER NUMBER OF MEETINGS MEETINGS MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS 1 MEMBER SINCE MEETINGS ATTENDED ATTENDED The Audit Committee comprises John Bason, Chairman, and all of John Bason June 2011 3 3 100% the non-executive directors in office at the date of this Report.
Carol Arrowsmith June 2014 3 3 100% Members of the Audit Committee are appointed by the Board 2 Stefan Bomhard May 2016 3 2 67% following recommendation by the Nomination Committee.
The Audit 3 John Bryant Sep 2018 1 1 100% Committees membership is reviewed and assessed in the context of 4 Anne-Francoise Nesmes July 2018 1 1 100% the range of skills, knowledge and experience required by the Code, 5 by the Nomination Committee and also as part of the annual Board Don Robert May 2009 2 2 100% performance evaluation.
Nelson Silva July 2015 3 3 100% Ireena Vittal July 2015 3 3 100% The members of the Audit Committee have been chosen to provide the wide range of financial and commercial experience needed to 1.
The maximum number of meetings that a member was eligible to attend.
Mr Bomhard was unable to attend the September 2018 meeting due an undertake its duties and each member of the Audit Committee unavoidable prior commitment, but was able to give his feedback on the brings an appropriate balance of senior level financial and papers in advance.
commercial experience in multinational and or complex 3.
Appointed to the Board and its committees on 1 September 2018.
Appointed to the Board and its committees on 1 July 2018. organisations, combined with a sound understanding of the 5.
Stepped down from the Board and its committees on 31 May 2018.
Companys business, and is therefore considered by the Board to be competent in the Companys sector.
The expertise and experience The Audit Committee invites Paul Walsh, Chairman: Dominic of the members of the Audit Committee are summarised on pages Blakemore, Group CEO: Johnny Thomson, Group Finance Director: 50 and 51.
The Board considers that each member of the Audit the Group Financial Controller: and the Director of Group Internal Committee is independent within the definition set out in the Code Audit, together with senior representatives of the external auditor, to and is capable of assessing the work of management and the attend each meeting although, periodically, it reserves time for assurances provided by the internal and external audit functions.
discussions without invitees being present.
Other members of senior The Audit Committees Chairman, John Bason, is the Finance management are invited to present such reports as are required for Director of Associated British Foods plc and is therefore considered the Audit Committee to discharge its duties.
by the Board to have significant, recent and relevant financial The Chairman of the Audit Committee keeps in touch with key experience and to be competent in auditing and accounting.
individuals involved with the Companys governance, including the All members of the Audit Committee receive an appropriate Group CEO, Group Finance Director, the Group General Counsel induction, covering the role and remit of the Committee and an and Company Secretary, the Director of Group Internal Audit and overview of the business, its financial dynamics and its risks and, the external Senior Statutory Auditor, and attends the AGM to where appropriate, meetings with key individuals.
Audit Committee respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised members are expected to have an understanding of the principles concerning its activities.
The remuneration of the members of the of, and recent developments in, financial reporting, including the Audit Committee and the policy with regard to the remuneration of applicable accounting standards and statements of recommended the non-executive directors are set out on pages 81 and 92. practice, key aspects of the Companys policies, financing, internal OBJECTIVES control mechanisms, and matters that require the use of judgement The Audit Committees key objectives are the provision of effective in the presentation of accounts and key figures as well as the role of governance over the appropriateness of the Groups financial internal and external auditors.
Members of the Audit Committee reporting, including the adequacy of related disclosures, the undertake ongoing training as required.
performance of both the internal and external audit functions, and the management of the Groups systems of internal control, business The Audit Committee meets throughout the year and its agenda is risks and related compliance activities.
linked to events in the Companys financial calendar.
Each member of the Audit Committee may require reports on matters of interest in addition to the regular items.
The Audit Committee met three times during the year with an appropriate interval between each of the meetings to ensure that work arising from Committee meetings could be carried out and reported back to the Board, as appropriate.
Members attendance at the meetings held during the year is set out in the table above.
58 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 GOVERNANCE the material areas in which significant judgements have been ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR applied, namely: The key matters reviewed and evaluated by the Audit Committee during the year are set out below: considering the nature and quantum of the purchasing income earned by the Group during the financial year.
It also assessed FINANCIAL REPORTING the extent to which the amounts recognised required estimation the appropriateness of the interim and annual financial and reviewed the recoverability of amounts accrued at the year statements including the announcements thereof to the end with reference to aged analyses and subsequent cash LondonStock Exchange with both management and the external receipts.
Nothing arose during the course of this review to auditor, including: indicate that anything but limited judgement was required, or at the Boards request, whether the Annual Report and that purchasing income had not been accounted for in Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and accordance with the Groups accounting policies understandable and provides the information necessary for the level of provisioning for liabilities including tax where shareholders to assess the Companys position and management, accounting and legal judgements are important.
performance, business model and strategy The Committee discussed with management the key the clarity of disclosures and compliance with financial judgements made, in particular, the policy efforts being led reporting standards and relevant financial and governance bythe EU and OECD which may have a material impact on reporting requirements and guidelines, including the European thetaxation of all international businesses, including relevant Securities and Markets Authority Guidelines on Alternative legaladvice.
The external auditor also reported on all Performance Measures materialprovisions to the Committee discussing the critical accounting policies and use of the going concern andviability statements assumptions and estimates, as noted in section B of the non-financial information accounting policies on page 116 of this Annual Report, and concluding that the estimates, judgements and assumptions OTHER MATTERS used were reasonable based on the information available and In addition to its key role in the financial reporting process, the Audit had been used appropriately in applying the Companys Committee also considered the following as well as developments in accounting policies.
This included, for example, the regulation, such as in relation to changes in International Financial consideration of any goodwill impairment assessments and how Reporting Standards: these were addressed NOV MAY SEP ITEMS DISCUSSED 2017 2018 2018 INTERNAL AUDIT approval of the Groups internal audit plan, risk controls and the review of internal audit activity reportsandupdates consideration of Group internal audits review of key financial controls and key IT controls EXTERNAL AUDIT audit report on interim results approval and review of the proposed audit plan and procedures review of auditor effectiveness independence following KPMGs fourth year as external auditor agreement of external auditor fees for 2018-2019 review of the policy and update of the provision of non-audit services provided by the external auditor assessment of the deployment of the audit plan audit report on full year results OTHER MATTERS litigation and contingent liabilities operation of the Groups Speak Up whistleblowing policy country and theme specific audit matters the RGC structure and the outputs from committee meetings tax matters, including provisioning for potential current tax liabilities and the level of deferred tax asset recognition as well as compliance with statutory tax reporting obligations certificates of assurance from local management considered the findings of the inspection of KPMG by the Audit Quality Review team of the FRC terms of reference: annual review Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 59 Governance and Directors Report Audit Committee Report continued The Audit Committee monitors the extent of non-audit work which EXTERNAL AUDITOR the external auditor can perform, to ensure that the provision of An external audit tender and appointment process was concluded in those non-audit services that can be undertaken by the external 2014.
The Committee considers that the Company has complied auditor falls within the agreed policy and does not impair its with the legal requirements relating to the frequency and governance objectivity or independence.
Following the change of external auditor of tenders for the appointment of the external auditor and the setting in 2014, the Committee agreed that Deloitte LLP should continue to of a policy on the provision of non-audit services.
provide tax services to the Group and has amended its policy on the In line with applicable legislation and best practice, no one can act provision of non-audit services by the external auditor accordingly to as an engagement partner for a listed company for more than five exclude such services.
Therefore, the external auditor should be years and, thereafter, there has to be a five year gap before the excluded from providing the Company with general consultancy and same individual can undertake that role for the Company.
As noted all other non-audit services, unless there is no other competent and on page 56, Mr Anthony Sykes who has been the Companys senior available provider.
Engagements for non-audit services that are not statutory auditor since 2014, will rotate off the Companys external prohibited are subject to formal approval by the Audit Committee audit on completion of the audit of the Companys financial based on the level of fees involved.
Non-audit services that are statements for the year under review.
He will be succeeded by pre-approved are either routine in nature with a fee that is not MrPaul Korolkiewicz.
significant in the context of the audit or are audit related services.
To ensure objectivity, key members of the external audit team rotate Within the constraints of applicable UK rules, the external auditor off theCompanys audit.
To safeguard the independence of the has traditionally undertaken some due diligence reviews and other Companysexternal auditor and the integrity of the audit process, pieces of non-audit work.
The provision of non-audit services within the recruitment of senior employees from the Companys auditor is such constraints and the agreed policy is assessed on a case by not permitted for a period of at least two years after they cease to case basis so that the best placed advisor is retained.
Principal beinvolved in the provision of services to the Company.
non-audit services provided by KPMG and approved by the Audit Committee during the year ended 30 September 2018 primarily The Committee currently intends to tender its audit in 2023-2024 comprised assistance on audit related services.
with a view to the chosen firm being appointed in 2024.
During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed KPMGs fees for its EXTERNAL AUDIT services performed to 30 September 2018, its effectiveness and The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, whether the agreed audit plan had been fulfilled and the reasons for implementation and monitoring of the Companys policy on external any variation from the plan.
The review included a formal evaluation audit.
The Committee reserves oversight responsibility for monitoring process involving the use of questionnaires completed by finance the auditors independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical, teams around the Group.
The Audit Committee is The Audit Committee also considered the robustness of the 2018 responsible for the re-tendering selection process and recommends audit, the degree to which KPMG was able to assess key accounting the appointment, reappointment and removal of the Companys and audit judgements and the content of the management letter external auditor, and considers the risks associated with its issued by the external auditor.
On the basis of the Committees withdrawal from the market in its risk evaluation and planning.
The evaluation and taking into account the views of other key internal Audit Committee also reviews and sets the terms, areas of stakeholders, the Committee concluded that both the audit and the responsibility and scope of the audit as set out in the external audit process were effective.
auditors engagement letter: the overall work plan for the forthcoming year, together with the associated fee proposal and cost The total fees paid to KPMG in the year ended 30 September 2018 effectiveness of the audit: the external auditors independence: any were 7.0 million of which 0.7 million related to non-audit work major issues which arise during the course of the audit and their 2017: 5.2 million of which 0.3 million related to non-audit work.
resolution: key accounting and audit judgements: the level of errors Further disclosure of the non-audit fees paid during the year can be identified during the audit: the recommendations made to found in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements on management by the auditor and managements response: and the page126.
The Company operates a policy on non-audit fees which it reviews annually and discloses the ratio of audit to non-audit fees paid in each financial year.
60 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 GOVERNANCE The Audit Committee also receives updates on any allegations of REAPPOINTMENT OF AUDITOR bribery and fraud in the business at every meeting, with individual There are no contractual restrictions on the Companys choice of updates being given to the Audit Committee, as needed, in more external auditor and in making its recommendation to shareholders serious cases of alleged bribery, fraud or related activities.
The on the reappointment of KPMG, the Committee took into account, Groups theft and anti-fraud policies are a subset of the CBC, which amongst other matters, the tenure, objectivity and independence of does not tolerate any activity involving fraud, dishonesty or KPMG and its continuing effectiveness and cost as well as the deception.
These policies, for which the Audit Committee retains availability of firms within the wider audit market.
KPMG has overall responsibility, set out how allegations of fraud or bribery are expressed its willingness to continue as auditor of the Company.
dealt with, such as by the local human resources or finance team, Separate resolutions proposing KPMGs reappointment and and the frequency of local reporting that feeds into the regular determination of its remuneration by the Audit Committee will be updates, which are presented to the Audit Committee.
Reporting of proposed at the 2019 AGM.
these matters to the Audit Committee is managed and overseen by DISCLOSURE OF RELEVANT the internal audit function.
The Speak Up policy operates when the complaint is received through the whistleblowing channel and that AUDITINFORMATION policy will redirect the alleged fraud or bribery for investigation at the The directors confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no most appropriate level of the organisation which may, for example, relevant audit information of which KPMG is unaware and each be by a member of the local human resources team or, on occasion, director has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken as a the Audit Committee itself.
director to be aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that KPMG is aware of that information.
Each year, the Audit Committee critically reviews its own performance and considers where improvements can be made and OUR STANDARDS in so doing it considers, amongst other things, those matters The Company remains committed to the highest standards of discussed by the Audit Committee, such as: business conduct and expects all of its employees to act Audit Committee composition, structure and activities accordingly.
The Groups Speak Up policy an extension of the Code how well the Committee oversees the financial reporting process of Ethics incorporated within the Groups Code of Business Conduct CBC which is available in 40 languages sets out arrangements for how well it understands and evaluates the effectiveness and the receipt, in confidence, of complaints on accounting, risk issues, conclusions of internal control and the adequacy of the related internal controls, auditing issues and related matters which would, disclosures as appropriate, be reported to the Audit Committee.
Speak Up is a whether the Committees terms of reference are appropriate for standard review item on all internal audit work programmes.
The the particular circumstances of the Company and comply with Corporate Responsibility Committee retains overall responsibility for prevailing legislation and best practice the Groups CBC programme, the training of employees and the way whether the number and length of time of Committee meetings in which management obtain assurance in this area, including the are sufficient to meet the role and responsibilities of the annual self-certification process which saw more than 3,300 key Committee and coincide with key dates within the financial employees of influence confirm their continued compliance with the reporting and audit cycle CBC and the Code of Ethics in the year ended 30 September 2018. identification of additional training needs for Committee members The CBC and Code of Ethics are available on the Companys website This is underpinned by the performance annual evaluation of the at www.
Board and its committees, referred to on page 54.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 61 Governance and Directors Report Audit Committee Report continued In a Group where local management have considerable autonomy to INTERNAL AUDIT run and develop their businesses, a well designed system of internal The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups control is necessary to safeguard shareholders investments and the internal audit function and its relationship with the external auditor, Companys assets.
The directors acknowledge that they have overall including internal audit resources, plans and performance as responsibility for risk management, the Groups systems of internal wellasthe degree to which the function is free of management control, for reviewing the effectiveness of those controls and for restrictions.
Throughout the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the ensuring that an appropriate culture has been embedded internal audit functions plans and its achievements against those throughout the organisation.
In accordance with the guidance set plans.
TheAudit Committee considered the results of the audits out in the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control undertaken by the internal audit function and the adequacy of and Related Financial Business Reporting 2014, and in the Code managements response to matters raised, including the time itself, an ongoing process has been established for identifying, takento resolve any such matters.
managing and evaluating the risks faced by the Group.
This process INTERNAL CONTROL has been in place for the full financial year and up to the date on which the financial statements were approved.
The Audit Committee also reviews the integrity of any material financial statements made by the Company.
It monitors and The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk conducts a robust review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal of failure to achieve the Groups strategic objectives, safeguard the control systems, accounting policies and practices and compliance Groups assets against material loss, fairly report the Groups controls including key financial controls as well as the Companys performance and position, and to ensure compliance with relevant statements on internal control before they are agreed by the Board legislation, regulation and best practice including that related to for each years Annual Report.
The Board retains overall social, environmental and ethical matters.
The systems provide responsibility for internal control and the identification and reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material management of business risk and is assisted in this regard by a top misstatement or loss.
Such systems are reviewed by the Board to down and bottom up process of risk identification and management deal with changing circumstances.
which is the subject of regular interim review by RGCs and the RMC.
A summary of the key financial risks inherent in the Groups The key features of the Groups internal control and risk business is given on pages 35 to 37.
Risk assessment and management systems that ensure the accuracy and reliability of evaluation are an integral part of the annual planning cycle.
Each financial reporting include clearly defined lines of accountability and business documents the strategic objectives and the effectiveness of delegation of authority, policies and procedures that cover financial the Groups systems of internal control.
As part of the review, each planning and reporting, preparing consolidated accounts, capital significant business and function has been required to identify and expenditure, project governance and information security and the document each substantial risk, together with the mitigating actions Groups CBC.
The internal audit function is involved in the implemented to manage, monitor and report to management on the assessment of the quality of risk management and internal control effectiveness of these controls.
Senior managers are also required to and helps to promote and further develop effective risk management sign biannual confirmations of compliance with key procedures and within the business.
Certain internal audit assignments such as to report any breakdowns in, or exceptions to, these procedures.
those requiring specialist expertise continue to be outsourced by Summarised results are presented to senior management including the Director of Group Internal Audit as appropriate.
The Audit to the RGCs and to the Board.
Committee reviews internal audit reports and considers the effectiveness of the function.
62 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 GOVERNANCE These processes have been in place throughout the financial year This is underpinned by a formal major risk assessment process, ended 30 September 2018 and have continued to the date of this which is an integral part of the annual business cycle and is also a Report.
Taken together, these processes and the reports they robust process adopted to support the viability statement.
Each of generate, which are considered by the Audit Committee, constitute the Groups businesses is required to identify and document major arobust assessment of key risks and the internal controls that exist, risks facing their business and appropriate mitigating activities and and are designed to mitigate these risks.
The Board has reviewed controls, and to monitor and report to management on the the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for the effectiveness of these controls on a biannual basis.
These reports, year under review and a summary of the principal control structures together with reports on internal control and departures, if any, from and processes in place across the Group is set out in this Report.
established Group procedures prepared by both the internal and external auditors, are reviewed by the Group Finance Director and CONTROL ENVIRONMENT the Audit Committee.
Group companies also submit biannual risk Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system and internal control assurance letters to the Group Finance Director ofinternal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, it has on internal control and risk management issues, with comments on  for the operation of the internal control the control environment within their operations.
The Group Finance andrisk management programme to the Executive Board.
The Director summarises these submissions for the Audit Committee, detailed review of internal control has been delegated to the Audit and the Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board on Committee.
The management of each business is responsible for any matters that have arisen from the Audit Committees review of internal control and risk management within its own business and the way in which risk management and internal control processes for ensuring compliance with the Groups policies and procedures.
Each business has appointed a risk champion whose primary role insuch capacity is to ensure compliance by local management The Board has formal procedures in place for the approval of client withthe Groups risk management and internal control programme.
contracts, capital investment and acquisition projects, with clearly Theinternal auditors and external independent auditors have designated levels of authority, supported by post investment review reviewed the overall approach adopted by the Group towards its processes for selected acquisitions, client contracts and major riskmanagement activities so as to reinforce these internal capital expenditure.
The Board considers social, environmental and controlrequirements.
ethical matters in relation to the Groups business and assesses these when reviewing the risks faced by the Group: further CONTROL PROCEDURES information regarding environmental and ethical matters is available The Board reviews its strategic plans and objectives on an annual on pages 38 to 43.
The Board is conscious of the effect such basis and approves Group budgets and strategies in light of these.
matters may have on the short and long term value of the Company.
Control is exercised at Group, regional and business level through the Groups MAP framework as well as through the RGCs, monthly The external auditor of the Company and the Director of Group monitoring of performance by comparison with budgets, forecasts Internal Audit attend Audit Committee meetings and receive its and cash targets, and by regular visits to Group businesses by the papers.
Committee members meet regularly with the external auditor Group CEO, Group Finance Director, Group General Counsel and and with the Director of Group Internal Audit, without the presence Company Secretary, and Group HR Director.
There were no changes to the Companys internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the year ended 30 September 2018 that have affected materially, or are reasonably likely to affect materially, the Companys internal control over financial reporting.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 63
