Governance and Directors report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT DIRECTOR EFFECTIVENESS AND TRAINING INSIGHT INTO THE BOARDROOM The Board meets regularly during the year as well as on an ad hoc THE YEARS MEETINGS IN REVIEW basis, as required by business needs.
The Board met six times The following is a summary of the significant matters during the year and member attendance for each meeting held considered by your Board throughout the year: during the year is shown in the table below.
MEETING ATTENDANCE NOVEMBER UK MAY UK MAXIMUM NUMBER OF % OF HSE performance HSE performance MEMBER NUMBER OF MEETINGS MEETINGS 1 MEMBER SINCE MEETINGS ATTENDED ATTENDED Group CEOs review Group CEOs review Paul Walsh Jan 2014 6 6 100% M&A and strategy update M&A and strategy update Carol Arrowsmith June 2014 6 6 100% Capital expenditure and Capital expenditure and John Bason June 2011 6 6 100% contracts contracts Dominic Blakemore Feb 2012 6 6 100% Financial performance Financial performance 2 Stefan Bomhard May 2016 6 5 83% Draft final results Draft interim results 3 John Bryant Sep 2018 1 1 100% announcement announcement 4 Richard Cousins May 2006 1 1 100% Final dividend parameters Interim dividend Gary Green April 2007 6 6 100% parameters Draft Annual Report and 5 Anne-Francoise Nesmes July 2018 2 2 100% Accounts Education sector update 6 Don Robert May 2009 4 3 75% Annual review of Nelson Silva July 2015 6 6 100% International Clients and Johnny Thomson Dec 2015 6 6 100% Market Development JULY GERMANY Ireena Vittal July 2015 6 6 100% Defence, Offshore & HSE performance Remote sector update 1.
The maximum number of meetings that a member was eligible to attend.
Mr Bomhard was unable to attend the September 2018 meeting due to an BeNeLux presentation unavoidable prior commitment, but provided his feedback on the papers M&A and strategy update inadvance.
Appointed to the Board and its committees on 1 September 2018. contracts 4.
Ceased to be a director on 31 December 2017.
Appointed to the Board and its committees on 1 July 2018.
Stepped down from the Board and its committees on 31 May 2018.
Mr Robert HSE performance Continental Europe was unable to attend the March 2018 meeting due to family illness.
Group CEOs review business update If a director is unable to attend a Board or committee meeting, the M&A and strategy update Draft Q3 trading update Chairman of the Board and or committee Chairman are informed Capital expenditure and Treasury review and the absent director is encouraged to communicate comments contracts Annual Board evaluation and opinions on the matters to be considered.
Each director also Financial performance internal attends the AGM to answer shareholder questions.
AGM trading update Conflicts of interest Board activities are structured to help the Board achieve its goals Healthcare sector update and to provide support and advice to the executive management team on the delivery of Group strategy within a robust governanceframework.
SEPTEMBER UK MARCH USA HSE performance Throughout the year, the Board received presentations from HSE performance Group CEOs review colleagues across the Group and regularly reviewed the periodic Group CEOs review financial results, market consensus, competitor updates, merger M&A and strategy update and acquisition opportunities, capital expenditure and other matters.
M&A and strategy update Capital expenditure and We have set out opposite some highlights from the Boards calendar Capital expenditure and contracts during 2017-2018. contracts Financial performance Financial performance 2018-2019 budget and Meetings between the Chairman and non-executive directors, Biannual major risk three-year plan bothwith and without the presence of the Group CEO, are assessment scheduled in the Boards annual programme.
During the year, Annual litigation update thenon-executive directors met on several occasions without North America business Investor Relations update thepresence of the executives.
These meetings were encouraged update Biannual major risk bytheChairman and provide the non-executive directors with a People strategy update assessment forumin which to share experiences and to discuss wider business Meetings with local Business & Industry topics, fostering debate in Board and committee meetings and management sector update strengthening working relationships.
Strategy including IT update succession 52 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 GOVERNANCE In addition to routine financial and operating reports and updates Ensuring that Compass retains its disciplined approach to long including health and safety the Board spends time debating and termgrowth, its focus on food as its core competence, and its formulating Group strategy and reviewing its performance.
delivery of value for all of its stakeholders is dependent on the successful implementation of the strategy set by the Board.
Each year, the Board aims to hold two meetings overseas.
By Whilethe Groups strategy is continuously discussed and refined goingout into the business, the directors are able to meet with a throughout the year, the Board takes time out of its regular diverse group of colleagues on a more informal basis which greatly scheduleevery year to debate and reflect on broader strategic assists in the succession planning process.
These visits provide an issues.
The Board held a strategy day in March when it discussed opportunity to assess local management performance and potential, the Groups strategy at length.
This is supported by strategy updates to gain further insight into how the business works on a day to day at every Board meeting.
More information about the Groups strategy basis and to speak first hand to local management and listen can be found on pages 1 to 43. totheirviews.
Succession planning is a matter for the whole Board, rather than The format of visits often comprises a macroeconomic overview fora committee.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that ofthe country: its social and political systems: challenges and one third of the directors retire by rotation each year and that each opportunities: a review of the competitive landscape: and a director will seek re-election at the AGM every three years.
However, detailedreview of the relevant business sectors in which the in accordance with the Code, all directors submit themselves for business operates, its people, as well as the three year plan.
New directors may be appointed Thisyear, the Board met in Germany and the USA and received by the Board, but are subject to election by shareholders at the first presentations from local management.
The Articles of Association limit The Board has established a procedure for directors, if deemed the number of directors to not less than two and not more than 20, necessary, to take independent professional advice at the save where shareholders decide otherwise.
Non-executive directors Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
Every director are normally appointed for an initial term of three years, which is also has access to the Group General Counsel and Company reviewed and may be extended by two further three year terms.
Secretary, who helps to ensure that Board procedures are followed ItisBoard policy that non-executive director appointments should and that good corporate governance and compliance are last for no more than nine years.
Together with the Group CEO There were a number of changes made to the composition of the and the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, the Board during the year.
Dominic Blakemores appointment as Group Chairman ensures that the Board is kept properly informed and is Chief Executive was advanced to 1 January 2018, earlier than the consulted on all issues reserved to it.
Board papers and other scheduled date of 1 April 2018. information are distributed in a timely fashion to allow directors to be properly briefed in advance of meetings.
In accordance with the Don Robert retired from the Board as SID on 31 May 2018, and Companys Articles of Association, directors have been granted an was succeeded by John Bason on 1 June 2018.
John has been a indemnity by the Company to the extent permitted by law in respect non-executive director on the Board since June 2011 and is also of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
The indemnity would Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The role of the SID involves not provide any coverage where a director is proved to have acted providing a sounding board for the Chairman and acting as an fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Company has also arranged intermediary for other directors and shareholders where necessary: appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against its arolefor which John is well qualified.
Anne-Francoise Nesmes and John Bryant were appointed as In accordance with best practice, the Chairman addresses the non-executive directors with effect from 1 July 2018 and developmental needs of the Board as a whole, with a view to further 1September 2018 respectively.
Anne-Francoise has a wealth developing its effectiveness as a team, and ensures that each ofexperience in finance and accounting gained in international director refreshes and updates his or her individual skills, knowledge organisations, with a strong focus on strategy, M&A and governance.
John has significant experience in finance, operations, M&A, strategy and portfolio transformation and brings a valuable insight A formal, comprehensive and tailored induction is given to all into markets in the USA.
Board member biographies can be seen on non-executive directors following their appointment, including pages 49 to 51. access to external training courses, visits to key locations within the Group and meetings with members of the Executive Board and Johnny Thomson, our Group Finance Director, will step down from other key senior executives.
The induction also covers a review of the Board on 31 December 2018.
His successor, Karen Witts, will the Groups governance policies, structures and business, including join the company as Group CFO on 8 April 2019. details of the risks and operating issues facing the Group.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 53 Governance and Directors report Corporate Governance Report continued PROMOTING THE SUCCESS OF THE COMPANY BOARD EFFECTIVENESS The Companys success is the driving factor behind all decisions The Chairman is responsible, with assistance from the Nomination made by the Board.
Decision making processes are structured to Committee, for ensuring that the Company has an effective Board enable directors to evaluate the merit of proposed business activities with a suitable range of skills, expertise and experience.
Every year, and the likely consequences of its decisions over the short, medium a performance evaluation of the Board and its committees is carried and long term.
The Board carefully considers the impact of the out to ensure that they continue to be effective, and that each of the business on the communities and environments in which the Group directors demonstrates commitment to his or her respective role and operates.
Due consideration is paid to Compass stakeholders, has sufficient time to meet his or her commitment to the Company.
including but not limited to our customers, suppliers, business An independent external evaluation was conducted by partners, employees and shareholders.
In all of its activities, and EquityCommunications Limited ECL in May 2016 in line with the those of the Group, the Board requires that our employees and mandated triennial external requirement set out in the Code.
This partners conduct business with the highest ethical and professional was the second occasion on which ECL had conducted an standards.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee oversees independent, externally facilitated Board evaluation.
Compass commitment to make a positive contribution to the health The 2016 evaluation undertaken by ECL took the form of one-onand wellbeing of our clients and consumers, the communities where one interviews with all members of the Board and the Group General we work and the world in which we live.
It covered questions about Board MAINTAINING A DIALOGUE administration, strategy and operations, Board composition, WITHSHAREHOLDERS committee structure and succession planning.
ECLs report on the The Chairman ensures that the Board maintains an appropriate outcome of the evaluation was presented to the Board at its dialogue with shareholders.
The Group CEO, Group Finance Director September 2016 meeting and was summarised in the 2016 Annual and the Investor Relations and Corporate Affairs Director regularly Report and Accounts.
The next external evaluation will be carried meet with institutional investors to discuss strategic issues and to out in the year ending 30 September 2019. make presentations on the Companys results.
Non-executive The Board evaluation is used to provide a full and frank appraisal of directors develop an understanding of the views of major the contribution of each individual director and the effectiveness of shareholders through regular updates from the Investor Relations the Board and its committees.
A private meeting of the SID and and Corporate Affairs Director.
non-executives is held to evaluate the performance of the Chairman, As well as full and half year results and quarterly trading updates, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
Through the the Company publishes Regulatory News Service announcements annual evaluation process, the Board concluded that the through the London Stock Exchange and runs an active investor performance of each director was effective and that both the Board relations engagement programme.
and its committees continued to provide effective leadership and exert the required levels of governance and control.
This conclusion The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary also acts as an aligns with the observations of the Chairman, committee Chairmen important focal point for communications on corporate governance and other non-executive directors made within the evaluation matters throughout the year, but with a particular intensity leading process and throughout the year.
up to, during and after shareholder meetings.
As a Board, we are satisfied that all non-executive directors The Companys website provides an excellent means of contribute effectively to Board debate, and guide, probe and, where communicating with and receiving communications from necessary, challenge managements strategic plans and their shareholders, potential investors and the wider stakeholder execution.
Each of the non-executive directors brings considerable community.
The website contains an archive of information on the expertise and experience accumulated in their professional careers.
Companys history, leadership, governance, policies, financial Performance and training of the Board and its members is further results, dividend history and up to date share price information.
supported by a full induction on appointment, twice yearly Board Although the non-executive directors are not formally required to visits to overseas businesses where directors are encouraged to meet the shareholders of the Company, their attendance at discuss operational matters with local management, and an annual presentations of the interim and annual results is encouraged.
In respect of independence, each non-executive director is free from any relationship or circumstance that could All of our shareholders are invited to attend our AGM, which affect, or appear to affect, the exercise of their independent provides a forum in which they can put questions to the Board and judgement.
The quality of the debate at Board and committee the committee Chairmen.
It also provides shareholders with an meetings indicates that Compass non-executives devote sufficient opportunity to meet with directors on a more informal basis after time to considering and are well informed on the matters relating to themeeting.
The Board would like to thank all those shareholders who took time to attend the Companys 2018 AGM.
The Notice of Meeting for the 2019 AGM, which is due to be held on Thursday 7 February 2019 at Twickenham Stadium, can be found on pages 193 to 201.
We look forward to seeing you there.
54 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 GOVERNANCE CONFLICTS OF INTEREST In addition to the principal committees, the Board has established the following committees: As part of their ongoing development, the executive directors mayseek one external non-executive role on a non-competitor EXECUTIVE BOARD board, for which they may retain the remuneration in respect The Executive Board is the key management committee for the oftheappointment.
In order to avoid any conflict of interest, all Group and, at the date of this Report, comprises the executive appointments are subject to Board approval and the Board monitors directors of the Company and Chris Garside Managing Director, the extent of directors other interests and the time commitment Compass Group UK & Ireland : James Meaney Regional Managing required to fulfil those interests to ensure that its effectiveness is Director, Latin America : Robin Mills Group HR Director : Sandra notcompromised.
Moura Investor Relations and Corporate Affairs Director : Venkatesh Each director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 CA 2006 Shantaram Regional Managing Director, Central Asia, Middle East, to avoid a situation in which he or she has or can have a direct or Africa, Turkey and Defence, Offshore & Remote : Sapna Sood, indirect interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict with the Director of International Clients and Market Development : Juergen interests of the Company.
This duty is in addition to the obligation Thamm Regional Managing Director, Continental Europe : Mark that he or she owes to the Company to disclose to the Board an van Dyck Regional Managing Director, Asia Pacific : and Alison interest in any transaction or arrangement under consideration by Yapp Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
The Companys Articles of Association authorise the Executive Board meets regularly and is responsible for developing directors to approve such situations and to include other provisions the Groups strategy, capital expenditure and investment budgets.
It to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with.
The Board follows an reports on these areas to the Board for approval, implementing established procedure when deciding whether to authorise an actual Group policy, monitoring health and safety, financial, operational or potential conflict of interest.
Only independent directors i. e. those and customer quality of service performance, purchasing and who have no interest in the matter under consideration will be able supply chain issues, succession planning and day to day to make the relevant decision and, in making the decision, the management of the Group.
directors must act in good faith and in a way they consider will be DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE most likely to promote the Companys success.
Furthermore, the The Disclosure Committee oversees the disclosure of market directors may, if appropriate, impose limits or conditions when sensitive information and other public announcements as granting authorisation.
necessary in accordance with relevant laws and regulations.
Any authorities are reviewed at least every 15 months.
The Board Meetings are held as required.
At the date of this Report, the considered and authorised each directors reported actual and Disclosure Committee comprises Johnny Thomson, Group Finance potential conflicts of interest at its July 2018 Board meeting and Director: Alison Yapp, Group General Counsel and Company considers any changes on an ad hoc basis throughout the year.
Secretary: the Group Financial Controller: the Director of Group COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD Internal Audit: the Group Director of Strategy and M&A: and the As noted on page 46, the Board has established a number of Investor Relations and Corporate Affairs Director.
committees to assist in the discharge of its duties.
GENERAL BUSINESS COMMITTEE The formal terms of reference for the principal committees, The General Business Committee comprises all of the executive approved by the Board and complying with the Code, are available directors and meets as required to conduct the Companys business from the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary and can within clearly defined limits delegated by the Board and subject to also be found at www.
Terms of reference are those matters reserved to the Board.
reviewed annually by their respective committees and updated when AUDIT COMMITTEE PAGES 56 TO 63 necessary to reflect changes in legislation or best practice.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Directors who are not members of individual Board committees may COMMITTEE PAGES 64 TO 67 be invited to attend one or more meetings of those committees during the year.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE PAGES 68 TO 70 The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary acts as Secretary to all Board committees.
The Chairmen of each of the REMUNERATION COMMITTEE PAGES 71 TO 93 principal committees attend the AGM to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised on a committees activities.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 55
