NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Building diversity of skills and experience NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS DEAR SHAREHOLDER This year, as part of our Board succession planning process, On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the weappointed two new non-executive directors.
Prior to their NominationCommittees Report for the financial year ended appointment, the Committee identified the necessary attributes 30September 2018. foreach specific non-executive director role which was set to It has been another busy year for the Nomination Committee.
Specialist third party independent Wehad a number of planned changes to Board membership arising recruitment agencies Odgers Berndtson and Spencer Stuart, neither from our steady state succession activities including one key having any other connection to the Company, were used to identify change, the appointment of Dominic Blakemore as Group CEO, candidates matching the requirements for each role.
The Committee which had to be accelerated due to the untimely death of Richard reviewed lists of potential appointees, and shortlisted candidates for Cousins.
It was in this context that the robustness of our succession interview based upon the objective criteria identified at inception.
Forward planning meant that we were Candidates were required to demonstrate that they had sufficient prepared and well placed to react swiftly to changing circumstances.
time available to devote to the role.
Interviews for each of the THE YEAR IN REVIEW candidates were arranged with me as Chairman of the Board, the By linking succession planning to Board strategy, the Nomination Group CEO and other Board members.
Once the preferred Committee is able to plan further ahead to prepare for future candidates had been identified, detailed external references were challenges and ensure that the Board has a continuous balance of taken, following receipt of which, the Committee formally the right skills, knowledge and experience to satisfy the ongoing and recommended the appointments to the Board.
anticipated strategic needs of the Group.
Refreshment of the Board The recruitment process enabled the Committee to determine that is an essential component of the evolutionary nature of strategy, and the skills and experience brought by both Anne-Francoise Nesmes over the past year we have taken steps to augment the diversity of and John Bryant were complementary to those already present on skills and experience present on the Board.
Our approach has been the Board, and to conclude that their contribution and insights will instrumental in ensuring the smooth transition of Board roles benefit the Board over the coming years.
between incoming and retiring directors.
68 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 GOVERNANCE Anne-Francoise and John were appointed as non-executive BOARD DIVERSITY directorswith effect from 1 July 2018 and 1 September 2018 Following the appointment of Karen Witts as the Group CFO from respectively.
Anne-Francoise has a wealth of experience in finance 2019, the gender balance of the Board will meet the 33% target of and accounting gained in international organisations, with a strong female representation recommended by Lord Davies which, coupled focus on strategy, M&A and governance.
John has significant with the breadth of experience, backgrounds, education, cultures experience in finance, operations, M&A, strategy and portfolio and expertise of our directors, means that we will have a truly transformation as well as a valuable insight into markets in the diverse Board.
Biographies of the directors can be found on pages 49 to 51.
EXECUTIVE BOARD Following the completion of his nine year tenure, Don Robert, who In addition to the appointments made to the Board, the membership had been the SID since October 2015, retired on 31 May 2018. of the Executive Board was further strengthened by the appointment During his time at Compass, Don provided invaluable support to us of five new members with diverse experience and backgrounds and and offered the Board a constructive insight into markets in the US.
I am pleased to report that the percentage of women on the John Bason, a long serving non-executive director who is also the Executive Board has increased from 11% at the start of the year Chairman of the Audit Committee, succeeded Don as the SID on under review to 25% at the date of my statement.
Johns appointment as the SID reflects his extensive Witts appointment in 2019, this will increase to33%, which is in experience and I am pleased to report that he has provided excellent line with the Hampton-Alexander target of 33% women in leadership support to me and to the Board in his new role.
GROUP CFO RECRUITMENT PROCESS HAMPTON-ALEXANDER 2020 TARGET On 4 July 2018, Johnny Thomson announced his intention to step % FEMALE IN LEADERSHIP down from the Board and will leave the business by the end of 11% December 2018.
The Board employs the services of executive search firms as part 25% ofthe external search process to identify potential Board and senior management candidates.
In preparation for the Group Finance 33% Directors succession, the Committee considered the credentials of 1 October 2017 20 November 2018 Hampton-Alexander 2020 target anumber of providers before recommending the appointment of thesearch firm considered best placed to meet the brief.
The firm THE YEAR AHEAD chosen, Korn Ferry, was considered to be independent of, and has We have a strong Board and executive management with a broad no other links with, the Company or its directors in connection with range of experience which hasdriven the Companys success.
Committee and the Board believe that our directors are well qualified A profile was prepared setting out the desirable experience, to further advance the interests of the Companys shareholders, as background and personal characteristics of the preferred candidate well as its people, clients and consumers, partners and the and Korn Ferry prepared a long list of candidates that was shortlisted communities in whichwework.
The shortlisted candidates were interviewed by the Group To underpin our work to date, in the coming year we will continue to Chief Executive and other directors.
The Committee discussed two focus on our strategy led succession planning agenda.
A preferred candidate was identified and it was proposed that the preferred candidate should be recommended to the Board for further consideration.
Detailed external references were taken on the preferred candidate.
The recommendation, which the Board approved, was that Paul Walsh KarenWitts should be appointed as Group CFO.
As announced on Chairman of the Nomination Committee 1November 2018, Karen will join the Company on 8 April 2019.
Inthe interim, Palmer Brown, Chief Corporate Investment & 20 November 2018 RiskOfficer, Compass Group North America, will actas Interim CFO but will not be a member of the Board until Karen Witts is formallyappointed.
We look forward to Karen joining us in 2019.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 69 Governance and Directors Report Nomination Committee Report continued The Nomination Committee has standing items that it considers THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE regularly under its terms of reference: for example, the Committee COMPOSITION reviews its own terms of reference annually, or as required, to The Nomination Committee comprises Paul Walsh, Chairman: reflectchanges to the Code or as a result of changes in regulations Dominic Blakemore, Group CEO: and all of the non-executive or best practice.
directors in office at the date of this Report.
SUCCESSION PLANNING AND DIVERSITY The Committee had four scheduled meetings and members We are a people business.
Our strength comes from an inclusive attendance at meetings held during the year is set out in the and welcoming environment, where we recognise that the tablebelow.
experiences and perspectives which make us unique come together MEETING ATTENDANCE in our shared values and vision.
We strongly believe that the more MAXIMUM NUMBER OF % OF our people reflect the diversity of our clients and consumers, the MEMBER NUMBER OF MEETINGS MEETINGS 1 MEMBER SINCE MEETINGS ATTENDED ATTENDED better equipped we are to service their needs.
At Board level, our Paul Walsh Jan 2014 4 4 100% approach to the appointment of new directors and senior executives Carol Arrowsmith June 2014 4 4 100% reflects our Guiding Principles to develop people and value diversity, to ensure the optimal balance of experience and backgrounds on John Bason June 2011 4 4 100% 2 our Board andcommittees.
Prior to making an appointment, the Dominic Blakemore Jan 2018 3 3 100% 3 Nomination Committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge, Stefan Bomhard May 2016 4 3 75% independence, experience and diversity on the Board and, in light 4 John Bryant Sep 2018 1 1 100% ofthis evaluation, prepares a description of the role and capabilities 5 Richard Cousins Nov 2008 1 1 100% required, with a view to ensuring that the best placed individual for 6 Anne-Francoise Nesmes July 2018 1 1 100% the role is recommended to the Board for appointment.
As a Board 7 Don Robert May 2009 3 2 67% we promote an environment which is supportive of all individuals Nelson Silva July 2015 4 4 100% from diverse backgrounds and thus in identifying suitable Ireena Vittal July 2015 4 4 100% candidates, the Nomination Committee normally: 1.
The maximum number of meetings that a member was eligible to attend.
uses open advertising or the services of external advisors to 2.
Appointed Group CEO on 1 January 2018. facilitate the search 3.
Mr Bomhard was unable to attend the September meeting due to an unavoidable prior commitment, but provided his feedback on the papers considers candidates from different genders and a wide inadvance.
rangeofbackgrounds such as ethnicity, race, religion 4.
Appointed to the Board and its committees on 1 September 2018.
Ceased to be a director on 31 December 2017. andeducation 6.
Appointed to the Board and its committees on 1 July 2018. considers candidates on merit and against objective criteria, 7.
Stepped down from the Board and its committees on 31 May 2018.
Mr Robert was unable to attend the March 2018 meeting due to a family illness.
ensuring that appointees have sufficient time to devote to the position, in light of other potentially significant commitments OBJECTIVES The Nomination Committees key objective is to review and Our appointments in 2018 highlight how well this process works monitorthe Boards composition and to ensure that the Board andhas led to the introduction of two new Board members who comprises individuals with the right blend of skills, knowledge and complement our existing Board by bringing new perspectives.
experience to maintain a high degree of effectiveness in discharging Thisblend of skills, knowledge and experience which comes from its responsibilities.
diversebackgrounds will continue to be of paramount importance inensuring that the right candidates are chosen to join our Board RESPONSIBILITIES andfor senior executive roles.
The Nomination Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and its committees and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes considered necessary in the identification and nomination of new directors, the reappointment of existing directors and appointment ofmembers to the Boards committees.
It also assesses the roles ofthe existing directors in office to ensure that there continues to bea balanced Board in terms of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity.
The Committee reviews the senior leadership needs of theGroup to enable it to compete effectively in the marketplace andadvises the Board on succession planning for executive directorappointments, although the Board itself is responsible forsuccession generally.
70 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018
