Corporate Governance Report continued Attendance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Current members Role record 1.
Minnow Powell Chairman Non-Executive Director 4 4 2.
Peter Ryan Non-Executive Director 4 4 Former member 5.
Philip Yea Non-Executive Director 1 1 Note that Ros Rivaz gave her apologies for one Committee meeting due to another commitment.
Note that Peter Ryan was appointed on 13 February 2018, prior to the first Committee meeting of the year.
Note that Philip Yea attended the Committee meeting that occurred before he stepped down from the Board on 24 April 2018.
Minnow Powell Composition of the Committee I am satisfied that the flow of supporting Chairman of the Audit Committee As at 31 December 2018, the Audit Committee information to the Committee is appropriate comprised the four Independent Nonand provided in good time, to allow members Executive Directors.
All members are sufficient opportunity to review matters due considered to be appropriately qualified and for consideration at each Committee experienced to fulfil their role and allow the meeting.
I am also satisfied that meetings Committee to perform its duties effectively.
were scheduled to allow sufficient time to For the purposes of Code provision C. 3.1, one enable full and informed debate.
member of the Committee, Minnow Powell, is considered to have recent and relevant Principal responsibilities of the Committee financial experience.
The Committee notes Immediately following each Committee the requirements of the 2016 Code and meeting, I report to the Board on the confirms that, after having considered the Committees activities and how it is requirements against feedback provided discharging its responsibilities as set out in through the Board and Committee its Terms of Reference, which can be found effectiveness review, the Committee as a on the Companys website at whole has competence relevant to the sector investors.
in which the Company operates.
Further details of specific relevant experience can be The Committees main responsibilities during found in the Directors biographies on pages the year, as set out in the Code, were to: 70 and 71. monitor the integrity of the Companys Financial Statements and any formal Meetings of the Committee announcements related to the Companys The Committee met four times during 2018. financial performance, and to review Meetings are attended routinely by the any significant financial reporting Chairman of the Board, Group Finance judgements contained therein: Director, Group Head of Financial Reporting, review the effectiveness of internal Group Head of Internal Audit & Risk controls and of the risk management Management and the external auditor.
The framework: meetings cover a standing list of agenda review the effectiveness of the items, which is based on the Committees Companys Internal Audit: Terms of Reference, and consider additional review arrangements by which matters when I deem it necessary, as employees may, in confidence, raise Chairman of the Committee.
Meetings are concerns about possible improprieties THE COMMITTEE also attended by the Group Company relating to financial or other matters, and Secretary, who acts as Secretary to the ensure that arrangements are in place for Committee.
the proportionate and independent AS A WHOLE HAS investigation of such matters: In addition to the Committee meetings, I also review, on an ongoing basis, the COMPETENCE met privately on occasion with individual Companys relationship with its external members of Management during the year, to auditor, including monitoring its discuss the risks and challenges faced by the independence and objectivity and the RELEVANT TO business as well as accounting and reporting effectiveness of the audit process, matters and, importantly, how these are ensuring that an appropriate policy is in THE SECTOR IN being addressed.
On two occasions during place concerning any engagement of the the year, the Committee met separately with auditor for the provision of non-audit WHICH THE the external auditor and the Group Head of services to the Company, and making Internal Audit and Risk Management, without recommendations to the Board in respect Management present.
From time to of the appointment, reappointment and COMPANY time, I also attend meetings of the Group removal of the auditor and the Risk Committee.
remuneration paid to them by the OPERATES.
Company: and 78 GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 advise the Board, to enable it to report on The Committee remains satisfied with the further review final positions close to the whether the Annual Report and Accounts, revenue recognition accounting judgements anniversary of the respective acquisition taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and but will continue to monitor the performance dates.
understandable and provide the of several difficult contracts, in part to information necessary for shareholders ensure that appropriate responses are During 2017, the Group acquired TeamUltra to assess the Groups position and formulated to address material lessons Ltd in the UK.
The initial accounting for the performance, business model and strategy.
from the execution of these contracts.
As TeamUltra acquisition was only provisionally judgements were adjusted throughout the determined at the end of the 2017 reporting Activities of the Committee year the Committee, in addition to reviewing period and the Committee further reviewed The Committees activities during the year, the assumptions at a point in time, reviewed the final position close to the anniversary of which are based on its Terms of Reference, when information underpinning the the acquisition date.
The accounting of the are set out below: judgements changed and the reasons for TeamUltra acquisition is now complete and the change.
there were no changes to the fair values and Key judgements and current financial the book values at acquisition.
reporting standards Technology Sourcing revenue recognition The Committee reviewed the integrity of the and cut-off procedures The Committee reviewed the audit plan for Groups Consolidated Financial Statements Given the level of sales around year end, the the acquired entities for the part-year ended and, in doing so, considered the following key Audit Committee suggested to the auditor 31 December 2018 with the Groups auditor, judgements made in their preparation.
In that it should pay particular attention to KPMG LLP, to ensure that adequate procedures reviewing these matters, the Committee also Technology Sourcing revenue cut-off.
were in place to ensure the audit coverage took account of the views of the external was appropriate.
The Committee noted that no significant errors were found as a result of the auditors Valuation of acquired intangible assets IFRS 15 Revenue Recognition work in this area.
An independent accounting firm produced a During the year, the Committee continued report on the valuation of intangible assets to monitor the implementation of IFRS 15, IFRS 9 Financial Instruments within FusionStorm.
The Committee with emphasis on the progress towards The Committee considered updates from considered the report and its associated finalisation of the disclosures for the Interim Management on IFRS 9.
Whilst the impact of review by Management.
The Committee Report and Annual Report and Accounts.
the standard was not considered to be considered the intangible assets identified The Company has elected to implement the comparable to that of IFRS 15 and IFRS 16, the and those potential assets disregarded for standard using the simplified approach to Committee noted several areas of additional valuation.
The Committee also reviewed the adoption and has not restated its disclosure which have been made in this valuation methodologies used for the comparatives for the 2017 reporting period.
purchase price allocation and the valuation Taking account of the informal review of the outcomes that appropriately valued the Interim Report by the Financial Reporting Acquisition accounting customer relationships and order backlog, Review Panel, the Company increased the During 2018, the Group acquired FusionStorm leaving an indicative residual goodwill of less disclosure within the Annual Report and in the United States of America and Misco than 50 per cent of the enterprise value.
The Accounts to highlight that the comparative Solutions B. V. Misco in the Netherlands.
Committee noted the principal reason for results have not been restated and are The Committee reviewed the acquisition the acquisition was to acquire a Technology prepared under a different GAAP.
accounting judgements and the differences Sourcing business giving the Group a firm between the provisional fair values and the base or footprint from which to grow in the Outside of the Audit Committee meetings, book values at acquisition.
USA, rather than building such a business I met Management, and the Groups external from scratch and generating the vendor auditor, KPMG LLP, to review the revenue The Committee was satisfied with accreditations, customers and sales team recognition treatment on two Technology Managements assessment that it is highly required.
The Committee regarded the Sourcing software contracts of a new type, probable that the maximum contingent intangible assets valuation for customer where the revenue was recognised on an consideration will become payable and relationships acquired as consistent with the agency basis, rather than principal, based accordingly the discounted maximum initial information provided to the Committee on the terms and conditions of these two contingent consideration has been included pre-acquisition, which emphasised the contracts in accordance with the new in determining the provisional fair value to number of significant long-term customers standard.
within FusionStorm as one of the value drivers of the potential acquisition.
Professional Services and Managed For the FusionStorm acquisition, the Services contract accounting Committee enquired into whether contingent The Committee considered that the lack of The Committee continued to focus on consideration was actually consideration identified intangible assets acquired within Services contract accounting during the or remuneration and concluded it was Misco was appropriate.
This is consistent year, as reported under IFRS 15.
It received consideration, on the basis that individuals with the basis on which the Company decided a standing item update at each meeting who were selling shareholders due the to make this investment, which was to from Management on a number of material contingent consideration were not required broaden the Groups geographic presence contracts across the Groups major to remain in employment post-acquisition.
These contracts were selected the difficult recent history of the business due to performance being lower than The initial accounting for the Misco and and concluded that Managements review anticipated at the bid stage of the contract, FusionStorm acquisitions has only been was appropriate.
or where there were complex revenue provisionally determined at the end of the recognition elements.
reporting period and the Committee will 79 Corporate Governance Report continued Segmental information restatement is, individually, not material, it forms part of these measures and the reasons behind As the Group has grown in both operational the collective overall cost of the acquisition such variances.
The Committee concluded 1 and geographical complexity, Management and the Committee agreed that, due to the that the presentation of adjusted profit has continued to monitor the relevance of material size of the acquisition and the gave clarity on performance and had the IFRS 8 Segments that the Group reports impact on the underlying net finance sufficient equal prominence with under.
During the first half of the year, expense, this should also be treated as an statutory profit.
Management reviewed the way it reported exceptional item.
segmental performance to the Board and Parent Company investment in subsidiaries the Chief Executive Officer, who is the Groups The Committee noted that Management carrying value Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM, to continued to exclude the amortisation of Investments in subsidiaries are the primary determine whether it could improve the acquired intangible assets, and the tax asset on the Parent Company Balance Sheet.
1 transparency and understanding of the effect thereon, in calculating our adjusted The Committee considers the carrying value trading performance of its core Group results and that this charge had materially of these investments annually, or when an Operating Model geographies.
As a result of increased with the acquisition of indicator of impairment is identified, as any this analysis, and as endorsed by the FusionStom.
The Committee agreed with impairment of these investments would Committee, the Board decided to adopt a Managements view that amortisation of reduce the Companys distributable new Segmental reporting structure.
The intangible assets is non-cash, and is reserves.
Committee reviewed the methodology in significantly affected by the timing and size accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments, of our acquisitions, which distorts the Management presented analysis to the noting that the rationale for the new understanding of our Group and Segmental Committee to support the carrying value of Segments, and the allocation of Central operating results.
the investments in subsidiaries held by the Corporate Costs out of the new UK Segment, Parent Company, including assessing the appeared appropriate.
The Committee was The Committee noted that a tax credit of 3.1 cash flow forecasts and assumptions of satisfied that the new Segmental reporting million was recorded due to post-acquisition each subsidiary.
No impairment of carrying structure was the basis on which internal activity in FusionStorm, related to the value in the investment in subsidiaries has reports are provided to the Chief Executive transaction, which has resulted in a material been identified during the year and the Officer, as the CODM, for assessing in-year tax benefit.
This activity included Committee remains satisfied that the performance and determining the allocation settlement of phantom stock awards, deal carrying value of each subsidiary remains of resources within the Group.
The bonus and change of control payments appropriate.
Committee noted subsequently that the which were settled by the vendor, out of the feedback from investors suggested that the consideration paid, via post-acquisition Pension disclosures revised Segmental presentation of the capital contributions to FusionStorm.
The The Group has an obligation to make a Groups results was helpful in providing Committee noted that this tax benefit is one-off payment to French employees upon 1 greater clarity on the operational larger than the adjusted profit before tax of retirement, as French employment law performance of the core UK, German and 2.9 million achieved by FusionStorm since requires that a company pays employees French geographies.
As this credit was related to a one-time contribution when, and only the acquisition and not operational activity when, the employee leaves the Company Exceptional and other adjusting items within FusionStorm, is of a one-off nature for retirement at the mandatory age.
The Committee considered the nature and and material to the overall tax result, the Management continues to account for this quantum of those items disclosed as Committee has agreed with Managements obligation according to IAS 19 revised.
Due exceptional or as other adjusting items classification of this as an exceptional to the increasing size of the obligation, which 1 outside of adjusted profit before tax in the tax item.
is now material, the Committee agreed with Groups 2018 Annual Report and Accounts.
Managements judgement to provide full The Committee was satisfied that the costs IAS 19 disclosures.
The Committee reviewed Managements associated with the acquisition of schedule of 5.2 million of costs directly FusionStorm, the interest from unwinding of Future financial reporting standards and related to the acquisition which have been the discount on the deferred consideration judgements classified as exceptional.
The Committee and the tax effect of both items, and the During the year, the Committee monitored noted that these costs included a severance exceptional tax credit taken should be Managements plans and progress in relation payment for the FusionStorm Chief Executive classified as exceptional due to the collective to IFRS 16 as set out below.
In reviewing the Officer, agreed as part of the acquisition, materiality and nature of the item.
implications of the new standard, the advisor fees and a finders fee that was paid Committee also took account of the views on completion of the transaction.
The Committee also considered the of the external auditor, KPMG LLP.
1 presentation of adjusted profit in the first The Committee found that these costs were half of the Annual Report and Accounts, after New lease accounting standard IFRS 16 non-operational in nature, material in size taking account of the European Securities effective 1 January 2019 and unlikely to recur and therefore agree and Markets Authority Guidelines on The Committee has maintained oversight of that these costs should be classified as Alternative Performance Measures, which Managements implementation programmes 1 outside our adjusted results.
The Committee promote the usefulness and transparency through specific IFRS 16 presentations.
The noted that a further 0.4 million relating to of such measures.
The Committee remains Committee continues to be reassured by the the unwinding of the discount on the satisfied with the detailed reconciliation progress that Management has made and 1 deferred consideration for the purchase of between statutory and adjusted measures requested a further overview of the financial FusionStorm has been removed from the that the Group has presented since the 2015 impact on the 2019 results compared to 1 adjusted net finance expense and classified Interim Report, and the level of disclosure current GAAP, to ensure that this is as exceptional interest costs.
Whilst this item which explains both the variances between communicated appropriately.
80 GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Going concern basis for the Consolidated European Union without a Withdrawal Performance of the Committee Financial Statements Agreement.
As a result, the Committee No major matters were raised in the The Committee provides input to the Boards recommended to the Directors that they internally facilitated annual evaluation of the assessment of whether it is appropriate for could make the statement required for the Committees performance.
the Group to adopt the going concern basis assessment period without qualification.
in preparing Consolidated Financial The statement and explanation from the Refer to page 73 for further detail on the Statements, at both the half year and full Directors can be found within the Strategic evaluation carried out.
In order to do so, the Committee Report on page 66. considered detailed reviews, based on the The effectiveness of internal controls and Groups financial plans, in relation to the Other significant activity of the risk management framework Groups liquidity and solvency, taking into The Committee received an update at each On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee consideration its cash position and meeting on the Groups readiness for is responsible for overseeing the committed bank facilities.
It considered the adoption of the GDPR.
The Committee effectiveness of the Groups systems of Groups financing requirements in the challenged the project implementation team, internal control and the risk management context of available committed facilities, led by the Group Head of Legal & Contracting, framework.
including one of 60 million which was not to ensure that the Group was on track for drawn during the year, and challenged compliance ahead of the 25 May 2018 The GRC meets on a quarterly basis to review Managements forecasts concerning trading adoption and that appropriate data the key risks facing the business.
The Committee noted the Code protection activities have continued to identified, and their likelihood and impact are requirement for the Directors to state become embedded across the Group assessed, within the Groups Heat Risk Map.
whether they consider it appropriate to following the enforcement date.
The They are then reviewed in conjunction with adopt the going concern basis of accounting Committee has requested that Group accompanying risk mitigation plans.
The GRC for a period of at least 12 months from the Internal Audit perform a post minutes are circulated to the Audit date of approval of the Groups 2018 implementation audit during 2019.
Committee for review, with any matters of Consolidated Financial Statements.
Following note highlighted and explained to the its considerations, the Committee was During the year, the Committee reviewed its Committee.
This includes an analysis of how satisfied that the going concern basis of Terms of Reference against the Code and the the Groups exposure to these risks may have preparation continues to be appropriate.
Guidance for Audit Committees, following moved during the previous three months and The statement and explanation from the which the Terms of Reference were amended how mitigations to the risks have been Directors can be found within the Strategic and subsequently approved by the Board.
introduced or developed, and also provides Report on page 65. the GRCs assessment of the effectiveness of A review of the Companys distributable the process.
In addition, the Committee Viability Statement reserves was carried out prior to the received reports on the capability of the The Code requires the Directors to explain declaration of both the interim and final finance team, including the Finance Shared in the Annual Report and Accounts how they dividends in respect of the reporting period.
have assessed the prospects of the Group, taking into account the Groups current The Committee received regular updates on The Committee reviewed policies, processes position and principal risks, over what period major Group governance initiatives, including and controls and the reporting of the Groups they have done so and why they consider the Group Opportunity and In-life Service tax and treasury functions, and controls that period to be appropriate.
around purchase to pay and order to cash.
are further required to state whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Having been requested to do so by the Board The Committee has received presentations Group will be able to continue in operation in accordance with Code provision C. 3.4, the from Management on the strengthening of and meet its liabilities as they fall due over Committee also advised the Board on the internal controls around in-life contract the assessment period they have chosen, whether the Annual Report and Accounts, performance and assumptions.
drawing attention to any qualifications or taken as a whole is fair, balanced and assumptions as necessary.
This requirement understandable and provides the To assist the Board, the Committee monitors is known as a Viability Statement.
information necessary for shareholders to the risk management processes and reports assess the Groups position and from Internal Audit.
The Committee Following its review of Managements performance, business model and strategy.
continues to monitor implementation of proposals, the Committee continues to The Committee sought assurance as to the agreed improvements, with an emphasis on recommend to the Board that it set the review procedures performed by strengthening user access controls.
period of assessment for the Viability Management, to support and provide Statement at three years, given the nature of assurance to the Board in making this Compliance Steering Committee the Groups business model and its strategic statement.
These include clear guidance The GRC established a Compliance Steering time horizon.
The Committee and Board also issued to all contributors to ensure a Committee CSC during 2016.
The CSC meets reviewed Managements financial forecasts consistent approach and a formal review quarterly, two weeks before the GRC, to for the three-year period, and challenged the process, to ensure that the Annual Report which it reports, and is chaired by the Group process undertaken and assumptions made and Accounts are factually correct and Head of Legal & Contracting.
The Group by the Groups Risk Committee, in assessing include all relevant information.
Following Human Resources Director, the Group Head how those forecasts would be affected by a a review, the Committee advised the of Internal Audit & Risk Management and realistic concurrence of the Groups principal Board that appropriate procedures had the Company Secretary make up the rest of risks.
The Committee also considered been applied.
additional contingencies made within the forecast due to the risk of the UK exiting the 81 Corporate Governance Report continued The CSC is responsible for defining relevant Committee approves a rolling audit The integrity of the Groups relationship areas of law or regulation applicable to the programme, ensuring that all significant with the auditor and the effectiveness Group, assigning these to members of areas of the business are independently of the external audit process Management and identifying levels of reviewed over, approximately, a three-year External audit compliance and associated risk, with the aim period.
The programme and the review The Audit Committee is required to oversee of ensuring that these are appropriate for findings are assessed continually, to ensure the Groups relationship with its auditor and the Group.
Critical areas within the CSCs they take account of the latest information to make recommendations to the Board remit include anti-bribery and corruption, and, in particular, the results of the annual concerning the appointment, reappointment whistleblowing and data protection.
review of internal control and any shifts in and remuneration of the auditor.
the focus areas of the various businesses.
During 2016, the CSC implemented a A formal audit charter, which was updated Reappointment of the auditor Group-wide whistleblowing hotline, provided during the year, is in place to guide the Following the results of a review of the by a third party, to provide a secure and functions work and procedures.
effectiveness of the external auditor, and anonymous means for employees to make further discussions amongst the Committee, disclosures they would otherwise feel unable The Audit Committee reviews the the Committee has recommended to the to.
The CSC continues to monitor compliance effectiveness of the Internal Audit Board that it propose the reappointment of with the Group Ethics policy, which has department and the Groups risk KPMG LLP as the Groups auditor, for approval completed its rollout across the Group.
The by the Companys shareholders at its 2019 CSC is developing a compliance framework formal review consists of an evaluation of AGM.
KPMG LLP was first appointed as the for the Group in order to provide appropriate Internal Audit activities by members of the Groups auditor with effect from May 2015, and consistent governance across a number Audit Committee, managers across the following a competitive tender process.
The of business critical compliance areas.
This business who have been subject to audit Committee will continue to review the framework will encompass and draw upon during the year, and a self-assessment by performance of KPMG LLP, as set out below, on the lessons and experience of the GDPR the Group Head of Internal Audit & Risk an annual basis.
The lead audit engagement project.
As part of this, and influenced by an Management.
The assessment covers areas partner is Tudor Aw.
He has been in place Internal Audit report, the Committee has such as departmental organisation, since the firms appointment in 2015 and will directed the CSC to refresh the existing business understanding, skills and step down after the 2019 year end.
Anti-Bribery and Corruption policies and experience, communication and processes within the new framework, performance.
The positive results showed During the reporting period, the Company as well as reviewing the efficacy of our improvements in work planning, execution complied with The Statutory Audit Services whistleblowing procedures.
In addition, the and reporting.
for Large Companies Market Investigation Committee noted the CSCs plans to bring Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender FusionStorm and Computacenter The Committee received an update from Processes and Audit Committee Netherlands into the Groups compliance the Group Head of Internal Audit & Risk Responsibilities Order 2014. network, including the provisioning of the Management at each meeting during the Groups whistleblowing hotline.
This covered current audit activities Effectiveness of the external audit process and any associated issues resulting from The Committee places great importance on Whistleblowing the completion of the functions work.
I met ensuring a high-quality and effective The Committee confirms that it is satisfied the Group Head of Internal Audit & Risk external audit process.
When conducting the that, as at the date of this report, Management on a number of occasions annual review, the Committee considers the arrangements are in place i to ensure that during the year, through which I was updated performance of the auditor as well as its staff are able, in confidence, to raise on the activities of the Internal Audit function independence, compliance with relevant concerns about possible improprieties in and received a frequent assessment as to statutory, regulatory and ethical standards, financial and other matters, and ii for the whether the function is resourced and objectivity.
proportionate and independent investigation adequately.
of such concerns, including appropriate The Committee reviewed the effectiveness follow-up action.
During the year, no The Committee has continued to work with and quality of the external audit process by: incidents were reported to the Committee.
the Group Head of Internal Audit & Risk reviewing the audit plan and monitoring Management on refining the audit universe, changes in response to new issues or The effectiveness of the Internal Audit challenging and approving the Internal Audit changing circumstances: function plan and mapping that plan to the Groups receiving reports on the results of the The Group has an Internal Audit function principal risks and related mitigating audit work performed: which reports to me, as Chairman of the controls, as set out on pages 40 to 45.
This is considering the FRCs report on KPMG LLP.
Audit Committee, and also has direct access kept under review to reflect the changing The Committee reviewed the report which to the CEO.
Its key objectives are to provide needs of the business and to ensure that stated that KPMG LLP were on special independent and objective assurance on new and emerging business risks are watch.
The Committee read the report risks, and the related mitigating controls, to appropriately considered within it, including and discussed it at its meeting on the Board, the Audit Committee and senior both reviewing and providing assurance to 21 August 2018: and Management, and to assist the Board in the Committee regarding the effectiveness considering the report of the FRCs Audit meeting its corporate governance and of controls over bid management and Quality Review Team AQRT into the 2017 regulatory responsibilities.
The Board, acting contract reporting and the control audit of the Group by KPMG LLP.
We were through the Audit Committee, has directed environment of FusionStorm.
pleased to note that the report contained the work of the Internal Audit department only two findings, neither of which the towards those areas of the business that are We will carry out an external independent Committee deemed to be material.
The considered to be the highest risk.
The Audit review of the effectiveness of the Internal Committee noted that the AQRT was Audit function in 2019.
82 GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 2018 2017 000 000 Auditors remuneration: Audit of the Financial Statements 50 44 Audit of subsidiaries 722 559 Total audit fees 772 603 Audit related assurance services 50 55 Taxation compliance services 9 19 Other assurance services 17 10 Taxation advisory services 13 Other non-audit services 132 200 Total non-audit services 208 297 Total fees 980 900 pleased to see certain elements of best compromised either in appearance or in fact.
the total fee payable by the Group to its practice, including the provision of a joint Equally, the Group should not be deprived of auditor exceeds 70 per cent of the average audit planning day between senior expertise where it is needed and there may annual statutory fee payable by the Group members of the global audit team and be occasions where the external auditor is over the last three consecutive years.
Management, and which I attend from best placed to undertake other accounting, time to time.
advisory and consultancy work, in view of its The Group ceased using the Groups knowledge of the business, as well as auditor for all taxation services within the The Committee further reviewed the confidentiality and cost considerations.
EU during 2017. effectiveness of the external audit process by means of a questionnaire, which was Following the changes to the FRCs Ethical During 2017, after a competitive tender, KPMG completed by key stakeholders and relevant Standard ES, the Committee revised its LLP was appointed to conduct financial due Group Management.
The matters covered by non-audit services policy during 2016.
Under diligence in connection with the FusionStorm the questionnaire included the quality of the this policy, the Group auditor should not be acquisition.
The Committee reviewed the service and the KPMG LLP employees that are engaged to undertake work which tender documentation, Managements delivering it, including their understanding of constitutes a prohibited non-audit service as recommendations and KPMG LLPs review of the business and its audit risks, their degree defined under provision 5.167 of the FRC ES.
the impact on its own independence against of scepticism and challenge, and their Any other non-audit service a Permitted the Groups non-audit services policy.
The results were discussed as Service must, to the extent that they are not engagement did not constitute a prohibited a specific agenda item at the Committee viewed as trivial, be approved in advance on non-audit service and the Committee meeting immediately following the an individual basis by the Audit Committee.
concluded that KPMG LLP had provided the completion of the questionnaire process, best tender, both in terms of quality and and actions requested by the Committee to In each case where the Group auditor is value, and were satisfied that the enhance effectiveness were followed up and authorised to perform a Permitted Service, independence of KPMG LLP, as Group auditor, continue to be monitored as appropriate.
the Audit Committee will assess properly was not affected.
The acquisition was threats to the auditors independence and suspended in January 2018 and, when Auditor independence the proposed safeguards to be applied when discussions restarted in mid-2018, KPMG LLP The Committee places considerable such Permitted Services are carried out.
It was retained in the same capacity to update importance on ensuring the continuing will also document what action was taken by its previous due diligence findings.
independence of the Groups auditor.
This the Group auditor, including appropriate topic is reviewed at least annually with the safeguards where necessary, to ensure that auditor, which confirms its independence its independence was not compromised as Minnow Powell to the Committee twice a year.
a result of performing the Permitted Service.
Chairman of the Audit Committee The Committee will also discuss and 11 March 2019 Non-audit services document why it viewed the Group auditor as In support of maintaining the auditors the most appropriate party to perform the independence, the Committee has Permitted Service.
established a policy in relation to the scope and extent of provision of non-audit services The Committee monitors compliance with by the Groups auditor, which is summarised this policy by monitoring the level of on this page.
non-audit work provided by the external auditor, resulting in non-audit fees being The auditor is appointed primarily to report 26.9 per cent of the KPMG LLP overall audit on the annual and interim Consolidated fee during 2018 2017: 49.3 per cent, as set Financial Statements.
The Committee places out below.
The Group auditor will, in no a high priority on ensuring that the auditors circumstances, undertake non-audit independence and objectivity is not services for the Group to the extent that 83
