Corporate Governance Report out in the Code on appointment, and each The Chairman regularly liaises with each LEADERSHIP of Minnow Powell, Ros Rivaz, Peter Ryan and Director to discuss and agree their training The role of the Board Regine Stachelhaus are considered by the and development needs.
The Board is The Board is responsible for the Groups Board to be independent in their character confident that all of its members have the management and performance, and for and judgement.
Phillip Hulme and Peter knowledge, ability and experience to perform providing effective leadership to it.
There is a Ogden, the Founder Non-Executive Directors, the functions required of a Director of a schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board, are not considered to be independent having listed company.
which includes considering and approving, started the Company in 1981 and remained amongst other things, acquisitions, major on the Board in both an Executive and Division of responsibilities capital expenditure, Group strategy and Non-Executive capacity since that time.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief budgets, the Groups Consolidated Financial Executive Officer CEO are separate and Statements and its dividend policy.
This There is no dominant individual or group their responsibilities are clearly set out in schedule is reviewed annually as a standing of individuals on the Board influencing its writing, reviewed annually and agreed by Board agenda item and it was updated decision-making and the Board is the Board.
They are available for inspection during 2018.
It can be found on our website comfortable that each Director makes on the Companys website at at investors.
a valuable contribution to the Board.
Day-to-day management and operational Appointments to, and development of, In summary, the Chairmans role is to lead activities are delegated to an authorised the Board and manage the Board, and to help facilitate Group Executive Committee including, The Nomination Committee leads the the Boards discussion of the Groups amongst others, the Executive Directors.
The Chairman actively encourages Other Board-level matters are delegated to detail on the Committees role, membership contributions from all Directors and is the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration and work during the year is set out on page 74. responsible for ensuring constructive Committees, details of which can be found interaction between the individual members on pages 74, 78 and 84 respectively.
The The Non-Executive Directors have all been of the Board.
The Chairman is also Terms of Reference for each Committee can appointed for three-year terms.
The responsible for setting the Boards agenda be obtained from our website, investors.
Executive Directors are appointed on a rolling and ensuring that sufficient time is available computacenter.
com, or from the Company 12-month term.
The terms and conditions of for discussion of all agenda items and, in Secretary, upon request.
The composition appointment of all Directors are available for particular, strategic issues.
The CEO is of each Committee as at 31 December 2018 inspection at the Companys registered responsible for the day-to-day management appears on pages 74, 78 and 90, as do office and at each AGM.
of the Groups operations and for the proper reports from the Chairman of each execution of strategy, as set by the Board.
Committee setting out the main Whilst the Companys Articles of Association responsibilities of their respective require a Director to be subject to election at Senior Independent Director Committee and its main activities during the first AGM following his or her appointment Ros Rivaz is the Senior Independent Director.
and thereafter every third year, the Board She acts as a sounding board for the has decided that, in accordance with the Chairman and, where necessary, as an The Board plays a key role in discussing, Code, all Directors should be subject to intermediary between the Chairman and reviewing and approving the Groups election or re-election at the Companys next other Directors.
She is available to take strategic objectives.
By reviewing the AGM on 16 May 2019.
All Directors will then be representations from shareholders who do business plans and budgets submitted by subject to election or re-election at each AGM not want to raise their issue with the the Executive Directors and senior thereafter.
If the shareholders do not elect or Chairman.
Ros also leads the annual Management, it ensures that adequate re-elect a Director, or a Director is retired appraisal of the Chairmans performance, resources are in place to meet these aims.
from office under the Articles, the in consultation with the other Non-Executive The Board reviews the performance of the appointment terminates immediately and Directors and without the Chairman being Executive Directors and Group Executive without compensation.
The feedback from this appraisal is Management against targets relating to discussed at a subsequent Board meeting.
these agreed objectives, including a monthly Upon joining the Board, all Directors receive During the year, Ros led the process for review of the financial performance of each a comprehensive induction programme searching for, and recommending the of the Groups Segments.
organised by the Company Secretary, appointment to the Board of, a candidate tailored to their specific background and to replace Greg Lock as Chairman of the The Composition of the Board requirements.
New Directors receive an Company.
The membership of the Board as at induction pack which contains information 31 December 2018 is set out on pages 70 to on the Groups business, its structure and The Boards key activities during the year 71.
On that date, the Board included seven operations, Board procedures, corporate The Board held eight scheduled meetings Non-Executive Directors and two Executive governance matters and details regarding during the year, to deal with the standing Directors.
The Directors attendance at Board Directors duties and responsibilities.
All new items on its agenda and matters arising, and Committee meetings is set out on pages Directors are introduced to the Groups including reviewing and discussing any 70, 71, 74, 78 and 90.
New Directors information provided to it by senior are required to take advantage of Management.
The Board views this as The Board has considered the independence opportunities to meet major shareholders.
sufficient to discharge its duties effectively.
of each Director, taking into account the The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors guidance provided by the Code.
The also met twice during the year, without the Chairman, Greg Lock, was considered by the Executive Directors being present.
Board to meet the independence criteria set 72 GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 In 2018, the Board considered: of up to two days per month is expected, Evaluation including attendance at and preparations The Board evaluates its effectiveness each Regular items for regular Board meetings.
In certain year, as required by the Code.
Between Terms of Reference for each of its circumstances, for instance when the December 2018 and January 2019, the Committees Company is engaged in acquisitions, Company Secretary carried out an internal Annual and Interim Reports restructuring or other corporate evaluation of the Board and each of its Dividend policy transactions, there may be additional Board Committees.
The review looked at key areas Reports from the Committee Chairmen meetings and Non-Executive Directors are of responsibility including strategy, decision on the Committees key activities expected to attend these where possible.
making, composition and dynamics, Matters Reserved for the Board & leadership, talent development and Delegated Class Transactions review There has been no increase in the Chairmans succession planning.
The Board also Role of the Chairman, CEO and Senior significant external commitments during the reviewed the balance of skills and diversity.
Independent Director year, which would affect the time he has to Gender pay gap reporting fulfil his role.
In light of the internal Board The review took the form of a series of Diversity and inclusion evaluation completed for 2018, the Board is tailored online questionnaires, covering the The annual budget and three-year plan satisfied that each Director is able to allocate Board and each Committee.
The Chairmen of The Viability Statement sufficient time to the Company to discharge the Board and the Committees were able to Employee stakeholder engagement his or her responsibilities effectively.
review and shape both the questionnaires Cyber security and the list of non-Board respondents, to Cash deposit strategy Provided the time commitment does not make best use of the process.
The Group insurance coverage conflict with the Directors duties to the questionnaire responses were collated and Market abuse regulations Company, the Board may authorise the analysed before inclusion in a report to the Managements strategic planning and Executive Directors to take Non-Executive Board.
In February 2019, the Company execution positions in other companies and Secretary presented this report to the Board The performance of the Group and organisations, as this should broaden their and led a discussion of the key findings and Management experience.
The Board would not agree to a the implications for the Boards development.
Executive succession planning full-time Executive Director taking on more than one Non-Executive Directorship of a FTSE The evaluation found there to be open and Additional Items 100 company or the Chairmanship of such a constructive dialogue between Board Asset reunification and share forfeiture company.
For the avoidance of doubt, no such members and a sound and challenging process for untraced shareholders positions have been taken by the Executive relationship between Non-Executive and Extension of employee share savings Directors.
MJ Norris was a Director of the Executive Directors.
The Board is satisfied schemes to the USA private company Triage Services Limited until that there is a clearly articulated strategy Revised Articles of Association his resignation, and cessation as a person and a good process for managing risk.
Cancellation of Deferred Shares with significant control, on 9 April 2018.
Despite the encouragingly high, and FusionStorm and Misco Solutions B. V. improving, scores, the Directors concluded acquisitions Information and support that enhancements could continue to be Other acquisition and disposal All Directors receive appropriate made in one key area.
The Board addressed opportunities documentation in advance of each of Board the need to continue to grow their IT project updates and Committee meeting.
This includes understanding of the Companys business Corporate Governance changes detailed briefings on all matters, to enable model and strategy so that they are better General Data Protection Regulation Directors to discharge their duties able to monitor and contribute to the Significant new Managed Services bids effectively.
Individual Directors can obtain strategic direction, and long-term thinking, Significant in-life Managed Services independent professional advice, at the of the Company.
An action plan, that builds on contract reviews Companys expense, where they believe it is measures taken as a result of the previous The Return of Value necessary to discharge their responsibilities.
evaluation, has therefore been drawn up, Planning for the United Kingdom exiting The Company Secretary ensures that the against which progress will be monitored the European Union Board Committees are provided with regularly.
The Board is encouraged by the Chairmanship succession sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
increased focus and emphasis in this area planned for 2019.
Insurance and indemnities Where Directors have concerns which cannot The Company arranges insurance cover in be resolved, whether about the running of The Board is required by the Code to conduct respect of legal action against the Directors the Company or a proposed action, their an externally facilitated evaluation every and, to the extent allowed by legislation, has concerns will be recorded in the Board three years.
This was last carried out issued an indemnity to each Director against minutes.
On resignation, a Non-Executive between December 2016 and January 2017. claims brought by third parties.
Director would be required to provide a written The Board anticipates that its next externally statement to the Chairman, for circulation to facilitated evaluation will be conducted over the Board, if they had any such concerns.
the period December 2019 to January 2020.
EFFECTIVENESS The Company Secretary advises the Board The Senior Independent Director, Ros Rivaz, Time commitment on all corporate governance matters and reviewed the Chairmans performance with The Non-Executive Directors letters of advises the Chairman to ensure that all input from the other Non-Executive appointment set out the expected time Board procedures are followed.
All Directors Directors, and the feedback was discussed commitment required to execute their have access to the advice and services of the formally at the following Board meeting.
Although the nature of the roles Company Secretary.
The appointment or makes it difficult to be specific about the removal of the Company Secretary requires maximum time commitment, a commitment Board approval.
