Corporate Governance Report continued Attendance NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Current members Role record Non-Executive Chairman 1.
Greg Lock Chairman of the Board 2 2 2.
Regine Stachelhaus Non-Executive Director 2 2 Former member 6.
Philip Yea Non-Executive Director 1 1 Note that Peter Ryan was appointed on 13 February 2018, subsequent to the first Committee meeting of the year.
Note that Phil Yea attended the Committee meeting that occurred before he stepped down from the Board on 24 April 2018.
Greg Lock Chairman of the Nomination Committee Membership and attendance The Committees full terms of reference are The members of the Nomination Committee available on the Companys website at are the Independent Non-Executive Directors investors.
and the Chairman of the Board.
Further detail on the membership of the Committee and Main activities of the Committee in 2018 attendance at its meetings can be found The Nomination Committee met on two directly above.
However, the Committee occasions during 2018 and its work included seeks input from all the Directors and it the following: involves the Board when performing its key responsibilities.
Board appointment Immediately following the 2017 AGM, the The Company Secretary is the secretary to Board initiated a process to identify a new the Committee.
Chairman to succeed Greg Lock, who would have served 10 years by the time of the 2018 Responsibilities of the Nomination AGM.
The Board ran a competitive process to Committee select the search firm, noting the merits of The key responsibilities of the Nomination several providers.
Notwithstanding the Committee are to assist the Board with: quality of the process and an agreed the search and selection process for the specification, the Board asked Greg Lock to THE BOARD appointment of both Executive and continue in office through 2018, which he Non-Executive Directors, and ensuring agreed to do.
FELT IT WAS that any such process is formal and transparent: During 2018, further discussions around ensuring that the Board and its Chairmanship succession were held, noting IMPORTANT TO Committees have the right balance of that Greg Locks tenure would be outside the skills, knowledge and experience to parameters defined by the New Code that is IDENTIFY A enable each to discharge its duties and effective from 1 January 2019.
Mr Lock responsibilities effectively: informed the Board that he would be minded reviewing whether to recommend a to step down from the Board at the 2019 AGM, SUCCESSOR WHO Director for re-election at the if the Company had found a suitable Companys AGM: successor by then.
COULD LEAD THE reviewing whether each Director has sufficient time to discharge his or her The Board felt it was important to identify a BOARD IN THE duty to the Company and its successor who could lead the Board in the shareholders: coming years, and that this person would succession planning for the Board and require deep experience of the Companys COMING YEARS, senior Management of the Group: and sector.
It was considered equally important reviewing the membership of the Boards that the individual had extensive global AND THAT THIS Committees.
PERSON WOULD REQUIRE DEEP EXPERIENCE OF THE COMPANYS SECTOR.
74 GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Members expressed their support for Mr Ryan Russell Reynolds, in conjunction with the Election and re-election of Directors to be considered for the role.
Mr Ryan was Nomination Committee, developed a The Committee reviewed in detail the appointed to the Board in 2018 and was candidate specification that highlighted performance of the Directors who are identified at the time as a potential a number of areas of competence as standing for election or re-election at the candidate for the Chairmanship succession.
necessary pre-requisites to join the Board.
The results of the The most important of these included a Companys most recent Board evaluation A Special Nomination Committee SNC was strong commercial track record within our process were considered, alongside the tasked with the process of identifying the sector including international experience, contribution made by each individual, with successor to Mr Lock, comprising a mix of preferably within our core continental the exercise being particularly rigorous in Independent Non-Executive Directors and European or American markets.
It was respect of Non-Executive Directors who have other Directors, led by the Senior further required that the candidate must been in their role for six years or longer.
The SNC engaged demonstrate the appropriate Russell Reynolds to conduct a benchmarking communication skills and desired personal Following this review, with the exception of exercise using pools of known potential characteristics to ensure a suitable culture Greg Lock and Regine Stachelhaus, who will Chairmanship candidates, to assess if there fit for our Company.
not be standing for re-election, the were any other candidates meriting Committee recommended that each Director consideration, and to validate Mr Ryans As a result of the process and wider on the Board as at 31 December 2018 be put candidacy.
A detailed role specification was candidate search, conducted by Russell forward for re-election by the Companys developed with input from all members of Reynolds, a shortlist of candidates has been shareholders at the 2019 AGM.
the Board excluding Mr Ryan.
Russell identified with individuals suitable for Reynolds is a global leader in assessment, appointment as Independent Non-Executive Diversity recruitment and succession planning for Directors.
The Board intends to confirm The Committee, and the Board as a whole, boards of directors and had no connection appointments to the Board shortly following continues to recognise the benefits that with the Company other than providing this the 2019 AGM.
diverse skills, experience and points of view type of service.
can bring to an organisation, and how Prior to formally recommending their diversity may assist the decision-making This desktop search highlighted a number of appointments to the Board, the Committee ability of the Board, thereby increasing its potential Chairmanship candidates, but none will consider and agree that both candidates effectiveness.
However, appointments to the was considered more qualified and suitable will be independent in character and Board will remain primarily based on merit, for the position than Mr Ryan, and therefore judgement, as defined under provision ten and it has not therefore set any measurable the SNC did not recommend progressing of the New Code.
Both candidates will be targets in this area.
As at 31 December 2018, these potential candidates beyond the appointed as members of the Companys the Computacenter Board had two female benchmarking stage.
The SNC recommended Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Non-Executive Directors, Ros Rivaz and to the Board that Mr Ryan be considered as Committees.
Regine Stachelhaus, representing 22.2 per successor for the Chairmanship, to which cent of the total Board membership.
The Board Performance of the Committee considered and agreed that Mr Ryan would During the year, an internal evaluation of the remain independent on appointment as Committee was undertaken.
The results of Greg Lock Chairman, as required under provision this evaluation have been analysed and, in Chairman of the Nomination Committee nine, and defined under provision 10, of response to some of the observations made, 11 March 2019 the New Code.
Mr Ryan will take over the we will look to enhance our understanding of Chairmanship from Mr Lock at the conclusion succession planning through the wider of the 2019 AGM.
management structure beneath the Group Executive Management team and continue to Ms Regine Stachelhaus notified the Board of ensure that diversity and inclusion remain at her intention to retire from the Board at the the forefront when considering these plans.
2019 AGM, after having completed six years of service.
The Nomination Committee Succession planning appointed Russell Reynolds to search for two The Committee focuses on effective Independent Non-Executive Directors to fill succession planning to ensure the future the vacancies created by Ms Stachelhaus and prosperity of the Company and this is one of Mr Lock.
Russell Reynolds was appointed as it the Companys principal risks, as disclosed was leading the parallel Chairmanship on pages 40 to 45 of this Annual Report and succession review.
Developing future leaders and successor candidates is central to our strategy of creating and maintaining a culture that builds customer relationships.
The Committee, whilst recognising that internal talent development is primarily the responsibility of Management, has reviewed Managements pipeline of executive talent, both for emergency use and its long-term potential.
75 Corporate Governance Report continued Through a programme of assessment, The Board reviews the operational ACCOUNTABILITY appropriate measures and systems of effectiveness of the risk management model Financial and business reporting control are maintained and, where by directing the reinforcement of the The Directors are required to include the necessary, developed and implemented.
processes that underpin it and by making following in this report, under the Code.
Detailed business interruption contingency sure it is embedded across all levels of the Please see: plans are in place for all key sites and these organisation.
For example: page 66 for the Boards statement on the are regularly tested, in accordance with an The Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Annual Report and Accounts being fair, agreed schedule.
Board ensures that the Directors properly balanced and understandable and address all significant factors affecting providing the information necessary for As a sales-led and customer-focused Group strategy, structure, financing and shareholders to assess the Groups organisation, effective risk management contracts.
position and performance, business processes are vital to the Groups continued The Board and Executive Committee model and strategy: success.
Therefore, the Board continues to consider the principal risks, which are the page 65 for the statement on the status apply a robust risk management and barriers to achieving the Boards strategic of the Company and the Group as a going governance model to provide assurance objectives.
concern: over the principal risks that might affect The Group Risk Committee, consisting of the Strategic Report from the inside front the achievement of the Groups strategic the Executive Directors, members of the cover to page 66 for an explanation of the objectives.
Group Executive Committee and senior Groups business model and the strategy managers from across the Group, for delivering the Groups objectives: and These strategic objectives are focused on challenges the effectiveness of the the Risk Management section below for improving the Services business and mitigations of the principal risks.
confirmation that the Directors have maintaining the longevity of the Groups The Group Risk Committee considers carried out a robust assessment of the customer relationships, which in turn rely each principal risk in-depth at least principal risks facing the Group, including heavily on the contribution made by the once a year, by receiving reports from those that would threaten its business Groups customer-facing staff and those the risk owner.
model, future performance, solvency or involved in innovation and design.
The The Group Risk Committees deliberations, liquidity.
Groups risk management approach along with the current status of each recognises this, ensuring that risks are principal risk, are reported to the Audit Risk management identified and mitigated at the appropriate Committee and the Board.
The Board has carried out a robust level, leaving individuals empowered to make The principal risk list is reviewed once a assessment of the principal risks facing the their vital contributions.
year and leverages a bottom-up annual Group, including those that threaten its operational risk review, where operational business model, future performance, The model and process comply fully with the management identify their everyday risks.
Please refer to pages 40 Code and the Financial Reporting Councils The Group Compliance Steering to 45 for further information on the Groups Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Committee, which was added to the principal risks and uncertainties, including Control and Related Financial and Business governance model during 2016, assesses how they are being managed and mitigated.
observance with laws and regulations, and reports to the Group Risk Committee.
Executive and senior Management have The Groups model uses the well-defined The bid governance process reviews bids primary responsibility for identifying and Three Lines of Defence methodology: or major changes to existing contracts, managing the risks faced by the Group.
The First Line of Defence consists of which aligns with the Groups risk appetite A comprehensive risk management operational management, who own the and risk management process.
programme has been developed and is risks and apply the internal controls The Group Planning for the United monitored by the Group Risk Committee, necessary for managing risks day-to-day.
Kingdom Exiting the European Union whose members include senior operational The Second Line of Defence offers Committee, which was established in managers from across the Group, the Group guidance and direction and provides 2017, assesses the latest information on Finance Director and the Group Head of oversight and challenge at the the nature of the UKs withdrawal from Internal Audit and Risk.
The Group Finance appropriate level.
Internal compliance the EU, assesses known risks from a Director chairs the Committee.
and assurance functions fall into disorderly withdrawal from the EU and this category.
identifies mitigating activities that the The Board sets the Groups risk appetite and, The Third Line of Defence, provided by Group can undertake to reduce any through the Audit Committee, reviews the Group Internal Audit, gives an short-term disruption to the Groups operation and effectiveness of the Groups independent view of the effectiveness activities.
The Board of the risk management and internal periodically reviews the Groups strategic control processes.
It reports to the Audit There were several enhancements to the risks and its key mitigation plans and, Committee to ensure independence risk framework and processes over the last through the Audit Committee, receives from Management.
year, including: regular reports from the Group Risk Improvements in the governance of Committee.
The Board receives updates contract bids and in-life contract from the Group Planning for the United management that were formulated Kingdom Exiting the European Union during 2017 were implemented Committee, on the Companys response to during 2018. the risk of a disorderly withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union.
76 GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 High-level and emerging risks continue to The Group Executive Committee meets Centralised treasury function be standing agenda items for the Group formally on a quarterly basis and, more The Board has established and regularly Risk Committee.
This includes cyber risk, informally, on a fortnightly basis, to discuss reviews key treasury policies, which cover the risk surrounding the UKs departure day-to-day operational matters.
With the matters such as counterparty exposure, from the EU and compliance with the Group Operating Model in place across all of borrowing arrangements and foreign General Data Protection Regulation, which the Groups main operating entities, ultimate exchange exposure management.
The Group the Group recognised as a new risk in 2017. authority and responsibility for operational Treasury Function manages liquidity and Geopolitical risk, arising from the governance sits at Group level.
borrowing facilities for customer specific Companys increasingly global operations, requirements, ongoing capital expenditure was elevated to a principal risk during 2018.
The Group operates defined authorisation and working capital.
The Group Treasury The Quality Management Assurance and approval processes throughout its Function reports to the Group Finance QMA function has changed reporting operations.
Access controls continue to Director, with regular reporting to the lines within the organisation from improve, where processes have been Audit Committee.
November 2018, to enhance its automated to secure data.
QMA will information systems have been developed to The Group Treasury Committee enhances now form a core part of the third line of identify risks and to enable assessment of Management oversight.
It is responsible for defence for 2019 and beyond.
the effectiveness of the systems of internal the ongoing review of treasury policy and control.
Accountability is reinforced, and strategy, and for recommending any policy Internal control further scrutiny of costs and revenues changes for Board approval.
The Committee The Board has overall responsibility for encouraged, by linking staff incentives to approves, on an ad hoc basis, any Treasury maintaining and reviewing the Groups customer satisfaction and profitability.
activities which are not covered by existing systems of internal control, ensuring that policies or which are Matters Reserved for the controls are robust and enable risks to be Proposals for capital expenditure are the Board, and also monitors hedging appropriately assessed and managed.
The properly reviewed and authorised, based on activities for effectiveness.
The Committee Groups systems and controls are designed the Groups procedures and documented is chaired by the Group Finance Director and to manage risks, safeguard the Groups authority levels.
The cases for all investment also comprises the Group Financial Controller, assets and ensure information used in the projects are reviewed and approved at the Group Head of Financial Reporting and business and for publication is reliable.
Major investment projects are the Group Head of Tax and Treasury.
system of control is designed to reduce the subject to Board approval, and Board input risk of failure to achieve business objectives and approval is required for all merger and Quality and integrity of staff to a level consistent with the Boards risk acquisition proposals.
The Groups rigorous recruitment procedures appetite, rather than eliminate that risk, and ensure that new employees are of a suitable can provide reasonable, but not absolute, Planning and reporting processes calibre.
Management continuously monitors assurance against material misstatement Each year, senior Management prepares training requirements and ongoing or loss.
or updates the three-year strategic plan, appraisals ensure that required standards which is then reviewed by the Board.
The are maintained across the Group.
Resource The Board conducts an annual review of the comprehensive annual budgeting process is requirements are identified by managers effectiveness of the systems of internal subject to Board approval.
Performance is and reviewed by senior Management.
control, including financial, operational and monitored through a rigorous and detailed compliance controls and risk management financial and management reporting Compliance policies systems.
In the Boards opinion, the Group system, through which monthly results are The Group has a number of compliance has complied with the Codes internal control reviewed against budgets, agreed targets policies, including those relating to the requirements throughout the year.
Where and, where appropriate, data for past General Data Protection Regulation, Business material weaknesses or opportunities for periods.
The results and explanations for Ethics and Anti-Bribery and Corruption.
Any improvement are identified, changes are variances are regularly reported to the breach of these policies by an employee implemented and monitored.
Board and appropriate action is taken is a disciplinary matter and is dealt with where variances arise.
The internal control regime is All systems of internal control are designed supported by a whistleblowing function, to continuously identify, evaluate and Management and specialists within the which is now operated by an independent manage significant risks faced by the Group.
Finance Department are responsible for third party.
The key elements of the Groups controls are ensuring that the Group maintains detailed below.
appropriate financial records and processes, The Compliance Steering Committee which ensure that financial information is supervises compliance-related activity and Responsibilities and authority structure relevant, reliable, in accordance with issues across the Group and supports the As discussed above, the Board has overall applicable laws and regulations, and Group Risk Committee in that regard.
responsibility for making strategic decisions.
distributed internally and externally in a There is a written schedule of Matters timely manner.
Management reviews the Audit Committee and the auditor Reserved for the Board.
Consolidated Financial Statements, to For further information on the Companys ensure that the Groups financial position compliance with the Code provisions relating and results are appropriately reflected.
to the Audit Committee, Group auditor and The Audit Committee reviews all financial Internal Audit, please refer to the Audit information published by the Group.
Committee report on pages 78 to 83.
