Board of Directors Committee membership key IT IS TIME FOR ME TO HAND OVER TO A Audit Committee N Nomination Committee R Remuneration Committee PETER RYAN, WHO HAS BEEN ON OUR BOARD FOR A YEAR.
I AM CONFIDENT IN HIS PERSONALITY, EXPERIENCE AND EXPERTISE.
Greg Lock Non-Executive Chairman Ros Rivaz Minnow Powell Regine Stachelhaus Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director and Independent Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee Committee membership: A, N, R Committee membership: A, N, R Committee membership: A, N, R Board member attendance: 7 8 Board member attendance: 8 8 Board member attendance: 7 8 Ros 1955 is a Non-Executive Director of Minnow 1954 is a Non-Executive Director Regine 1955 is a member of the Board of ConvaTec Group plc where she is a member and Chairman of the Audit Committee of SPIE SA in Cergy and SPIE Deutschland und of the Remuneration and Nomination Superdry plc.
He was a Director and chaired Zentraleuropa GmbH, a member of the Committees, RPC Group plc Remuneration, the Audit Committee of Tui Travel plc from Supervisory Board of Covestro AG and Audit and Nomination Committees, Boparan 2011 to 2014 and was a member of the Covestro Deutschland AG and a member of Holdings Limited Audit and Remuneration Supervisory Board of Tui AG from December the Supervisory Board of Ceconomy AG.
She Committees, and the MOD Defence 2014 to February 2016.
Minnow spent 35 was previously on the Board of Directors at Equipment and Support Board years with Deloitte where he became a E. ON SE, a major energy company included Remuneration Committee.
His audit client portfolio in the Eurostoxx 50 index, where she had Operating Officer for Smith & Nephew plc and included companies within the same sector, a broad range of operational responsibilities has held senior positions in global companies and with similar business models, as including for Legal & Compliance, Group including Exxon, Diageo, ICI and Tate & Lyle Computacenter.
He is a Chartered Procurement, Group Human Resources and Group.
She was Deputy Chair of the Council of Accountant and was a member of the Group IT.
Before that, she worked for several the University of Southampton for 10 years, Auditing Practices Board for six years.
years as Vice President, Imaging and Printing where she holds an honorary doctorate.
70 GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Greg Lock Mike Norris Tony Conophy Non-Executive Chairman and Chairman Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director of the Nomination Committee Committee membership: N, R Board member attendance: 8 8 Board member attendance: 8 8 Board member attendance: 8 8 Greg 1947 has more than 45 years Mike 1961 graduated with a degree in Tony 1958 has been a member of the experience in the software and computer Computer Science and Mathematics from Institute of Chartered Management services industry, including seven years as East Anglia University in 1983.
He qualified with Chairman of Kofax plc and four years as Computacenter in 1984 as a salesman in the Semperit Ireland Ltd and then worked for Chairman of SurfControl plc.
Following appointments in senior five years at Cape Industries plc.
He joined 2000, he was General Manager of IBMs Global roles, he became Chief Executive in Computacenter in 1987 as Financial Industrial sector.
Greg also served as a December 1994, with responsibility for all Controller, rising in 1991 to General Manager member of IBMs Worldwide Management day-to-day activities and reporting channels of Finance.
In 1996, he was appointed Council and as a governor of the IBM Academy across Computacenter.
Mike also led the Finance and Commercial Director of of Technology.
He is non-executive Chairman Company through flotation on the London Computacenter UK Limited with of UBM plc.
He was awarded an responsibility for all financial, purchasing honorary Doctorate of Science from the and vendor relations activities.
In March 1998 University of Hertfordshire in 2010. he was appointed Group Finance Director.
Peter Ryan Philip Hulme Peter Ogden Independent Non-Executive Director Founder Non-Executive Director Founder Non-Executive Director Committee membership: A, N, R Board member attendance: 5 8 Board member attendance: 7 8 Board member attendance: 7 7 Peter 1961 has had a successful 37-year Philip 1948 founded Computacenter with Peter 1947 founded Computacenter with international career in technology Peter Ogden in 1981 and worked for the Philip Hulme in 1981 and was Chairman of encompassing all dimensions of the industry, Company on a full-time basis until stepping the Company until 1998, when he became including software, services, systems down as Executive Chairman in 2001.
Prior to founding integration, outsourcing and infrastructure.
previously a Vice President and Director of Computacenter, he was a Managing Director Over the last 11 years, Peter has held roles the Boston Consulting Group.
of Morgan Stanley and Co. such as Chief Sales Officer with Hewlett Packard Enterprise, Chief Client Officer at Logica plc and Executive Vice President, Global Sales and Services with Sun Microsystems Inc. After starting his career at the Home Office, Peter undertook various senior management roles with Aspect Note that Ros Rivaz gave her apologies for a Board meeting due to another commitment.
Note that Peter Ryan was appointed on 13 February 2018, subsequent to the first Board Meeting of the year.
Development Inc, Parametric Technology Ltd, Note that Phil Yea attended both Board meetings that occurred before he stepped down from the Board on 24 April 2018.
