ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 72 Corporate governance report Dear shareholders, I am pleased to introduce the corporate governance report which sets out how the Company has applied the principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code throughout 2018.
Board effectiveness THE BOARD IS RESPONSIBLE The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the FOR THE LONG-TERM SUCCESS Company and our governance framework helps to ensure thatsuccess.
OF THE COMPANY AND OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Maintaining a skilled, balanced and effective Board is crucial forthe long-term success of the Group.
During the year, we HELPS TO ENSURE THAT strengthened the independence of our Board, appointing Ruth SUCCESS.
Cairnie as independent Non-Executive Director with effect from January 2018.
In 2019 we appointed Mariana Gheorghe as independent Non-Executive Director: Mariana will join the Board with effect from 30th June 2019.
As well as strengthening our independence, these appointments improve the diversity and deepen the expertise of our Board.
The Board is confident that the composition of the Board provides an appropriate balance ofchallenge and support.
Risk management The Board is responsible for maintaining sound risk management and internal control systems.
As reported last year, in the lead-up to listing on the London Stock Exchange, much work was carried out to ensure that the Board had adopted relevant policies and procedures to support the development of a robust governance structure.
During the year, we continued to refine our risk procedures and strengthen our risk assurance processes.
Asummary of our risk management and internal control procedures is detailed in the Audit & Risk Committee report onpages 80 to 85.
Details of how the Company has applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code are described more fully throughout this report.
Craig A. Huff Chairman 4th April 2019 ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 73 Board Governance Governance structure The Companys governance structure is designed such that the Board focuses on providing overall leadership to the Company and setting the Companys values and standards.
It also approves the strategic plan, monitors performance, and ensures that appropriate financial and human resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives.
The Board is also responsible forensuring that appropriate systems, procedures and controls are in place to support the effective assessment and management of risk and the safeguarding of shareholder interests.
The Board operates in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and has established certain Committees to assist itin discharging its responsibilities.
Each Committee has its own written terms of reference available on the Companys website which are reviewed annually.
Key Board roles and responsibilities Board Accountable to shareholders Responsible for the long-term sustainable success of the Company by setting its strategy and values, promoting the desired culture, and ensuring that an appropriate risk management framework is in place.
The Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board includes: Strategic Issues Financial Risk and Internal Controls Board Membership Leadership of the Approval of annual Ensuring maintenance of Approval of changes to Company, setting values andhalf-year financial a sound internal control the structure, size and and standards statements and risk management composition of the Board Approval of dividend systems Ensuring adequate Approving the strategic plan and objectives policy Reviewing the succession planning Approving the Groups Approval of the annual effectiveness of risk annual budget budget management and Corporate Governance Review performance of internalcontrol Reviewing the Groups the Group in the light of Structure and Capital Assessing the principal overall governance strategic aims, business Approval of changes risks facing the Group arrangements plans and budget andrecommendations Determining the ofchanges to capital independence of structure Directors Approval of changes Considering the balance tocorporate structure of stakeholder interests Chairman Non-Executive Directors Chief Executive Officer Leads the Board and is responsible Constructively challenge and help Leads the business and is responsible for its effectiveness develop the strategy for executing the strategy set by theBoard Board Committees Support the Board in the fulfilment of its duties Nomination Committee Audit & Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Page 78 Page 80 Page 86 Company Secretary Provides independent advice to the Board and Committees and ensures good information flow ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 74 Corporate governance report continued Board responsibilities Responsibilities of the  Leadership of the business Work closely with the Chairman and the Board to propose, develop and implement the Companys strategy and overall commercial objectives Oversee and manage all business activities, operations and performance of the Group within the authority delegated by theBoard Lead the senior management in the day-to-day running of the Groups business Regularly review the Groups operational performance and strategic direction Evaluate opportunities for growth through acquisitions Review and manage cost control and operating efficiencies throughout the Group Recommend the annual budget and financial plans Identify and execute strategic opportunities while optimizing the Groups resources Communicate to the Groups employees the expectations of the Board in relation to the Groups culture, values and behaviour Manage the Groups risk profile Keep the Chairman informed of important matters and maintain a dialogue on important and strategic issues facing theGroup Make recommendations on remuneration policies, Board nominations and succession planning Ensure the executive team complies with the terms on which matters are delegated by the Board Support the Chairman in order to ensure that appropriate governance standards are applied throughout the Group Lead communications with shareholders and other stakeholders Provide, together with the Chairman, coherent leadership of the Company Responsibilities of the Chairman Chair the Board meetings Promote a culture of openness and debate by facilitating the effective contribution of all Directors Set the Board agenda ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion of all items and ensuring a focus on strategic items Ensure that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information in advance of meetings Ensure training and development needs of all Directors are met Ensure that all new Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction Ensure constructive relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors Hold meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Director present Lead the Board in establishing and periodically reviewing the Groups values and behavioral standards Ensure compliance with the Boards approved procedures Chair the general meetings Ensure effective communication with shareholders and stakeholders Ensure shareholders views are communicated to the Board Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Directors Alan Gillespie has been Senior Independent Director since The Non-Executive Directors provide objective and 2017.
In this role, Alan provides a sounding board for the constructive challenge to management and help develop Chairman, and leads the Non-Executive Directors appraisal proposals on strategy.
The Chairman and Non-Executive of the Chairman on an annual basis.
Alan is available to Directors will meet regularly without the Executive Director shareholders if they have concerns which contact through present.
Their role includes upholding the highest standards the normal channels of the Chief Executive Officer or of integrity and probity and providing support to other Chairman has failed to resolve or for which such contact Directors in instilling the appropriate culture, values and maynot be appropriate.
When appropriate, the Senior behaviours in the boardroom and beyond.
They will also Independent Director will support the Nomination Committee scrutinize the performance of the management in meeting in ensuring orderly succession for the Chairman.
agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting performance.
The Boards areas of focus in 2018 Strategy Approved the acquisition of the Spanish CSP portfolio from Acciona Energa, S. A. U. and the subsequent sale of a minority stakein the portfolio Reviewed the business case for a number of potential acquisitions including the acquisition of a Mexican CHP portfolio fromAlpek Approved the annual budget Reviewed the performance of the Group against corporate objectives Structure and capital Approved the financing related to the acquisition of the Spanish CSP portfolio Risk and internal controls Assessed the risks to the achievement of ContourGlobals strategy Conducted a robust assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties which could impact the Group Assessed, with the support of the Audit & Risk Committee, the effectiveness of the Groups internal control processes ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 75 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Board process The Board meets formally at least five times a year, with ad hoc As required by the Code there is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
The purpose meetings called as and when required at short notice.
The Board of each role is clear and distinct and set out in respective job met seven times in 2018. descriptions.
Although the Board agrees that there should be aclear division of responsibilities, it recognizes that overly The Board has an annual calendar of agenda items to ensure that prescribing the responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief all matters are given due consideration and are reviewed at the Executive Officer may reduce their flexibility to act in unforeseen appropriate point in the regulatory and financial cycle.
The list of responsibilities sets out the division of once a year, the Board will undertake a full strategic review of responsibilities but is not intended to provide a definitive list of thebusiness operations as part of the budget review.
theindividual responsibilities of each of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
All Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Board andany Committees of which they are members, and to devote sufficient time to the Companys affairs to fulfil their duties as Non-Executive Directors Directors.
In signing their letters of appointment each NonPursuant to the Relationship Agreement entered into between theCompany, ContourGlobal LP, the Reservoir Funds, Reservoir Executive Director has confirmed that they are able to allocate Capital and the Company President and Chief Executive Officer, sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities Joseph C. Brandt, Reservoir Capital is able to appoint two effectively.
Non-Executive Directors will need to attend scheduled Non-Executive Directors to the Board while it continues to control and emergency Board and Committee meetings, at least one site 25% or more of the Companys shares.
The two such appointees visit per year, the AGM and any other general meetings of the as non-independent Non-Executive Directors are the Chairman, Company.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors are expected Craig A. Huff, and Gregg M. Zeitlin.
to commit appropriate preparation time ahead of each meeting.
The Company therefore complies with provision B.
1.2 of the Where Directors are unable to attend a meeting, they are Codeas at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, encouraged to submit any comments on papers to be considered  Directors determined by the Board at the meeting to the Chairman in advance to ensure that their views are recorded and taken into account during the meeting.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors will meet without Relationship Agreement theExecutive Director present on a number of occasions In November 2017, the Company, ContourGlobal LP, the Reservoir throughout the year.
Funds, Reservoir Capital and the Company President and Chief Executive Officer, Joseph C. Brandt entered into a Relationship Appointment and election Agreement.
The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement The Board considers all Directors to be effective, committed totheir is to ensure that the Company can carry on an independent roles and have sufficient time to perform their duties.
Accordingly, business as its main activity.
The Relationship Agreement contains, all members of the Board will be offering themselves for re-election among others, undertakings from ContourGlobal LP the Major at the Companys 2019 Annual General Meeting AGM.
Shareholder, the Reservoir Funds and Reservoir Capital that: i transactions and agreements with it and or any of its controlled All of the Directors have service agreements or letters of appointment and the details of their terms are set out in the affiliates will be conducted at arms-length and on normal Directors Remuneration Report on page 95. commercial terms: ii neither it nor anyof its controlled affiliates will take any action that would have the effect of preventing the Company from complying with its obligations under the Listing Board and Committee attendance Rules: and iii neither it nor any of itscontrolled affiliates will Attendance at scheduled meetings of the Board and its propose or procure the proposal of ashareholder resolution Committees held during 2018 is shown overleaf.
The number which is intended or appears to be intended to circumvent the ofmeetings that the Director was eligible to attend is shown in proper application of the Listing Rules the Independence brackets.
In addition, a number of ad hoc meetings took place Provisions.
Furthermore, Reservoir Capital has agreed to procure during the year.
the compliance of its associates with the Independence Provisions.
The Companys President and Chief Executive Officer, Development Joseph C. Brandt, has given similar undertakings.
Induction On joining the Board, Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction program.
The Relationship Agreement will continue for so long as: i the shares are listed on the premium listing segment of the Official List and traded on the London Stock Exchanges Main Market for listed Ongoing development securities: and ii the Reservoir Funds and the Major Shareholder Directors are regularly updated on the Groups businesses and and their controlled affiliates hold an interest in 10% or more of the markets in which they operate through briefings to the Board theissued ordinary share capital of the Company or which carries by senior management.
Additional knowledge is also gained 10% or more of the aggregate voting rights in the Company from through updates by external specialists on technical and macrotime to time.
The Directors believe that the terms of the economic developments where necessary.
Each Board meeting Relationship Agreement will enable the Group to carry on its also includes a section covering legal, regulatory and governance business independently of Reservoir Capital, the Reservoir development updates.
Directors are encouraged to request Fundsand the Major Shareholder.
additional information at any time, with the necessary resources being made available to them.
The Company has complied with the undertakings of the Relationship Agreement throughout the period under review and, so far as it is aware, the major shareholder and its associates have also complied with the provisions including any procurement obligation.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 76 Corporate governance report continued As part of their development in 2018, all Board members took the Area of focus Action opportunity to participate in a site visit to the Companys recently Board composition Agreed to appoint an additional acquired concentrated solar power plants in Spain and to meet independent Non-Executive Director with the regional management team.
Such visits provide the Board meetings Agreed to schedule regular update Boardwith a deeper understanding of the culture throughout meetings on significant M&A projects theorganization and further visibility of talent, and the Board to ensure the Board is kept abreast intends to conduct such visits at least annually.
ofdevelopments The Chairman, with the support of the Company Secretary, Board materials Management agreed to review the ensures that the development and ongoing training needs format of the Board pack to ensure ofindividual Directors and the Board as a whole are reviewed that executive summaries clearly flag andagreed at least annually.
key issues for Board discussion Strategy and training Agreed to amend the structure of Information and support the2019 Board strategy meeting Agendas and accompanying papers are distributed to the andinclude a section on board Boardand Committee members in advance of each Board or effectiveness and governance Committee meeting.
These include reports from members of senior management and external advisors.
Members of senior management are invited to attend meetings to present relevant In accordance with the Code, an external evaluation will be carried matters to the Board.
Directors have direct access to senior out every three years.
management should they require additional information on anyofthe items to be discussed.
All Board Committees are Committee evaluations supported by the Company Secretary.
Committee evaluations were carried out as part of the Board evaluation process: the outcome of those evaluations can be The Board and the Audit & Risk Committee also receive found in the relevant Committee report.
furtherregular and specific reports to allow the monitoring of theadequacy of the Companys systems of internal controls.
Director evaluations The information supplied to the Board and its Committees will be The individual performance of the Directors was evaluated during kept under review and formally assessed on an annual basis as the Board evaluation process.
The Chairman provided feedback part of the Board evaluation exercise to ensure it is fit for purpose on the performance of individual Directors in one-to-one and supports the Directors in effectively discharging their duties meetings.
Following the evaluation, the Chairman confirms that under the Companies Act, Listing and Disclosure Rules and each Director continues to make a valuable contribution to the theCode.
Board and demonstrates commitment to their role.
Feedback on the Chairman was provided by the Senior Independent Director Evaluation and effectiveness who took into account the views of the other Directors.
A performance evaluation of the Board was undertaken for 2018.
The evaluation process was as follows: Conflicts of interest The Chairman and Company Secretary agreed areas The Companys Articles of Association set out the policy for offocusthat were central to the Boards effectiveness dealing with Directors conflicts of interest and are in line with the One-to-one interviews were conducted by the Company Companies Act 2006.
The Articles permit the Board to authorize Secretary with each Director conflicts and potential conflicts, as long as the conflicted or Responses were compiled by the Company Secretary potentially conflicted Director is not counted in the quorum and andreviewed with the Chairman does not vote on the resolution to authorize.
The Board has a A summary of the responses was presented to the procedure by which Directors are briefed on their duty to avoid Boardfordiscussion conflicts of interests and are required to immediately notify the Actions were agreed by the Board Company Secretary when a conflict or potential conflict does arisein order that Board authorization can be sought.
Audit & Risk Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Director 7 meetings 5 meetings 7 meetings 3 meetings Executive Director Joe Brandt 7 Chairman Craig Huff 7 3 Non-Executive Directors Daniel Camus 6 5 7 3 Ruth Cairnie 7 7 1 1 Alan Gillespie 7 5 7 3 Alejandro Santo Domingo 7 1 1 Ronald Trchsel 7 5 Gregg Zeitlin 7 1 The figure in brackets represents the maximum number of meetings the Director could have attended.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 77 If the Board determines that a conflict or potential conflict can be Moreover, we distribute the Guide to targeted third parties and authorized, itmay impose additional conditions to manage such require that they too sign it as part of our risk-based due diligence conflicts of interest.
In addition, Directors are reminded at the process.
This ensures that our business partners understand our beginning of each Board meeting to notify the Board of any further expectations and that working with us means working according conflicts ofinterest in accordance with sections 175, 177 and 182 to our values.
Focusing on third parties Relations with shareholders Managing third-party risks is a key element of our program.
As part of its ongoing investor relations program, the Group aims Wedoso according to our Policy for Engaging Suppliers and to maintain an active dialogue with its stakeholders including Third Party Service Providers, which requires that all third parties, institutional investors to discuss issues relating to the performance with the exception of certain low-risk suppliers, receive risk-based of the Group including strategy and new developments.
due diligence through the Compliance Third-Party Intake Portal.
Allthird parties must first be approved by Compliance before The Non-Executive Directors are available to discuss any matter being engaged by the Company.
stakeholders might wish to raise, and the Chairman and independent Non-Executive Directors will attend meetings with Using the Portal, our Compliance team can conduct routine investors and analysts as required.
Investor relations activity is a auditing, monitor third-party engagements and update due standing item on the Boards agenda and ensuring a satisfactory diligence when required.
dialogue with shareholders and receiving reports onthe views of shareholders is a matter reserved for the Board.
Company-wide commitment In line with our Company-wide commitment, we analyze social The Chairman, and the Chairmen of the Audit & Risk and responsibility projects, acquisitions, joint ventures and new Remuneration Committees, are present at the AGM to answer developments for corruption risk.
We make sure appropriate questions put to them by shareholders.
To encourage duediligence is conducted before proceeding.
shareholders to participate in the AGM process, the Company offers electronic proxy voting through the CREST service and Board independence The Board currently consists of eight Directors including the allresolutions are proposed and voted on at the meeting on an individual basis by shareholders or their proxies.
Voting results Chairman four of whom are considered to be independent: willbe announced through the Regulatory News Service and made available on the Companys website.
Non-Independent Craig A. Huff Chairman Joseph C. Brandt President & Chief Executive Officer Acting with integrity Gregg M. Zeitlin Non-Executive Director Alejandro Santo Domingo Non-Executive Director We are deeply committed to acting with integrity throughout ourbusiness and it is a key area of focus across all of our Independent operations from ensuring health and safety to building Alan Gillespie Senior Independent Director acultureof compliance that protects our investments and Ruth Cairnie Non-Executive Director corporatereputation.
To this end, we set and follow the highest Daniel Camus Non-Executive Director standards of ethical conduct.
Ronald Trchsel Non-Executive Director Detecting and preventing corruption Compliance statement Much like our Health and Safety Program, our Anti-Corruption This corporate governance statement, together with the Compliance Program is designed to ensure our workers and Nomination Committee report on pages 78 and 79, the Audit employees do the right thing and are protected.
It is designed to &Risk Committee report on pages 80 to 85, and the Directors detect and prevent corruption in our Company upholding the Remuneration report on pages 86 to 99, provide a description of tenth principal of the United Nations Global Compact, to which we how the main principles of the 2016 edition of the UK Corporate are signatories: Businesses should work against corruption in all Governance Code the Code have been applied by the Company its forms, including extortion and bribery.
The Code is published by the Financial Reporting commitment begins with the tone-at-the-top.
In town-hall meetings Council and is available on its website at www.
It is the and in-person training, our senior management regularly reinforce Boards view that, throughout the year ended 31st December the message to our employees and third parties that corruption or 2018, the Company was in compliance with the relevant provisions other unethical conduct will not be tolerated even where it could set out in the Code.
This statement complies with sub-sections 2.1, facilitate the Companys immediate business objectives.
2.2 1, 2.3 1, 2.5, 2.7, 2.8A and 2.10 of Rule 7 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct The Board and Audit & Risk Committee oversee the Compliance Authority.
The information required to be disclosed by sub-section Program through quarterly reporting on the program, key 2.6 of Rule 7 is shown on pages 104 and 105. performance indicators, initiatives, and developments in the fieldby the Chief Compliance Officer, who oversees the program.
We cascade thecommitment throughout the Company by delivering training on our values, policies and procedures to our offices, plants andfunctions.
These sessions were supplemented by an  course that employees are required totakeuponjoining the Company and periodically thereafter.
OurAnti-Corruption Policy and its accompanying Anti-Corruption Compliance Guide are the cornerstones of our program.
TheGuide provides an overview of the program, applicable laws, ourexpectations and employees responsibilities.
Employees arerequired to sign the Guide soon after they join the Company and periodically thereafter, acknowledging that they have read, understood and agree to abide by it.
