ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 80 Report of the Audit & Risk Committee Dear shareholders, On behalf of the Board, Iampleased to present the Companys Audit & Risk Committee report.
During 2018, the Committees meetings focused primarily on approval of the significant accounting judgments contained in the annual report andaccounts, reviewing the risk management and internal control framework, oversight and development of internal audit activities, and reviewing compliance activities.
Members of the Audit and Risk Committee Further details on the activities ofthe Committee during the year Ronald Trchsel Chairman and how it has discharged its responsibilities are provided in the report below.
Daniel Camus Alan Gillespie Ronald Trchsel Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Meeting attendance shown on page 76 4th April 2019 Key areas of focus in the year Financial reporting Considered the significant accounting judgments and policies adopted in respect ofthe Groups half-year and annual financial statements and agreed their appropriateness External audit Approved  audit plan and audit fee for the 2018 financial statements Internal control and risk management Received updates on progress in respect of the continued development and improvement of the Groups risk management systems and assurance programs Reported to the Board on our evaluation of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management Internal audit Appointed the Head of Internal Audit and a co-sourcing partner to conduct internal audits ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 81 Committee composition and meetings Internal controls and risk management systems All members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors with a wide range of skills and experience.
In the Boards Reviewing the risk register and ensuring the Board receives view, the Committee has competence relevant to ContourGlobals regular updates on action taken to mitigate risk faced by sector: Ronald Trchsel and Daniel Camus have extensive theGroup.
experience of international energy companies and Alan Gillespie Assisting the Board with developing and monitoring the has a significant amount of experience in industrial development Companys risk management framework.
As required by the UK Corporate Providing an independent assessment and opinion on the Governance Code, Ronald Trchsel has recent and relevant effectiveness and efficiency of the Companys internal control financial experience.
Assisting the Board and senior management with identifying The Secretary to the Committee is Kerry Watson, Company andmonitoring areas of risk and challenging control Secretary.
Internal audit In order to maintain effective communication, the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Head of Internal Audit, the external Reviewing and approving the role and mandate of the internal audit engagement partner and other members of senior audit function where relevant.
management are invited to attend Committee meetings as Approving the internal audit charter on an annual basis.
Other members of the Board also attend as guests Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit onan ad hoc basis.
At the conclusion of meetings, the external function where relevant.
audit engagement partner is given the opportunity to discuss Providing advice for the continuous improvement of the internal matters without executive management being present.
Reviewing, assessing and approving the internal audit plan, The Committee will normally meet no fewer than three times a activities and reports.
It met five times during 2018: attendance at those meetings Reviewing managements action plans to address the results can be found on page 76. ofinternal audit engagements.
Outside of the formal meeting program, the Audit & Risk Compliance Committee Chairman will maintain a dialogue with key individuals Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups whistleblowing involved in the Companys governance, including the Chairman, policies.
the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the external Monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys audit lead partner and the Head of Internal Audit.
Reviewing the Companys systems and controls for the The Chairman reports formally to the Board on Committee prevention of bribery and fraud.
proceedings after each meeting and Committee meeting papers Reviewing regular reports from the Companys Chief Compliance and minutes are made available to all members of the Board.
Officer Role The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual report and accounts and the half-yearly reports remains with the The primary role of the Committee is to ensure the integrity Board.
The Audit & Risk Committee will give due consideration to ofthefinancial reporting and audit processes, ensure the maintenance of a sound internal control and risk management laws and regulations, the provisions of the UK Corporate framework, andreview the Companys internal control and risk Governance Code and the requirements of the Listing Rules.
management systems, in order to safeguard shareholder interests.
The Committee assists the Board by providing advice and The Committees terms of reference are available on our website guidance onthe following areas: at www.
Financial and narrative reporting Monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the financial statements Reviewing and challenging the significant accounting judgments contained in the financial statements, ensuring that the judgments, methods and policies applied by management are appropriate.
Reviewing clarity and completeness of disclosure and advising the Board whether, taken as a whole, the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable.
External audit Monitoring the appropriateness of the Groups relationship withthe external auditors, including auditors independence, terms of engagement, fees and provision of non-audit services.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the external audit process, making recommendations to the Board on the appointment, reappointment or removal of the external auditors.
Ensuring the audit contract is tendered at least every ten years.
Approving the policy on the supply of non-audit services.
Reviewing the findings of the external audit.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 82 Report of the Audit & Risk Committee continued Activities Our activities during the year and up to the date of this report have principally related to financial reporting, the external audit, internal control and risk management, and the development of the internal audit function.
Financial reporting We have: considered information presented by management on significant accounting judgments and policies adopted in respect of the Groups half-year and annual financial statements and agreed their appropriateness considered accounting matters relating to key areas including accounting presentation in relation to the sell-down of certain assets, impairment testing, the clarity and completeness of reporting and the impact of IFRS 15 on the financial statements examined key points of disclosure and presentation to ensure the adequacy, clarity and completeness of the financial statements discussed audit reports with the external auditors which highlighted key accounting matters and significant judgments in respect of each set of financial statements reviewed documentation prepared to support the going concern judgment and the viability statement given on page 67.
Significant issues relating to the financial statements Significant accounting matters and judgments are identified by the finance team and the external audit process and are reviewed by theAudit & Risk Committee.
The detailed assessment of such matters are performed by management and evaluated by the external auditors and the Audit & Risk Committee based on their review of the joint work performed.
The significant matters and judgments considered by the Committee in respect of the 2018 financial statements are set out in the table below.
Significant matters and judgments How the issues were addressed Impairment of property, plant and equipment,  assets At 31st December 2018, the Group had $3,253.1 million of property, The Committee has reviewed the indicators of impairment plant and equipment, the majority of which related to power plant andmain assumptions retained and described in the financial assets, and $498.2 million of financial and contract assets, the statements.
The Audit & Risk Committee concurred with majority of which related to concession arrangements.
Impairment thetesting performed with regards to wind farms in Brazil, assessments of these assets requires significant judgment andagreed with managements judgment that no impairment including assumptions of future cash flows, discount rates and charge was necessary.
inflation which are by essence judgmental.
Accounting for business combinations and valuation ofassetsacquired and liabilities assumed In May 2018, the Group acquired a portfolio of Concentrated Solar In relation to the acquisition, the Committee considered the Power CSP plants in Spain.
Consideration was given to the appropriateness of the items to which the purchase price has allocation of the purchase price for the CSP portfolio.
been allocated as well as main assumptions used in relation withdiscount rates and future cash flows.
IFRS 15 Revenue recognition IFRS 15 became applicable to the Group from 1st January 2018: its The Committee reviewed the conclusions of the technical analysis impact required judgment to be exercised particularly in relation to conducted for the vast majority of the Groups existing assets.
It the Groups concession agreements.
considered the approach taken by management in assessing the impact and concurred that the new standard wouldresult in changes in relation to its concession agreements, as well for specific topics in relation with Arrubal and Maritsa power plants.
Sell-down and Adjusted EBITDA In October 2018 the Group closed the sell-down of Italy and The Committee understood the new sell-down strategy and Slovakia assets.
In December 2018 the Group signed the sellreviewed the integration within Adjusted EBITDA of the net down of Spanish CSP assets.
Minority sell-downs sold at a gainofsell-down of assets, considering i it reflects the capacity significant premium are part of the core strategy of the Group.
oftheGroup to sell at a significant premium, ii it is part of the corestrategy of the Group from 2018 onwards and, iii certain competitors include such gain in EBITDA calculation.
On that basis the Committee concurred with the analysis and recommended totransparently disclose the reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA toGAAP metrics and to add Proportionate Adjusted EBITDA asakey KPI considering the new sell-down strategy.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 83 External audit In approving the use of PwC to provide these services, the Boardtook the view that PwCs knowledge of the Company, itsoperations and its financial policies meant that it was best We have: placed to provide the services, and it was comfortable that their approved  LLPs PwC audit plan independence would not be compromised.
Details of the fees and audit fee for the 2018 financial statements paid to PwC in 2018 can be found in note 4.33 to the financial reviewed the independence, objectivity and effectiveness statements.
The fees paid to PwC in respect of non-audit services of PwC during the year totaled $1.2 million, representing 29% of the total recommended to the Board the reappointment of PwC auditors fees.
Non-audit services mainly related to acquisitions approved revisions to the policy on the provision of and corporate bond refinancing.
All such activities remained non-audit services withinthe policy approved by the Committee and there were noted the non-audit fees payable to PwC, having regard nocontingent fee arrangements in respect of any of the non-audit tothe policy on the provision of non-audit services services provided.
The Audit & Risk Committee is responsible for overseeing the During the year, the non-audit services policy was amended to Groups relationship with its external independent auditors, PwC.
delete the cumulative annual limit for non-audit fees and provide This includes the ongoing assessment of the auditors that non-audit services should be approved by the Committee on independence and the effectiveness of the external audit process, an exceptions basis.
the results of which inform the Committees recommendation to the Board as to the auditors appointment subject to shareholder Independence and objectivity approval or otherwise.
The Committee is responsible for safeguarding the independence and objectivity of the external auditors to ensure the integrity of Appointment and tenure the external audit process.
It is responsible for the development, The French firm of PwC was first appointed as the external implementation and monitoring of the Companys policies on auditors of the Group in 2013.
The UK firm was first appointed at external audit which set out the approach to be taken when using the time of the IPO and hence the UK firm was the first appointee the external auditors for non-audit work.
to the audit of ContourGlobal plc.
Matthew Hall is the current lead audit partner.
Having reviewed the auditors independence and performance and concluded that there are no issues, the Audit & Risk PwC is required to rotate the lead audit partner every five years Committee has recommended that  LLP for a listed client.
Therefore, a new lead audit partner is expected be re-appointed as the Companys auditors at the next annual to be selected for the 2022 audit.
The Committee intends to put general meeting.
the external audit out to tender at least every 10 years.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the choice of The Company confirms that it has complied with the provisions of external auditors.
the Competition and Markets Authoritys Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Internal controls and risk management Competitive Tender Processes and Audit & Risk Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 for the financial year under review.
During the year we: considered the internal control assessment conducted Non-audit services bythe Internal Control function The engagement of the external audit firm to provide non-audit reviewed the results of a combined Compliance and services to the Group can impact on the independence Finance audit undertaken by a third-party assurance assessment, and the Group has therefore adopted a policy for the provider approval by the Audit & Risk Committee of any such non-audit reported to the Board on our evaluation of the services.
The policy specifies prohibited services which cannot be effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control carried out by the external auditors generally activities that would andrisk management, informed by reports from PwC involve the external auditors taking on management responsibility andthe third-party assurance provider and sets the framework within which non-audit services may reviewed the risk management process and the beprovided.
The Committee has pre-approved the types and riskregister quantum of non-audit services which are subject to review by the Chief Financial Officer as long as they are below the trivial amount.
Requests above a certain limit must be approved by the Audit & The Board is ultimately responsible for the management of risk Risk Committee Chairman and above a further limit by the Audit & across the Group and for reviewing the effectiveness of its internal Risk Committee.
Details of all non-audit services approved by the control and risk management systems.
The Board has carried out Chief Financial Officer or Audit & Risk Committee Chairman are a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, reported and ratified at the next meeting of the Audit & including those that would threaten its business model, future RiskCommittee.
Further details of the Companys risk management approach, structure and principal During the year,  LLP were engaged risks are set out in the strategic report on pages 60 to 67. toprovide certain non-audit services principally in respect of thesignificant acquisition of a 250 MW portfolio of five CSP plants The Board delegates responsibility for assisting with the annual in Spain completed in May 2018.
PwCs work included review of the effectiveness of its internal control and risk thepreparation of a report on the Companys financial position management systems to the Committee.
In reviewing their and prospects, a working capital report, and a short form report effectiveness, the Committee considered: onthe prior three years of the target companys financial the internal control assessment conducted by the Internal statements.
In addition, PwC supported the bond refinancing Control function.
Against an environment of a newly listed entity, byway of an interim review of the Groups financial statements recently acquired assets and established businesses, the atthe end of the first quarter of 2018. assessment took into account the expected maturity level of internal controls across the Group.
The review provided the Committee with assurance that the internal control processes reviewed were continuing to operate effectively ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 84 Report of the Audit & Risk Committee continued progress against the internal control objectives set for 2018 Information systems: A risk management process exists within the output of PwCs internal controls report ITto monitor and manage IT specific risks at a granular level.
reports on the combined Compliance and Finance audit Asuite of IT policies and procedures has been established by fromthethird-party provider management.
A framework is in place to ensure these policies updates on progress in respect of the continued development areappropriately reviewed, updated and approved on a and improvement of the Groups risk management systems periodicbasis.
Management has initiated several cyber security projects with a The main features of the internal control and risk management focus on existing scanning capabilities, updating security policies, systems in relation to the financial reporting process, which were implementing a security information and event management system SIEM, hardening of the network devices and encryption in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts, include: of corporate systems and equipment.
Internal control: the Internal Control function has designed Debt Compliance: The Debt Compliance monitoring process andformalized the Book Of Internal Control Rules to enforce isdesigned to ensure that there are no unexpected covenant aCompany way of working together by using common working compliance issues.
This process is managed by the VP Debt practices in line with the essential internal control standards.
Compliance, under the responsibility of the two divisional CFOs Thisproposes a set of operations, reporting and compliance for asset level debt and the Group CFO for corporate level debt.
control activities including IT systems that each entity should The role of the VP Debt Compliance is to coordinate the apply and comply with to the full extent of their capabilities.
monitoring of ContourGlobals financial agreements and corporate bond and ensure timely compliance with both financial and The Company has maintained strong internal control non-financial covenant reporting deadlines, debt payments and other requirements.
ContourGlobal has developed a debt documentation from corporate to business level, central to whichis the internally developed Internal Control Online Tool, monitoring tool within SharePoint called CG Debts.
The tool tracks used to document and monitor the operation of key internal all requirements of external debts across the Group, including control procedures.
The tool serves as a record of every financial and non-financial covenants as well as positive and instanceof controls being performed and reviewed.
negative undertaking in the agreements.
The Internal Control function performs bi-monthly spot checks and Hedging: The Treasury department has put a hedging policy in one mid-year review on the operation of the key controls across place, which is overseen by the Hedging Committee.
The hedging the Group, achieving coverage across control areas and divisions.
policy clarifies the rules and responsibilities for any hedging activity.
The hedging policy is reviewed bi-annually by the In addition, an Internal Control Monthly Status Report is released Hedging Committee, whose members have the necessary on a monthly basis and shared with senior management, knowledge and experience to assess the financial impact of eachhedge transaction.
Any new significant hedging transaction reinforcing monitoring and reporting.
The report provides the requires approval from the Hedging Committee before being mainKPIs and results of spot check reviews as well as qualitative analysis for the main processes.
All hedging contracts are managed centrally and are executed by the Treasury department.
Hedging transactions are Financial reporting: Business Reviews, including the consolidated tracked by the Treasury department on a monthly basis to monitor management accounts, provide timely and accurate financial and the realized gains losses and the mark to market positions.
non-financial information to senior management on a monthly Treasury collaborates closely with the Group financial teams basis and quarterly to the Board.
The results of Operations toensure the appropriate accounting treatment is applied to financial and non-financial are reviewed against budget and eachof the hedging contracts.
Management monitors financial andbusiness activities through budget, forecasts and annual The Audit & Risk Committee, on behalf of the Board, has reviewed objectives.
The annual budget is approved by the Board.
the effectiveness of the internal control systems and risk TheGroup prepares its financial statements under IFRS and management processes in place, taking account of any material developments since the year end.
The Committee has not issuesresults statements annually and half-yearly.
identified, nor been advised of, any failings or weaknesses The Group has a comprehensive Reporting and Accounting thatithas determined to be significant.
As part of its review, Manual RAM, covering a wide range of policies and procedures, theCommittee noted that no significant internal control matters including accounting policies, reporting and KPIs and key cycles had been raised by PwC in thecontext of the annual audit.
inorder to provide reliable and timely consolidated financials.
Internal audit Compliance: ContourGlobal management is committed to acting with integrity and transparency and enforces this through a strong During the year we: tone-at-the-top.
The Company has a dedicated Compliance appointed a co-sourcing partner to conduct internal audits function that is headed by the Chief Compliance Officer who following a competitive tender process reports directly to the CEO and who also has direct access to the appointed the Head of Internal Audit Board and the Audit & Risk Committee.
Allemployees are approved the internal audit charter required to acknowledge and adhere to a number of compliance approved the 2019 internal audit risk-based plan policies and take compliance training aspart of their commitments to the Company.
The Committee considered the need for an internal audit function during 2018 and concluded that a co-sourcing partner would Further details on compliance are provided in the business review provide better support to the Group taking into account access section.
tospecialist skills and expertise, resource requirements and cost optimization.
As reported last year, the Committee agreed that thefunction should be led by a Company Head of Internal Audit todevelop an internal audit strategy and coordinate activities.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 85 In June 2018, KPMG LLP was appointed as co-sourcing partner Annual evaluation tosupport the initial development phase of internal audit activities The Committees annual evaluation was carried out as part of including the drafting of an internal audit charter and three-year theBoard evaluation process described on page 76.
A report internal audit plan, both of which were approved by the Committee.
ontheCommittees performance was provided by the Company Secretary.
Feedback showed that the Board had confidence in A Head of Internal Audit was appointed with effect from theeffectiveness of the Committee.
To safeguard independence, the Head of Internal Audit reports to the Committee although a reporting line to the Fair, balanced and understandable CEO is maintained in respect of day-to-day operations.
The Head At the request of the Board, the Audit & Risk Committee has of Internal Audit retains ultimate responsibility to the Committee conducted a review of the Annual Report to assess whether for ensuring the delivery of the internal audit strategy and plan.
itpresents a fair, balanced and understandable view of the Companys position and prospects.
The Audit & Risk Committees While there were no internal audits conducted during the year, review took account of the process by which the Annual Report following a competitive tender process Deloitte LLP was isprepared which includes analysis of changes toapplicable reporting requirements and standards, and a robust schedule appointed in January 2019 to continue the development of internal audit activities.
ofreview and verification by senior management and external advisors to ensure disclosures are accurate.
Compliance The Audit & Risk Committee is satisfied that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information During the year we: necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and received regular compliance reports from the General performance, business model and strategy and has advised the Counsel & Chief Compliance Officer Board accordingly.
considered and discussed two audit reports prepared by a third-party assurance provider on adherence to compliance andfinance policies and procedures at certain sites Ronald Trchsel Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee The Committee received reports from the General Counsel & 4th April 2019 Chief Compliance Officer which detailed progress against the2018 Compliance KPIs and the status of investigations intoemployee disclosures through whistleblowing channels, includingstatistics on the volume and general nature of all disclosures made.
Two audits of adherence to certain compliance and finance procedures policies were undertaken by a third-party assurance provider.
The aim of the audit was to test compliance with and general understanding of the Companys control and ethical environment.
The Committee noted the results of the audit reports which confirmed that employees were focusedon and aware of compliance, finance policies and risks inthese areas.
Whistleblowing The Company maintains a web and telephone-based reporting hotline for employees and third parties to report potential violations of Company policy or the law, including those related tomatters of financial reporting or controls.
The whistleblowing policy applies to all employees of the Group, and allows for anonymous reporting, where permitted by local law.
The Audit & Risk Committee is responsible for monitoring theGroups whistleblowing policy, and the policy is reviewed periodically by the Board.
The Audit & Risk Committee believes that the policy and its oversight are effective, facilitate the proportionate and independent investigation of reported matters, and allow appropriate remedial measures to be taken.
Advice provided to the Committee The Committee has independent access to the services of the Company Secretary, Head of Internal Audit and to the external auditors, and may obtain outside professional advice as necessary in the performance of its duties.
