ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 78 Report of the Nomination Committee Dear shareholders, On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present a report on the Nomination Committees activities in 2018.
Roles and responsibilities The role of the Nomination Committee is set out in its terms ofreference which are available on the Companys website.
TheCommittee plays an important role in making recommendations ofappropriate candidates for appointment tothe Board.
It also keeps under review the composition of the Board and its Members of the Nomination Committee Committees: the balance of skills, knowledge and experience Craig A. Huff Chairman onthe Board: and the size, structure and composition of the Board.
The Nomination Committee is also responsible formaking Ruth Cairnie appointed 6th August 2018 recommendations to the Board concerning successionplanning.
Daniel Camus Specific duties of the Nomination Committee include: Alan Gillespie Regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition Alejandro Santo Domingo including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity appointed 6th August 2018 oftheBoard and making recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes Meeting attendance shown on page 76 Putting in place plans for orderly succession of appointments tothe Board and senior management, taking into account the Key areas of focus in the year challenges and opportunities facing the Company and the skills Board composition and experience needed within the Board and the Company Commenced the recruitment process for a Leading the process for Board appointments as and when they Chief Financial Officer arise, identify and nominate candidates and make Considered the appointment of a further recommendations for Board approval independent Non-Executive Director Review annually the time required from Non-Executive Directors.
Committee composition Meetings Recommended a change in composition The Nomination Committee will normally meet at least twice per of the Remuneration Committee year and otherwise as required in order to discharge its duties.
Recommended a change in composition Itmet three times in 2018.
Only members of the Nomination of the Nomination Committee Committee have the right to attend meetings, but other Directors, executives or advisers may be invited to attend all or part of any meeting as appropriate.
2018 activities During 2018 the Committee: commenced the recruitment process for a Chief Financial Officer recommended a change in composition of the Remuneration Committee recommended a change in composition of the Nomination Committee considered the appointment of a further independent Non-Executive Director.
Committee composition During the year, the Committee considered the composition oftheRemuneration and Nomination Committees.
It reviewed thebalance of skills and experience on the Board and determinedthat Ruth Cairnie would be a valuable addition to theRemuneration Committee given her extensive experience ofremuneration committee matters in UK listed companies.
TheCommittees recommendation to the Board was approved and Ruth became a member of the Remuneration Committee in April 2018, replacing Ronald Trchsel.
In addition, the Committee reviewed its own composition and agreed that it would benefit from the experience of additional Non-Executive Directors.
Ittherefore recommended the appointment of Ruth Cairnie andAlejandro Santo Domingo to the Committee.
The Board accepted its recommendation.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 79 Board composition The Committee reviewed the balance and composition of the Diversity at ContourGlobal Board and determined that an additional independent NonExecutive Director would add value.
A role specification was drawn up which included knowledge of, and experience in, oneofthe Groups key growth regions: global power sector 12.5% 20% knowledge: and experience in M&A.
Egon Zehnder was % women on the Board % women expected to be on the appointed as external search consultant to assist with the at 31st December 2018 Board from 30th June 2019 selection and recruitment process.
Shortlisted candidates were interviewed and the preferred candidate subsequently met with other members of the Board.
56% 19% % women in executive % female employees Since the year end, Mariana Gheorghe has been appointed to the management inContourGlobal Board with effect from 30th June 2019.
In recommending Mariana at 31stDecember2018 at 31st December 2018 for appointment to the Board, a number of factors were taken into account, including: the relevance of her experience, including her strategic and operational experience as Chief Executive Officer and President of OMV Petrom, a Romanian oil and gas company, and her financial experience gained through a number of senior financeroles: and the benefits of diversity that she would bring to the Board in terms of skills, industry experience, gender and nationality.
During the year, the Committee appointed Spencer Stuart to begin the recruitment process for a Chief Financial Officer and a brief was provided on preferred attributes.
Further details will be provided in next years Committee report.
Neither Egon Zehnder nor Spencer Stuart has any other connection with the Group.
Diversity The Company recognizes that no individual should be discriminated against on the grounds of race, color, ethnicity, religious belief, political affiliation, gender orientation, sexual orientation, national origin, ancestry, age, medical condition, physical or mental disability, marital status, workers compensation status, veteran status, citizenship status, or any other legally protected status and this extends to Board appointments.
TheBoard further recognizes the benefits of diversity, including gender diversity, on the Board, although it believes that all appointments should be made on merit, while ensuring that thereis an appropriate balance of skills and experience within theBoard.
Across the Group employees are geographically diverse and Group offices are populated with many nationalities.
Annual evaluation The Committees annual evaluation was carried out as part of the Board review process described on page 76.
No changes were considered necessary to the Committees terms of reference and the Committee was considered to be effective in fulfilling its role throughout 2018.
Craig A. Huff Chairman of the Nomination Committee 4th April 2019
