Our resources and relationships How we manage and develop our key resources and relationships to create value Our Values Our values run through everything we do.
Caring for our customers and developing innovative products and technologies that anticipate and respond to their needs are essential ways of working if we are to deliver value for all our stakeholders.
In our business, we must also earn trust which means at all times we must act with integrity, behave responsibly and do what we say we will do.
Caring for people We are passionate about improving peoples lives and we put people at the centre of everything we do.
Driving innovation and excellence We are dedicated to finding innovative solutions that anticipate and address our customers needs and to delivering best-in-class execution.
Earning trust We earn trust by delivering quality products and services that our customers can rely on.
Our personal actions underpin this trust.
18 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Improving the lives of the Corporate responsibility people we touch More information about our culture, people, health and safety initiatives, stakeholders, greenhouse gas GHG emissions and what we do to conserve the planet is included in our Corporate Responsibility Report, which is available on our website at www.
com C Co or nv po ar T a e te R c Ge ro sp uo p P nslic bility Report 2018 .
We are committed to creating a working environment where everyone is treated fairly with respect, dignity and consideration Our culture and where there are opportunities for all.
Our Human Rights and Labour Standards Policy, which incorporates principles and Promoting and embedding our culture guidelines set out in the United Nations Universal Declaration of We promote our values and culture by helping our employees fully Human Rights, and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and understand our Purpose, Vision and Mission which are explained Human Rights, addresses a range of issues including equal on page 2 and how our values translate into desired behaviours.
opportunities, anti-harassment and dignity at work.
Many elements To embed our culture across our business we reward our people on of our Human Rights and Labour Standards Policy are reflected in both achievement of objectives the what and the demonstration our Code of Conduct, which as highlighted above, all employees of our values and behaviours in delivering the how.
Our formal receive training on annually.
performance management process includes an assessment of behaviours and employees identified with improvement needs in Our Code of Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct and Human Rights this area are supported through a 90-day performance feedback, and Labour Standards Policy are available on our website at coaching and improvement planning process.
Our People Leadership Committee, which is made up of representatives from all parts of the Group, monitors our culture.
The committees activities include taking regular pulse checks across Our people our business, acting as a sounding board for our leaders and employees and helping implement important changes that affect our The people we employ around the world are key to our success.
During the year the committee contributed Every day their skill and dedication enables us to fulfil our Purpose to the development of our new people strategy and reviewed the and create value for all stakeholders.
results of our 2018 employee engagement survey and made recommendations in relation to some of its findings.
Further During the year we developed a new people strategy that sets out information about our new people strategy and the 2018 survey how we will manage and develop our people over the next three is detailed below.
Its purpose is twofold: firstly, to ensure that every employee has the opportunity to develop and fulfil their potential and secondly, Ensuring a positive working environment in line with our refreshed execution model, to improve our execution To embed our values and culture, we implement a number of capabilities and operational performance.
policies and procedures, including our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct our Code of Conduct which covers business conduct Our new people strategy is focused on the following key elements: and compliance issues, including bribery and corruption.
Annually all Improving the effectiveness of our organisation by simplifying our employees are required to undertake training in relation to our Code Human Resources HR structure and processes.
This training is undertaken either online, with electronic Building talent to ensure that we have the right people in the acknowledgement of completion, or through participation in town right places.
We also make available an independent whistleblower Developing capability by managing and engaging our people hotline, which can be used by employees and third parties, to report more effectively.
suspected breaches of our Code of Conduct.
Ensuring that our employer reputation internally and externally is aligned with our Vision: to be recognised as the most respected We deploy policies and procedures that are consistent with our and successful MedTech company in the world.
Code of Conduct, which cover the third parties we rely upon to fulfil Improving our approach to diversity and inclusion.
These policies and procedures include our Global Third Party Compliance Manual, which mitigates the risk of unethical behaviour when marketing our products, our Supplier Code of Conduct which covers a number of areas, including prohibition of compulsory or forced labour and modern slavery, and our Human Rights and Labour Standards Policy.
We mandate that our distributors and certain vendors undergo training on our policies and procedures and agree to permit us to audit their practices and compliance in accordance with our policies and procedures.
19 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Resource and relationships continued Diversity and inclusion In 2017 we updated our Board Diversity Policy to provide for a Diversity and inclusion underpin all aspects of our people strategy.
minimum of 30% female Board representation.
We achieved this We want our people to feel included in our business and keen to play target in 2017 and we have continued to maintain it throughout their part.
Furthermore, an inclusive diverse environment enhances 2018.
We also set an objective to have 30% of senior management our ability to achieve our Purpose and commercial success.
roles held by female executives by 2020.
While to date progress has been limited, we remain committed to achieving this target through Our diversity and inclusion strategy focuses on the following continuous and effective implementation of our diversity and key areas: inclusion strategy.
In particular, the Board will continue to review Leading, Promoting and Educating: establishing policy metrics as part of their assessment of executive management.
statements, forming appropriate governance, setting up employee engagement forums see below and enhancing Our gender diversity profile as at 31 December 2018 is set out below.
existing eLearning capabilities around diversity, inclusion and Male Female unconscious bias.
Total Number % Number % Building, Developing and Promoting Talent: developing and a promoting diverse talents and creating an inclusive culture.
Board 9 6 67 3 33 Sourcing Talent: actively sourcing a diverse range of candidates b Executive Committee 11 10 91 1 9 for all senior roles.
For the purposes of this table the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer are included as members of the Board.
Gender pay As highlighted above we are committed to creating a positive and diverse working environment where everyone is treated fairly.
Specifically in relation to pay and our recruitment, performance review and reward processes, we strive to ensure that regardless of gender, employees are paid the same or similar for the same or similar positions.
Definition and calculation of a gender pay gap The gender pay gap is the difference in the average hourly rate of pay between all relevant fully paid men and women in a company.
It reflects the gender composition of our workforce.
It is different to equal pay which is the difference in pay between a man and a woman who carry out the same or similar role or work of equal value in a company.
Our gender pay and bonus gap The table on the next page shows our overall mean and median gender pay gap based on hourly rates of pay as at the snapshot 1 date, 5 April 2018.
It also captures the mean and median Engaging employees on diversity and inclusion differences between bonuses paid to our male and female A key part of creating a more inclusive workplace is consulting employees in the year up to the snapshot date, i. e. for the year up to with employees on how best to approach the issue, and 5 April 2018.
The data provided only relates to our UK employees.
establishing communities and support groups to help gather feedback on our progress.
During 2018 we set up a series of employee resource groups ERGs to begin a dialogue around gender and LBGTQ inclusion issues across our business.
Approximately 130 employees have volunteered to join ERGs.
Following initial briefing calls we are now putting in place 1.
Snapshot date: Specific reference date in which the gender pay gap needs to governance and communication systems to underpin the ERGs be calculated as Government requirement from the Advisory, Conciliation and going forward.
Arbitration Service and Government Equalities Office.
For businesses and charities this date is 5 April.
20 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Percentage Percentage footprint.
We are confident that our pay rates are fair and that male and difference difference female colleagues in comparable roles are paid equitably and fairly.
mean median Hourly rate of pay 18.16% 15.75% As highlighted above, to address the demographic imbalance Bonus 35.28% 11.73% reflected in this gender pay data we are actively sourcing a diverse range of candidates for all senior roles.
In addition, our management performance programme now includes diversity objectives for each In 2018 the median hourly pay difference between our male and Executive Committee member and our HR leaders across the female employees was 15.75% 2017: 12.4%, which is below the UK Group.
These objectives are aimed at supporting our overall Group median pay gap of 18.4% across all public and private sectors in April objective which is to have 30% of senior management roles held by 2018 source: Office for National Statistics.
A detailed breakdown of pay by gender and pay by quartile is shown Further information about our pay data is included on our website at in the table below.
In the lower and lower middle quartiles, we have www.
In the upper middle and upper quartiles, we have more males than females.
Employee engagement During the year over 86% of our employees participated in our 2018 Proportion of females and males in each quartile band employee engagement survey.
Compared to the feedback gathered 8.63 13.32 17.47 26.06 13.32 17.45 26.03 211.97 during a similar survey undertaken in 2015, scores in key areas were significantly improved and above our sector benchmark.
In particular Total in band 204 201 201 201 87% of employees recognised our Purpose, to improve the lives of Male total: 426 93 98 114 121 the people we touch, as relevant and meaningful.
Female total: 381 111 103 87 80 % male 46% 49% 57% 60% Key feedback from the survey has helped inform our new people % female 54% 51% 43% 40% strategy and a number of actions are being implemented to address some of the issues the feedback highlighted.
In particular, to address % difference mean 0.7 % 0.1% 3.7 % 12.7% a desire for more regular, relevant and accessible business updates, % difference median 0.4 % 0.1% 4.7 % 0.6% we are migrating our computer-based global intranet to a mobile app, MyConvaTec, which can be accessed by any employee using The year-on-year change in the median hourly pay difference reflects a smartphone and read in their own language.
a change in the demographic make-up of our UK-based workforce.
During 2018 we centralised a number of our key corporate functions As highlighted in the Chairmans letter on page 6, with effect from in the UK.
In particular a large number of corporate finance and IT 1 January 2019, Regina Benjamin and Ros Rivaz will take on specific roles were transferred from Bridgewater in the US to Reading in the responsibility for ensuring Board-led employee engagement.
As part of this process a number of roles were filled by male Further information about the Board-led employee engagement colleagues.
Since April 2018, in line with our Diversity and Inclusion programme is included on page 99. strategy, we have actively sourced a diverse range of candidates for all senior roles, including senior finance leadership roles, and next years Development report will reflect this.
Building talent and developing the capabilities of our people are core elements of our people strategy.
We offer all employees training As detailed in the table below, 80.33% of our female employees and and development opportunities to help them progress their careers 87.97% of our male employees received a bonus payment.
Both and also to ensure that we have the right experience and skills across figures are above the UK reported average.
the Group and a pipeline of talent for the future.
During 2018 we have enhanced the training and development opportunities we Females Males provide including: Proportion of females and males receiving We designed and launched the ConvaTec Management a bonus payment 80.33% 87.97% Experience, a global development programme targeted at new Eligible population for a bonus during the and early career managers across all our business areas.
1 relevant bonus pay period 361 399 We also designed a career framework approach for our sales and marketing teams, which maps out individual career development 1.
47 individuals were not eligible for bonus payments because they were new across our commercial operations.
hires during the final quarter of the financial year ended 31 December 2017.
We successfully piloted a performance management programme appraisals and personal development plans for UK-based In view of the year-on-year change in the median hourly pay difference, manufacturing employees.
This programme, which will be we undertook an in-depth analysis of our pay structure in the UK.
In extended to our other manufacturing sites during 2019, supports keeping with our commitment to fair treatment and pay equality, we our aim to provide development opportunities for all employees.
have also reviewed the pay structures we operate across our global 21 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Resource and relationships continued Succession planning To fulfil our Purpose and create value for our stakeholders, including We continue to focus on our critical leadership roles and succession our shareholders, we must continuously develop and maintain an planning.
To support this activity, during 2018 the Nomination innovative pipeline of new products and technologies.
We have Committee undertook a detailed review of succession planning and successfully commercialised a number of innovative products, talent development across the Groups senior management team.
however recently we have not harnessed our R&D capabilities Further information about this review is included on page 87.
We effectively and, as a result, our current new product development also implemented a new relocation policy to encourage employee pipeline is smaller than in previous years.
In particular our Gateway mobility across all parts of our business.
new product development programme has not been robustly implemented and, as a result, we have been late to market with a Health and safety and employee well-being number of recent launches, including Avelle and our next generation The health and safety H&S of our employees and others who catheters.
Information about our current new product development visit our sites is a priority.
We run regular H&S training courses and, pipeline is included below.
through our global H&S programme, 22 core H&S standards are embedded throughout our operations.
In 2018 we launched 11 new products.
During the year we introduced a new safety performance database O Our ne ur new pr w product fide oduct fide v v elopment pipeline elopment pipeline which covers our manufacturing operations, headquarters and primary commercial locations.
This tool standardises our approach to H&S reporting and enables enhanced diagnostics.
In particular, it provides a common platform for documenting accident investigations, root cause analysis and data reporting, including 1 Concept phase Development phase At or nearing launch phase near miss events and hazard observations.
I ncluding product expansions into new geographies and or new indications.
During 2018 there were no fatalities and we saw a reduction in the number of recordable and lost time injuries.
Information about our Our refreshed execution model aims to enhance our R&D 2018 H&S performance is set out below.
capabilities, strengthen our innovative product pipeline and improve our development processes.
We will also supplement our pipeline 2018 2017 2016 through licensing arrangements and acquisitions.
Further Fatalities 0 0 0 information about how we will deploy our R&D capabilities more Recordable injuries 30 48 35 effectively to drive our strategy is included on page 30.
Recordable injury rate 0.50 0.82 0.56 Lost time injuries 20 33 16 We own an extensive intellectual property portfolio which we actively protect and defend.
Currently it includes over 240 active Lost time injury rate 0.33 0.57 0.26 patent families, 2,700 patents and patent applications globally and over 6,000 registered trademarks globally.
The majority of our We operate employee wellness programmes in a number of portfolio relates to our key technologies including: our core countries and during 2018 we launched our LIFE by ConvaTec Hydrofiber Technology, our infusion device technologies, our AWC community programme.
Further information about this programme negative pressure wound therapy NPWT technologies, the is provided on page 25.
ConvaTec Moldable Technology used in our ostomy products, our GentleCath Glide and Feel Clean Technology as well as compositions, processes or product features.
Innovation and intellectual property When patents expire, historically we have been successful in Our R&D team is dedicated to developing safe and reliable products bringing new, commercially viable and patentable features to market, and technologies that improve peoples lives and advance clinical effectively upgrading our older product offerings.
In addition to outcomes and practices.
The team continuously gathers feedback patent protection, we rely on trade secrets and manufacturing from customers and healthcare professionals, including through know-how in particular with respect to our products that focus groups, anthropological studies and surveys, all three of which incorporate our Hydrofiber Technology, which is produced using help to inform the various stages of the R&D process.
complex manufacturing and chemical processes to protect the competitive position of our products.
Our R&D team includes over 300 people and is located across two locations.
At Deeside in Wales our R&D activities are focused on our AWC, Ostomy Care and CCC franchises, and Osted in Denmark is the centre for our Infusion Devices R&D activities.
We also have process development and lifecycle management teams based at our manufacturing facilities in Slovakia and Belarus.
22 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 2018 innovation highlights Stakeholder relationships Our ability to deliver long-term success is dependent on a wide range of stakeholder relationships.
These are detailed on page 24 and include our employees and the people who use and interact across all aspects of our business.
Within the relevant ethical and regulatory frameworks, we aim to work with our stakeholders collaboratively and build long-term relationships based on trust.
Through our engagement with our stakeholders we identify the key issues that matter to them.
These issues inform how we run our business day-to-day and we develop strategies and initiatives to address them.
Feedback we receive from stakeholders enables us to enhance our product offering and better understand and meet their needs.
This approach also differentiates our offering and enhances our ability to win new customers and retain them.
We engage directly with customers through a number of channels.
Our me consumer-focused programmes, which are operated by our Ostomy Care and CCC franchises, provide access to services and support and a diverse inspirational community network.
Our Home Distribution Group in the US, which includes 180 Medical, and Amcare, our UK distribution business, supplies catheter and incontinence-related products directly to customers.
Our dedicated sales teams also engage regularly with the healthcare professionals who prescribe our products and customers who buy Continuing to innovate to address customers needs our products for end users including government healthcare Our next generation female catheter incorporates our providers and private organisations.
To support these stakeholders proprietary FeelClean Technology and contains a number of we publish educational materials, run specialist training programmes unique features which provide simple, convenient hydrophilic and operate a number of call centres.
This innovative product is small, easy to use and is designed to provide maximum discretion for users.
It is Specifically in relation to specialist training, during 2018 our currently being piloted and will be launched in Europe during Deeside-based R&D team hosted seven clinician and customer visits Spring 2019. which focused on a range of issues including advanced dressing technologies, negative wound pressure therapy, ostomy care and Recognising the products outstanding innovative design, in continence care products and infection prevention technologies.
January 2019 it received an iF Design Award.
First awarded in Valuable feedback from these visits helps inform our R&D process.
1953, an iF Design Award is the oldest independent design seal in the world.
It is a symbol of outstanding design In addition, our Ostomy Care franchise ran Nurse Advisory Boards achievements that focus on the innovative power of design.
on a bi-annual basis in a number of countries including the US, UK, Japan and France.
During these sessions the latest developments Award winning technology and practices are shared and specialist stoma nurses provide insight In the Spanish market in October, the neria Soft90 infusion and feedback about our products.
In September 2018 we also set was awarded Product of the Year by ANERCOM launched our first nationwide ostomy advanced training programme Asociacin Nacional fide Enfermera Coordinadora fide in India.
The programme included three one-day seminars held in Recursos Materiales the National Association of Nursing Bangalore, Mumbai and Delhi and covered new technological Responsible for Product Procurement.
The award was made advances and practices in relation to ostomy care, both before and at ANERCOMs annual national congress and more than 500 after surgery.
nurses participated in the voting.
Neria Soft90 incorporates a soft cannula inserted at a 90 degree angle with an introducer needle that can be secured after use for increased needle safety.
23 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our stakeholders and how we engage with them Consumers the Supply of products via our direct-to-consumer channels including our people who use our home delivery companies and websites.
Provision of services via various products and rely channels including our me programmes, our specialist nurses, our call on our services centres, our home delivery companies and websites and the targeted consumer research we undertake to gather feedback.
Our people Interaction via our Group intranet, regular town hall meetings, People Leadership Committee, annual performance reviews, our ERG groups and email briefings.
Also, where relevant, through union representatives and works councils.
Shareholders Regular meetings and calls, roadshows, presentations and site visits.
Engagement with specialist SRI ESG investors and analysts on specific CR topics.
Healthcare Ongoing dialogue including via our sales teams, targeted research, training professionals sessions and through our Nurse Advisory Boards.
Institutional Interaction via our sales and marketing process, including formal customers buying tender processes.
Our stakeholders organisations and how we engage with them Suppliers, Ongoing dialogue via our commercial teams, as well as through distributors and assessments against our Supplier Code, due diligence reviews of other partners distributors and compliance training.
MedTech Regular and ad hoc dialogue in relation to product approvals and regulators other matters.
Governments Ad hoc dialogue in relation to specific matters including Brexit, fiscal e. g. taxation, employment e. g. apprenticeships and corporate governance.
Local communities Ad hoc dialogue in relation to specific matters and through our LIFE by ConvaTec community programme, which is explained on the next page.
Industry bodies and Membership of several industry bodies and participation in meetings non-government and discussions in relation to industry issues including best practice.
organisations Engagement with NGOs on issues of concern, where appropriate.
NG0s 24 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Consumers: Expanding our customer engagement channels During the year we expanded our GentleCath me programme for intermittent catheter users.
Originally launched in 2017 to support our GentleCath product portfolio in the US, the programme is now available in a number of other countries including the UK and Australia.
At the core of this award-winning programme are digital tools that aim to provide relief from the impact and stress of life as an intermittent catheter user.
We developed these tools based on feedback from both users and healthcare providers, which indicated a strong demand for training support for new catheter users.
In 2018 over 34,000 users accessed the programmes personalised video user guides, FAQ videos and an alternative light-relief view on cathing from our award-winning, sitcom writing blogger, Paul Young.
Healthcare professionals: Providing specialist training about our Ag Technology In Italy during July, we launched a specialist eLearning programme to enhance understanding of our AWC products and, in particular, our proprietary Ag Technology.
The programme was launched on Nurse24.
it, a key digital channel for nursing professionals in Italy, which has more than 68,000 registered users and is accredited by the Italian Ministry of Health to provide education and training.
Within three months of Some of our its launch 3,000 nurses subscribed to the ConvaTec AWC programme, which provides training in a convenient and easy way.
2018 stakeholder engagement activities Local communities: Enhancing our involvement in the local communities where we operate To enhance our involvement in the local communities where we operate, in 2018 we launched our LIFE by ConvaTec community programme.
The programme, which makes funds available to support local initiatives, is focused on helping disadvantaged young people get a healthier start in life.
To reinforce our goal of an employee-led programme we linked the allocation of our community fund to our employees engagement in the Global Challenge wellbeing programme, which is managed by Virgin Pulse.
More than 1,350 employees entered the Global Challenge programme.
They formed into 194 teams and spent one hundred days walking, running, cycling, and swimming, and working through online wellbeing educational materials.
The programme, which will continue through 2019, delivered a number of positive benefits including: Supporting our employees to improve their health and wellbeing by working through modules connected with exercise, nutrition, stress and sleep.
Engaging our employees in our philanthropic programme by using their level of engagement in the Global Challenge, and in particular the number of physical steps taken, to determine how our community fund is dispersed in local communities.
Building teamwork and encouraging engagement with our Purpose and Values.
25 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Resource and relationships continued How we run our operations Dedicated sales and marketing and extensive distribution network Our products are marketed and sold in over 110 countries through our four franchises.
We utilise a number of sales channels including our own sales and marketing function and a network of distributors and wholesalers, who sell our products and manage the entire distribution process on our behalf.
Further information about how we market and sell our products is set out on page 47.
All members of our sales teams participate in regular training sessions throughout the year and attend national sales meetings, to gain information about our strategic direction and business priorities.
To coincide with new product launches, our sales teams receive formal training which covers product design features, instructions for use and clinical value.
Our sales teams engage regularly with our customers and with the healthcare professionals who prescribe our products.
The feedback they obtain from this engagement is a critical part of our product development process and enables us to deliver products and services that meet our customers needs.
Information about our sales teams engagement activities is included on page 23.
Our manufacturing footprint, operations and how we manage our environmental impact In recent years we have endeavoured to optimise our manufacturing footprint and deliver cost savings, by relocating our manufacturing plants to lower cost countries.
While the majority of these relocations have been executed to plan, in 2017 the relocation of production lines from our Greensboro plant in the US to Haina in the Dominican Republic was not executed well.
While the supply issues related to Prestigious award recognises strong cooperative this relocation are now resolved, we have not delivered the anticipated long-term relationship benefits of the move and it has continued to impact our 2018 In November Infusion Devices won the 2018 Medtronic performance, as explained on page 9.
Medtronic, the largest manufacturer of insulin pumps for type 1 diabetes, is one In the past 18 months we have focused on introducing LEAN of our key long-term partners.
manufacturing processes across all operations to improve our operational efficiency.
While LEAN manufacturing processes are The award recognises the strong cooperative relationship we operational in a number of our plants there is still much work to be have with Medtronic, particularly in relation to key areas done to move our operational platform towards the world-class including quality, delivery, cost, and innovation, all of which standards to which we aspire.
enable Medtronic to meet the needs of its customers and patients around the world.
Our refreshed execution model intensifies our focus on operational excellence to improve our performance capabilities.
In particular we Outstanding performance by our supplier base has a will focus on embedding operational excellence across all our plants dramatic impact on our ability to exceed the expectation and simplifying and standardising our processes, to improve of our customers and shareholders.
We know that we efficiency and productivity.
Read more about these initiatives cannot do this alone and your partnership and on pages 30 and 31. commitment to continuous improvement in all areas positions Medtronic to deliver on its goals and improve patients lives.
Chief Procurement Officer Medtronic 26 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 The safety and reliability of our products is critical.
We operate Our GHG emissions comprehensive quality management programmes focused on the Our GHG emissions relate mainly to the consumption of natural gas efficacy of the products we supply, their constituent materials, the and electricity to power, heat and cool our facilities.
At this stage we manufacturing environment and the supply chain that supports this.
are not generating any renewable energy but we are pleased to report that we now source virtually all of our UK energy from renewable We also operate a rigorous and robust compliance and audit process sources.
In 2018, the scope of our GHG reporting covers our which focuses on the various design control stages of product R&D, manufacturing locations, R&D centres, major offices and distribution and operates in parallel with our comprehensive quality management centres.
The table below sets out our emissions on both a location, approach.
We conducted a total of 125 audits during 2018 2017: and a market basis.
99, including 89 audits of our own facilities 2017: 74 and 36 audits 2017: 25 of third-party facilities, which included facilities belonging From 2017 to 2018 we have seen a like-for-like increase in GHG to our contract manufacturers and suppliers.
emissions of 3% which has been driven by increases in productionrelated activities in certain manufacturing locations, offset by We recognise that we must minimise the negative impact of our efficiency savings, the procurement of renewable energy in the UK operations including GHG emissions on the environment.
In accordance with the target set in our 2017 environmental policy statement which is set out on our website Corporate Responsibility Report, we have developed a climate change www.
com   for the business and published a GHG reduction target.
planet explains our approach, and reflects a more detailed internal environmental policy document which provides direction to our Our GHG emissions have been calculated in accordance with the major facilities on how to structure their environmental GHG Protocol and using conversion factors published by the management programmes.
International Energy Agency and the UK Government.
Further details of our environmental performance, and the scope and These programmes focus on: methodologies we have adopted for our GHG accounting and Minimising the environmental impacts of our own and our reporting are detailed in our 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report.
Minimising the environmental impacts of our products and Greenhouse gas emissions location-based method services across their entire life cycle.
tonnes CO e 2 Setting objectives to improve our performance and the 2018 2017 2016 development of more environment-friendly products.
1 Implementing management systems to support achievement Scope 1 5,435 5,473 4,001 2 3 of our objectives.
Scope 2 30,055 29,054 26,806 Total GHG emissions 35,490 34,527 30,807 Dedicated Environment, Health and Safety Managers operate across our manufacturing facilities, and we are developing environmental 1.
Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions from owned or controlled sources.
Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions from the generation of management systems in line with corporate requirement and purchased energy.
2016 Scope 2 emissions include an additional 383 tonnes CO e relating to use 2 of district heating previously omitted in error.
2016 was our first year of reporting and the scope did not include non-manufacturing locations.
Greenhouse gas emissions market-based method tonnes CO e 2 2018 Scope 1 4,901 Scope 2 28.283 Total GHG emissions 33,184 27 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
