Leadership Our governance framework which includes the Board and the four committees it has established, is set out below.
Governance framework The Board Responsible for the long-term success of the Group and for ensuring that there is a framework of appropriate and effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
Simplify Innovate Segment Invest Sets the Groups strategic aims, determines resource allocation to ensure that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the Group to meet its objectives and reviews management performance.
Sets the Groups vision, values and culture and ensures that its obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders are understood and met.
Nomination Committee Audit and Risk Corporate Remuneration Proposes appointments Committee Responsibility Committee to the Board, reviews Oversees financial Committee Sets Remuneration Boards composition, reporting, internal and Approves CR strategy, Policy, oversees its considers succession external audit, internal oversees its execution implementation and planning and reviews time controls and risk and monitors regularly reviews its each Non-Executive management.
See page 86 See page 90 See page 100 See page 102 Executive Committee Oversees the implementation of the Responsible for day-to-day management Monitors risk and internal controls Groups strategy.
and performance across the Group.
Matters reserved for the Board and Committees terms Committee on pages 102 to 111 are incorporated by reference into of reference this Corporate Governance report.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval and a formal structure of delegated authority.
It has delegated certain The decisions which can only be made by the Board are clearly defined responsibilities to the Board committees which all operate in in the schedule of matters reserved for the Board.
This schedule is accordance with Board approved terms of reference.
The Board available at www.
com investors corporate-governance, has also delegated specified management control to the Executive and largely relates to matters of governance and business, where Directors and the Groups Executive Committee.
independence from executive management is important.
No changes were made to this schedule during the year.
The written The principal activities undertaken during the year by the Nomination, terms of reference which each of the committees operates under Audit and Risk, Corporate Responsibility and Remuneration can also be found within the weblink referenced above.
Committees are set out in their respective reports in this Annual Report.
The paragraphs under the heading The Remuneration 78 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Key Board roles and responsibilities Chairman Senior Independent Director Chief Executive Officer Company Secretary Leads the Board.
Sounding board for the Leads the executive Responsible for advising the Promotes high standards Chairman.
management team in delivering Board on all corporate of governance.
Serves as an intermediary for the Group strategy and governance matters and Ensures Board effectiveness.
objectives as determined by best practice.
Available to shareholders if they the Board.
Works with the Chairman to Supports and guides the CEO.
have concerns which contact Day-to-day responsibility of ensure Directors receive through the normal channels has executive management matters.
accurate and timely information either failed to resolve or would Responsible for maintaining to enable them to discharge be inappropriate.
dialogue with the Chairman, the their duties.
Groups shareholders and other Works with Chairman to design Non-Executive Directors stakeholders.
induction programme for new Provide constructive challenge Board members and coordinates and independent perspective.
Monitor strategic execution and performance in accordance with risk and control framework.
Serve on the Boards committees.
Further details about role and responsibilities available at www.
com investors corporate-governance 79 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
