Effectiveness Confirmation of Director independence and time commitment All new Directors participate in a formal induction programme The Board considers Steve Holliday, Jesper Ovesen, Ros Rivaz, which is monitored by the Chairman and is the responsibility of the Margaret Ewing and Regina Benjamin to be independent of Company Secretary.
Its purpose is to familiarise new Directors with management and free from business relationships that could interfere ConvaTec and its operations and provide key information in relation with the exercise of independent judgement.
The Board believes that to the governance and compliance processes and procedures we any shares held by these Directors serve to align their interests with operate.
Typically the induction programme includes an on-site those of the Groups shareholders.
Rick Anderson is not considered meeting at our Deeside R&D facility, thorough briefing meetings independent while he undertakes the role of Interim CEO.
His with members of the Executive Committee and other senior independence will be reassessed when he steps down from the role.
management and bespoke sessions to ensure that each newly appointed Director is able to contribute to the Boards discussions Each of the Directors has confirmed that they have sufficient time as quickly as possible.
to properly fulfil their duties including preparing for Board and committee meetings, reading all papers associated with such Directors are provided with ongoing training by way of updates meetings, attending meetings scheduled to take place in 2019 presented by the Company Secretary as a rolling agenda item at and spending separate time with management.
These updates cover governance and regulatory matters.
During the year, the Board also received updates Directors conflicts of interest and training from the Groups senior management and external The Nomination Committee reviews the interests of candidates prior advisors covering anti-bribery, corporate governance, code of to making recommendations for the appointment of new Directors.
Directors are required to discuss any additional commitments with the Chairman on an ongoing basis to ensure that any conflicts can be During the year we continued to evolve our training programme avoided or managed.
The Nomination Committee continues to be and, in particular, its scope was expanded to include training from satisfied that all Non-Executive Directors have sufficient time to meet external advisors to both the Remuneration and Audit and Risk their commitments to the Group.
Training focused on matters specific to their respective committee activities, including corporate governance updates, Re-appointment of Directors executive remuneration, corporate reporting and audit updates.
All Directors are subject to annual re-election and will be proposed for Board members have also increased the number and frequency election or re-election as appropriate by shareholders at the AGM to of their visits to the Groups sites to enhance their understanding be held on 9 May 2019.
In relation to the re-elections, the Chairman of the Groups products and operations.
has confirmed that following evaluation, including the Board effectiveness review process described below, all Directors continue Operation of the Board and its committees to be effective and have the time available to commit to their role.
The Directors have access to a fully encrypted electronic portal system, which enables them to receive and review Board and Non-Executive Directors are initially appointed for a one-year term and committee papers quickly and securely electronically.
We aim to retiring Directors, if willing to act, will be deemed to be re-appointed hold at least six of our formally scheduled Board meetings in person unless the resolution for their re-appointment is not approved.
and where required, ad hoc Board and committee meetings are held by telephone or in person.
The Company Secretary attends all Board and committee meetings.
Board induction and development The Company Secretary is responsible for advising and supporting the Chairman, the Board and its committees on corporate governance All new Directors participate in a formal induction matters as well as ensuring that there is a smooth flow of information programme which is monitored by the Chairman and is the responsibility to enable effective decision making.
All Directors have access to the of the Company Secretary.
advice and services of the Company Secretary and, through her, have access to independent professional advice in respect of their duties, at the Groups expense.
The induction programme includes an on-site meeting and briefing Board evaluation meetings with members of the Executive Committee and other Following our Listing in October 2016 and in line with previous senior management.
commitments, during the course of the year the first externally facilitated review of the Board and its effectiveness was undertaken by Lintstock Limited Lintstock, who was chosen following a Supported Receive updates Receive updates selection process directed by the Company Secretary.
The selection by ongoing from the s senior from external process involved three firms who met with the SID and the Company training.
Lintstock, and the members of the firm who undertook the review, have no connection with the Group.
84 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 2018 Board effectiveness review Areas of focus Composition of the Understanding of, and Quality of information Management and Oversight of strategy, Board and the dynamics engagement with, key and support available to focus of Board risk and human between members stakeholder groups the Board meetings resources Process Establishment of context for the evaluation and creation of online survey covering the performance of the Board and its committees.
September to November 2018 Completion of online survey by all Board members.
November to December 2018 Interviews with each Board member, undertaken by two Lintstock representatives, to expand upon their online survey responses.
Respondents anonymity ensured throughout the process to promote an open and frank exchange of views.
November to December 2018 Written report summarising the reviews findings.
Lintstock facilitated a discussion of the findings at January 2019 Board meeting and was also available to speak with each committee chair to discuss individual committee performance.
January 2019 Conclusions Action plan agreed by the Board to address the reviews recommendations as follows: Determine the Interim Evolve the Boards Improve communication Schedule site visits Enhance the monitoring CEOs priorities in the composition, succession from management to for Non-Executive of culture and coming months and planning for key roles the Board, and amongst Directors.
behaviours throughout continue the ongoing and the attributes the Board, outside the Group, and the process to recruit a sought in the formal meetings.
impact that the change permanent CEO.
in CEO has in driving cultural changes.
Improve the quality of Develop the quality and Improve the clarity of Further develop the information flow to the focus of Board-level the Groups strategy and risk management Board, the timeliness strategic discussions.
the capacity of the framework and with which papers are Group to deliver on its supporting processes circulated, the analysis strategic plans.
and enhance the Boards of data, and the oversight of the key communication around risks facing the Group, key opportunities and and associated challenges.
85 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
