OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Accountability Roles and responsibilities Board Oversees the Groups risk management framework.
Reviews the principal risks on a six-monthly basis.
Sets the Groups risk appetite.
Assesses whether the Groups risk profile accords with its risk appetite.
Horizon scans will be completed on a regular basis in accordance with the risk management framework.
How we manage risk Our risk management framework and the processes we operate Audit and Risk Committee to manage risks are set out on this page.
Monitors, assesses and reviews the Groups internal control and risk management systems.
Board assessment of risk management and internal control Assesses whether the Groups risk profile accords with its effectiveness risk appetite.
The Board is ultimately responsible for overseeing how we manage Reviews key risks on a regular basis.
both internal and external risks that could impact our business Reviews internal audit reports on effectiveness of mitigations model and strategic goals.
The Board also determines the Groups and controls related to certain key risks.
risk appetite, regularly reviews the Groups principal risks and, on an Reports its findings and recommendations to the Board.
annual basis, reviews the effectiveness of our risk management and internal control systems and undertakes horizon scanning to identify Further information about the role and responsibilities of the new emerging risks.
Further information about the Groups principal Audit and Risk Committee is set out on pages 90 to 98. risks is set out on pages 34 to 43.
During 2018, the Board has directly, or through delegated authority to the Audit and Risk Committee, monitored and reviewed the Groups risk management Executive Committee activities and processes, including a review of the effectiveness of Undertakes top-down risk reviews and manages the risks.
all material risk mitigations and the financial, operational and Reviews and approves bottom-up risks.
The Audit and Risk Committees Participates in risk workshops to identify, evaluate and approve activities in these areas are set out in the Audit and Risk Committee the principal risks to ensure that all necessary actions, report on pages 90 to 98.
Following this review the Board is mitigations and controls are being effectively applied to satisfied that the Groups risk management and internal control minimise residual risk exposure.
Each principal risk has a risk framework is effective.
owner who is a member of the Executive Committee and is accountable for overall management of the relevant risk and the Statement of review associated mitigating actions.
The Boards statement of annual review of effectiveness of the Horizon scans will be completed on a regular basis in Groups risk management and internal control systems is set out accordance with the risk management framework.
Internal Audit and Enterprise Risk team Facilitates risk management workshops to collate top-down risks.
Reviews and collates bottom-up risks from operations, supports management and assesses when risks require escalation.
Prepares annual internal audit plan based on principal risks.
Reports to the Executive Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee.
Supports the Executive Committee in fulfilling its risk management responsibilities.
Assists operations management in embedding risk management processes and maintaining and improving them.
Reviews annually the effectiveness of the risk management framework.
Operations management within Group functions, franchises and business units Undertakes day-to-day risk management activities.
Identifies risks, assesses the level of risk and determines when risks require escalation.
Identifies the current controls operating to mitigate the risk within a business area.
Identifies actions to be implemented to further mitigate and reduce the risk exposure.
Assigns risk owners to lead mitigation actions.
Assigns control owners to monitor the effectiveness of the control.
89 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
