Nomination Committee report Delivery of our strategy is dependent on a talented and effective leadership team and a pipeline of future talent.
The Committee plays a key role in ensuring that we have the best people and a development programme that enables progression.
Sir Christopher Gent Chairman of the Nomination Committee Key areas of responsibility Committee membership, meetings and attendance Leads the process for Board appointments.
The table below shows the number of scheduled meetings Reviews regularly the structure, size and composition of the attended out of the number of meetings members were eligible Board including its skills, knowledge, independence, experience to attend.
and diversity and recommend change.
Director Member since Attended Considers plans and makes recommendations for orderly Board and senior management succession.
Sir Christopher Gent October 2016 3 3 Maintains an appropriate balance of skills and experience within Jesper Ovesen October 2016 3 3 the Group and on the Board.
Steve Holliday October 2016 3 3 Reviews each year the time Non-Executive Directors are Ros Rivaz August 2017 3 3 expected to spend on the Groups matters and whether each Non-Executive Director is devoting enough time to his The Company Secretary and the Executive Vice President, Human or her duties.
Resources, regularly attend the Committees meetings to provide information and support to the Committee to enable it to carry out Activity highlights its duties and responsibilities effectively.
Oversaw change of Novo representative.
Reviewed diversity and inclusion strategy.
Reviewed succession planning and talent management arrangements.
Considered and determined Board-led employee engagement.
2019 priorities Following the 2018 Board effectiveness review, the Committees principal areas of focus in 2019 include: Overseeing the recruitment of a permanent CEO.
86 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Dear Shareholder Effectiveness This report provides a summary of the Nomination Committees As part of the Boards effectiveness review, which is explained on activities during the course of the year.
page 85, the Committees effectiveness was evaluated.
The evaluation indicated that while the Committee was effective in Our role relation to its activities with regard to senior management and other Delivery of our strategy is dependent on a talented and effective employees, its focus on Board-level succession planning needed leadership team and a pipeline of future talent.
The Committee plays to increase.
Key outputs from the evaluation are reflected in the a key role in ensuring that we have the best people to lead our Committees 2019 priorities which are detailed on page 86. business and a development programme that enables our people In particular the Board-level succession planning will include to progress and be promoted to senior management roles.
consideration of the composition of the Board, skills and experience of existing Board members and whether areas require strengthening, Committee activities during the period particularly to support the Groups various significant strategic change programmes.
Key area Matter Appointments Considered interim leadership arrangements Diversity following the retirement of Paul Moraveic.
The Board endorses the aims of the Davies report entitled Women on Boards, the Hampton-Alexander H-A report entitled FTSE Undertaking global search process, led by the Women Leaders Improving Gender Balance in FTSE Leadership, Chairman and Deputy Chairman with the support of and the Parker report entitled A Report into the Ethnic Diversity of other Board members, to identify a new CEO including reviewing potential candidates with a view UK Boards.
The Board reports its gender data for the H-A review to ensuring an appropriate balance of leadership and and was marked as having potential to be on target in the 2018 operational skills and interviewing and assessing H-A report.
At Board level we have members of various nationalities, gender Assisted management by interviewing and assessing and ethnicity who have a good range of skills and expertise.
The key candidates for Executive Committee roles.
Committee will continue to monitor the composition of the Board and ensure any individuals appointed are appointed on merit and Oversaw the change of Novos representative the Board at all times has relevant skills and expertise to perform director.
Succession Reviewed succession planning for the senior planning management team and talent management To achieve diversity in other parts of the Group, in 2017 we launched arrangements.
our diversity and inclusion strategy which set an objective to have Diversity Reviewed deployment of the Groups diversity and 30% of senior management roles held by female executives by inclusion strategy and assessed key metrics to ensure 2020.
While our progress to date in achieving this objective has continued focus on building a sustainable, diverse and been slow, we remain committed to achieving it.
the implementation of our diversity and inclusion strategy is Employee Reviewed outputs from employee engagement included on page 20. engagement survey.
Succession planning and talent review Considered and approved the employee engagement The Committee undertook a detailed review of succession planning process to be undertaken by Regina Benjamin and and talent development across the Groups entire senior management Ros Rivaz.
The Group uses a talent assessment framework based on People strategy Reviewed the Groups new people strategy which learning agility and sustained performance, whilst also continuing sets out the strategic direction of the Groups HR to focus on achieving wider diversity.
This framework is used to function for the period to 2021. generate matrix scores for employees which are linked to, and support, succession planning activities.
Outputs from the succession planning review enabled the Committee to challenge and support changes made during the year to both the Executive Committee and the wider senior management team.
87 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Nomination Committee report continued Employee engagement From time to time we engage international search and selection An all employee engagement survey was undertaken during the firms including Heidrick & Struggles, Spencer Stuart and Russell year.
The Committee reviewed and considered the feedback from Reynolds to identify a range of suitable candidates for Nonthe survey including the plans developed to respond to the feedback.
On occasion Korn Ferry also conduct In addition, the Committee has overseen the implementation of executive search assignments for the Group.
Heidrick & Struggles, Board-led employee engagement activities as required by the 2018 Spencer Stuart, Korn Ferry and Russell Reynolds have no connection Code.
The Committee determined that two Non-Executive with the Group other than they may be engaged to assist with senior Directors will have specific responsibility for such engagement and management appointments from time to time.
a programme of activities which covers the Groups international operations has been developed.
With effect from January 2019 Copies of all appointment letters are available for inspection at the Ros Rivaz and Regina Benjamin assumed responsibility for this Companys registered office.
programme in addition to their existing responsibilities.
On behalf of the Nomination Committee People strategy The Committee undertook a detailed review of the new people strategy for the period up to 2021.
The goal of this strategy is to improve employee and organisational performance, support the Groups Purpose, Vision and Mission and create a values-led performance-driven culture within a diverse and inclusive organisation.
Sir Christopher Gent The Committee will monitor the implementation of the strategy and Chairman of the Nomination Committee its effect over the period.
14 February 2019 Non-Executive Director appointments In July our strategic investor Novo Holdings A S advised that it wished to change its Board representative.
Accordingly Kasim Kutay resigned as a Non-Executive Director in July and was replaced by Sten Scheibye.
Sten has significant healthcare experience as former CEO of Coloplast A S and advisor to Novo.
Further information about Stens background is set out on page 81.
In terms of our Non-Executive Director recruitment process: members of the Committee interview selected candidates who also meet with the Executive Directors.
The Committee then recommend candidates for appointment to the Board.
88 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
