OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Board statements ConvaTec is subject to the requirements of the Code which requires the Board to make a number of statements.
These are set out in the table below.
Code requirement Board statement Where further information is available Compliance with the Code Throughout the financial year ended How we have applied the core 31 December 2018, the Company has principles of the Code been in compliance with the provisions Pages 76 and 77 set out in the Code.
Going concern basis The Directors are satisfied that the Audit and Risk Committee report Group has sufficient financial resources Pages 90 to 98 to continue operating in the foreseeable future and, therefore, have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the Groups 2018 Financial Statements.
Viability statement The Directors have assessed the viability Principal risks and uncertainties of the Group over a three-year period Pages 36 to 43 ending 31 December 2021, taking into account the principal risks facing the Viability statement Group set out on pages 36 to 43 and Pages 44 and 45 the robust downside sensitivity analysis described on pages 44 and 45.
This Audit and Risk Committee report assessment leads the Board to a Pages 90 to 98 reasonable expectation that the Group will remain viable and continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they become due over the Viability Period through to December 2021.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Directors consider that the Annual Audit and Risk Committee report Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, Pages 90 to 98 are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the necessary information for the shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance and its business model and strategy.
Assessment of the Groups The Directors confirm that they have Principal risks and uncertainties principal risks undertaken an assessment of the Pages 36 to 43 principal risks facing the Group.
Audit and Risk Committee report Pages 90 to 98 Annual review of risk management The Board undertook a review of the Audit and Risk Committee report and internal control systems Groups risk management and internal Pages 90 to 98 control systems and concluded that these were effective.
75 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Board statements continued How we have applied the Codes core principles A.
Effectiveness A1 The role of the Board B1 The Boards composition The Board held nine scheduled meetings during the year, of which The Nomination Committee is responsible for regularly reviewing six were held in-person.
They also met on numerous other occasions the composition of the Board and its committees to ensure they in line with business needs, either in person or by telephone.
The have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, knowledge and Boards committees also met during the year.
The Board has a diversity to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities schedule of matters reserved for its approval and a formal structure effectively.
B2 Appointments to the Board A2 A clear division of responsibilities The Nomination Committee is responsible for leading the Board The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly defined.
Information about the Nomination Sir Christopher Gent, the Chairman, is responsible for leading the Committees activities during the year is contained on pages 86 to 88.
Board and Rick Anderson, Interim Chief Executive Officer, is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Group, in line B3 Time commitment with the strategy set by the Board.
On appointment Non-Executive Directors are notified of the time commitment expected from them and this is reviewed regularly.
A3 The Chairmans role Other appointments that may impact existing time commitments The Chairman sets the agenda for meetings, manages the meetings must be agreed in advance with the Chairman.
All Directors have in conjunction with the Company Secretary, facilitates an open and confirmed that they have sufficient time to fulfil their duties and constructive dialogue during them and ensures that the Board responsibilities.
Potential conflicts of interest are reviewed prior to operates effectively.
The Board considered Sir Christopher Gent recommending any new Director for appointment and Directors are independent on appointment in accordance with the independence required to discuss with the Chairman any additional commitments criteria set out in provision B.
on an ongoing basis, to ensure conflicts of interest are managed or avoided.
The Directors external appointments are detailed on pages A4 Non-Executive Directors 80 and 81.
The Non-Executive Directors provide constructive challenge to management and independent perspective and meet in the absence B4 Development of the Executive Directors.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent All new Directors participate in a formal induction programme Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee, Steve Holliday, which is monitored by the Chairman.
In addition, on an ongoing basis and Jesper Ovesen, Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee, are Directors receive regular training and updates in order to refresh their available to engage with shareholders on behalf of the Group.
Further information about these development activities is set out on page 84.
B5 Provision of information and support The Directors have access to a fully encrypted electronic portal system which enables them to receive accurate and timely information.
All Directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary and independent professional advice at the expense of the Group.
B6 Board evaluation During 2018 the Board undertook an independent evaluation of its performance.
This was facilitated by Lintstock Limited.
Information about this evaluation is set out on pages 84 and 85.
B7 Directors re-election All Directors are subject to annual shareholder election or re-election at the AGM.
76 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 C. Accountability E. Relations with shareholders C1 Financial and business reporting E1 Dialogue with shareholders and other stakeholders The Board has established arrangements to ensure that reports The Board is committed to maintaining an active dialogue with and other information published by the Group are fair, balanced shareholders and the Chairman ensures that the Board is kept and understandable.
Please see page 92 for further information.
Furthermore, as behaving The Strategic report on pages 5 to 71 provides information about responsibly and making a positive contribution to society is key to the Groups performance, business model, strategy and the risks the Groups long-term success, the Board actively engages with and uncertainties relating to its future prospects.
Further information about shareholder and other stakeholder engagement activities is set out on page 99.
C2 Risk management and internal control systems The Board sets the Groups risk appetite and monitors and annually E2 Constructive use of the AGM reviews the effectiveness of its risk management and internal The AGM is a key event which provides an opportunity for the Board control systems.
The activities of the Audit and Risk Committee, to engage with shareholders.
Shareholders are encouraged to which assists the Board with its responsibilities in a number of areas participate in the meeting by asking questions and are invited to meet including risk management, are set out on pages 90 to 98. the Board after the meetings formal business has been concluded.
C3 Audit Committee and auditors The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the Audit and Risk Committee including oversight of the Groups financial reporting processes, internal control systems, annual review of the risk management framework and the work undertaken by the external and internal auditors.
The activities of the Audit and Risk Committee during the year are set out on pages 90 to 98.
D. Remuneration D1 The level and components of remuneration The Groups remuneration policy, which is set out on pages 112 to 118, is designed to incentivise strong financial performance, align employee and shareholder interests, reflect good governance and risk management and promote long-term sustainable success.
Shareholders adopted the Groups remuneration policy in 2017 and the remuneration report set out on pages 102 to 111 will be put before shareholders for an advisory vote at the 2019 AGM.
D2 Development of remuneration policy and packages The Remuneration Committee sets the remuneration for all Executive Directors and oversees the remuneration of senior management.
Details of the Remuneration Committees composition and its activities during the year are set on pages 102 to 111.
77 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
