Board of Directors A diverse Board with strong leadership skills and relevant healthcare, operational and financial experience.
Rick Anderson Steve Holliday Interim Chief Executive Officer, 58 Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, 62 Key to Committee Date of appointment Date of appointment October 2016 October 2016 Audit and Risk Committee Independent Independent Corporate Responsibility Committee No Yes Nomination Committee Committee memberships Committee memberships Remuneration Committee Committee Chair Relevant skills and experience: Relevant skills and experience: Significant board level and leadership Significant board level experience in both experience in both executive and nonexecutive and non-executive roles including executive roles.
as former Chief Executive of National Grid plc Extensive global healthcare knowledge and for over nine years until his retirement in July experience including as former Group 2016, Non-Executive Director of Marks and Chairman of Johnson & Johnson, Worldwide Spencer Group plc, a board member of British Franchise Chairman of Cordis Corporation, Borneo Oil and Gas and the lead Non-Executive Vice President of Global Marketing at Racal Director at Defra.
HealthCare and senior roles with Boehringer Operational experience gained during senior Mannheim Pharmaceuticals and Allergan management roles with Exxon in refining, Pharmaceuticals.
Former Managing Director at PTV Healthcare Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering.
Current external appointments Current external appointments Vice Chairman of the Careers and Enterprise Chairman of Revival Healthcare Capital and Company, Chairman of the Board of Trustees Cardiva Medical, serves on the board of PTVs at Crisis, the homeless charity, Vice Chairman and portfolio company Apollo Endosurgery.
Trustee of Business in the Community, Trustee of Step Up to Serve and Chairman of Senvion S. A.
Sir Christopher Gent Frank Schulkes Dr Regina Benjamin Chairman, 70 Chief Financial Officer, 57 Non-Executive Director, 62 Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment October 2016 November 2017 August 2017 Independent Independent Independent Yes on appointment No Yes Committee memberships Committee memberships Committee memberships None Relevant skills and experience: Relevant skills and experience: Relevant skills and experience: Particular knowledge and experience of the Previously CFO of Wittur Group, a privatelyExtensive healthcare knowledge and healthcare sector, serving as Non-Executive held industrial company based in Germany and experience both as a practising physician and Director of GlaxoSmithKline before being as former Executive Vice President and CFO in senior management roles including as appointed as Chairman 2005 to 2015. of GE Healthcare GE 2007 to 2015. former United States Surgeon General 2009 Significant board level experience in both Significant global healthcare experience and to 2013, member of the board of the Medical executive and non-executive roles.
strong financial background across a variety Association of Alabama and the first Young Sir Christopher was a member of the Board of increasingly senior financial roles which Physician to be elected to the American of Directors of Vodafone Group Plc 1985 to includes 27 years spent with GE.
Medical Association Board of Trustees.
2003, also serving as its Chief Executive In-depth knowledge of the US healthcare Current external appointments Officer 1997 to 2003, Director of Verizon system.
Wireless and of Ferrari SpA and NonHolds an endowed chair in Public Health Executive Director of China Mobile Hong Sciences at Xavier University of Louisiana.
Kong Limited and of Lehman Brothers.
Current external appointments Extensive experience running and overseeing CEO and a practising physician at the Bayou La global operations.
Batre Rural Health Clinic in Alabama, which Experienced in mergers and acquisitions and Regina founded in 1990, Non-Executive Director strategy development, as former CEO of of Diplomat Pharmacy, Computer Programs and Vodafone Group Plc and Senior Adviser to Systems, Inc. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals and Bain & Company.
Health Plan, and Ascension Hospital System.
80 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Sten Scheibye Dr Ros Rivaz Margaret Ewing Non-Executive Director, 67 Non-Executive Director, 63 Non-Executive Director, 63 Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment July 2018 June 2017 August 2017 Independent Independent Independent No Yes Yes Committee memberships Committee memberships Committee memberships None Relevant skills and experience: Relevant skills and experience: Relevant skills and experience: Substantial healthcare knowledge and Substantial healthcare knowledge and Margaret, a Chartered Accountant, has significant operational experience as former experience as former Chief Operating Officer significant financial experience including as President and CEO of Coloplast A S 1995 of Smith & Nephew plc 2011 to 2014.
Vice Chairman and Managing Partner of to 2008.
Extensive global operational experience in Deloitte LLP 2007 to 2012, Group Chief Board experience including previous roles as previous senior management positions with Financial Officer of BAA plc 2002 to 2006 Chairman of the Novo Nordisk Foundation and Smith & Nephew, ICI, Tate & Lyle and Diageo.
and Trinity Mirror plc 2000 to 2002. of Novo Holdings A S. Board experience in current roles see below Strong board experience, having served as Extensive governance experience including and as former Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Director of Whitbread plc, as a member of the Danish Corporate Rexam plc and Chair of its Remuneration Standard Chartered plc and the CBI.
Governance Committee 2003 to 2011, Committee, and Non-Executive Director of the Particular board level audit and risk experience also serving as the committees Chair 2009 Government sponsored Your Life initiative, including as a former member of the Audit and to 2011. which encouraged 14 to 16 year olds to pursue Risk Committees of Standard Chartered plc, qualifications in mathematics and physics.
Whitbread plc as Chair of the Committee, Current external appointments Honorary doctorate from Southampton CBI as Chair, the John Lewis Partnership and Chairman of Healthcare Denmark, BioInnovation University where Ros was also Vice Chair of The Lawn Tennis Association, and in current Institute, EA S Knud Hjgaards Hus, Hojgaard the Universitys Council until stepping down roles see below.
Danish Industry Foundation, The Knud Hojgaard Current external appointments Foundation and The Rich.
Current external appointments Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit Also a Senior Advisor to Novo Holdings A S. Non-Executive Director of RPC Group plc, and Risk Committee of ITV Group plc and a Boparan Holdings, MoD Defence Equipment and Trustee of the Board, Chair of the Finance and Support Board, and of CEVA Logistics AG.
Audit Committee and a member of the Senior Independent Director of Computercenter Investment Committee and the Governance, plc and Chair of its Remuneration Committee.
Reputation and Risk Committee of Great Ros is also a member of the Audit and Risk, Ormond Street Hospital Childrens Charity.
Remuneration and Nominations Committees on a number of boards on which she serves.
Jesper Ovesen Non-Executive Director, 61 Date of appointment Gender Tenure.. October 2016 Independent 1.
2 years: 44% Committee memberships Relevant skills and experience: Chartered accountant and extensive financial.
knowledge and experience including in the roles below and previously as a Director of Corporate Finance for Novo Nordisk A S..
Substantial executive experience as former Executive Chairman of Nokia Siemens Networks 2011 to 2014, Chief Financial Officer of TDC 2008 to 2011, Chief Experience Executive of Kirkbi Group, Chief Financial Officer of The Lego Group, Denmark Switzerland 2004 to 2007 and of Danske Public Bank, Denmark 1998 to 2004.
Non-executive board level experience as Audit Finance Chair of Lundbeck.
Healthcare Current external appointments Deputy Chairman of SEB, one of the largest M&A banks in the Nordic region, and Audit Chair of Sunrise Communications Group.
Global Operations 81 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Board of Directors continued Board composition Sten was appointed on 3 July 2018 and has substantial experience At the end of the year the Board comprised nine Directors: within the healthcare industry, holding executive and director roles.
the Chairman, two Executive Directors of which the CEO is a Further information about Sten is set out on page 81.
Sten is not Non-Executive Director performing the CEO role on an interim a member of any Board committee.
basis, five Independent Non-Executive Directors and one Non-Executive Director.
In October 2018, we announced Paul Moraviecs retirement as Chief Executive Officer and cessation as a Director of the Group.
The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The Board approved the appointment of Rick Anderson as Interim In accordance with the Code there is a clear division of responsibility Chief Executive Officer.
At the same time the Chairman and Deputy between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
Each have Chairman commenced a search for a permanent Chief Executive Board approved roles and responsibilities and the documentation and appointed an external search agency, Russell Reynolds, to assist detailing their specific roles and responsibilities is available at with the process.
Rick, who was a Non-Executive Director of www.
ConvaTec and a former Group Chairman of Johnson & Johnson, has significant operational and board level healthcare experience.
Board changes during the year Changes to the Board during the year included the appointment of The search, selection and appointment process for Executive Sten Scheibye as Non-Executive Director in place of Kasim Kutay, Directors and independent Non-Executive Directors is described who resigned from his position as Non-Executive Director with in the Nomination Committee report on page 88. effect from 3 July 2018, following Novo Holdings A S Novo desire to effect a rotation in their nominated Board representative.
Committee membership changes during the year As a significant shareholder in the Company, Novo is entitled to There was one change to committee membership during the year.
appoint one Non-Executive Director to the Board for so long as it Rick Anderson ceased to be a member of the Audit and Risk and its associates are entitled to exercise, or control the exercise of, Committee on his appointment as Interim CEO.
The current 10% or more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all members of each Board committee are detailed in the relevant matters at general meetings of the Group.
committee reports on pages 86, 90, 100 and 102.
Relevant skills and expertise The Board benefits from a wide variety of skills, experience and knowledge.
Public Director company Finance Healthcare M&A Global Operational Sir Christopher Gent Frank Schulkes Steve Holliday Rick Anderson Regina Benjamin Margaret Ewing Jesper Ovesen Ros Rivaz Sten Scheibye appointed 3 July 2018 82 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Board meetings and attendance Steve Holliday and Kasim Kutay were unable to attend one During the year, the Board convened on nine scheduled occasions, scheduled Board meeting each.
On each occasion, they provided including six in person meetings.
One of these scheduled meetings comments in advance of the meeting.
was held at our office in Bridgewater, New Jersey, when the business of the meeting included an in-depth review of the Americas region All Directors, other than Sten Scheibye who joined the Board in July and the newly formed Home Distribution Group.
2018, attended the AGM held in May 2018.
The Company Secretary attends all meetings.
External advisors Board activities in 2018 are also invited at the request of the Chairman where further Set out below is a summary of the Boards activities during the year.
independent guidance and expertise is required to facilitate the Board This is intended to provide an overview of the key areas the Board in carrying out its duties.
Where appropriate, senior executives below focuses on and the role the Board plays in overseeing the execution Board level, including members of the Executive Committee, attend of ConvaTecs strategy.
relevant parts of meetings to make presentations on a range of issues.
During the year presentations covered the Brexit planning Key matters the Board considered during 2018 process, health and safety, global supply chain efficiency plans, a Key area review of the EMEA region, people strategy review including talent development and diversity and inclusion, and reviews of each Strategy Reviewed and approved J&R Medical acquisition.
Reviewed and approved refreshed execution model.
Involving senior management in these meetings provides Oversaw appointment of new Executive Committee the Board with direct access to a broader group of executives and members.
facilitates assessments when considering succession plans.
Performance Monitored trading and financial performance and discussed and approved management actions to The table below shows the number of formally scheduled Board address underperformance.
meetings attended by each Director out of the number they were Reviewed and approved 2019 annual operating plan.
entitled to attend during the year.
In addition to the formally Reviewed Global Operations.
scheduled meetings, the Board also met on 12 other occasions Reviewed efficiency programme.
in person and via telephone conferences to consider and approve Reviewed each franchise and their respective new matters outside formally scheduled meetings.
The matters product development programmes.
discussed at these meetings included the annual review of the Stakeholder Regularly discussed shareholder feedback with Groups strategy, the review and approval of our refreshed execution engagement Investor Relations team and brokers.
model, the approval of the J&R Medical acquisition and other ad hoc Executive Directors, Chairman, SID and Chair of the items.
Attendance at these meeting was high and those Directors Audit and Risk Committee held meetings with key unable to attend provided their input to the Chairman or SID prior to shareholders.
the meeting and were briefed afterward on the meeting discussions.
Oversight of work conducted by CR Committee including approval of CR strategy, inaugural climate Formally change strategy and CR objectives.
scheduled Director Role meetings People Oversight of CEO recruitment process.
Approval of people strategy including talent Sir Christopher Gent Chairman 9 9 development and diversity and inclusion.
Rick Anderson Interim Chief Executive Reviewed succession planning for Executive Officer 9 9 Directors and Executive Committee.
Paul Moraviec Reviewed outputs from employee engagement survey.
member until 14 October 2018 Chief Executive Officer 8 8 Discussed and approved Remuneration Committee Frank Schulkes Chief Financial Officer 9 9 recommendations.
Steve Holliday Deputy Chairman, SID Governance Externally facilitated Board effectiveness review.
and Non-Executive and risk Reviewed risk appetite and approval of the Groups Director 8 9 principal risks.
Update on Brexit planning and risk mitigation.
Jesper Ovesen Non-Executive Director 9 9 Update and consideration of key corporate Ros Rivaz Non-Executive Director 9 9 governance developments.
Margaret Ewing Non-Executive Director 9 9 Appointment of Non-Executive Director.
Regina Benjamin Non-Executive Director 9 9 Oversight of work conducted by, and reports from, the Boards Audit and Risk Committee, Nomination Sten Scheibye and Remuneration Committees.
appointed 3 July 2018 Non-Executive Director 4 4 Kasim Kutay member until 3 July 2018 Non-Executive Director 4 5 83 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
