Governance in action Strategy and strategic drivers The Boards governance role Developments during the year Approves the Companys strategy, reviews Reviewed strategy and commissioned the Strategy subsequent progress and makes decisions development of a plan to improve to support strategic delivery, including commercial and operational performance.
ensuring that the necessary financial and In November reviewed full diagnostic and human resources are in place to enable the update to develop Pivot to Growth, our Company to meet its objectives.
Reviewed and approved J&R Medical acquisition, including valuation and associated accounting implications.
Oversaw appointment of new Executive Committee members.
Challenges management to drive innovation Reviewed success or otherwise of new Innovate to enable the Companys future growth product launches and impact on gross through the development of new products margin.
and services to continue to meet evolving Requested acceleration in the roll-out of customer and healthcare professional needs.
certain new products and improvements in product launch execution to deliver greater success.
Sets operational and financial targets and Reviewed, challenged and approved the Simplify reviews the Companys performance against efficiency programme to be implemented these targets.
as part of our refreshed execution model.
Reviewed and approved the key change programmes which are detailed on pages 30 and 31.
Oversaw the implementation of first Invest phase improvements in financial management information and data analytics to enable better monitoring of performance.
Promotes highest standards of good Undertook externally facilitated Board Good and effective governance.
effectiveness review and identified areas governance for improvement.
Considered enhanced internal processes and procedures and the appointment of a new head of Internal Audit and Enterprise Risk and the recruitment of a new team to support her.
Audit and Risk Committee oversaw structured transition of key corporate finance functions from the US to UK.
Ensures that at all times the Group operates CR Committee reviewed and reconfirmed Responsible business in a way that will engender trust, benefit all CR strategy.
stakeholders and contribute to society.
Reviewed inaugural climate change strategy.
Nomination Committee approved 2019 Board employee engagement programme.
74 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
