Audit and Risk Committee report The Committee plays a key role in ensuring the integrity of the Groups financial reporting, the effectiveness and independence of the audit process and monitoring and reviewing all risk management processes.
Jesper Ovesen Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee In addition, and following receipt of the FRCs letter referred to on Key areas of responsibility page 96, the Committee has, during the preparation of the 2018 Ensuring the integrity of financial information published by the Annual Report and Accounts, overseen the implementation of all Group, including monitoring the Groups financial reporting recommendations made by the FRC.
procedures and reviewing and challenging significant financial estimates, assumptions and judgements.
Pages 92 and 93 provide more detail on the Committees activities.
Reviewing and assessing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control processes Committee membership, meetings and attendance and systems.
Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness and independence Director Member since Attended of the Groups internal audit function, agreeing the scope of Jesper Ovesen October 2016 8 8 audits to be conducted each year, reviewing the results of such Steve Holliday October 2016 7 8 audits and monitoring the implementation of agreed internal 1 audit recommendations.
Rick Anderson October 2016 7 7 Assessing the procedures and controls designed to ensure Margaret Ewing August 2017 8 8 independence and effectiveness of the external auditors, 1.
Rick Anderson stepped down from the Committee on 15 October 2018 reviewing the external audit work plan and the findings of following his appointment as Interim CEO.
the external audit, assessing the quality and effectiveness of the audit and the performance of the auditors and approving During the year the following individuals also regularly, or when the provision of all non-audit services.
relevant, attended the Committees meetings: CFO Activity highlights CEO The principal matters the Committee reviewed relating to the Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate financial year ended 31 December 2018 were: Development The Groups 2018 interim and final results announcements Company Secretary and presentations and ancillary matters and the 2018 Annual Corporate Controller, and where appropriate, other members Report and Accounts ensuring that they were fair, balanced and of the Controlling function understandable.
Key audit partners of the external auditor, Deloitte The proposed 2018 interim and final dividends and distributable Chief Compliance Officer reserves planning.
Vice President, Internal Audit and Enterprise Risk The Viability statement of the Board for inclusion in the 2018 Chief Information Officer Annual Report and Accounts.
Vice President, Tax The Groups Q1 and Q3 trading update announcements.
Assessment of the impairment of the Companys investment in 2019 priorities its immediate subsidiary, Cidron Healthcare Limited.
The Committees principal areas of focus in 2019, in addition to Transition of the Corporate Finance, Tax and Internal Audit those areas covered in 2018 and those required within the functions from the US to the UK.
Committees key areas of responsibility, will include: The Financial Reporting Councils FRC Audit Quality Review Ensuring the continuing development and improvement of the of the external auditors audit of the 2017 Financial Statements.
Groups systems and resourcing of risk management including The FRCs corporate reporting review of the Companys 2017 the identification and review of emerging and business specific Annual Report and Accounts.
risks and internal audit and the further embedding of risk Improvements in management information and reporting.
Alternative Performance Measures APMs, including Overseeing improvement in the availability and quality of strengthening disclosure requirements under FRC and financial information, data and analytics.
European Security and Markets Authority ESMA guidelines Overseeing improvements in the processes applied within the and the Groups internal policies.
Group to provide reliable forecasts and budgets.
Evolution of the Groups internal audit and risk management Reviewing and agreeing plans for the refinancing of the Groups functions, processes and frameworks and the structure and borrowing facilities that expire in 2021. resourcing of the respective teams.
Overseeing developments in the use of APMs.
The audits undertaken by the internal audit function during Continuing to build a constructive interaction between the year.
management and the Committee outside formal meetings.
The effectiveness and quality of the external audit.
90 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Dear Shareholder The Vice President, Internal Audit and Enterprise Risk and the This report provides a summary of the Audit and Risk Committees external auditor have direct access to the Committees members activities relating to the financial period ended 31 December 2018. should they wish to raise any concerns outside formal meetings and at least annually, and as required, they are given the opportunity to Committee composition and meeting attendance discuss matters with the Committee without executive The Committee is comprised entirely of Independent Non-Executive management being present.
The secretary of the Committee is Clare Bates, the Groups The names of the Committee members are set out on page 90 Company Secretary.
together with the roles of the individuals who attend relevant parts of the Committees meetings.
Rick Anderson stepped down from In planning its own agenda, and reviewing the audit plans of the the Committee on his appointment as Interim CEO.
internal and external auditors, the Committee takes account of significant issues and risks, both operational and financial, likely to The Committee members have between them a wide range of have an impact on the Companys financial statements and or the financial, audit, risk management and business experience.
The Companys execution and delivery of its strategy.
The Committee Committee considers that Margaret Ewing and I have recent and also addresses specific queries or reviews referred to it by the Board relevant financial experience for the purposes of the Code.
I have chaired the Committee since October 2016.
I am a qualified Development and effectiveness Chartered Accountant with over 37 years financial experience.
During the year the Committee received an update from Deloitte on Previously I have held a number of board level financial positions in corporate governance issues specifically relating to the Committees large global companies including CFO of TDC, The Lego Group and activities, including the relevant requirements of the 2018 UK Danske Bank.
In addition I have significant audit committee and Corporate Governance Code.
My fellow committee members also have extensive relevant financial, audit and risk management As part of the Boards annual effectiveness review, which is expertise.
In particular Margaret Ewing was formerly CFO of BAA explained on page 85, the Committees effectiveness was evaluated.
plc and Trinity Mirror plc and Managing Partner of Deloitte LLP.
Overall, the review concluded that the Committee is responding Margaret also has substantial audit committee experience and appropriately to its terms of reference and will continue to develop currently chairs ITV Group plcs Audit and Risk Committee.
The key outputs of the review are reflected in the Committees 2019 priorities which are detailed on page 90.
Steve Holliday has significant board level experience, including as Chief Executive Officer of National Grid plc for over nine years until his retirement in July 2016.
This role required him to have a very strong financial understanding coupled with operational capability.
Detailed biographies of all Committee members can be found on pages 80 and 81.
The Committee will continue to review its membership to ensure the skills and experience of its members align with the business as it develops.
The Committee held eight formal meetings, with three meetings timed to align with the financial and audit cycles of the Group.
Outside the Committees formal meetings, I regularly met members of management, including the Chief Financial Officer, Vice President, Internal Audit and Enterprise Risk, Corporate Controller and the lead external audit partner and senior members of the audit team to discuss matters relating to the Committees activities.
Other members of the Committee also met with management and the external auditors during the year.
91 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Audit and Risk Committee report continued Committee activities Key area Activities Financial reporting Reviewed: 2018 interim and final results, Q1 and Q3 The financial statements and trading announcements released throughout the year, including all results and Alternative Performance disclosures and notes, and related public presentations and scripts, together with papers from Measures management summarising the process for preparing the underlying Financial Statements.
The appropriateness and application of key accounting policies and the areas of significant judgement, assumption and estimate, including how those judgements, assumptions and estimates were determined.
Review of the appropriateness of items adjusted in APMs and their disclosure in the Financial Statements.
This matter is discussed in detail in the Significant issues and other accounting judgements table below.
Reports from Deloitte following the completion of their review in relation to the interim results and audit in respect of the final results and their audit process.
The Deloitte reports on the interim and full year results included specific focus on areas identified as having significant audit risk or other audit emphasis.
Going concern and viability statements Reviewed the process and stress testing undertaken to support the Groups Viability Statement and reviewed documentation prepared to support the Groups Going Concern statements.
Concluded that the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts had been properly prepared on a going concern basis and approved and recommended the draft Viability statement to the Board.
These matters are discussed further in the Significant issues and other accounting judgements section of this report.
Impairment review of Cidron Healthcare As part of the pre-IPO reorganisation of the Group in October 2016, ConvaTec Group Plc acquired the Limited CHL in the Company only entire share capital of CHL.
CHL owns the rest of the ConvaTec Group companies with the exception of accounts of ConvaTec Group Plc ConvaTec Holdings Limited.
The acquisition was accounted for using merger accounting and the difference between the fair value and the nominal value of the shares acquired was taken to the merger reserve.
The carrying value of the investment in CHL was established based on the Companys IPO offer share price of 2.250.
Following the profit warning in October 2018 and the subsequent fall in share price, management identified an impairment trigger for the review of CHL in the company only accounts of ConvaTec Group Plc.
The Committee reviewed, considered and challenged managements impairment review of CHL.
This matter is discussed in the Significant issues and other accounting judgements section of this report.
Fair, balanced and understandable Considered whether the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, and whether they provide the information necessary for shareholders and other stakeholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
The process to support the Committees conclusions in respect of this included: The Annual Report and Accounts preparation process being led by a senior management working group, and including review by the Executive Committee, members of this Committee and the Board and externally reviewed by Deloitte, Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer and, in relation to the Directors Remuneration report, Kepler Mercer.
A qualitative review of disclosures and internal consistency throughout the Annual Report and Accounts.
The qualitative review included but was not limited to the following matters: Assessing the accuracy and integrity of the messages conveyed in the report and appropriateness of the level of detail in the reporting.
Correlation between the key working papers and results for each of the significant issues and judgements considered by the Audit and Risk Committee and the external auditors in the period and the disclosures in the report.
Consistency between the Strategic report, Corporate Governance report, Financial review and the Financial Statements.
Balance of statutory reported results and non-IFRS measures, including a clear and comprehensive reconciliation between them and consideration of why the non-IFRS measures were being provided.
External audit Reviewed and carefully considered the external auditors planned scope of work for the audit of the Groups Financial Statements and the assessment of risk and materiality on which the plan is based.
Monitored the progress of the implementation of the audit plan throughout the year and considered issues and judgements as they arose and any resulting required changes of audit scope.
Reviewed the auditors regular reports to the Committee, in particular in respect of the interim review and annual audit, and discussed key findings and conclusions with the audit partners and management.
Considered the performance, effectiveness and quality of the external audit process.
The Committee demands a robust, quality and effective audit with strong reporting lines to the Committee.
Approved the terms of engagement of the external auditors, including the audit and non-audit fees, ensuring that the required scope of audit work is not constrained by the cost of assurance.
All non-audit engagements are approved by the Committee, in strict accordance with its policy on non-audit engagements performed by the external auditors.
Taking into consideration the results of the above activities, recommended to the Board that a resolution for the reappointment of Deloitte for a further year as the Companys auditor be proposed to shareholders at the AGM in May 2019.
92 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Key area Activities Internal controls and risk management Reviewed the Groups system of financial internal controls and risk management which are set out on page 89 and their effectiveness and assisted the Board in relation to compliance with the Code in this respect.
This included reviewing: The annual process and testing programme for financial controls.
Continued year-on-year improvement in non-material deficiencies previously identified was noted.
The ongoing Global Financial Controls improvement project, including the top-down risk assessment process and the development of global standards.
The internal audits completed during the year with no major control weaknesses identified.
The rigorous regulatory and compliance framework and the conclusions of the independent internal compliance reviews undertaken throughout the year across all aspects of the Group.
The key internal financial controls, which were included in the internal audit programme.
This review included an update at every Committee meeting from the Corporate Controller on the accounting issues and key aspects of the financial controls and updates on risk management from the Chief Compliance Officer and the Vice President Internal Audit and Enterprise Risk.
The preparation work for the adoption of the new IFRS 16 Leases effective 1 January 2019, including a financial impact assessment and tax impacts.
The Committee concluded that the Group has taken the necessary steps for the implementation of the new standard and identification of the financial implications of adoption of the standard.
Monitoring of financial performance throughout the year and its alignment with information received from management by the Board.
The risk management and controls software being implemented for reporting on financial controls, internal audit and risk management.
The evolving and improving risk management process and framework.
Deep dive presentations on a number of specific issues including Brexit, anti-bribery and corruption processes, cyber-security and GDPR implementation.
Management and financial information Oversaw the planning and ongoing implementation of improvements to be made in the quality and and reporting availability of management and financial information and reporting, including implementation of SAP data warehouse, recruitment of function specialists to manage the data warehouse and ongoing development of a real-time dashboard for key financial and non-financial metrics.
The Committee will continue to monitor the ongoing improvements in management information and reporting.
Treasury Policy foreign exchange Reviewed reports from management regarding evaluation of foreign currency exposures across the Group hedging and proposed solutions to mitigate exposures, both short and long-term.
The Committee approved the proposed short-term option and use of simple short form forward contracts as required.
Approved foreign currency risk management policy including accounting and governance framework.
Compliance and Whistleblowing Received reports from the Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Development and the Chief Compliance Officer in relation to the Groups compliance programme, and monitored the implementation of the programme across the Group.
Reviewed reports from the Groups independent confidential whistleblower hotline and managements responses, including investigating issues raised via the hotline, conclusions of investigations and any required actions.
Information about this hotline is included on page 19.
Tax Received and reviewed tax updates on various issues including: Brexit planning, including mitigation plans in relation to potential dividend withholding tax changes.
Tax judgement issues within the 2018 Financial Statements.
Oversaw the transition of the tax function from the US to the UK following the appointment of the new UK based Vice President, Tax.
Approved the Groups refreshed global tax statement.
Cyber security and GDPR Oversaw the progression of the Groups cyber-security programme including a review of the Groups cyber security strategy and plans by external advisers and implementation of their recommendations.
Oversaw implementation of the Groups GDPR programme and tracked progress against a phased plan.
Discussions on specific matters Considered and reviewed the following matters: The FRCs letter related to its corporate reporting review in relation to the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
Conclusions of the FRCs Audit Quality Review of Deloittes audit of the 2017 Financial Statements.
Home Distribution Groups HDGs revenue cycle.
Insurance, treasury and debt covenant compliance.
Anti-bribery and corruption policy compliance.
The Committee did not hold any meetings with shareholders during the year, however the Chair of the Committee participated in a shareholder governance meeting in November 2018.
93 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Audit and Risk Committee report continued Significant issues and other accounting judgements considered by the Committee in relation to the Groups 2018 Financial Statements and disclosures Other than in respect of the initial consideration of the proposed treatment of certain costs as APMs see the table below, in relation to which agreement was eventually reached, there were no topics where there was significant disagreement between management, the external auditor and the Committee, or unresolved issues that needed to be referred to the Board.
Set out in the table below is information on the key matters considered relating to the financial period ended 31 December 2018.
Significant area considered How the Committee challenged and addressed Outcome Revenue recognition in Considered the revenue recognition policy and monitoring controls in place to The Committee agreed that the accordance with IFRS 15 ensure adherence to the policy.
Received an in-depth report on HDGs revenue appropriate controls and monitoring Revenue from Contracts cycle, being an identified risk area in relation to revenue recognition and processes were in place to ensure the with Customers, effective complexity.
correct application of the revenue 1 January 2018 recognition accounting policy.
Considered the reports provided by Deloitte on revenue recognition review procedures performed during the interim review and full year audit.
IFRS 9 Financial Considered the impact of the new statement on the classification and The Committee concluded that the Instruments, effective measurement of financial assets, the related impairment model and hedge Groups existing accounting policy in 1 January 2018 accounting required.
Also, the impact assessment on the Groups financial relation to financial instruments was statements and accounting policies and managements conclusions on the materially aligned to IFRS 9 and adoption impact on existing accounting treatment.
of IFRS 9 would not have a material impact on the financial statements.
Discussed with the external auditors, the review they had undertaken to assure themselves that managements assessment of impact was appropriate.
IFRS 16 Leases, effective The Committee considered the scope and completeness of the internal review The Committee accepted managements 1 January 2019 that had been undertaken by management to assess the financial impact of proposal in relation to practical applying IFRS 16 on the Groups Financial Statements.
The Committee also expedients, initial measurement and considered the practical expedients to be applied on transition, initial discount rates and concluded the measurement and discount rate assumptions.
disclosures, including expected financial implications, in the 2018 Annual Report Deloitte undertook progress reviews during the year to assess managements and Accounts were appropriate.
The readiness to adopt IFRS 16 and the quality of appropriate disclosures during the Committee also reviewed and approved year on the expected financial impact of adopting the Standard.
The Committee managements plans in relation to the discussed the progress reviews with the auditors.
implementation of appropriate controls and systems to ensure ongoing The Committee also reviewed and discussed the relevant IFRS 16 disclosures in compliance and accurate reporting the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts with reference to the guidance given by in respect of IFRS 16. the FRC in their letter to Audit Committee Chairs and Finance Directors on 24 October 2018.
Valuation of goodwill and Management undertake an annual review, or at other times if circumstances The Committee devoted significant time the impairment testing indicate a possible issue, to determine if the carrying value of goodwill is impaired both outside the formal meeting and in thereof, including assisted by external advisers.
This impairment review requires the exercise of it to considering the outcome of sensitivity analysis and considerable judgement and application of assumptions by management, managements review of the appropriate stress testing including estimates used in deriving future cash flows and discount rates applied carrying value of goodwill and, having to these cash flows, reflecting current market assessments of the specific risks considered the sensitivity analysis and and the time value of money.
The estimation process is complex due to the the assumptions and judgements applied, inherent risks and uncertainties associated with long-term forecasting.
agreed with managements goodwill valuation.
The Committee considered managements review of potential impairment of goodwill and gained an understanding of the level of headroom in that calculation The Committee agreed that there was and the sensitivity of that headroom to changes in key assumptions, such as sufficient evidence for 180 Medical, the applicable pre-tax discount rate used and the market and company growth Woodbury Catheter, Woodbury rate assumptions.
Incontinence and the in-year acquisition of J&R Medical to be consolidated into Commissioned and received a report from management on the Groups cash a single CGU being the Home Delivery generating units CGUs and considered the appropriateness of the current Group.
The Committee concluded that structure and the potential triggers for reassessment of the CGU structure.
all other CGUs should remain unchanged.
As part of the consideration of the consolidation of 180 Medical, Woodbury Catheter, Woodbury Incontinence and J&R Medical into a single CGU, considered the individual impairment reviews undertaken by management to demonstrate that there would be no indicators of impairment under the previously reported CGUs.
Discussed the outcome of these various goodwill related reviews with management and the external auditors and received the auditors views on the matters concerned, which were consistent with managements conclusions.
94 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Significant area considered How the Committee challenged and addressed Outcome Impairment review of CHL Considered managements assessment of the Value in Use VIU of CHL as at The Committee dedicated time both 31 December 2018, given that the fall in the Group share price following the inside and outside the scheduled Audit trading update on 15 October 2018, was a trigger for an impairment review.
and Risk Committee meetings to consider and discuss managements The valuation of CHL includes inputs, including discount rate, which are key impairment review and calculations of sources of estimate uncertainty and require significant judgement in their the impairment charge in relation to CHL.
Following discussion and recalculation, The Committee challenged management on the discount rates applied in the the Committee agreed with initial calculations and the resulting implied control premium.
The Committee managements impairment calculations, requested that management review and recalculate the VIU using a discount judgements and the associated rate at the conservative end of the relevant discount range.
The Committee disclosures in the 2018 Annual Report benchmarked the VIU to the Groups market capitalisation.
The Committee discussed the appropriateness of managements assumptions and outcome of the impairment review with the external auditor.
Recognition of deferred Considered managements proposal to recognise a previously unrecognised Following discussion and further analysis tax assets deferred tax asset of $30.6 million resulting from the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act by management related to the deferred enacted on 22 December 2017 and a deferred tax liability release of $30.4 million tax asset and liability, and considering in respect of unremitted earnings.
Management provided detailed papers setting Deloittes assessment the Committee out the background to the deferred tax asset and liability and the treatment concurred with managements proposals.
The Committee also considered the external auditors assessment of the proposed treatment of the deferred tax asset and liability.
Alternative performance Reviewed the ESMA and FRC guidelines in relation to APMs, the FRCs 2018 The Committee sought additional measures Corporate Reporting Thematic Review and the FRCs letter in relation to our explanations from management for all 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
In addition, the Committee consider the external Considered managements supporting evidence and arguments regarding auditors challenge of managements proposed adjustments to IFRS reported measures and disclosures in light of the proposals.
After receiving managements ESMA guidance and the Groups accounting policies, including its specific policy further explanations and Deloittes on APMs.
feedback, and following an ad hoc meeting of the Committee to discuss this matter, the Committee agreed to managements proposal to treat the one-off costs related to Business Services transformation as adjusting items in the 2019 financial statements and future impacted years.
Viability and Going Since September 2018 the Board has been refreshing the Groups execution The Committee approved and Concern statements model and developing a five-year financial and operating plan.
Taking into recommended the draft Viability The Groups methodology consideration the Groups prospects and risks, the Board approved the Groups statement to the Board.
for the production of the strategic plan and refreshed execution model in January 2019.
This strategic plan Viability statement is set has formed the basis of the Viability assessment.
The Committee approved and out on pages 44 to 45. recommended the draft Going Concern The Boards Viability The Committee specifically considered: statement to the Board.
statement and the Going The relevant assessment period.
The Committee considered the planning Concern statement are horizon and the applicability of a three or five-year assessment period.
The Committee considered and discussed the following in determining a three-year viability period.
A large proportion of Group debt matures in 2021. b.
Significant investments being made over the next two to three years under the refreshed execution model.
c. Our R&D and production cycles.
d. Ability to respond in a timely manner to reasonably possible Group specific and market events.
e. Implicitly it is harder to accurately forecast the latter years of the five-year plan.
The list of principal risks set out on pages 36 to 43 and whether the appropriate downside scenarios were encapsulated.
Stress test scenarios covering the Groups key financial performance and liquidity risks, being foreign exchange sensitivity, revenue growth and gross margin downsides and higher capital requirements and a combined downside case sensitivity assuming simultaneous occurrence of all the above scenarios.
The Committee assessed the process and stress testing to support the Viability statement and the Groups Going Concern statement.
With regard to the Going Concern statement, considered the Groups available sources of funding and, in particular, tested the covenants and assessed the available headroom.
Considered cash flow projections and assumptions.
95 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Audit and Risk Committee report continued After reviewing the detailed topic papers, presentations and reports In September 2018, the Group received a letter from the FRCs from management, the Committee is satisfied that the Financial Corporate Reporting Review team, which raised a number of Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 appropriately queries following its review of the 2017 Annual Report and address the critical judgements and key estimates, both in respect of Accounts.
The Audit and Risk Committee assisted management the amounts reported and the disclosures made.
The Committee is in reviewing and drafting a response to the letter, which included also satisfied that the significant assumptions used for determining commitments by the Group to provide additional information in the value of assets and liabilities have been appropriately scrutinised, the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts.
The Corporate Reporting challenged and are sufficiently robust.
The Committee has discussed Review team has closed its enquiry.
A number of suggestions for these issues with the auditor during the audit planning process and improvements were noted, and these have been taken into account at the finalisation of the year-end audit and is satisfied that its in preparing the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts.
conclusions are in line with those drawn by the auditor in relation to these issues.
External audit and tendering process At the AGM on 10 May 2018 shareholders approved the As a result of its review of the significant issues and accounting reappointment of Deloitte LLP as the Groups external auditor.
judgements described above, in its advisory capacity, the Committee During the year, at Deloittes request, the senior statutory auditor confirmed to the Board, that the key accounting choices and was changed to Mark Mullins.
judgements were appropriate and served to provide a fair, balanced and understandable view of the Groups Financial Statements.
The Deloitte has acted as the Groups external auditor since the Boards statement in relation to this confirmation is included on Companys Listing in October 2016 and prior to this were the page 75.
In relation to the Viability statement, the Committee also Companys external auditor for the period 2008 to 2016, whilst in confirmed to the Board that it was reasonable for the Directors to private equity ownership.
The Company is in compliance with the make the Viability statement and the Going Concern statement on requirements of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies page 75.
Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Responsibilities Order 2014, which relates to Engagement with the FRC the frequency and governance of external audit tenders and the FRC Audit Quality Review setting of a policy on the provision of non-audit services.
During the year the FRCs Audit Quality Review AQR team reviewed the Deloitte audit for the year ended 31 December 2017 as The Committee reviews and makes a recommendation to the Board part of its annual programme of promoting improvement in overall with regard to the reappointment of the external auditor each year.
quality of auditing in the UK.
The review focused on: In making this recommendation, the Committee considers auditor Scoping: instructions to component auditors: the auditors effectiveness and robustness, audit quality, independence, partner involvement in and evaluation of component auditors work and rotation and any other factors that may impact the Committees resolution of issues reported.
judgement regarding the external auditor.
Further information about Certain aspects of ethics, independence, quality control and how the Committee seeks to ensure the independence, objectivity completion.
and quality of the external auditor is set out on page 97.
The quality of communications with the Audit and Risk Committee.
Currently the Committee intends to run a tender for the The UK audit teams involvement in revenue, impairment review appointment of the external auditor in or before 2023 but reserves of goodwill and intangible fixed assets and taxation.
the right to run such a tender at any time.
The audit tendering process will occur at least once every ten years.
The Committee discussed the points raised by the AQR team with the AQR team and Deloitte.
Key actions taken by Deloitte in Audit process response to the review were to enhance the documentation of The Committee is responsible for overseeing the relationship with oversight of components and to clarify which components were the external auditor, the effectiveness, quality and robustness of significant.
I am satisfied that these responses address the points the audit and the audit process.
The following table summarises the raised by the review.
steps taken by the Committee in overseeing the 2018 audit and its quality.
Significant matters for review Decisions and actions taken by the Committee The annual audit plan and strategy including the scope of the audit, Reviewed and challenged, leading to an agreed plan.
changes in approach and methodology arising from AQR team review findings, emerging industry and Company specific risks and change in the audit leadership team.
Materiality level for audit including Group materiality and component Reviewed methodology and agreed at substantially the same level as 2017. materiality.
Deloitte audit risk assessment, as amended following October 2018 Reviewed and challenged approach to significant risks, any required changes to profit warning.
scope compared to original audit plan and the audit work to be performed.
Change to a different UK based lead audit partner and transition of Reviewed and discussed both transitions with Deloitte to ensure continuity management of the audit from the US to the UK.
and appropriate senior experienced and quality resourcing.
Audit fee and terms of engagement.
Reviewed, challenged and approved the fee and terms of engagement, ensuring there was no impact on scope of audit or quality of resource engaged as a result of the agreed fee level.
Audit findings, significant issues and other accounting judgements.
Discussed with Deloitte and management.
Deloittes independence, objectivity and quality control procedures.
Independence and objectivity confirmed, quality control procedures reviewed, AQR team review discussed.
96 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Audit independence, quality and effectiveness External audit quality and effectiveness The Committee seeks to ensure the independence, objectivity and Audit quality and effectiveness is reviewed throughout the year and quality of the external auditor through: the Committee continues to use the FRCs Audit Quality Practice Focusing on the assignment and rotation of key personnel.
Aid to structure its review of audit quality.
Communicating and meeting regularly throughout the year with the audit partners and personnel involved in the audit with and In addition the Committee conducted a full review of the without management present.
effectiveness and quality of the external audit process, the findings Reviewing and monitoring the adequacy of the audit resource.
of which were considered at its meeting in December 2018.
As part Implementing policies in relation to non-audit work.
of this review a formal survey was undertaken to capture the views Monitoring relationships with other audit firms to ensure we have of the Committee, Executive Directors, and Group and regional sufficient choice for any future appointments.
The survey included questions on Deloittes independence and objectivity, robustness of challenges Audit independence and findings on areas that require management judgement, audit All non-audit engagements are approved by the Committee in strict approach and methodology, communications with Deloitte, accordance with the Groups policy on non-audit engagements experience, technical knowledge and understanding of the Groups performed by the external auditor.
This policy is designed to business and strategy and progress in delivering the strategy.
maintain the external auditors objectivity and independence.
The key findings of the audit quality and effectiveness review were: The Committee is responsible for developing, implementing and monitoring this policy.
Through its strict enforcement the Strengths Committee believes that non-audit services do not have a direct Strong engagement from lead audit partner.
or material effect on the auditors independence and the audited Good challenge and insight in relation to the transition of the Financial Statements.
Groups consolidation and financial reporting team from the US to the UK.
Certain services that could compromise the external auditors Proactive engagement in the audit planning process.
independence are not permitted to be provided by the external Good engagement with management in pre-year end discussions, auditor or its network.
These prohibited non-audit services include, including robust challenge and exercise of appropriate scepticism, but are not limited to: in relation to key audit judgements and estimates.
The provision of internal audit services, design or implementation Good challenge on areas for improvement following the transition of information technology systems relating to the production of to the UK.
financial statements, valuation services, actuarial valuation services, certain taxation services.
Areas of focus Provision of legal services, recruitment services, restructuring Lead audit partner to continue to build knowledge of the Group.
services, bookkeeping and payroll services.
Challenge management on a more risk-based approach to internal controls.
The Groups Auditor Independence policy provides that the external auditor, subject to the implementation of adequate safeguards, can Overall the results of the external audit quality and effectiveness undertake other types of non-audit work so long as the total fees review were positive and confirmed that both Deloitte and its audit for these non-audit services must not exceed 70% of the average process were appropriate and effective and that the relationships audit fees billed to the Group by the external auditor in the past between the audit teams and the Groups management continued three years.
to provide effective, robust and objective challenge.
Non-audit fees incurred during 2018 totalled $558,850 which is Based on the quality and effectiveness review, the Committee is approximately 15% of the 2018 audit fee.
The non-audit fees covered recommending that Deloitte be proposed for reappointment by work in relation to the following matters: shareholders at the AGM to be held on 9 May 2019.
Certain tax and other compliance procedures.
Provision of 360 degree feedback tool and other training.
Internal audit Preparation services for US pension data.
We are continuing to develop and evolve our risk management Advice in relation to the FRC response letters referred to on the and internal audit processes.
These processes will continue to be previous page.
significantly enhanced and embedded following the appointment Provision of market data.
of our new Vice President, Internal Audit and Enterprise Risk in Quarterly reviews of the unaudited Q1 and Q3 financial September 2018.
This appointment follows the retirement of the statements for those periods for managements consideration.
previous Vice President of Internal Audit and the transfer of Review of the Groups half-year results announcement and the responsibility for the co-ordination of the Groups risk management underlying unaudited financial statements for the six months to processes from our compliance function to a dedicated and 1 30 June 2018. experienced risk management team.
The Committee has satisfied itself that appropriate separation is in operation between the The Committees review of the independence of the external Internal Audit and Enterprise Risk functions and that robust team auditor included: structures have been created.
Examining written confirmation to the Directors from Deloitte that they remained independent and objective within the context The primary objective of the Groups Internal Audit function is to of applicable professional standards.
systematically and objectively assess the adequacy and effectiveness Monitoring the ratio between the fees for audit work and of the business controls over the Groups operations, financial non-audit services.
reporting, risk and compliance areas and review the quality of the Monitoring the tenure and rotation of audit partners and staff.
Groups policies, standards and procedures including their use and Reviewing, if relevant, the employment of former auditors in appropriateness.
As a result of this review, the Committee concluded that Deloitte remained appropriately independent in the role of external auditor.
A summary of fees paid to the external auditor is set out in Note 6 to the Financial Statements.
Accounted for 83% of the 2018 non-audit fees.
97 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Audit and Risk Committee report continued During the year the Committee monitored progress against the The Committee oversees the investigation and outcome of 2018 internal audit plan, which was amended following the internal significant issues reported via the whistleblower hotline referred audit leadership change.
During 2018 a number of internal audits to above.
During 2018 the Committee received reports from the were undertaken in accordance with the plan.
Before each audit, the Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate scope of review, timetable and resources required were agreed with Development and the Chief Compliance Officer on ongoing and management.
Regular updates were provided to management and concluded investigations.
The Committee also considered the the Committee on the status of ongoing audits.
The Committee actions taken by management as a result of the investigations and discussed the results of all audits undertaken and monitored recommended additional actions where appropriate.
Further information about our compliance programme and our 2019 Internal audit plan Code of Conduct is included on page 19 and in our Corporate The Committee has approved the 2019 internal audit plan.
The plan Responsibility Report which is available on our website, adopts a risk-based approach using the Groups principal risks as the www.
The plan will be kept under continuous review during the year and adapted to support the Groups strategic direction and any new Dialogue with shareholders areas of risk identified during the year.
We seek to respond to shareholders expectations in our reporting and we welcome feedback from shareholders on this Committee Enterprise risk management report or other related issues.
Furthermore the Committee The framework and processes the Group operates to manage risk welcomes meetings with shareholders at any time.
During the year, the Committee monitored and reviewed the Groups risk management activities and processes On behalf of the Audit and Risk Committee through reports at each committee meeting.
The Committee reviewed the bottom-up and top-down process utilised to identify risks, the movement of the top risks within the risk register and the development and implementation of mitigation controls set against the risk appetite approved by the Board.
Jesper Ovesen The new Vice President, Internal Audit and Enterprise Risk continues Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee to enhance, develop and embed the Groups risk framework, 14 February 2019 policies, risk identification and mitigation controls across the Groups operations, through: A strengthened team dedicated to risk management.
Co-ordinated monitoring of risk mitigation measures by various internal functions including portfolio management, Internal Audit, Legal & Compliance, Finance and IT.
Frequent and in-depth consideration of the risk profile by the Executive Committee.
Compliance review The Committee also reviews the Groups compliance policies and procedures and compliance global monitoring plan and results, including the operation of the third-party managed whistleblower hotline to enable employees and third parties to report suspected breaches of our Code of Conduct.
The Committee received reports from the Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Development and the Chief Compliance Officer in relation to the Groups compliance programme including implementation progress updates, information about compliance audits undertaken and issues identified.
98 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
