Report of the Nomination Committee Dear Shareholders, The report below describes the main responsibilities of the Nomination Committee and how itfulfilled these in 2018.
I would like to draw your attention to the work of the Nomination Committee in 2018 andonwhat we will focus in 2019.
While the Board is responsible for succession generally, the Nomination Committee advises theBoard on appropriate succession planning in the year ahead.
During 2018, the Nomination Committee has reviewed the composition of the Board and made various recommendations tothe Board, leading to the extension of service of David Howell, Amanda Burton and Baroness Morgan.
Andon 1 October 2018, based ontherecommendations of the Nomination Committee, BeckyWorthington was appointed to Group ChiefOperating Officer and Mike Scott joined theBoard as Group Chief Financial Officer.
The Committee Chairman Nomination Committee also led the search to replace Richard Adam, which resulted in the David Howell appointment of Douglas Hurt from 1 January 2018.
Other members As part of its role, the Nomination Committee oversees thelong-term succession planning Amanda Burton forthemembers of the Executive Committee and key managerial promotions during the year.
Baroness Morgan I am pleased to report that the feedback from the Board effectiveness evaluation process Federico Canciani From 1 October 2017 whichyou can read about on page 50 confirmed that the Board and its Committees continue to5December 2017 tooperate effectively.
Richard Adam From 1 October 2017 to31December 2017 David Howell Douglas Hurt From 1 January 2018 Chairman of the Nomination Committee 20 November 2018 Meetings held 4 The rigorous and transparent procedure Review of Board composition Role and responsibilities of the formaking appointments to the Board and The Nomination Committee leads the process Nomination Committee itsCommittees involves assessing the skills for all Board appointments.
It is responsible Determining the structure, size and andcapabilities required, drafting a description forreviewing candidates and making a final composition of the Board of the role, and evaluating potential candidates, recommendation to the Board, in compliance Making recommendations on the before making a recommendation to the Board.
The Nomination Committee re-election of Directors retiring also reviews the structure, size and membership During 2019, the Nomination Committee byrotation of the Board itself, as well as Board Committees willcontinue to develop plans for the orderly from time to time.
This ensures an appropriate succession of the Board and its committees.
Conducting Directors mix of experience and skill and orderly succession  Details of the Nomination Committees as required.
During 2018, the composition meetings during the 2018 financial year are The Nomination Committees terms of ofthe Nomination Committee comprised reference are on Countrysides website setout below.
amajority of independent Non-Executive at:investors.
com Directors in compliance with the Code.
The Nomination Committee recognises that Committee attendance diversity in all dimensions across an organisation, Areas of focus in 2018 including at Board level, is important to support The number of Nomination Committee Ensuring that plans are in place for innovation, strategic development and operational meetings attended by each member during orderly succession for appointments efficiency.
TheNomination Committee will the 2018 financial year was: tothe Board and to senior management, consider candidates for appointment as Nomination Overall so as to maintain an appropriate balance Committee attendance Non-Executive Directors from a wider pool, of skills and experience including those with limited or no listed Number of company experience.
It is not the Boards Reviewing the balance of skills, knowledge and meetings held 4 policy to have specific voluntary targets.
diversity of experience of the Board, leading David Howell 4 4 100% Itwillcontinue to recruit Board members to the promotion of Becky Worthington based on skills and experience, taking into to Group Chief Operating Officer and Richard Adam 2 2 100% account the diversity requirements of the the appointment of Mike Scott as Group Amanda Burton 4 4 100% Code, including gender.
Chief Financial Officer, each on 1October 2018 Federico Canciani 1 2 50% The Nomination Committee meets at least once a year.
During 2018 it met four times, to agree Baroness Morgan 4 4 100% a succession plan strategy for the Directors, to Douglas Hurt 2 2 100% agree changes to the membership, composition and responsibilities of the Executive Committee, 1.
The table above covers attendance during their period and to review the findings of the 2018 Board ofoffice.
58 Annual report 2018 Countryside Properties PLC
