Executive Committee Ian Sutcliffe Phillip Lyons Graham Cherry Ian Kelley Group Chief Executive Chief Executive, Housebuilding Chief Executive, Communities Chief Executive, PartnershipsNorth Full biography on page 44.
Phillip was appointed as Chief Graham was appointed Ian was appointed Chief Executive Executive of Housebuilding on ChiefExecutive of Communities on of Partnerships North on 2 May 2May2017.
1November 2018, having previously 2017, having previously been been Chief Executive of Partnerships Managing Director of the Having trained as a quantity South from 2 May 2017.
surveyor, Phillip was previously atTaylor Wimpey where he Graham joined the Group as a Ian joined the Group on wasmost recently the Divisional graduate trainee from the 12August 1996 as Associate Managing Director, London and University of Reading in 1980.
He has over 30 years Previous roles with the Group Ian was appointed Managing industry experience and is include Group Chief Executive of Director of Partnerships North responsible for all the Groups Copthorn Holdings Limited, a inOctober 2000. housebuilding and strategic land position he held for over 20 years He previously worked for Wimpey activities, including Millgate.
and Chief Executive of the New Homes for a significant period of Homes and Communities division.
his career in both open-market housing and urban regeneration.
This was followed by a two-year period with Lovell Partnerships in a role developing new business.
Becky Worthington Nick Worrall Gary Whitaker lain McPherson Group Chief Financial Officer Group HR Director General Counsel and Chief Executive, until 30 September 2018 CompanySecretary PartnershipsSouth Group Chief Operating Officer appointed on 1 October 2018 Full biography on page 44.
Nick was appointed as Group Gary was appointed General lain was appointed HRDirector on September 2014.
Counsel and Company Secretary ChiefExecutive of Partnerships on 19 November 2015.
South on 1November 2018, Nick previously held senior HR having previously been Managing positions for over 20 years in the Previously, Gary was General Director of the Southern region retail, energy and financial services Counsel and Company Secretary of the Housebuilding Division industries.
Immediately prior to for 15years at Xchanging plc, from September 2014 when joining the Group, he was HR which specialised in technology hejoined the Group.
He trained as a solicitor with Norton Rose, and Iain has worked in the housing qualified into the corporate sector in London and the South finance team, working in their East in various roles over the last London and Moscow offices.
He originally worked for to Norton Rose, he served an local government in what is now 11-year commission in the Royal known as Homes England before Mike Scott Navy Fleet Air Arm.
moving to join Hyde Housing Group Chief Financial Officer Association in his first development role.
He then moved into private Full biography on page 45. housing by joining Crest Nicholson in 2008 where he was promoted to Managing Director.
46 Annual report 2018 Countryside Properties PLC Governance The Countryside Board and ExecutiveCommittee are committed to ensuring that high standards of corporate governance are reflected across the business.
David Howell Chairman Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2018 47
