Report of the Audit Committee Dear Shareholders, During the year, the Committee continued inits oversight role on behalf of the Board, protecting the interests of shareholders by monitoring the Groups internal control framework, financial management and the integrity of published financial information.
Italso monitored the effectivenessof the internal and external audit processes.
To ensure that the Group received the best support in managing its risk framework, we decided torun an external tender process for the Groups internal audit services.
As well as reviewing high-quality proposals from KPMG and Mazars, the Audit Committee considered the alternative ofbringing the internal audit function in house.
It decided ultimately to recommend the appointment ofKPMG from 1 October 2017, a decision that was subsequently approved by the Board on Committee Chairman 16October 2017.
Douglas Hurt From 1 January 2018 The Committee set the scope of internal audit activity for the 2018 financial year and reviewed Other members thefindings of audits performed during the year.
Amanda Burton It also ensured that management was implementing recommendations for internal control improvements Baroness Morgan on a timely basis.
TheCommittee continued to monitor the integrity of the Groupsfinancial statements, Richard Adam From 1 October 2017 including the key judgements and estimates made by management.
Italso scrutinised the scope, to31 December 2017 performance and effectiveness of the external audit process.
Particular areas of focus were accounting for the acquisition of Westleigh, testing the Viability Statement and presenting Meetings held non-underlying items.
4 In addition, management and the internal andexternal auditors provide the Committee with a number Role and responsibilities of the of complementary reports.
The Committee met both the internal and external auditorsregularly AuditCommittee without management being present.
I have also discussed various matters withthe Group Chief Monitoring the integrity of the Financial Officer and Company Secretary in relation to issues relevant totheCommittees work.
Groupsfinancial statements and formalannouncements Douglas Hurt Reviewing significant accounting Chairman of the Audit Committee andreporting judgements 20 November 2018 Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function Making recommendations in relation including risks arising from changes in the tothe appointment, re-appointment Composition business or accounting standards.
We use andremoval of the external auditor During 2018, the composition of the Audit self-certification and independent testing Committee complied with the Code and Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness ofthecontrols to assess effectiveness.
comprised three independent Non-Executive of the Companys external audit Directors: Amanda Burton and Baroness Monitoring auditor independence Whistleblowing Morgan have been members throughout the Developing and implementing policy period, Richard Adam from 1 October until The Groups whistleblowing policy is supported onnon-audit services provided by 31December 2018 and Douglas Hurt from by an independent external service provider.
The Board TheCompany Secretary investigates all cases considers Douglas Hurt, the Chairman, to have of whistleblowing, reporting the results to the Reviewing the Groups risk management recent and relevant financial experience of Audit Committee.
The Committee is satisfied that framework and key internal controls working with financial and accounting matters.
the policy and its administration remaineffective.
Reviewing the Groups procedures for The Audit Committee maintains a formal detecting and preventing fraud, bribery agenda for each year to ensure it complies Risk management and the governance of anti-money withthe requirements of the Code.
It met The successful management of risk is critical laundering systems and controls fourtimes during the year.
The Audit Committees terms of reference We set out details of attendance at the Audit TheBoard has delegated responsibility for are on Countrysides website at: reviewing and maintaining effective internal Committee meetings during the 2018 financial investors.
year on page 55. control over risk management systems and internal financial controlsto the Audit Areas of focus in 2018 Committee.
The Risk Management Committee Internal controls Reviewing the key judgements and carries out day-to-day management of the Groups The Board, assisted by the Audit Committee, is estimates relating to the Groups risk management framework.
The Groups responsible for regularly reviewing the operation interimand full-year results management of riskandthe role and and effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
Considering the presentation membership of the RiskManagement The internal control system is designed to ofnon-underlying items Committee are detailed onpage 38. manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure Considering various matters in relation to achieve business objectives.
It can only provide The Board has monitored the Groups risk tothe acquisition of Westleigh, including reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against management and internal control systems the purchase price allocation and material errors, losses or fraud.
The Board is throughout the year and reviews the Group relatedaccounting also responsible for ensuring that appropriate risk register annually, with the last review systems are in place to enable it to identify, occurring on 26 July 2018.
In managing risk, Reviewing the forecasts and sensitivity assess and manage key risks.
weanalyse the nature and extent of risks and analyses underlying the Groups consider their likelihood and impact, both on ViabilityStatement We monitor and maintain the financial reporting an inherent and a residual basis, after taking process and control system including the Considering applicable taxation account of mitigating controls.
This allows us preparation of the consolidated financial andaccounting matters todetermine how we should manage each risk statements through internal control frameworks.
Considering the restatement of 2017 to achieve our strategic objectives.
These address key financial reporting risks, results in relation to discounting of deferred land and overage payments 54 Annual report 2018 Countryside Properties PLC Governance At the Risk Management Committees meetings, adjustment to the discount rate used to value Oversight of the external audit management discusses the key risks and their deferred land and overage payments, which Following a tender process, mitigating action plans.
Following sign-off by the was not in accordance with IAS 39 Financial  LLP PwC was Executive Committee, the output of this review Instruments.
The Committee concluded that appointed as external auditor in 2016 and their is presented to the Audit Committee.
The the 2017 amounts should be restated and the appointment was approved by shareholders Groups key risk management procedures have impact of this restatement is discussed in atthe 2017 AGM.
The PwC audit partner will been in place throughout 2018 and up to the Note3 to the financial statements.
be required to rotate off the audit following date of approval of this Annual Report.
The Committee Fair, balanced and understandable plans to undertake a retender of the Group Overview of the risk audit no later than for the 2026 audit and will At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee not invite PwC to retender, following their long management process considered whether the 2018 Annual Report association with Countryside Properties and was fair, balanced and understandable and Internal control itspredecessor entities.
The Audit Committee whether it provided the necessary information The Groups key internal control has recommended to the Board that PwC for shareholders to assess the Groups proceduresinclude: bereappointed auditor for 2019. performance, business model and strategy.
a review of the Groups strategy and TheAudit Committee took into account its The Committees oversight of the external theperformance of principal subsidiaries.
own knowledge of the Group, its strategy audit includes reviewing and approving the This involves a comprehensive system of andperformance during theyear.
Further annual audit plan and planned procedures for reporting based on variances to annual comprehensive reviews were undertaken the Half Year Report.
In reviewing the plans, budgets, key performance indicators and atdifferent levels in the Group toensure the Committee discusses and challenges the regular forecasting: consistency and overall balance.
TheAudit auditors assessment of materiality and Committee also took into account asimilar thosefinancial reporting risk areas most a quarterly business review for each business detailed review undertaken by senior management likelyto give rise to material error.
This covers financial performance, a and the results of the external audit.
detailed range of strategic risks, opportunities PwC have confirmed tothe Audit Committee and KPI metrics which measure the overall Before the publication of both the interim their independence in accordance with ethical performance of the business sector.
This andfull-year results for the Group, the Audit standards and that they have maintained process also identifies key operational Committee undertook a detailed assessment appropriate internal safeguards to ensure issuesand the actions required to address of the appropriateness of the Groups use theirindependence and objectivity.
anydeficiencies: ofthe going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
For further information The Audit Committee assesses the effectiveness well defined Group policies and processes, of the external audit process annually with about going concern, please refer to the communicated through the Group Financial Directors Report on pages 76 to 78. theauditor and the Companys management.
Reporting Procedures Manual and the intranet: Regular private meetings are held between Shortly before publication of the full-year theAudit Committee and the PwC without a defined process governing the approval of financial results for 2018, the Audit Committee management present to discuss the auditors sales opportunities and capital expenditure: undertook a detailed assessment of the Viability assessment of business risks and managements Statement.
It recommended to the Board that a defined organisational structure with activities with regard to those risks, the appropriate delegation of authority across the Directors can have a reasonable expectation transparency and openness of interactions with that the Company will be able to continue in alllevels of the organisation: management and confirmation that there has operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due been no restriction in scope placed on them.
formal authorisation procedures for all over the three-year period of their assessment.
investments, with clear guidelines on appraisal For the detailed Viability Statement, please techniques and success criteria: and refer to our risk section on page 39 of the Strategic Report.
formal authorisation procedures for all Committee attendance significant sales opportunities and bid The number of Audit Committee meetings management, with clear guidelines on Internal Audit attended by each member during the 2018 success criteria and contracting practices.
The work performed by KPMG, which carried financial year was as follows: out internal audit services throughout the year, On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee Audit Overall focused on areas of greatest risk to the Group.
has conducted an annual review of the Committee attendance These included those matters identified through effectiveness of the Groups internal control Number of the risk management framework and any significant systems for 2018 and the period prior to meetings held 4 change projects occurring within the business.
approval of this Annual Report.
Douglas Hurt 2 2 100% The objective of internal audit is to give the The Audit Committee Chairman reported its Audit Committee independent assurance over Richard Adam 2 2 100% findings to the Board at the 10 October 2018 financial, operational and compliance controls, Board meeting.
The review considered all Amanda Burton 4 4 100% and to assist the Audit Committee in assessing material controls in accordance with Financial the effectiveness of internal controls.
Following this Baroness Morgan 4 4 100% audit reports directly to the Group Chief review, no significant weaknesses or failings Financial Officer but has the right to report to 1.
The table above covers attendance during their period were identified.
Management is addressing the Audit Committee Chairman independently ofoffice.
The Board and the of the Executive Directors.
The Executive Audit Committee will continue to monitor Committee and the Audit Committee review andreview the internal control environment.
all significant internal audit reports, and all The Committee met to consider the review of the reports are made available to the external 2017 Annual Report and Accounts undertaken auditor.
During the year, the Audit Committee by the Corporate Reporting Review Team of approved the internal audit plan, reviewed the Financial Reporting Council.
Following this thefindings from audits and monitored the review we have made some improvements to follow-up of actions identified in those audits.
disclosures in our 2018 Annual Report.
The most significant issue raised was the retrospective Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2018 55 Report of the Audit Committee continued During the year the Group obtained the following services from the Groups auditor: Non-audit services policy The total of non-audit fees paid to PwC duringthe year is set out in the table opposite.
2018 2017 PwC undertook its standard independence m m procedures in relation to each of these assignments to maintain its independence Fees payable to the Groups auditor and its associates andobjectivity.
The Audit Committee received for the audit of parent and consolidated financial statements 0.1 0.1 areport at each meeting describing the extent Fees payable to the Groups auditor and its associates for other ofthe services provided by PwC.
services: The award of non-audit services to the Companys external auditor is subject to controls agreed Audit of subsidiary companies 0.2 0.1 by the Audit Committee tomonitor and Audit of joint ventures 0.1 0.1 maintain its objectivity and independence.
In order to comply with the Ethical Standard for Audit-related services 0.1 0.1 Auditors, the Audit Committee considered and 0.5 0.4 re-approved the Groups policy for auditor independence and the provision of non-audit services at its meeting on 3 October 2018.
INFORMATION The policy provides details of permitted, prohibited and audit-related services in accordance SECURITY REVIEW with the Ethical Standard.
Prohibited services include among others those relating to taxation, Ensuring that the Groups information internal audit, the design or implementation of internal controls and HR services.
The Group is secure and managed correctly has Chief Financial Officer holds authority to approve permitted non-audit services, where beenakeyfocus in 2018. the services are considered to be clearly trivial defined as those with a fee of less than As part of Countrysides continued review of IT risk management, an Information and 50,000.
Where the services are not clearly CyberSecurity Risk Management Committee was established in January 2018 and meets trivial, or where the cumulative fee in the onaregular basis.
Led by the Group IT Director, Countryside continues to work through financial year exceeds 100,000, pre-approval itsroadmap of security enhancements supported by our security partners, Saepio and is required from the Audit Committee.
Audit Committee approval is required when During the year our internal auditors, KPMG, have reviewed ongoing workstreams and non-audit fees reach 70 per cent of the average thelatest progress report was reviewed at the Audit Committee meeting in October 2018. audit fees over the last three years.
This cap Inaddition, our insurance brokers, Willis Towers Watson, undertook a Cyber Risk Review will not formally apply to the Group until the inJuly 2018, which assessed the Groups current cyber risk profile as low.
financial year beginning on 1 October 2019.
Further enhancements to the Groups Security Information and Event Management capability Annual evaluation of Audit are planned during 2019.
Committee performance As part of the broader evaluation process, theAudit Committee reviewed its effectiveness during 2018.
This considered areas including: its composition: its effectiveness in reviewing the work of the internal and external auditors: its effectiveness in reviewing the Groups internal control systems: the quality of reporting: and the management of risk.
No significant issues were raised and the Audit Committee concluded that it continues to operate effectively.
56 Annual report 2018 Countryside Properties PLC Governance Areas of significant judgement considered by the Audit Committee in 2018 The Audit Committee considered the following matters in respect of the Groups financial statements, based upon its interaction with management and the external auditor during the year.
Significant matters considered Our response to these matters The Audit Committee reviewed and approved the Groups Estimation of site profitability accounting policy in relation to profit recognition.
As disclosed in Note 1 to the financial statements, gross profit isrecognised as homes are sold based on a profit margin for the The external auditor regularly examines the allocation of revenue development as a whole.
Calculating this margin includes forecasting and costs as a routine part of the external audit.
It has identified revenue and costs for the development as well as allocating land and nosignificant issues in this regard.
infrastructure costs on a pro-rata basis.
Profit recognition in relation to commercial land transactions can be subjective and dependent on contractual terms.
The accuracy of allocation is monitored at Board level via the monthly management accounts and quarterly forecasts.
Any judgements are discussed with the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee considered managements review of the Carrying value of inventory carrying value of inventory and the appropriateness of the level Inventory is material to the Groups balance sheet.
There is a risk that ofprovisions held.
thecarrying value will exceed its net realisable value, particularly in challenging market conditions.
The external auditor reported on this matter to the Audit Committee atthe half-year review and again for the final audit.
Management regularly reviews the carrying value of all sites under development and of other inventory such as undeveloped land.
These The Audit Committee was satisfied that the carrying value of reviews take into account the latest cash flow forecasts for the relevant inventory is appropriate.
development or land parcel and comparable market valuations for land where applicable.
The Audit Committee reviewed the assumptions applied by Viability Statement management in arriving at the conclusion on the Groups viability.
The Viability Statement testing that management undertook was based Itagreed that they were reasonable.
on the latest available three-year forecast.
To ensure that the financial position of the Group was robust, we performed downside sensitivity testing by applying a range of overlays including reduced sales rates and average selling prices, a reduction in land sales and reduced affordable housing sales.
We also included operational inefficiency downsides, including delays to the delivery of key sites and enhanced cost inflation.
Each of the above assumptions was based on managements assumption of a reasonable downside outcome.
The Committee concluded that the 2017 amounts should be restated Presentation of non-underlying items andthe impact of this restatement is discussed inNote3 to the The Committee met to consider the review of the Groups 2017 Annual financial statements.
Report and Accounts undertaken by the Financial Reporting Council the FRC.
The FRCs review did not benefit from detailed knowledge of the Companys business or the specific transactions entered into.
The most significant issue raised was the retrospective adjustment to a discount rateused to value deferred land and overage payments, which was not inaccordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments and resulted in a non-underlying interest charge in 2017.
The Audit Committee reviewed the judgements and estimates Acquisition of Westleigh madeby management with the assistance of external valuers, The accounting for the acquisition of Westleigh during the year involved including the assumptions incorporated into fair value estimates, anumber of significant judgements by management, including in particular andconcluded that these were reasonable and appropriate.
those relating to the fair value of assets and liabilities recognised.
In assessing the assumptions made by management, the Committeealso considered the independent opinion of the externalauditors valuation experts and noted that it supported managements conclusions.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2018 57
