Corporate governance report The Board GOVERNANCE Responsible for the overall conduct of the Groups business including our INACTION long-term success: setting our values, standards and strategic objectives: The Board is responsible for maintaining reviewing our performance: and astrong and effective system of governance ensuring a successful dialogue with throughout the Group.
Board role and composition The Board The Board is responsible for reviewing and Board composition guiding corporate strategy, establishing key On 30 September 2018, the Board consisted of policies and objectives and understanding the six Directors, being a Non-Executive Chairman, key risks the Company faces.
It also determines two Executive Directors and three independent the risk tolerance of the Company and the Non-Executive Directors.
Douglas Hurt is the processes in operation to mitigate these.
Read more on pages 44 and 45 TheBoard has overall responsibility for the Following a review of Board succession planning management of the Company to maximise by the Nomination Committee at its meeting shareholder value.
In discharging its responsibilities, on 13 September 2018, and its recommendations the Board is supported by its management Board Committees to the Board meeting on 28 September 2018, andspecialist committees.
In compliance the Company announced on 1 October 2018 Delegated to by the Board and withthe Code, the Board has established the promotion of Becky Worthington to Group threeCommittees: an Audit Committee, a responsible for maintaining effective Chief Operating Officer and the appointment Nomination Committee and a Remuneration governance in the following areas: of Mike Scott to the Board, as Group Chief Committee.
Each Committee works from audit: remuneration: Board Financial Officer.
Post the 1 October 2018 terms of reference which are reviewed annually changes, the Board has a total of seven Directors composition: succession planning: and areavailable on the Companys website: and remains compliant with the Code, having investors.
aNon-Executive Chairman, three Executive Board last approved the terms of reference Directors and three independent Full details of the Committees foreach Committee on19 November 2018.
responsibilities and activities are The Board Committees have appropriately skilled Shareholders who have concerns that cannot detailed on the following page members and senior management participation.
be addressed through the normal channels They also have access to specialist advice when andinthe Committee reports.
cancontact David Howell, our Chairman, and considered necessary.
The minutes of the Audit, any of the Non-Executive Directors.
Further Nomination and Remuneration Committee information about communication between meetings are sent to all Directors and oral updates theBoard and shareholders is on page 52. are given at Board meetings.
The Report of the TheBoard has recruited Non-Executive Directors Audit Committee which includes an overview of a high calibre with broad commercial and of the Companys control and risk management other relevant experience.
They are expected framework can be found on pages 54 to 57. to bring objectivity and independence ofview Page 58 describes the remitand activities of to the Boards discussions, and to help provide the Nomination Committee.
The activities of Executive Committees the Board with effective leadership relating the Remuneration Committee are described in Responsible for implementing tothe Companys strategy, performance, the Report of the Remuneration Committee strategic objectives: and realising riskand people management while ensuring high on pages 59 to 75.
The Board is also supported standards of financial probity and corporate by an Executive Committee, further details of competitive business performance in governance.
Countryside believes that the which can be found on page 46. line with established risk management Board has theappropriate balance of skills, frameworks, compliance policies, experience, independence and knowledge Additional information ofthe Group tosupport the Companys internal control systems and The Directors Report see pages 76 to 78, long-term success.
which forms part of this Corporate Governance Report, includes information on the impact Relationship Agreement withOaktree onthe Company as required by the Takeover When the Company listed on the London Directive, and information required under the StockExchange in February 2016, it entered Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
intoa Relationship Agreement with Oaktree Shareholders further details of which are setout in the Directors Report on pages 76 and 77.
Theoperative provisions of the Relationship Agreement ceased to apply on 24 April 2018, when Oaktree Shareholders completed the sale See Countrysides website investors.
com of all remaining shares they held in Countryside.
48 Annual report 2018 Countryside Properties PLC Governance Chairman Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Directors Role and responsibilities Role and responsibilities Role and responsibilities Leads the Board, sets the agenda and promotes Provides a sounding board to theChairman and Contribute to developing ourstrategy aculture of open dialogue between Executive appraises hisperformance Scrutinise and constructively challenge the andNon-Executive Directors Acts as intermediary for other Directors if needed performance ofmanagement in executing Regularly meets with the Group Chief Executive ourstrategy Is available to respond to shareholder concerns when and other senior management to stay informed contact through the normal channels is inappropriate Ensures effective communication with our shareholders Company Secretary Group Chief Executive Role and responsibilities Role and responsibilities Supports the Chairman and Group Chief Executive in fulfilling their duties Leads the business, implements strategy and chairs the ExecutiveCommittee Available to all Directors for advice and support Audit Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Role and responsibilities Role and responsibilities Role and responsibilities Monitoring the integrity of the Determining the structure, size Recommending to the Board the Groups financial statements andcomposition of the Board Companys policy on executive remuneration Reviewing significant accounting Making recommendations in and reporting judgements relation to the re-election of Setting overarching principles and Directors retiring by rotation parameters and the governance Reviewing the effectiveness of the framework of the Groups internal and external audit processes Evaluating Directors performance Remuneration Policy Reviewing the Groups procedures Succession planning Determining the individual for detecting and preventing fraud remuneration and benefits package and bribery and the governance of of each of the Companys anti-money laundering systems Executive Directors and the andcontrols Company Secretary Read more on pages 54 to 57 Read more on page 58 Read more on pages 59 to 75 Risk Management Health, Safety, Executive Committee Environment and Committee Quality Committee Role and responsibilities Role and responsibilities Role and responsibilities Monitoring and assessing the Determining the policy, objectives and Identifying operational and effectiveness of the Groups risk targets for the Groups health and strategicrisks and control processes safety compliance and performance Responsible for the ownership Co-ordinating the implementation Ensuring adequate training and andcontrol of specific risks by management of Group policies communication to achieve the Establishing and managing the on risk and control Groups health and safety objectives implementation of appropriate Overseeing the administration of Determining the policy, objectives action plans the Groups insurance arrangements, and targets for the Groups quality providing assurance to the Audit and environmental compliance Committee that the Groups andperformance internal control systems are being Ensuring adequate training monitored and assessed andcommunication to achieve theGroups quality and environmental objectives Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2018 49 Corporate governance report continued Board and Committee attendance The number of Board and Committee meetings attended by each Director during the 2018 financial year was as follows: Audit Remuneration Nomination Overall Board Committee Committee Committee attended Number of meetings held 13 4 6 4 David Howell 13 13 6 6 4 4 100% Ian Sutcliffe 13 13 100% Becky Worthington 13 13 100% 1 Richard Adam 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 100% 2 Amanda Burton 12 13 4 4 6 6 4 4 96% Federico Canciani 2 2 1 2 75% Baroness Morgan 13 13 4 4 6 6 4 4 100% 3 Douglas Hurt 9 11 2 2 4 4 2 2 89% 1.
Federico Canciani and Richard Adam resigned as Directors with effect on 5 December 2017 and 31 December 2017 respectively, so the attendance table above covers their period of office.
Amanda Burton was unable to attend a Board Meeting which was called at short notice due to a prior engagement.
Douglas Hurt was unable to attend two Board Meetings, which had been scheduled before his appointment, due to prior business commitments.
Board analysis as at 30 September 2018 Composition Length of tenure Gender diversity Non-Executive 3 years 5 Female 50% Chairman1 1 year 1 Male 50% Executives 2 Non-Executives 3 83 1750 50 17 33 50 The principal issue raised in the 2018 performance evaluation was Board Review of Board effectiveness and Executive succession planning, which was discussed at the 26 July 2018 Claire Howard Consultancies facilitated the 2018 Board and Committee Board meeting and the 13 September 2018 Nomination Committee evaluation.
The process started with preparatory meetings between meeting.
Based on the feedback received from the evaluation, the Board Claire Howard and each of the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, concluded that the Board and its Committees continue to operate effectively.
the Company Secretary and the Group HR Director to identify any potential areas that the review might focus on.
A one-to-one meeting A list of specific actions was agreed to address the comments made by with each of the Directors and Claire Howard was then held, during Directors, including the continued improvement of succession plansfor which Board members were invited to evaluate and comment onthe senior management.
The Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman operation of the Board and its Committees.
The Chairman met with met with Douglas Hurt, as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Claire Howard to discuss the results of the exercise.
A report was to review the performance of David Howell during 2018.
Douglas Hurt submitted to the Board in July setting out the principal issues raised later debriefed the Chairman.
David Howell reviewed the performance andsuggesting appropriate action points.
of each of the Non-Executive Directors during 2018, taking into account the views of the other Directors.
STAGE 1 STAGE 2 STAGE 3 STAGE 4 One-on-one interviews Evaluation Reporting and discussion Non-Executive Directors with theBoard meeting with the Senior Independent Director Claire Howard met with each of Having prepared a draft report of The Board discussed the content The Non-Executive Directors the Directors to discuss a broad the principal issues and observations of the report at its meeting on metwith the Senior Independent range of topics, ranging from made, Claire Howard met with 26July.
It also discussed the Director to evaluate the Board composition to allocation the Chairman to discuss the report effectiveness of actions taken performance of the Chairman, of time to particular topics, and and to determine proposed actions following the 2017 review and taking into account the views further explored issues raised for consideration by the Board.
agreed actions for improvement ofthe Executive Directors.
50 Annual report 2018 Countryside Properties PLC Governance The Board continued Board site visits Role and responsibilities of theBoard During 2018, the Board visited eight different The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for the long-term development sites, including at least one in each success of the Group and creating and sustaining shareholder value business region as outlined on page 53. through the management of the Groups businesses.
It sets the Groups strategic plan and budgets and monitors their implementation.
Board visit to Rochester Riverside With the assistance of the Audit Committee, itensures that executive Rochester Riverside is a new landmark address for management maintains a system of internal operational, financial Medway to be delivered by Countryside and the and regulatory controls that identify and appropriately manage Hyde Group, supported by Medway Council and therisks set out on pages 40 and 41.
When complete it will comprise Summary of matters reservedforthe Board up to 1,400 new homes and extensive facilities.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters that are reserved On 28 June 2018, the Board visited Rochester Riverside to receive a project overview from the foritsdecision.
This includes the approval of half-year and full-year financial statements, changes to the Companys capital structure Partnerships South development team, meet the site staff, learn about the partnership work with andany significant investments, contracts, acquisitions, mergers anddisposals.
The Board last reviewed these reserved matters Hyde Group, Medway Council and Homes England and tour the site.
Other specific responsibilities are delegated to the Board Committees, which operate within wasthen held in the nearby marketing suite of Countrysides St Marys Island development.
Full details of the schedule of matters reservedfor decision by the Board and theresponsibilities delegated to the Board Committees are on the Groups website atinvestors.
The roles of the Chairman andtheGroupChief Executive The roles of the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive areclearly segregated.
Thedivision of responsibilities between them is set out in writing and was last agreed by the Board on 19November 2018.
The Chairman is responsible for leading theBoard and ensuring itseffectiveness by facilitating debate and the contribution of Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman, the Group Chief Executive andthe Company Secretary collaborate to set meeting agendas.
The Group Chief Executive is responsible for Site visits are a criticalpart of running Countrysides business and providing strategic leadership tothe Group, in consultation with theBoard.
the Boards engagement with Directors inductions,  the business.
Countryside has a structured induction programme that istailored for all newly appointed Directors.
This includes, where appropriate, meetings with members of the Executive Committee and visits tothe business divisions and their respective management teams in eachofCountrysides business sectors.
When Douglas Hurt joined the Board on1January 2018, he commenced Countrysides induction programme.
In addition to exposure gained atregular Board meetings, newly appointed Directors have access to the Company Secretarys assistance in learning about the Countryside Group.
All Directors receive ongoing updates on the Companys projects and activities and on legal and regulatory changes.
In2018 these included briefings on the Companys IT strategy, reporting requirements for the payment of suppliers, thenew UK Corporate Governance Code for financial years starting after 1 January 2019 andvarious reviews of the UK housing market.
Directors receive formal papers before each Board meeting, which enable them to make informed decisions on the issues under consideration.
In addition to formal Board meetings, the Chairman maintained regular contact with the Group Chief Executive, theGroup Chief Financial Officer and other senior executive management during 2018 to discuss specific issues.
The Company Secretary acts as an advisor to the Board on matters concerning governance and ensures compliance with Board procedures.
AllDirectors had access to the Company Secretarys advice, which was sought from time to time during 2018.
Directors may also takeindependent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Inthe event that any Director has concerns about the running of the Company, or a proposed action that cannot be resolved within the Board forum, these maybe reflected in the Board minutes.
TheCompany Secretary circulates minutes of each Board meeting following the meeting toallow such comments to be raised.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2018 51 Corporate governance report continued All Non-Executive Director appointments 2. use only long lists that include at least The Board continued maybe terminated by either party upon 30% female candidates, where practical: and Directors interests threemonths or in the case of David Howell, 3. consider candidates f or appointment as Under Countrysides Articles of Association, six months written notice, or by shareholder the Board may authorise any actual or potential Non-Executive Directors from a wider pool, vote at the AGM.
The Non-Executive Directors including those with little or no listed conflicts of interest for Directors.
Each Director do not have any entitlement to compensation provides the Company Secretary with information company board experience, but with if their office is terminated.
Full details of the relevant skills or sector knowledge to about any actual or potential interests that may remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors conflict with those of Countryside.
These might complement the existing Board.
are on page 69 of this document in the include other directorships and any other Directors Remuneration Report.
For details on Countrysides broader policy on potential interests that each thinks may cause diversity across the Group, please refer tothe Under the Articles of Association, all Directors aconflict requiring prior Board authorisation.
Our People section, on pages 32 and 33.
Ifthe circumstances of any of these disclosed are subject to re-election at the AGM at intervals of no more than three years.
In the case of interests change, the relevant Director must Communications update the Company Secretary promptly.
Mike Scott, he will be put forward for election withshareholders by shareholders at the 2019 AGM.
In line with Theregister setting out each Directors current disclosures where relevant was last reviewed the Code, all other Directors will be put The Board regards communications with forward for re-election at the 2019 AGM.
and approved by the Board at its meeting on shareholders of high importance, giving them 19November 2018.
In each such situation, the TheBoard believes that each of the Directors the opportunity to meet the Chairman and makes a valuable contribution to Countryside Director under consideration did not vote on Directors as appropriate.
This opportunity will the matter.
The Board will continue to review and supports their re-election in each case.
Arrangements the register of interests regularly to ensure that can be made for major shareholders to meet Board diversity the authorisations, and any conditions attached with anynewly appointed Directors.
The The Board recognises that diversity, in all its to them, are appropriate for the relevant Companys Investor Relations team organises dimensions, across an organisation, including at matter to remain authorised.
The Company an ongoing programme of dialogue and meetings Board level, is important to support innovation, Secretary maintains a list of all authorisations for institutional investors, fund managers and strategic development and operational efficiency.
granted to Directors, setting out the date of analysts with the Group Chief Executive, the The Board Diversity Policy is reviewed annually, authorisation, its expiry and scope and any Group Chief Operating Officer and the Group most recently at the November 2018 Board limitations imposed as applicable.
It is not the Boards policy to set investors feedback are circulated regularly to Tenure, election and specific targets but to continue to recruit the Board, who discuss these and any other re-appointment of Directors Boardmembers based on skills and experience, key matters relating to investors.
In conjunction having regard to the requirements of the Code All Non-Executive Directors, excluding the with advisors where appropriate, the Board in respect of diversity, including gender.
All Board Chairman and Douglas Hurt, have three-year determines thestrategy to address significant appointments are made on merit, in the context appointments commencing on 17December 2015. issues raised in each case.
of the skills and experience the Board as a The Chairmans three-year appointment The Companys AGM on 24 January 2019 whole requires to remain effective.
Douglas willprovide a valuable opportunity for private seeking candidates for appointment to the Hurts appointment commenced on 1January 2018. investors to communicate with the Board.
Board, it is the Boards policy to: At its13 September 2018 meeting the Nomination Weencourage shareholders to attend the Committee made a recommendation to the 1.
Use only ex ecutive search firms signed up meeting and to ask questions of any of the 28September 2018 Board meeting to re-appoint to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Directors following the conclusion of the David Howell, Amanda Burton and Baroness Executive Search Firms as recommended formal part of the meeting.
Wewill make Morgan in their existing roles for a further term bythe Davies Report: available on request details of proxy voting ofthree years.
The Board, having reviewed byshareholders, including votes withheld, thefindings of the externally facilitated Board andplace them on the Companys website andCommittee evaluation, approved the following the meeting.
re-appointment of the three Non-Executive Directors, in their current roles, each for a further term of three years to run from expiry Major shareholders as at 20 November 2018 of their existing appointments in December 2018.
With regard to the re-appointment of 1.
Standard Life Aberdeen 15.19% David Howell asNon-Executive Chairman, 2.
Woodford Investment Management Ltd 14.60% theBoard also considered the feedback from Douglas Hurt asSenior Independent Director, 3.
Aviva Investors Global Services Ltd 10.93% following hisprivate meeting with Amanda 4.
M&G Investment Management Ltd 7.26% Burton and Baroness Morgan to review the 5.
Ruffer LLP 6.00% performance ofthe Chairman during 2018. www.
com 52 Annual report 2018 Countryside Properties PLC Governance WHAT THE BOARD DID IN 2017 18 In the year ended 30 September 2018, significant discussions, transactions and appointments approved by the Board other than the scheduled matters outlined on page 51 included: October 2017 Housebuilding Millgate site visits Review of health and safety Review of Housebuilding division Briefing on UK economy June 2018 Review of anti-slavery procedures Partnerships South and Housebuilding South site visits February 2018 Update on operational Partnerships North site visits efficienciesproject Approval of acquisition of Presentation on IT strategy WestleighGroup Limited Review of Group Approval of closed-panel timber delegatedauthorities September 2018 frame factory Review of 2019 Budget Review of gender pay reporting Approval of insurance January 2018 renewalprogramme Annual General Meeting Review of NED fees 2018 2017 March 2018 Review of market, product andGroupstrategy July 2018 Review of Private Rental Schemes aspart of mixed-tenure review May 2018 November 2017 Review of Board and Partnerships South site visits Committeeevaluation Housebuilding Central and East sitevisits Review of five-year forecast Risk review Approval of 2017 year-end results Review of cyber security Presentation on people strategy Approval of Employee Benefit Review of alternative provider Presentation on branding Trust share purchase to satisfy forRegistrar and share andcommunications share planvesting planadministrator Post-investment site reviews Review of redemption plan for Approval of 2018 interim results Groups shared equity portfolio Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2018 53
