Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED TO THE MEMBERS OF CRANSWICK PLC REPORTING ON OTHER INFORMATION RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 87, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement, we also considered whether the disclosures Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: Strategic Report and Directors Report www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal Use of this report requirements.
CA06 This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity Companies Act 2006 exception reporting of the Group Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or The Directors confirmation on pages 42 and 43 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
branches not visited by us: or The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or The Directors explanation on pages 42 and 43 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable accounting records and returns.
expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal Appointment risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 24 July 2017 to audit the financial statements for and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in the year ended 31 March 2018 and subsequent financial periods.
This is therefore our first year of uninterrupted engagement.
alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions Ian Morrison Senior Statutory Auditor We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: For and on behalf of  LLP The statement given by the Directors, on page 87, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and parent companys position and Leeds performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and parent company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
22 May 2018 The section of the Annual Report on page 57 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the parent companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 92 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 93 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information GROUP INCOME STATEMENT GROUP STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2018 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2018 2018 2017 2018 2017 Notes m m Notes m m Revenue 3 1,464.5 1,245.1 Profit for the year 70.0 67.2 Adjusted Group operating profit 92.8 76.1 Other comprehensive income Net IAS 41 valuation movement on biological assets 16 2.2 4.1 Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods: Amortisation of customer relationship intangible assets 12 2.2 2.1 Cash flow hedges Gains arising in the year 21 0.1 0.3 Group operating profit 4 88.4 78.1 Reclassification adjustments for gains included in the income statement 21 0.3 0.1 Finance costs 6 0.4 0.6 Income tax effect 7 0.1 Profit before tax 88.0 77.5 Net other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods 0.2 0.1 Items not to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods: Taxation 7 18.0 15.1 Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension scheme 26 0.2 6.3 Profit for the year from continuing operations 70.0 62.4 Income tax effect 7 0.1 1.3 Net other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or loss in Discontinued operations: subsequent periods 0.1 5.0 Profit for the year from discontinued operations 8 4.8 Other comprehensive income, net of tax 0.3 4.9 Profit for the year 70.0 67.2 Total comprehensive income, net of tax 69.7 62.3 Earnings per share pence On profit for the year from continuing operations: Basic 11 137.8p 124.2p Diluted 11 137.1p 123.7p COMPANY STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME On profit for the year: FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2018 Basic 11 137.8p 133.8p Company profit for the year of 21.9 million 2017: 25.3 million was equal to total comprehensive income for the year attributable to owners of Diluted 11 137.1p 133.3p the parent in both years.
An analysis of costs within Group operating profit is presented in Note 4.
94 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 95
