Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Business combinations Revenue Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the Revenue is recognised to the extent it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue and any associated costs can consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in administrative expenses.
Revenue on the sale of goods is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer on despatch and represents the value of sales to customers net of discounts, similar allowances and estimates of returns and excludes Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the value added tax.
fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised in profit or loss.
Sales related discounts and similar allowances comprise commercial accruals : Intangible assets Volume rebates and similar allowances which are sales incentives to customers to encourage them to purchase increased volumes and are Goodwill is the excess of the fair value of the consideration paid for a business over the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent related to total volumes purchased and sales growth.
Goodwill is capitalised and subject to an impairment review, both annually and when there are indications that the carrying Advertising and marketing contributions which are directly related to promotions run by customers.
value may not be recoverable.
For commercial accruals that must be earned, management make estimates related to customer performance, sales volume and agreed terms, Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable to determine total amounts earned and to be recorded in deductions from revenue.
See significant judgments above, and Note 20. amount is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
When an entity is disposed of, any goodwill associated with it is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal except that goodwill arising on acquisitions prior Alternative performance measures to 31 March 2004 which was previously deducted from equity is not recycled through the income statement.
The Board monitors performance principally through the adjusted performance measures.
Adjusted profit and earnings per share measures exclude certain non-cash items including the net IAS 41 valuation movement on biological assets, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised at fair value separately from goodwill only if the fair value can be profit on sale of a business and goodwill impairment charges.
Free cash flow is defined as net cash from operating activities less interest paid and measured reliably on initial recognition and the future economic benefits are expected to flow to the Group.
Customer relationships are amortised like-for-like revenue excludes the contribution from Crown Chicken and Ballymena prior to the anniversary of their acquisition and also the impact evenly over their expected useful lives of five years, with amortisation charged through administration expenses in the income statement.
of the 53rd week in the current year.
Property, plant and equipment The Board believes that such alternative measures are useful as they exclude volatile net IAS 41 valuation movement on biological assets, one-off Property, plant and equipment are included at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
impairment of goodwill and profit on sale of a business and non-cash amortisation of intangible assets items which are normally disregarded by investors, analysts and brokers in gaining a clearer understanding of the underlying performance of the Group when making investment and Freehold land is not depreciated.
Depreciation is charged on property, plant and equipment on the depreciable amount, being cost less the other decisions.
Equally, like-for-like revenue provides these same stakeholders with a clearer understanding of the organic sales growth of the estimated residual value based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date on a straight line basis over their estimated useful economic lives, business.
Reconciliations of alternative performance measures can be found in Note 31. or the estimated useful economic lives of their individual parts.
Taxation Useful economic lives are principally as follows: Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax Freehold buildings 30-50 years rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences at the Short leasehold improvements Remainder of lease balance sheet date between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Plant and equipment 5-11 years Motor vehicles 4 years Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences: i except where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment individually or at the cash-generating unit level when events transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
ii in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Capitalised borrowing costs Borrowing costs incurred in financing the construction of qualifying assets such as property, plant and equipment are capitalised up to the date Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, at which the relevant asset is substantially complete.
Borrowing costs are calculated using the Groups weighted average cost of borrowing during to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profits will be available against the period of capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are expensed as incurred.
which the temporary differences can be utilised: i except where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset Investments or a liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit Investments in subsidiaries are shown at cost less any provision for impairment.
nor taxable profit or loss: and ii in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, deferred tax assets are only recognised to the Accounting for leases extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against i Finance leases which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Assets which are financed by leasing agreements that transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at fair value or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments, in Property, plant and Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, equipment and the corresponding capital cost is shown as an obligation to the lessor in Borrowings.
Depreciation is charged to the income based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Income taxes relating to items statement over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the term of the lease.
The interest element of the rental obligations is recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity are also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity and not allocated to accounting periods during the lease term to reflect a constant rate of interest on the remainder of the capital amount outstanding.
Otherwise income tax is recognised in the income statement.
ii Operating leases Dividends Leases, which are not finance leases, are classified as operating leases.
Lease payments are charged to the income statement on a straight Dividends receivable by the Company are recognised in the income statement if they are declared, appropriately authorised and no longer at the line basis over the term of the lease.
discretion of the entity paying the dividend, prior to the balance sheet date.
Dividends payable by the Company are recognised when declared and therefore final dividends proposed after the balance sheet date are not recognised as a liability at the balance sheet date.
Dividends paid to Government grants and contributions Shareholders are shown as a movement in equity rather than on the face of the income statement.
UK Regional Development Grants and grants receivable from the European Union and DEFRA in respect of property, plant and equipment are credited to deferred income and released to the income statement over the relevant depreciation period.
104 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 105 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED The amounts charged to operating profit are any gains and losses on settlements and curtailments, and these are included as part of staff costs.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost on a first in, first out basis and net realisable value after making allowance for any obsolete or Past-service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension scheme are conditional on the employees remaining slow-moving items.
In the case of finished goods, cost comprises direct materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of manufacturing in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past-service costs are amortised on a straight line basis over the fixed and variable overheads, where applicable, based on a normal level of activity.
Biological assets The difference between the interest cost on plan liabilities and the expected return on plan assets is recognised in the income statement as The Groups biological assets consist of pigs in the form of breeding sows classified as non-current assets and their progeny for processing other finance revenue or costs.
within the Group and externally classified as current assets and chickens in the form of breeder stocks classified as non-current assets and their progency for processing within the Group and externally classified as current assets.
On initial recognition and at the balance sheet Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to the date biological assets have been measured at their fair value less costs to sell, in line with IAS 41.
Gains and losses in relation to the fair value statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
of biological assets are recognised in the income statement, within cost of sales, in the period in which they arise.
The Group also operates defined contribution schemes for employees under which contributions are paid into schemes managed by major Cash and cash equivalents insurance companies.
Contributions are calculated as a percentage of employees earnings and obligations for contributions to the schemes Cash and cash equivalents are defined as cash at bank and in hand including short-term deposits with original maturity within three months.
are recognised as cost of sales or operating expenses in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
For the purposes of the Group cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
ii Equity-settled share-based payments The Group operates a savings related share option scheme under which options have been granted to Group employees SAYE scheme.
In Financial instruments addition, the Group operates a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP for senior Executives.
Share options awarded are exercisable subject to the i Debt instruments, including bank borrowings attainment of certain market-based and non-market-based performance criteria.
Debt instruments are initially recognised at the fair value of net proceeds received after the deduction of issue costs.
Subsequently debt instruments are recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Issue costs are charged to the income statement over The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date on which they are granted and is the term of the debt at a constant rate on the balance sheet carrying amount under the effective interest method.
recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any service ii Derivative financial instruments and performance vesting conditions, other than performance conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company market conditions.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge its cash flow risks Any other conditions which are required to be met in order for an employee to become fully entitled to an award are considered to be nonassociated with interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
Like market performance conditions, non-vesting conditions are taken into account in determining the grant date fair value.
The fair value of forward contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with a similar maturity profile.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting The fair value of interest rate swaps is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance or service conditions are satisfied.
Where derivatives meet the hedging criteria under IAS 39 for cash flow hedges the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is recognised in the At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has income statement.
Gains or losses recognised in comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement in the same period in which expired and managements best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The movement in cumulative expense the hedged item affects the net profit or loss.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in other since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly based on the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period.
In addition, an expense is recognised over the to net profit or loss for the period.
remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair value of the modified award, both as measured on the date of the modification.
No reduction is recognised if this Financial assets loans and receivables difference is negative.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available-for-sale.
Such assets are carried Where an equity-settled award is cancelled including when a non-vesting condition within the control of the entity or employee is not met, at amortised cost using the effective interest method if the time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the award is expensed statement when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
Foreign currencies In the accounts of each entity in the Group, individual transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into functional currency at On transition to IFRS, the Group did not apply the measurement rules of IFRS 2 to equity-settled awards granted before 7 November 2002 or the actual exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated granted after that date and vested before 1 January 2005.
However, later modifications of such equity instruments are measured under IFRS 2. into functional currency at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Profits and losses on settlement of individual foreign currency transactions and movements on monetary assets and liabilities are dealt with in the income statement.
Employee benefits i Pensions A subsidiary of the Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme for certain employees which requires contributions to be made to a separate trustee administered fund.
The scheme was closed to new members on 30 June 2004.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised past-service costs.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in Sterling, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
106 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 107
