Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1.
AUTHORISATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH IFRSs Significant judgements: The Group and Company financial statements of Cranswick plc the Company for the year ended 31 March 2018 were authorised for issue by the Share-based payments Note 25 measurement of share-based payments.
Board of Directors on 22 May 2018 and the balance sheets were signed on the Boards behalf by Martin Davey and Mark Bottomley.
Cranswick plc The selection of valuation models requires the use of managements judgement.
The fair value of shareis a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales Company number: 1074383, registered office: 74 Helsinki Road, based payments is estimated as at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The Companys ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Alternative measures Note 31 alternative performance measures.
Management apply judgement to identify the significant non-cash items to exclude when calculating The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the adjusted performance measures.
The Board believe alternative measures are useful as they exclude volatile, European Union.
The Companys financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as one-off and non-cash items.
applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group and by the Company Commercial accruals Note 20 trade and other payables.
Advertising and marketing The level of commercial accruals is viewed by management as an area sensitive to a level of judgement in The Company has taken advantage of the exemption provided under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to publish its individual income contributions determining the timing and quantum of liabilities to be recognised.
Other estimates and judgements have been applied by management in producing the Annual Report and Accounts including, but not limited to, 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES depreciation and amortisation rates, and provision for impairment of trade receivables.
However, these are not considered to have a significant Basis of preparation risk of material adjustment.
The financial statements of Cranswick plc, both consolidated and Company, have been prepared under IFRS as adopted by the European Union and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
A summary of the principal accounting policies, which have been consistently applied throughout New standards and interpretations applied the year and the preceding year, is below.
The following accounting standards and interpretations became effective for the current reporting period: Basis of consolidation International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs Effective date The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of Cranswick plc and its subsidiaries.
The results of undertakings acquired or Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014-2016 Cycle 1 January 2017 sold are consolidated for the periods from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
Acquisitions are accounted for under the acquisition IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows amendment 1 January 2017 method of accounting.
IAS 12 Income Taxes amendment 1 January 2017 The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Group and its subsidiaries as at 31 March 2018.
Control is achieved The application of these standards has not had a material effect on the net assets, results and disclosures of the Group.
when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
New and revised standards and interpretations not applied In these Financial Statements, the Group has not applied the following new and revised IFRSs that have been issued but are not yet effective: Specifically, the Group controls an investee if and only if the Group has: power over the investee i. e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee : IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts with Customers will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The standard exposure, or right, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee: and deals with revenue recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful information about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
of revenues and cash flows arising from the Groups contracts with its customers.
The standard provides clarification about when control of goods is passed to customers and contains more guidance about the measurement of revenue contracts which have discounts, rebates and The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the other payments to customers.
During 2017, the Group completed a review of the requirements of IFRS 15 against current accounting policies.
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group The areas the Group considered included payments to customers and the timing of revenue recognition based on control of goods.
The Group loses control of the subsidiary.
Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the has concluded that there will be no material impact of adopting IFRS 15. statement of comprehensive income from the date the Group gains control until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.
IFRS 9: Financial Instruments will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The standard includes requirements When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with the Groups for classification and measurement, impairment and hedge accounting.
The Group has evaluated the impact of IFRS 9 and concluded that accounting policies.
All intra-Group assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members it does not expect a material impact on the recognition and measurement of income and costs in the Income Statement or of assets and of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
liabilities in the Balance Sheet.
The Group has assessed the classification and measurement of certain financial assets on the Balance Sheet and concluded that there will be no significant change as a result of this.
Further, the nature of the Groups current hedging activities and the Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty quantum of its bad debt risk means that the impact of IFRS 9 will be immaterial in respect of these items.
IFRS 9 mandates certain additional The preparation of the Group financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the disclosures, which the Group will make in the future.
amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the year.
IFRS 16: Leases will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The standard changes the principles for the recognition, In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, management has made the following estimations, which have the most significant measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases.
It eliminates the classification of leases as either operating leases or finance leases and effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: introduces a single lessee accounting model where the lessee is required to recognise lease liabilities and right of use assets on the Balance Sheet, with exemptions for low value and short-term leases.
The Group is in the process of evaluating the impact of IFRS 16 on its current lease Significant estimates and assumptions: arrangements, which mainly consists of agricultural properties.
Share-based payments Note 25 measurement of share-based payments.
The fair value of share-based payments is estimated using inputs including expected share price volatility, A number of other new standards, amendments and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and the expected life of the options and the number of awards that will ultimately vest.
have not yet been applied in preparing these Financial Statements.
None of these are expected to have a significant effect on the Financial Pensions Note 26 pension scheme actuarial assumptions.
The valuation of the defined benefit pension scheme is determined using assumptions including mortality, discount rates and inflation.
The effective dates stated above are those given in the original IASB IFRIC standards and interpretations.
As the Group prepares its financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, the application of new standards and interpretations will be subject Acquisitions Note 15 fair value adjustments on acquisition include the valuation of intangible assets with inputs based to their having been endorsed for use in the EU via the EU Endorsement mechanism.
In the majority of cases this will result in an effective date on discount rate, sales growth and customer churn assumptions.
consistent with that given in the original standard or interpretation but the need for endorsement restricts the Groups discretion to early adopt Biological assets Note 16 valuation includes assumptions in relation to mortality and growth rate.
The Group has not early adopted any of the above standards.
102 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 103
