Directors Report Remuneration Report continued E. Summary of the Remuneration Policy Link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity An updated Remuneration Policy was presented and approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM and will operate until the AGM in 2020.
The PSP provides for awards of free shares ie either Normal maximum opportunity of 200% of salary.
Performance Share conditional shares or nil-cost options normally made Plan PSP In exceptional circumstances eg recruitment, awards Changes to the application of Remuneration Policy effective 2018 annually which vest after three years subject to To incentivise and reward the may be granted up to 300% of salary to compensate continued service and the achievement of challenging In direct response to shareholder concerns the Committee agreed that for all new Executive Director or Executive Committee for value forfeited from a previous employer.
execution of business strategy performance conditions.
Shares on an after-tax basis appointments the cash supplement element of their pension will be up to 15% of base salary, which is aligned to the UK workforce.
are subject to a two-year post-vesting holding period.
To reward sustained Main components of the Remuneration Policy The Committee has the discretion when awards are growth in i profit and granted to permit awards to benefit from the dividends ii shareholder value.
Link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Framework used to assess performance and for the recovery of sums paid Reviewed annually with increases effective from Salaries may be increased each year in percentage Basic salary Granted subject to a blend of challenging financial eg EPS, shareholder return eg relative TSR and strategic targets eg NPP.
To assist in the recruitment andretention of high-calibre Targets will normally be tested over three years.
Base salaries will be set by the Committee, considering: The Committee will be guided by the salary Executives.
increasebudget set in each region and across In relation to financial targets eg EPS growth and TSR 25% of awards subject to such targets will vest for threshold performance with a The performance and experience of the individual theworkforce generally.
graduated scale operating through to full vesting for equalling, or exceeding, the maximum performance targets no awards vest for performance concerned below threshold.
In relation to strategic targets, the structure of the target will vary based on the nature of target set ie it will not always be Any change in responsibilities Increases beyond those linked to the region of the practicable to set such targets using a graduated scale and so vesting may take place in full for strategic targets if specific criteria are met in full.
Pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group Executive or the workforce as a whole in percentage of Vesting is also dependent on satisfactory underlying financial performance of the Group over the performance period and subject to potential claw Rates of inflation and market-wide wage increases salary terms may be awarded in certain circumstances back in the event of a material misstatement of results, serious misconduct, serious reputational damage, or corporate failure.
The claw back across international locations such as where there is a change in responsibility, provisions will operate for a three-year period following the date on which the awards vest.
The geographical location of the Executive experience or a significant increase in the scale of Rates of pay in international manufacturing therole and or size, value or complexity of the Group.
Periodic invitations are made to participate in the The maximum participation level for UK-based All-employee and pan-sector companies of a comparable The Committee retains the flexibility to set the salary Groups Sharesave Plan and Share Incentive Plan.
employees is as per HMRC limits see Annual Report size and complexity.
share plans ofa new hire at a discount to the market level initially, on Remuneration for current maximum limits.
Shares acquired through these arrangements have To encourage retention and and to implement a series of planned increases in longterm shareholding in significant tax benefits in the UK subject to satisfying subsequent years, in order to bring the salary to the theCompany.
desired positioning, subject to individual performance.
To provide all employees The plans can only operate on an all-employee basis.
Framework used to assess performance and for the recovery of sums paid withthe opportunity to become The plans operate on similar terms but on a non-tax The Committee considers individual salaries at the appropriate Committee meeting each year, taking due account of the factors noted in operation shareholders in the Company favoured basis outside the UK as appropriate.
The Group typically provides the following benefits: Cost of benefits is not pre-determined and may vary Benefits Framework used to assess performance and for the recovery of sums paid from year to year based on the cost to the Group.
To provide competitive benefits There are no post-grant performance targets applicable to these awards.
Company car or cash allowance to act as a retention mechanism Private fuel allowance Pension benefits are typically provided either through Career Average Revalued Earnings Scheme with up to Pension and reward service.
Private health insurance and other insured benefits i participation in the UKs defined benefit pension plan 1 60th accrual up to a capped salary currently set at up Other ancillary benefits, including relocation expenses To provide competitive long term with a cash supplement provided above any pension to 67,620 plus cash allowance of up to 15% of salary arrangements as required.
salary cap or ii a cash supplement provided in lieu above the cap.
The salary cap may be reduced due to Additional benefits might be provided from time to time To act as a retention mechanism ofpension.
for example in circumstances where an Executive and reward service.
Director is recruited from overseas.
Only basic salary is pensionable.
or The Committee will consider whether the payment Cash allowance aligned to the workforce of up to 15% ofany additional benefits is appropriate and in line of salary.
withmarket practice when determining whether A cap of 25% applies to Executive Directors appointed theyare paid.
Framework used to assess performance and for the recovery of sums paid Framework used to assess performance and for the recovery of sums paid None.
Compulsory deferral of one third of any bonus paid into Group Chief Executive: 150% of salary Performance related shares for three years through the Deferred Bonus bonus Group Finance Director: 125% of salary Share Plan DBSP.
To incentivise and reward Other Executive Directors: 100% of salary delivery of the Groups key The Committee has the discretion to permit DBSP annual objectives.
awards to benefit from dividends on shares that vest.
To contribute to longer term The balance of the bonus is paid in cash.
Framework used to assess performance and for the recovery of sums paid Details of the performance measures used for the current year and targets set for the year under review and performance against them is providedin the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Bonus will be based on a challenging range of financial targets set in line with the Groups KPIs for example income growth targets.
The Committee has the flexibility to include, for a minority of the bonus, targets related to the Groups other KPIs where this is considered appropriate.
For each objective set, bonus starts to accrue once the threshold target is met 0% payable rising on agraduated scale to 100% for out-performance.
The Committee takes health, safety and environmental performance into consideration when determining the actual overall level of individual bonus payments and it may reduce the bonus awards if it considers it appropriate to do so.
Bonuses paid are subject to provisions that enable the Committee to recover value overpaid through the withholding of variable pay previously earned or granted malus or through requesting a payment from an individual claw back in the event of a material misstatement of results, serious misconduct, serious reputational damage, or corporate failure.
The provisions will operate for a three-year period following the date onwhich the bonus is paid.
Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 88 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 89 Directors Report Directors Report Other Disclosures Pages 44 to 93 inclusive, together with Apart from the share option schemes, Development and learning: The Company Share capital thesections of the Annual Report and longterm incentive schemes and service recognises that the key to future success At the date of this Report, 135,124,108 Accounts incorporated by reference, contracts, no Director had any beneficial lies in the skills and abilities of its Ordinary Shares of 10.357143p each constitute a Directors Report that interest in any contract to which the dedicatedglobal workforce.
havebeen issued and are fully paid up and hasbeen drawn up and presented Company or a subsidiary was a party quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
inaccordance with applicable English during the year.
The continuous development of all of Atthe date of this Report, the Company company law: the liabilities of the Directors ouremployees is key to meeting the future has issued and fully paid up 21,900 7.5% in connection with that report are subject A statement indicating the beneficial and demands of our customers, especially in Cumulative Preference Shares, 498,434 to the limitations and restrictions provided non-beneficial interests of the Directors in relation to enhanced creativity, innovation 6.6% Cumulative Preference Shares and by that law.
the share capital of the Company, including and customer service.
During 2018, 82.7% 615,562 5.9% Cumulative Preference share options, is shown in the Directors of our employees received training, totalling Shares, all of 1 each the Preference Research and development Remuneration Report on page 84. over 95,000 hours.
The rights and obligations Research and development activities are attached to the Companys Ordinary The Directors are responsible for managing Involvement: We are committed to undertaken with the prospect of gaining Shares and Preference Shares are set the business of the Company and may ensuring that employees share in the new scientific or technical knowledge outin the Articles, copies of which can be exercise all the powers of the Company success of the Group.
obtained from Companies House in the UK subject to the provisions of relevant inthe Company is an important way or by writing to the Company Secretary.
statutes, the Companys Memorandum ofstrengthening involvement in the Dividends There are no restrictions on the voting and Articles and any directions given development of the Business and bringing rights attached to the Companys Ordinary The Directors are recommending a final byspecial resolution.
together employees and shareholders Shares or on the transfer of securities dividend of 49p per share 2018: 46p.
In 2018, 82.2% of our UK inthe Company.
The 7.5% Cumulative approved by shareholders, total dividends Directors indemnities employees and 60.1% of our non-UK Preference Shares do not confer on the for the year will amount to 87p per share Power to issue or Employees employees participated in one of our The Company maintains Directors holders any right to receive notice of or 2017: 81p.
Details of dividends are buybackshares Diversity: We are committed to all-employee share plans, indicating andOfficers liability insurance that tobe present or to vote at any general shownin note 8 on page 116: details of the theprinciple of equal opportunity in At the 2018 AGM, authority was given to employees continued desire to be givesappropriate cover for any legal meeting of the Company, unless the Companys Dividend Reinvestment Plan the Directors to allot unissued shares in employment and to ensuring that no involvedin the Company.
The cumulative preferential dividend on such can be found on page 148.
The Company applicant or employee receives less theCompany up to a maximum amount Company has also granted indemnities shares is more than 12 calendar months in has established various Employee Benefit equivalent to approximately one third of the favourable treatment on the grounds Employees are kept informed of matters toeach of its Directors and the Company arrears.
The 6.6% and 5.9% Cumulative Trusts EBTs in connection with the ofgender, marital status, race, ethnic issued share capital, excluding shares held ofconcern to them in a variety of ways, Secretary, which represent qualifying third Preference Shares do not confer on the obligation to satisfy future share awards in treasury, for general purposes, plus up origin, religion, disability, sexuality or including the Company magazine, Croda party indemnity provisions as defined by holders any right to receive notice of or under employee share incentive schemes.
age, or is disadvantaged by conditions or to a further one third of the Companys Way: quarterly updates: the Company Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, in tobe present or to vote at any general The trustees of the EBTs have waived issued share capital, excluding shares held requirements that cannot be shown to be intranet, Connect: team briefing webinars: relation to certain losses and liabilities that meeting of the Company, unless the theirrights to receive dividends on certain justified.
Group human resources policies in treasury, but only in the case of a rights and Croda Now email messages.
These the Directors or the Company Secretary may cumulative preferential dividend on such Ordinary Shares of the Company held in issue.
No such shares have been issued.
are clearly communicated to all of our communications help achieve a common incur to third parties in the course of acting shares is more than six calendar months the EBTs.
Such waivers represent less employees and are available through awareness of the financial and economic as Directors or the Company Secretary or inarrears or the business of the general than1% of the total dividend payable on A further special resolution passed at that theCompany intranet.
factors affecting the performance of Croda as employees of the Company or of any meeting includes the consideration of a the Companys Ordinary Shares.
Further meeting granted authority to the Directors and of changes within the Business.
In addition, such resolution for reducing the share capital of details of the EBTs can be found in to allot equity securities in the Company Recruitment and progression: are committed to providing employees indemnities have been granted to other the Company, to sell the undertaking of the note 24 on page 136.
It is established policy throughout the forcash, without regard to the pre-emption withopportunities to share their views officers of the Company who are Directors Company or to alter the Articles.
No person provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Businessthat decisions on recruitment, andprovide feedback on issues that are of subsidiary companies within the Group.
holds securities in the Company that carry Directors career development, promotion and Both of these authorities expire on the date important to them.
In 2017 we undertook The Company has also granted an indemnity special rights with regard to control of the The Companys Articles of Association of the 2019 AGM, that is 24 April 2019, and otheremployment related issues are made aGlobal Employee Culture Survey and in representing qualifying pension scheme Company.
The Company is not aware Articles give the Directors power to solely on the grounds of individual ability, so the Directors propose to renew them for 2018 we held Listening Groups across all indemnity provisions as defined by ofany agreements between holders of appoint and replace Directors.
levels of our organisation to gain a deeper Section 235 of the Companies Act 2006 securities that may result in restrictions on theterms of reference of the Nomination understanding of our peoples feelings toa paid Director of the corporate trustee the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Committee, any appointment must At last years AGM the members renewed We give full and fair consideration to towards our Business.
More details can of the Groups UK pension scheme.
Such berecommended by the Nomination applications for employment from people the Companys authority to purchase up to befound on page 26 of our 2018 indemnities were in place during 2018 Committee for approval by the Board of 10% of its Ordinary Shares.
No purchases with disabilities, having regard to their Sustainability Report.
andat the date of approval of the Directors.
The present Directors of the particular aptitudes and abilities.
Should were made during the year.
Company are shown on pages 44 and 45. theCompany will be seeking to renew its anemployee become disabled during In line with the UK Corporate Governance theiremployment with the Company, they authority to purchase its own shares at the Code, each Director will be standing for 2019 AGM.
Shares will only be purchased are fully supported by our Occupational election or re-election at the AGM, with Health provision.
Efforts are made to if the Board believes that such purchases theexception of Steve Williams, who will will improve earnings per share and be in continue their employment with reasonable retire at the AGM.
Details of the Directors adjustments being made to the workplace the best general interest of shareholders.
It service contracts are given in the Directors is the Companys intention that any shares and role where feasible.
Retraining is Remuneration Report on page 86. provided if necessary.
purchased will be held as treasury shares.
At the date of this report the Company holds 3,481,087 shares in treasury.
Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 90 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 91 Directors Report Directors Report continued All the information cross referenced above Articles of Association Other disclosures is incorporated by reference into the Statement of Directors responsibilities Unless expressly specified to the contrary Certain information that is required to be Directors Report.
in the Articles, the Companys Articles may included in the Directors Report can be The Directors are responsible for UK accounting standards have that complies with that law and be amended by a special resolution of the found elsewhere in this document as preparing the Annual Report and the beenfollowed, subject to any material thoseregulations.
References in this document to other Companys shareholders.
referred to below, each of which is Group and parent Company financial departures disclosed and explained documents on the Companys website, incorporated by reference into the statements in accordance with applicable inthe parent Company financial The Directors are responsible for such as the Sustainability Report, are Directors Report: Significant contracts and law and regulations.
statements: themaintenance and integrity of the included as an aid to their location and changeof control corporate and financial information arenot incorporated by reference into any Information on greenhouse gas assess the Group and parent The Group has borrowing facilities which Company law requires the Directors included on the Companys website.
section of the Annual Report and Accounts.
emissions can be found on page 33 Companys ability to continue as may require the immediate repayment of toprepare Group and parent Company Legislation in the UK governing the agoing concern, disclosing, as alloutstanding loans together with accrued An indication of likely future financial statements for each financial preparation and dissemination of Independent auditors applicable, matters related to interest in the event of a change of control.
developments in the Groups business year.
Under that law they are required to financialstatements may differ Our auditors, KPMG, have indicated their goingconcern: and The rules of the Companys employee can be found in the Strategic Report, prepare the Group financial statements fromlegislation in other jurisdictions.
willingness to continue in office and on the share plans set out the consequences starting on page 2 use the going concern basis of inaccordance with International Financial recommendation of the Audit Committee, ofachange in control of the Company Reporting Standards as adopted by the accounting unless they either intend Responsibility statement of An indication of the Companys overseas aresolution regarding their reappointment onparticipants rights under the plans.
toliquidate the Group or the parent European Union IFRSs as adopted by theDirectors in respect of branches is on pages 145 to 147. and remuneration will be submitted to the Generally, such rights will vest and the EU and applicable law and have Company or to cease operations, theannual financial report AGM on 24 April 2019. becomeexercisable on a change of orhave no realistic alternative elected to prepare the parent Company We confirm that to the best of There have been no events affecting the controlsubject to the satisfaction of financial statements in accordance with butto do so.
Company since the financial year end to ourknowledge: Audit information performance conditions.
None of the UK accounting standards, including FRS report to shareholders in accordance with The Directors confirm that, so far as Executive Directors service contracts 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
The Directors are responsible for keeping the Accounts Regulations and Disclosure the financial statements, prepared in theyare aware, there is no relevant contains provisions that are affected by adequate accounting records that are accordance with the applicable set and Transparency Rules.
auditinformation of which the Companys achange of control and there are no Under company law the Directors must sufficient to show and explain the parent ofaccounting standards, give a true auditors are unaware, and that they have otheragreements that the Company is Companys transactions and disclose not approve the financial statements and fair view of the assets, liabilities, For the purposes of Listing Rule LR each taken all the steps they ought to party to that take effect, alter or terminate unless they are satisfied that they give a with reasonable accuracy at any time the 9.8.
4R, the information required to be financial position and profit or loss of havetaken as a Director in order to in the event of a change of control of the financial position of the parent Company true and fair view of the state of affairs the Company and the undertakings disclosed by LR 9.8.
4R can be found on makethemselves aware of any relevant Company, which are considered to be ofthe Group and parent Company and and enable them to ensure that its the following pages of this Annual Report included in the consolidation taken audit information and to establish that significant in terms of their potential financial statements comply with oftheir profit or loss for that period.
In asa whole: and and Accounts: theCompanys auditors are aware of impacton the Group.
preparing each of the Group and parent theCompanies Act 2006.
the Strategic Report includes a responsible for such internal control as Company financial statements, the The Company does not have any fairreview of the development Directors are required to: they determine is necessary to enable contractual or other arrangements that andperformance of the business thepreparation of financial statements areessential to the business of the Group.
andthe position of the issuer and select suitable accounting policies and that are free from material misstatement, theundertakings included in the whether due to fraud or error, and have then apply them consistently: Political donations consolidation taken as a whole, general responsibility for taking such make judgements and estimates together with a description of the No donations were made for political steps as are reasonably open to them Section Topic Page reference thatare reasonable, relevant, reliable principal risks and uncertainties purposes during the year 2017: nil.
tosafeguard the assets of the Group and prudent: 1 Capitalised interest Page 92 thatthey face.
andto prevent and detect fraud and Financial risk management for the Group financial statements, other irregularities.
We consider the Annual Report and 2 Publication of unaudited financial Not applicable state whether they have been prepared The Groups exposure to and management Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, information in accordance with IFRSs as adopted Under applicable law and regulations, of capital, liquidity, credit, interest rate and balanced and understandable and by the EU: theDirectors are also responsible for 3 Smaller related party transactions Not applicable foreign currency risks are contained in note provides the information necessary preparing a Strategic Report, Directors 19 on pages 127 to 131. forshareholders to assess the Groups for the parent Company financial 4 Details of long term incentive schemes Not applicable Report, Directors Remuneration Report position and performance, business statements, state whether applicable established specifically to recruit or retain and Corporate Governance Statement Capitalised interest model and strategy.
aDirector The Groups policy for capitalising 5 6 Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable borrowing costs directly attributable to the purchase or construction of fixed assets is 7 8 Allotments of equity securities for cash Page 91 set out on page 110.
The Directors Report and the Strategic Report, including the sections of the 9 Participation in a placing of equity securities Not applicable Annual Report and Accounts incorporated 10 Contracts of significance Page 92 by reference, is the management report Tom Brophy for the purposes of the Financial Conduct 11 14 Controlling shareholder disclosures Not applicable Group General Counsel and Company Authority Disclosure and Transparency Secretary Rules DTR 4.1.
It was approved by 12 13 Dividend waiver Page 90 theBoard on 26 February 2019 and is 26 February 2019 signed on its behalf by Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 92 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 93 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Croda International Plc 1.
Our opinion is unmodified Overview 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement We have audited the financial statements of Croda International Plc Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and Materiality: 16 million the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018 which include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had Group financial statements as 5% of group profit before tax comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
a whole Comprehensive Income, the Group and Company Balance Sheets, We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our the Group Statement of Cash Flows, the Group and Company key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters Coverage 79% of group profit before tax Statements of Changes in Equity, and the related notes, including were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial the accounting policies on pages 105 to 111 and on page 140. statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key audit matters In our opinion: Recurring risks Valuation of defined benefit the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group The risk Our response pension scheme liabilities Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December Valuation of Subjective valuation: Our procedures included: and certain of its assets 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: defined benefit The Group has three defined benefit pension Benchmarking assumptions: challenged key assumptions the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in pension scheme schemes that are material in the context of the applied discount rate, inflation rate, and mortality rate with the Environmental provision accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as liabilities and overall balance sheet and the results of the Group.
support of our own actuarial specialists, including a comparison adopted by the European Union: certain of of key assumptions against market data.
Significant estimates, including the discount Taxation its assets the parent Company financial statements have been properly rate, the inflation rate, the mortality rate and Sensitivity analysis: assessed the sensitivity of the defined Gross defined prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, GMP equalisation adjustment, are made in valuing benefit obligation to changes in certain assumptions.
benefit obligation Recoverability of parent including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the Groups defined benefit pension obligations Test of details: obtained third party valuation confirmations companys intercompany 1,268.7 million: before deducting the schemes assets.
The UK the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 2017: 1,317.8 directly from fund managers, and compared those confirmations receivables scheme is still open to future accrual and new the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards with unaudited Net Asset Value NAV statements.
Tested the million members, and small changes in the assumptions the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
ability of fund managers to prepare accurate valuations by and estimates would have a significant effect on validating the unaudited NAV statements to audited Fair value of the financial position of the Group.
The Group Basis for opinion unlisted real financial statements.
engages external actuarial specialists to assist We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards estate and Actuarys and fund managers credentials: assessed the them in selecting appropriate assumptions and on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities infrastructure calculate the obligations.
competence, independence and integrity of the Groups are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have scheme assets actuarial expert and third party expert fund managers.
obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our The effect of these matters is that, as part of audit opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
our risk assessment, we determined that the Accounting analysis: challenged the accounting subjectivities Refer to page 64 such as GMP equalisation treatment that have been applied.
Audit Committee valuation of the defined benefit obligations has We were first appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 25 April a high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a Report, pages Assessing transparency: considered adequacy of the Groups 2018.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the one 108 accounting potential range of reasonable outcomes greater disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the net deficit to financial year ended 31 December 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical than our materiality for the financial statements policy and note changes in key assumptions.
responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in 11 on pages 118 as a whole, and possibly many times that amount.
accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical The financial statements note 11 disclose the to 121 financial Our results Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
sensitivity estimated by the Group.
The results of our testing were satisfactory and we found the services prohibited by that standard were provided.
Judgements and estimations are also applied valuation of retirement benefit liabilities and certain unlisted when valuing certain of the schemes unlisted assets to be acceptable.
real estate and infrastructure assets, including the choice of valuation methodology.
Environmental Omitted exposure: Our procedures included: provision The Group has numerous operating and legacy Enquiry with lawyers: obtained legal confirmation letters and 9.9 million: manufacturing sites worldwide.
Environmental inspected legal correspondence in relation to ongoing claims, 2017: 10.2 issues and related legal proceedings are inherent and held discussions with the Groups in-house legal team million within the chemicals industry.
There are a number and specialists.
of ongoing claims against the Group for soil and Third party expert credentials: assessed the competence, Refer to page 64 potential groundwater contamination and independence and integrity of the Groups third party experts Audit Committee environmental damage.
used in estimating the provision.
Report, page 110 The accounting risk is that there is a material Comparisons: assessed legal expenses incurred and reviewed accounting exposure which has not been provided for.
policy and note due diligence performed on acquisitions made in the period and The determination of the resulting environmental compared these with the provisions identified.
20 on page 131 provision is inherently subjective and involves financial a significant level of judgement, including the Assessing transparency: considered the adequacy of the disclosures.
Groups disclosures in respect of the nature and extent of the interpretation of local environmental legislation.
exposure and the subjectivity in the forecasts.
Our results We found the judgements made around accounting for environmental provisions and contingent liabilities to be acceptable.
Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 82 Annual report and Accounts 2018 Annual report and Accounts 2018 83 94 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 95 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Croda International Plc continued Of the Groups 80 reporting components, we subjected 8 to full Group revenue Group profit before tax Group The risk Our response scope audits for group purposes and 8 to specified risk-focused audit Taxation Dispute outcome: Our procedures included: procedures.
One component for which we performed specified riskTax accruals for The Group operates in multiple tax jurisdictions governed by Our tax expertise: with the assistance of our focused procedures was not individually financially significant enough judgemental and national tax laws and regulations, and is required to estimate own local and international tax specialists, to require an audit for group reporting purposes, but did present estimated tax positions the impact of cross border transactions including transfer assessed the correspondence with tax specific individual risks that needed to be addressed.
Misinterpretation of these laws and authorities relating to ongoing enquiries, components for which we performed work other than audits for Refer to page 64 Audit regulations could give rise to a material misstatement.
reviewed transfer pricing agreements and group reporting purposes were not individually significant but were Committee Report, page analysed and challenged the assumptions used included in the scope of our group reporting work in order to provide The Group also holds a number of specific judgemental 76% 79% 109 accounting policy to determine the tax charge and provisions.
further coverage over the Groups results.
We subjected these 8 58 tax accruals that relate to specific, open tax investigations 18 and note 5 on page 114 We also considered the Country by Country components to specified risk-focused audit procedures over a audits and other such matters.
The estimation of the financial disclosures.
Reporting data made available to tax authorities combination of revenue 6 components, property, plant and 79 accruals are dependent on the Directors assessment for the period ended 31 December 2017. equipment 2 components and defined benefit pension assets of the likely outcome of the outstanding matters.
The components within the scope Historical comparison: evaluated the track Subjective estimate: of our work accounted for 79% of the total profits and losses record of assumptions used to calculate The Directors have recorded accruals to cover potential that made up group profit before tax.
related tax provisions and charges versus liabilities arising from the risk of challenge to transfer pricing Group total assets actual historical results.
arrangements and ongoing tax investigations in different The remaining 24% of total group revenue, 21% of group profit Assessing transparency: considered the jurisdictions.
There is a risk that the Groups judgements before tax and 15% of total group assets is represented by 64 adequacy and consistency of the Groups do not adequately reflect the latest available, reliable components, none of which individually represented more than 3% disclosures of the nature and extent of information or an appropriate application of relevant tax of any of total group revenue, group profit before tax or total group the exposure and the sensitivity of the tax legislation, and are either under or overstated as a result.
For the residual components, we performed analysis at an 2 accruals to any change in assumptions.
The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there Our results assessment, we determined that the valuation of tax were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
accruals has a high degree of estimation uncertainty, We found the judgements and estimates made 85% with a potential range of reasonable outcomes greater around accounting for tax uncertainties to be The Group team instructed component auditors as to the significant than our materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and Parent The risk Our response the information to be reported back.
The Group team approved the 83 component materialities, which ranged from 0.8m to 11.0m, having Recoverability of The carrying amount of the parent Companys intercompany Our procedures included: regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the parent Companys receivables, held at cost less impairment, represents 73.6% Tests of detail: Compared the carrying amount components.
The work on 12 of the 16 components was performed intercompany of the Companys total assets.
of the highest value receivables balances with by component auditors in Germany, Italy, France, the Netherlands, Full scope for group audit purposes 2018 receivables We do not consider the recoverable amount of these the respective subsidiaries net asset values Singapore, Japan, Brazil, Spain, China and India, and the rest, Speci ed risk-focused audit procedures 2018 receivables to be at a high risk of significant misstatement, 1,675.4 million: 2017: and forecast cash generation to identify with including the audit of the parent company, was performed by Residual components or to be subject to a significant level of judgement.
However, 1,809.1 million reference to the relevant debtors draft balance the Group team at locations in the UK and the USA.
due to their materiality in the context of the Company sheet, whether the net asset values, being an financial statements as a whole, this is considered to be Refer to page 110 approximation of their minimum recoverable The Group team visited 3 component locations in Singapore, France one of the areas which had the greatest effect on our overall accounting policy amount, were in excess of the carrying amount.
and Brazil, to assess the audit risk and strategy.
Video and telephone In our evaluation of the Directors conclusions, we considered the audit strategy and allocation of resources in planning and and note H on page 142 Our results conference meetings were also held with these component auditors inherent risks to the Groups and Companys business model and completing our company audit.
The results of our testing were satisfactory and and certain others that were not physically visited.
At these visits and analysed how those risks might affect the Groups and Companys we found the recoverability of intercompany meetings, the findings reported to the Group team were discussed in financial resources or ability to continue operations over the going receivables to be acceptable.
more detail, and any further work required by the Group team was concern period.
The risks that we considered most likely to adversely then performed by the component auditor.
affect the Groups and Companys available financial resources over this period were: 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of profit before tax Group materiality 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern 317.8m 16.0m the scope of our audit The Directors have prepared the financial statements on the going The impact of a significant business continuity issue affecting Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the Company or the the Groups manufacturing facilities or those of its suppliers: 16.0m Group or to cease their operations, and as they have concluded at 16.0 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Whole financial A potential significant legal settlement relating to a compliance Group profit before income tax of 317.8 million, of which it that the Companys and the Groups financial position means that statements materiality breach such as an environmental issue: and this is realistic.
They have also concluded that there are no material represents 5.0%.
uncertainties that could have cast significant doubt over their ability The impact of Brexit on the Groups supply chain.
11.0m to continue as a going concern for at least a year from the date of Materiality for the parent Company financial statements as a whole Range of materiality was set at 10.2 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of approval of the financial statements the going concern period.
at 16 components company total assets of 2,276.8 million, of which it represents 0.4%.
0.8m-11.0m Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors conclusions and, had there been a material uncertainty We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or related to going concern, to make reference to that in this audit uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.8 million, in report.
However, as we cannot predict all future events or addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes on qualitative grounds.
that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at 0.8m Pro t before tax the time they were made, the absence of reference to a material Misstatements reported uncertainty in this auditors report is not a guarantee that the Group materiality to the Audit Committee Group and the Company will continue in operation.
Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 84 Annual report and Accounts 2018 Annual report and Accounts 2018 85 96 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 97 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Croda International Plc continued As these were risks that could potentially cast significant doubt The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial Directors remuneration report 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on on the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going statements varies considerably.
which we are required to report by exception In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to concern, we considered sensitivities over the level of available be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in financial resources indicated by the Groups financial forecasts taking Firstly, the Group is subject to laws and regulations that directly Companies Act 2006. our opinion: account of reasonably possible but not unrealistic adverse effects affect the financial statements including financial reporting that could arise from these risks individually and collectively and legislation, including related companies legislation, distributable Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent evaluated the achievability of the actions the Directors consider they profits legislation, and taxation legislation, and we assessed the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial would take to improve the position should the risks materialise.
We extent of compliance with these laws and regulations as part of from branches not visited by us: or statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw also considered less predictable but realistic second order impacts, our procedures on the related financial statement items.
attention to in relation to: the parent Company financial statements and the part of the such as the impact of erosion of customer or supplier confidence Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement arising from Brexit, which could result in a rapid reduction of Secondly, the Group is subject to many other laws and regulations the Directors confirmation on page 39 in relation to the with the accounting records and returns: or available financial resources.
where the consequences of non-compliance could have a material viability statement on page 43 that they have carried out a effect on amounts or disclosures in the financial statements, for certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, Based on this work, we are required to report to you if: instance through the imposition of fines or litigation or the loss of not made: or including those that would threaten its business model, the Companys licence to operate.
We identified the following areas future performance, solvency and liquidity: we have not received all the information and explanations we we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation as those most likely to have such an effect: health and safety and require for our audit.
to the Directors statement in the Accounting Policies on pages 105 the Key Risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining product safety, anti-bribery and corruption, employment law, tax how they are being managed and mitigated: and and 140 on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with and environmental legislation, recognising the nature of the Groups We have nothing to report in these respects.
no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the activities.
Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to the Directors explanation in the viability statement of how they Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least identify non-compliance with these laws and regulations to enquiry have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period 7.
Respective responsibilities twelve months from the date of approval of the financial of the Directors and other management and inspection of regulatory they have done so and why they considered that period to and legal correspondence, if any.
These limited procedures did not statements: or Directors responsibilities be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a identify actual or suspected non-compliance.
As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 93, If the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 92 reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing risk that we may not have detected some material misstatements view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report in these respects, and we did not identify in the financial statements, even though we have properly planned the preparation of financial statements that are free from material going concern as a key audit matter.
and performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards.
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability For example, the further removed non-compliance with laws and parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
We have nothing to report on the other information regulations irregularities is from the events and transactions reflected as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going in the Annual Report in the financial statements, the less likely the inherently limited concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of only The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in procedures required by auditing standards would identify it.
In Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no the knowledge acquired during our financial statements audit.
As the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of nonrealistic alternative but to do so.
we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent on the financial statements does not cover the other information detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal Auditors responsibilities that were reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
We are not responsible for preventing non-compliance anything to report on these statements is not a guarantee as to Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the and cannot be expected to detect non-compliance with all laws the Groups and Companys longer-term viability.
financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, and regulations.
whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, Corporate governance disclosures to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit We are required to report to you if: the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on our responsibilities conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material that work we have not identified material misstatements in the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge other information.
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually we acquired during our financial statements audit and the Directors Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial Strategic Report and Directors Report Companys members those matters we are required to state to them the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable Based solely on our work on the other information: in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent financial statements.
and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to the Groups position and performance, business model and we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs strategy: or and the Directors report: as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions website at www.
the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit we have formed.
in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated year is consistent with the financial statements: and Irregularities ability to detect by us to the Audit Committee.
We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from with the Companies Act 2006.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance our general commercial and sector experience, through discussion Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven with the Directors and other management as required by auditing provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the standards, from inspection of the Groups regulatory and legal Listing Rules for our review.
Chris Hearld Senior Statutory Auditor correspondence, and discussed with the Directors and other management, the policies and procedures regarding compliance for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor We have nothing to report in these respects.
Chartered Accountants with laws and regulations.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any 1 Sovereign Square Sovereign Street indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included communication from the Group to component audit teams of Leeds LS1 4DA relevant laws and regulations identified at group level.
26 February 2019 Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 86 Annual report and Accounts 2018 Annual report and Accounts 2018 87 98 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 99 Financial Statements Group Consolidated Statements Group Income Statement Group Balance Sheet for the year ended 31 December 2018 at 31 December 2018 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 Reported Reported 2018 2017 Adjusted Adjustments Total Adjusted Adjustments Total Note m m Note m m m m m m Assets Revenue 1 1,386.9 1,386.9 1,373.1 1,373.1 Non-current assets Cost of sales 864.6 864.6 855.7 855.7 Intangible assets 12 454.9 386.3 Gross profit 522.3 522.3 517.4 517.4 Property, plant and equipment 13 780.3 684.0 Operating costs 2 179.8 13.7 193.5 185.2 6.2 191.4 Investments 15 4.8 2.2 Operating profit 3 342.5 13.7 328.8 332.2 6.2 326.0 Deferred tax assets 6 56.2 33.1 Financial costs 4 12.1 12.1 12.5 12.5 Retirement benefit assets 11 24.6 19.1 Financial income 4 1.1 1.1 0.6 0.6 1,320.8 1,124.7 Profit before tax 331.5 13.7 317.8 320.3 6.2 314.1 Current assets Tax 5 81.6 2.1 79.5 85.9 8.5 77.4 Inventories 16 287.2 258.5 Profit after tax for the year 249.9 11.6 238.3 234.4 2.3 236.7 Trade and other receivables 17 233.6 202.2 Attributable to: Cash and cash equivalents 19 71.2 63.3 Non-controlling interests 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.3 592.0 524.0 Owners of the parent 250.1 11.6 238.5 234.7 2.3 237.0 Liabilities 249.9 11.6 238.3 234.4 2.3 236.7 Current liabilities Adjustments relate to exceptional items including discontinued business costs, acquisition costs, amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition and the tax thereon.
Details are disclosed in Note 3.
Trade and other payables 18 190.5 201.4 Earnings per 10.36p ordinary share Pence Pence Pence Pence Borrowings and other financial liabilities 19 49.2 18.4 Provisions 20 4.0 5.2 Basic 7 190.2 181.4 179.0 180.8 Current tax liabilities 47.9 45.9 291.6 270.9 Diluted 7 189.2 180.4 177.3 179.0 Net current assets 300.4 253.1 Non-current liabilities Borrowings and other financial liabilities 19 447.5 426.4 Other payables 0.8 1.1 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income Retirement benefit liabilities 11 43.1 49.6 for the year ended 31 December 2018 Provisions 20 7.1 7.4 2018 2017 Deferred tax liabilities 6 124.7 63.4 Note m m 623.2 547.9 Profit for the year 238.3 236.7 Net assets 998.0 829.9 Equity Other comprehensive income expense : Ordinary share capital 21 14.0 14.0 Items that will not be reclassified Preference share capital 23 1.1 1.1 subsequently to profit or loss: Share capital 15.1 15.1 Remeasurements of post-retirement Share premium account 93.3 93.3 benefit obligations 11 22.6 121.9 Reserves 882.1 713.9 Tax on items that will not be reclassified 5 4.9 23.8 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 990.5 822.3 17.7 98.1 Non-controlling interests in equity 25 7.5 7.6 Items that may be reclassified Total equity 998.0 829.9 subsequently to profit or loss: Currency translation 14.9 22.6 Other comprehensive income for the year 32.6 75.5 The financial statements on pages 100 to 137 were signed on behalf of the Board who approved the accounts on 26 February 2019.
Total comprehensive income for the year 270.9 312.2 Attributable to: Non-controlling interests 0.1 0.6 Owners of the parent 271.0 312.8 270.9 312.2 Arising from: Anita Frew Jez Maiden Continuing operations 270.9 313.9 Chair Group Finance Director Discontinued operations 1.7 270.9 312.2 Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 100 Annual report and Accounts 2018 Annual report and Accounts 2018101 100 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 101 Financial Statements Group Consolidated Statements continued Group Statement of Cash Flows Group Cash Flow Notes for the year ended 31 December 2018 for the year ended 31 December 2018 2018 2017 i Reconciliation to net debt Note m m 2018 2017 Cash flows from operating activities Note m m Cash generated by operations ii 331.7 359.3 Movement in cash and cash equivalents iii 18.5 0.4 Interest paid 14.7 13.9 Movement in debt and lease financing iii 14.7 26.7 Tax paid 55.0 82.9 Change in net debt from cash flows 33.2 26.3 Net cash generated from operating activities 262.0 262.5 New finance lease contracts 0.7 0.7 Exchange differences 10.1 9.6 Cash flows from investing activities 44.0 17.4 Acquisition of subsidiaries 27 79.3 29.0 Net debt brought forward 381.5 364.1 Acquisition of associates and other investments 15 3.2 1.4 Net debt carried forward iii 425.5 381.5 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 13 100.2 155.8 Purchase of other intangible assets 12 3.4 3.5 ii Cash generated by operations Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 0.5 2.1 2018 2017 Proceeds from sale of other investments 0.4 Note m m Cash paid against non-operating provisions 20 1.0 2.5 Adjusted operating profit 342.5 332.2 Interest received 1.1 0.6 Exceptional items iv 4.9 1.7 Net cash used in investing activities 185.1 189.5 Acquisition costs and amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition 8.8 4.5 Operating profit 328.8 326.0 Cash flows from financing activities Adjustments for: New borrowings 437.1 359.3 Depreciation and amortisation 56.2 53.3 Repayment of borrowings 421.9 331.8 Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.1 1.5 Capital element of finance lease repayments iii 0.5 0.8 Net provisions charged note 20 1.3 Net transactions in own shares 0.4 0.7 Share-based payments 8.3 9.2 Dividends paid to equity shareholders 8 110.5 100.0 Cash paid against operating provisions note 20 1.1 2.2 Net cash used in financing activities 95.4 72.6 Non-cash pension expense 8.7 3.4 Share of loss of associate 0.2 0.1 Net movement in cash and cash equivalents i, iii 18.5 0.4 Movement in inventories 22.2 31.0 Cash and cash equivalents brought forward 54.9 56.4 Movement in receivables 26.3 14.4 Exchange differences iii 3.9 1.9 Movement in payables 20.8 12.1 Cash and cash equivalents carried forward 40.3 54.9 Cash generated by continuing operations 331.7 359.3 Cash and cash equivalents carried forward comprise: iii Analysis of net debt Cash at bank and in hand 71.2 63.3 Cash Exchange Other Bank overdrafts 30.9 8.4 2018 flow movements non-cash 2017 m m m m m 40.3 54.9 Cash and cash equivalents 71.2 4.0 3.9 63.3 Bank overdrafts 30.9 22.5 8.4 Movement in cash and cash equivalents 18.5 3.9 Borrowings repayable within one year 17.9 7.8 0.5 9.6 Borrowings repayable after more than one year 446.9 7.4 14.0 0.5 426.0 Finance leases 1.0 0.5 0.7 0.8 Movement in borrowings and other financial liabilities 14.7 14.0 0.7 Total net debt 425.5 33.2 10.1 0.7 381.5 iv Cash flow on exceptional items The total cash outflow during the year in respect of exceptional items, including those recognised in prior years income statements, was 2.1m 2017: 4.7m.
Details of exceptional items can be found in note 3 on page 113.
Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 102 Annual report and Accounts 2018 Annual report and Accounts 2018103 102 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 103 Financial Statements Group Consolidated Statements continued Group Accounting Policies The principal accounting policies adopted in The critical accounting judgements required iii Goodwill and fair value of assets acquired Group Statement of Changes in Equity note 12 management are required to the preparation of these financial statements when preparing the Groups accounts are for the year ended 31 December 2018 are set out below.
These policies have as follows: undertake an annual test for impairment of indefinite lived assets such as goodwill.
been consistently applied to all the years Share Non presented, unless otherwise stated.
i Provisions the Group has recognised Accordingly, the Group tests annually Share premium Other Retained controlling Total whether goodwill has suffered any potential environmental liabilities capital account reserves earnings interests equity Note m m m m m m and other provisions.
The Groups impairment and the Groups goodwill Basis of preparation At 1 January 2017 15.1 93.3 76.2 416.0 8.2 608.8 value has been supported by detailed assessment of whether a constructive The consolidated financial statements or legal obligation has arisen from a past value-in-use calculations relating to the have been prepared under the historical cost Profit for the year 237.0 0.3 236.7 recoverable amounts of the underlying event and can be measured reliably is convention, in accordance with International Other comprehensive expense income 22.3 98.1 0.3 75.5 a key judgement in determining the Cash Generating Units CGUs.
These Financial Reporting Standards Interpretations Total comprehensive expense income for the year 22.3 335.1 0.6 312.2 appropriate accounting treatment.
The calculations require the use of estimates Committee IFRSIC and the Companies Act Transactions with owners: rationale behind these judgements is to enable the calculation of the net 2006 applicable to companies reporting Dividends on equity shares 8 100.0 100.0 discussed in note 20, with consideration present value of cash flow projections under IFRS.
The standards used are those Share-based payments 8.2 8.2 of contingent liabilities disclosed in of the relevant CGU.
The critical published by the International Accounting Transactions in own shares 0.7 0.7 note 28. assumptions are as follows: Standards Board IASB and endorsed by Total transactions with owners 91.1 91.1 the EU as at 31 December 2018.
A summary The critical accounting estimates and Rate of growth in EBITDA calculated of the more important Group accounting Total equity at 31 December 2017 15.1 93.3 53.9 660.0 7.6 829.9 assumptions required when preparing as operating profit before depreciation policies is set out below.
the Groups accounts are as follows: and amortisation estimated at 3% At 1 January 2018 15.1 93.3 53.9 660.0 7.6 829.9 long term a prudent estimate given Going concern i Post-retirement benefits as disclosed in the Groups historical growth rates Profit for the year 238.5 0.2 238.3 The financial statements which appear note 11, the Groups principal retirement unless the profile of a particular Other comprehensive income 14.8 17.7 0.1 32.6 on pages 100 to 137 have been prepared benefit schemes are of the defined acquired business warrants a Total comprehensive income expense for the year 14.8 256.2 0.1 270.9 on a going concern basis as, after making benefit type.
Year end recognition of the different treatment.
Transactions with owners: appropriate enquiries, including a review liabilities under these schemes and the Dividends on equity shares 8 110.5 110.5 of forecasts, budgets and banking facilities, Selection of appropriate discount rates Share-based payments 7.3 7.3 valuation of assets held to fund these the Directors have a reasonable expectation to reflect the risks involved typically Transactions in own shares 0.4 0.4 liabilities require a number of significant that the Group has adequate resources to the Groups weighted average cost Total transactions with owners 102.8 102.8 assumptions to be made, relating to continue in operational existence.
of capital would be used as a starting levels of scheme membership, key point unless the risk profile of a Total equity at 31 December 2018 15.1 93.3 68.7 813.4 7.5 998.0 financial market indicators such as particular acquired business Critical accounting judgements inflation and expectations on future Other reserves include the Capital Redemption Reserve of 0.9m 2017: 0.9m and the Translation Reserve of 67.8m 2017: 53.0m.
and key sources of estimation salary growth and asset returns.
These uncertainty assumptions are made by the Group in Recoverable amounts currently The Groups significant accounting policies conjunction with the schemes actuaries exceed carrying values including under IFRS have been set by management and the Directors are of the view that any goodwill.
Goodwill arising on acquisition with the approval of the Audit Committee.
estimation should be prudent and in line is allocated to the CGU that is expected The application of these policies requires with consensus opinion.
to benefit from the synergies of the estimates and assumptions to be made acquisition.
Such goodwill is then concerning the future and judgements to ii Taxation the Group is subject to incorporated into the Groups be made on the applicability of policies corporate income taxes in numerous standard impairment review to particular situations.
Significant judgement process as described above.
judgements are continually evaluated and is often required in determining the are based on historical experience and other worldwide expense and liability for such factors, including expectations of future taxes, including consideration of the events that are believed to be reasonable potential impact of transfer pricing.
Under IFRS an are many transactions and calculations estimate or judgement may be considered where the ultimate tax determination is critical if it involves matters that are highly uncertain during the ordinary course of uncertain or where different estimation business.
The Group recognises liabilities methods could reasonably have been used, for tax issues based on estimates of or if changes in the estimate that would have whether additional taxes will be due, a material impact on the Groups results based on its best interpretation of the are likely to occur from period to period.
relevant tax laws and rules.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 104 Annual report and Accounts 2018 Annual report and Accounts 2017 105 104 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 105 Financial Statements Group Accounting Policies continued ii New standards and interpretations Changes in accounting policy Group accounts Transactions with Other intangible assets arising Computer software not yet adopted a number of new non-controlling interests on acquisition i New and amended standards adopted Acquired computer software licences General information standards and amendments to standards by the Group for the first time for The Group treats transactions with nonOn acquisition, intangible assets other covering a period of greater than a year Croda International Plc is a public limited and interpretations are effective for the financial year beginning on are capitalised on the basis of the costs controlling interests as transactions with the than goodwill are recognised if they can company, which is listed on the London annual periods beginning on or after 1 1 January 2018: equity owners of the Group.
For purchases be identified through being separable from incurred to acquire and bring to use the Stock Exchange and incorporated and January 2019, and have not been applied specific software.
These costs are amortised from non-controlling interests, the difference the acquired entity or arising from specific domiciled in the United Kingdom.
It is in preparing these consolidated financial IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts between any consideration paid and the contractual or legal rights.
over their estimated useful lives 3 to 7 years.
registered in England and Wales and statements.
None of these are expected requires revenue to be recognised when relevant share acquired of the carrying value the address of its registered office to have a significant effect on the a customer obtains control of a good or of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded Once recognised, such intangible assets will Revenue recognition can be found on page 149. consolidated financial statements of service and thus has the ability to direct as equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to be initially valued using either the market Revenue is measured based on the the Group except as set out below: the use and obtain the benefits from non-controlling interests are also recorded approach where a well-defined external consideration specified in a contract Subsidiaries the good or service.
It replaces IAS 18 in equity.
market for the asset exists, the income with a customer and excludes intra-group Subsidiaries are all entities including IFRS 16 Leases will require lessees to Revenue and IAS 11 Construction approach which looks at the future income sales.
The Group recognises revenue when structured entities over which the Parent recognise a lease liability reflecting future contracts and related interpretations.
Intangible assets the asset will generate or the cost approach it transfers control over a product or service Company has control.
The Parent controls lease payments and a right-of-use asset The Group has amended its accounting the cost of replacing the asset, whichever to a customer.
Goodwill an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights for virtually all lease contracts.
It replaces policy appropriately as disclosed on is most relevant to the asset under to, variable returns from its involvement with On acquisition of a business, fair values IAS 17, under which lessees are required page 107 but the impact of the new consideration.
Following initial recognition, Sale of goods the entity and has the ability to affect those are attributed to the net assets acquired.
to make a distinction between a finance standard on the Groups revenue and the asset will be written down on a straightreturns through its power over the entity.
The principal activity from which the Group Goodwill arises where the fair value of the lease on balance sheet and an operating profit is not material.
This reflects the line basis over its useful life, which range from Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the consideration given for a business exceeds generates revenue is the supply of products lease off balance sheet.
IFRS 16 relatively non-complex and largely 7 to 10 years for technology processes and date on which control is transferred to the to customers from its various manufacturing such net assets.
Goodwill arising on includes an optional exemption for standardised terms and conditions trade secrets and 20 years for trade names Group.
They are deconsolidated from the acquisitions is capitalised and carried at sites and warehouses, and in some limited lessees which can be applied for certain applicable to the Groups revenue and customer relationships.
Useful lives date that control ceases.
instances from consignment inventory held cost less accumulated impairment losses.
short-term and low value leases.
Accordingly, the Group has are regularly reviewed to ensure their Goodwill is subject to impairment review, on customer sites.
Products are supplied standard is effective for annual periods only adopted IFRS 15 from 1 January continuing relevance.
The Group uses the acquisition method under a variety of standard terms and both annually and when there are indications beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
2018 and no adjustment has been of accounting to account for business that the carrying value may not be conditions, and in each case, revenue is recognised in opening equity at the Research and development combinations.
The consideration transferred recognised when contractual performance recoverable.
For the purpose of impairment The Group has completed a detailed date of initial application.
Research expenditure, undertaken with the for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair testing, assets are grouped at the lowest obligations between the Group and the IFRS 16 assessment and confirmed that prospect of gaining new scientific or technical value of the assets transferred, the liabilities customer are satisfied.
This will typically be levels for which there are separately the new standard will have a material IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaced knowledge and understanding, is charged to incurred and the equity interests issued by identifiable cash flows, known as CGUs.
When sales discount impact on the Groups consolidated the classification and measurement the income statement in the year in which it the Group.
Acquisition costs are expensed and rebate arrangements result in variable If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less balance sheet, but with no material models for financial instruments in is incurred.
Internal development expenditure, as incurred.
than the carrying value of the goodwill, an consideration, appropriate provisions are net impact on profit or financial gearing.
IAS 39 with three classification whereby research findings are applied to a recognised as a deduction from revenue at impairment loss is recognised immediately Accordingly, the Group does not intend categories: amortised cost, fair value plan for the production of new or substantially Identifiable assets acquired, and liabilities and against the goodwill value.
The recoverable the point of sale to the extent that it is highly to restate prior year comparators when through profit or loss and fair value improved products or processes, is charged contingent liabilities assumed, in a business probable that a significant reversal in the amount of the CGU is the higher of fair value the new standard is adopted, with rightthrough other comprehensive income.
to the income statement in the year in which combination are measured initially at their less costs to sell and value in use.
Value in amount of cumulative revenue will not be of-use asset values being set equal to Consistent with the non-complex nature it is incurred unless it meets the recognition fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective required.
The Group typically uses the use is estimated with reference to estimated lease liabilities at the date of transition of the Groups financial instruments, criteria of IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
of the extent of any minority interest.
The future cash flows discounted to net present expected value method for estimating in line with the simplified approach the impact of the new standard is not Development uncertainties typically excess of the cost of acquisition over the variable consideration, reflecting that such value using a discount rate that reflects permitted under IFRS 16.
The Group will material and therefore the Group only mean that such criteria are not met, most Groups share of identifiable net assets the risks specific to the CGU.
Typically the contracts have similar characteristics and adopt recognition exemptions for shortadopted IFRS 9 from 1 January 2018 commonly because the Group can only acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Groups weighted average cost of capital term and low value leases and will also and no adjustment has been recognised demonstrate the existence of a market at a would be used as a starting point unless the elect to apply the practical expedient in opening equity at the date of initial late stage in the product development cycle, Intra-group transactions, balances and risk profile of a particular acquired business Royalties and profit available for all leases which end within application.
The Group has amended its at which point the material element of project unrealised gains on transactions between warranted different treatment.
The Group sharing arrangements 12 months of the date of transition accounting policy as disclosed on page spend has already been incurred and Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised uses prudent growth estimates that track accounting for as short-term leases.
Revenues are recognised when performance 110 for the establishment of provisions charged to the income statement.
Where, losses are also eliminated.
Accounting below the Groups historical growth rates.
obligations between the Group and the against trade receivables to reflect the however, the recognition criteria are met, policies of subsidiaries have been changed On initial application, it is estimated that customer are satisfied in accordance with lifetime expected loss model consistent intangible assets are capitalised and where necessary to ensure consistency the Group will record right-of-use assets the substance of the underlying contract.
with the simplified approach permitted amortised over their useful economic with the policies adopted by the Group.
and lease liabilities with a value of 45m under IFRS 9. lives from product launch.
based on calculations to date.
This will Interest and dividend income exceed the 35.6m non-cancellable Interest income is recognised on a Intangible assets relating to products in lease commitments reported as at time-proportion basis using the effective development are subject to impairment 31 December 2018 under IAS 17 interest method.
testing at each balance sheet date or note 14 due to extension options earlier upon indication of impairment.
reasonably certain to be exercised.
Dividend income is recognised when the right Any impairment losses are written off to receive payment is established.
Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 106 Annual report and Accounts 2018 Annual report and Accounts 2018107 106 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 107 Financial Statements Group Accounting Policies continued Segmental reporting Other post-retirement benefits Transactions and balances Taxation Income statement presentation Impairment of non-financial assets An operating segment is a group of Some Group companies provide Monetary assets and liabilities are translated The charge for taxation is based on the profit The acquisition of Enza Biotech AB The Group assesses at each year end assets and operations engaged in providing post-retirement healthcare benefits to their at the exchange rates ruling at the end of the for the year and takes into account taxation and IonPhasE OY in 2017 and Nautilus whether an asset may be impaired.
If any products and services that are subject to retirees.
The entitlement to these benefits financial period.
Exchange profits or losses deferred because of temporary differences Biosciences Canada Inc, Plant Impact evidence exists of impairment, the estimated risks or returns that are different from those is usually conditional on the employee on trading transactions are included in between the treatment of certain items Plc and Brenntag Biosector A S in 2018 recoverable amount is compared to the of other segments.
Operating segments remaining in service up to retirement age and the Group income statement except for taxation and for accounting purposes.
increased acquisition costs and amortisation carrying value of the asset and an impairment presented in the financial statements are the completion of a minimum service period.
when deferred in equity as qualifying Temporary differences arise on differences of acquired intangible assets.
If the right loss is recognised where appropriate.
The consistent with the internal reporting The expected costs of these benefits are cash flow hedges and qualifying net between the carrying value of assets and targets can be found, these costs are likely recoverable amount is the higher of an provided to the Groups Chief Operating accrued over the period of employment investment hedges.
liabilities in the financial statements and their to increase in the future.
To avoid distorting assets value in use and fair value less Decision Maker, which has been identified using an accounting methodology similar tax base and primarily relate to the difference the underlying trend in profitability, the Group costs to sell.
In addition to this, goodwill is as the Group Executive Committee.
to that for defined benefit pension plans.
Group companies between tax allowances on tangible fixed introduced the definitions Adjusted operating tested for impairment at least annually.
NonRemeasurements are recognised in the assets and the corresponding depreciation profit, Adjusted profit before tax and financial assets other than goodwill which The results and financial position of all Employee benefits statement of comprehensive income.
charge, and upon the net pension fund Adjusted earnings per share.
In each case have suffered impairment are reviewed for the Group entities that have a functional These obligations are valued annually deficit.
Full provision is made for the tax acquisition costs, amortisation of intangible possible reversal of the impairment at each Pension obligations currency different from the presentation by independent qualified actuaries.
No provision assets arising on acquisition and exceptional reporting date.
currency are translated into the presentation The Group accounts for pensions and similar is made for unremitted earnings of foreign items, including the respective tax effect, are currency as follows: benefits under IAS 19 Employee Benefits Termination benefits subsidiaries where there is no commitment excluded.
The Group income statement has Leases revised.
In respect of defined benefit plans to remit such earnings.
been produced in a columnar format to Termination benefits are payable when i assets and liabilities for each balance Assets acquired under finance leases are pension plans that define an amount of further aid this analysis.
employment is terminated by the Group sheet presented are translated at included in the balance sheet under property, pension benefit that an employee will receive Similarly, no provision is made for temporary before the normal retirement date, or the closing rate at the date of that plant and equipment at an amount reflecting on retirement, usually dependent on one or differences relating to investments in Property, plant and equipment whenever an employee accepts voluntary balance sheet: the lower of the present value of future more factors such as age, years of service subsidiaries since realisation of such redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
Property, plant and equipment is stated at rentals and the fair value of the asset and are and compensation, obligations are measured differences can be controlled and is not The Group recognises termination benefits ii income and expenses for each income historical cost less depreciation, with the depreciated over the shorter of the lease term at discounted present value whilst plan probable in the foreseeable future.
Deferred when it is demonstrably committed to either statement are translated at average exception of assets acquired as part of a and their estimated useful lives.
The capital assets are recorded at fair value.
The assets tax assets are recognised, using the balance i terminating the employment of current exchange rates unless this average is business combination.
Cost includes the element of future lease rentals is included in and liabilities recognised in the balance sheet sheet liability method, to the extent that it is employees according to a detailed formal not a reasonable approximation of the original purchase price of the asset and the borrowings.
Finance charges are allocated to in respect of defined benefit pension plans probable that future taxable profit will be plan without possibility of withdrawal or cumulative effect of the rates prevailing costs attributable to bringing the asset to its the income statement each year in proportion are the net of plan obligations and assets.
available against which the temporary ii providing termination benefits as a on the transaction dates, in which case working condition for its intended use.
The to the capital element outstanding.
A scheme surplus is only recognised as differences can be utilised.
result of an offer made to encourage income and expenses are translated at Groups policy is to write-off the difference an asset in the balance sheet when the voluntary redundancy.
the dates of the transactions : and between the cost of all property, plant and The cost of operating leases is charged to Group has the unconditional right to future All taxation is calculated on the basis of the equipment, except freehold land, and their the income statement on a straight-line economic benefits in the form of a refund or tax rates and laws enacted or substantively Share-based payments iii all resulting exchange differences are residual value on a straight-line basis over basis over the lease period.
The Group enacted at the balance sheet date.
recognised as a separate component their estimated useful lives.
currently expects to recover its accounting The Group operates a number of cash of equity.
Derivative financial instruments surplus through reduced future contributions.
and equity settled, share-based incentive Exceptional items Reviews are made annually of the No allowance is made in the past service schemes.
These are accounted for in The Group uses derivative financial On consolidation, exchange differences Exceptional items are those items that in the estimated remaining lives and residual liability in respect of either the future accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based instruments to hedge its exposure to arising from the translation of the net Directors view are required to be separately values of individual productive assets, taking expenses of running the schemes or for Payments, which requires an expense to be interest rates and short term currency investment in foreign entities, and of disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence account of commercial and technological non-service related death in service benefits recognised in the income statement over the rate fluctuations.
borrowings and other currency instruments to enable a full understanding of the Groups obsolescence as well as normal wear and which may arise in the future.
The operating vesting period of the options.
The expense designated as hedges of such investments, financial performance.
In the current year tear, and adjustments are made where costs of such plans are charged to operating is based on the fair value of each instrument Derivative financial instruments are recorded are taken to shareholders equity.
exceptional items relate to a past service cost appropriate.
Under this policy it becomes profit and the finance costs are recognised which is calculated using the Black Scholes initially at cost.
Subsequent measurement for the UK defined benefit pension scheme impractical to calculate average asset lives as financial income or an expense or binomial model as appropriate.
Any depends on the designation of the instrument When a foreign operation is sold, such to equalise benefits for the effects of unequal exactly.
However, the total lives range from as appropriate.
expense is adjusted to reflect expected as either: i a hedge of the fair value of exchange differences are recognised in Guaranteed Minimum Pensions following approximately 15 to 40 years for land and and actual levels of options vesting for recognised assets or liabilities or a firm the income statement as part of the gain the precedent set by the 2018 High Court buildings, and 3 to 15 years for plant and Service costs are spread systematically over non-market based performance criteria.
commitment fair value hedge : or ii a hedge or loss on sale.
judgement in the Lloyds Bank case.
All individual assets are reviewed the lives of employees and financing costs of highly probable forecast transactions Exceptional items in the prior year related for impairment when there are indications are recognised in the periods in which they Currency translations cash flow hedge.
to environmental costs of discontinued that the carrying value may not be arise.
Remeasurements are recognised in Functional and businesses.
Details can be found in recoverable.
By far the bulk of the Groups the statement of comprehensive income.
presentation currency note 3 on page 113. plant and equipment asset class relates Payments to defined contribution schemes Items included in the financial statements to the value of plant and equipment at pension plans under which the Group pays of each of the Groups entities are measured the Groups manufacturing facilities.
fixed contributions into a separate entity are using the currency of the primary economic Consequently, the Group does not seek charged as an expense as they fall due.
environment in which the entity operates to analyse out of this class other items such the functional currency.
The consolidated as motor vehicles and office equipment.
financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentation currency.
Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 108 Annual report and Accounts 2018 Annual report and Accounts 2018109 108 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 109 Financial Statements Group Accounting Policies continued ii Treasury shares where any Group i Fair value hedge Borrowings Cash and cash equivalents company purchases the Companys Changes in the fair value of derivatives, Borrowings are recognised initially at fair Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash equity share capital as treasury shares, for example interest rate swaps and foreign value, net of transaction costs incurred.
balances and short term deposits.
Bank the consideration paid, including any exchange contracts, that are designated and Any difference between the proceeds overdrafts that are repayable on demand directly attributable incremental costs qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in net of transaction costs and the redemption and form an integral part of the Groups cash net of income taxes is deducted from the income statement, together with any value is recognised in the income statement management are included as a component of equity attributable to the Companys changes in the fair value of the hedged over the period of the borrowings using the cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of equity holders until the shares are asset or liability that are attributable to effective interest method.
Borrowings are the statement of cash flows.
Cash and bank cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
classified as current liabilities unless the overdrafts are offset and the net amount Where such shares are subsequently Group has an unconditional right to defer reported in the balance sheet when there sold or reissued, any consideration ii Cash flow hedge settlement of the liability for at least 12 is a legally enforceable right to offset the received, net of any directly attributable months after the balance sheet date.
recognised amounts, there is an intention to The effective portion of changes in the fair incremental transaction costs and the settle on a net basis and interest is charged value of derivatives that are designated and related income tax effects, is included on a net basis.
Borrowing costs qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity attributable to the Companys in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the General and specific borrowing costs directly equity holders.
Environmental, restructuring and ineffective portion is recognised immediately attributable to the acquisition, construction other provisions in the income statement.
Amounts or production of qualifying assets, which are Dividends accumulated in equity are recycled in assets that necessarily take a substantial The Group is exposed to environmental Dividends on ordinary share capital are the income statement in the periods when period of time to get ready for their intended liabilities relating to its operations and recognised as a liability when the liability is the hedged item will affect profit or loss use or sale, are added to the cost of those liabilities following the acquisition of irrevocable.
Accordingly, final dividends are for instance when the forecast sale that is assets, until such time as the assets are Uniqema.
Provisions are made immediately recognised when approved by shareholders hedged takes place.
However, when the substantially ready for their intended use where a legal obligation is identified, can be and interim dividends are recognised forecast transaction that is hedged results or sale.
quantified and it is regarded as more likely when paid.
in the recognition of a non-financial asset than not that an outflow of resources will be for example inventory or a liability, the gains Trade and other payables required to settle the obligation.
The Group Investments and losses previously deferred in equity are does consider the impact of discounting Trade and other payables are recognised transferred from equity and included in the Investments in equity securities are measured when establishing provisions and provisions initially at fair value and subsequently initial measurement of the cost of the asset are discounted when the impact is material at fair value, with movements in the fair value measured at amortised cost using the or liability.
Investments and the timing of cash flows can be effective interest method.
in associates are initially recorded at cost When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, and subsequently adjusted for the Groups Inventories or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria share of results.
Investments are subject to Share capital Inventories are stated at the lower of cost for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or impairment testing at each balance sheet Investment in own shares and net realisable amount on a first in first loss existing in equity at that time remains in date or earlier upon indication of impairment.
Cost comprises all expenditure, i Employee share ownership trusts equity and is recognised when the forecast including related production overheads, shares acquired by the trustees of transaction is ultimately recognised in the incurred in the normal course of business the employee share ownership trust income statement.
in bringing the inventory to its location and the Trustees, funded by the Company condition at the balance sheet date.
Net and held for the continuing benefit of When a forecast transaction is no longer realisable amount is the estimated selling the Company are shown as a reduction expected to occur, the cumulative gain price in the ordinary course of business in equity attributable to owners of the or loss that was reported in equity is less any applicable variable selling costs.
Movements in the year arising immediately transferred to the Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving from additional purchases by the income statement.
and defective inventory where appropriate.
Trustees of shares or the receipt of Profits arising on intra-group sales are funds due to the exercise of options Certain derivative instruments do not qualify eliminated in so far as the product remains by employees are accounted for within for hedge accounting.
Changes in the fair in Group inventory at the year end.
reserves and shown as a movement in value of any derivative instruments that equity attributable to owners of the parent do not qualify for hedge accounting are Trade and other receivables in the year.
Administration expenses of recognised immediately in the the trusts are charged to the Companys Trade and other receivables are recognised income statement.
initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest method, less impairment losses.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is recognised based on lifetime expected losses, but principally comprises balances where objective evidence exists that the amount will not be collectible.
Such amounts are written down to their estimated recoverable amounts, with the charge being made to operating expenses.
Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 110 Annual report and Accounts 2018 Annual report and Accounts 2018111 110 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 111 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Accounts 1.
Segmental analysis Capital expenditure and depreciation 2018 2017 The Groups sales, marketing and research activities are organised into four global market sectors, being Personal Care, Life Sciences, m m Performance Technologies and Industrial Chemicals.
These are the segments for which summary management information is presented to Additions to Depreciation Additions to Depreciation non-current and non-current and the Groups Executive Committee, which is deemed to be the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker.
A review of each sector can be found assets amortisation assets amortisation within the Strategic Report on pages 26 to 29.
Personal Care 29.9 14.7 50.5 14.0 Life Sciences 26.1 15.5 41.6 14.8 There is no material trade between segments.
Segmental results include items directly attributable to a specific segment as well as those that Performance Technologies 41.9 20.5 56.3 18.5 can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, inventories and Industrial Chemicals 9.0 5.5 15.9 6.0 trade and other receivables.
Total Group 106.9 56.2 164.3 53.3 2018 2017 m m Income statement The Group manages its business segments on a global basis.
The operations are based in the following geographical areas: Europe, with Revenue manufacturing sites in the UK, France, the Netherlands, Italy, Spain, Finland and Denmark: the Americas, with manufacturing sites in the US, Personal Care 487.8 466.6 Brazil and Argentina: Asia, with manufacturing sites in Singapore, Japan, India, China and Indonesia: and Australia and South Africa.
Life Sciences 324.5 322.6 Performance Technologies 456.4 456.9 The Groups revenue from external customers in the UK is 55.4m 2017: 50.2m, in Germany is 113.0m 2017: 113.6m, in the US Industrial Chemicals 118.2 127.0 is 343.2m 2017: 356.5m and the total revenue from external customers from other countries is 875.3m 2017: 852.8m.
No single Total Group revenue 1,386.9 1,373.1 external customer represents more than 3% of the total revenue of the Group.
Adjusted operating profit The total of non-current assets other than financial instruments, retirement benefit assets and deferred tax assets located in the UK is 119.6m Personal Care 160.3 155.5 2017: 94.0m, and the total of the non-current assets located in other countries is 766.4m 2017: 658.3m.
Goodwill has not been split by Life Sciences 95.8 97.0 geography as this asset is not attributable to a geographical area.
Operating costs Total Group operating profit before exceptional items, acquisition costs and amortisation of intangible assets 2018 2017 arising on acquisition 342.5 332.2 m m 1 Exceptional items, acquisition costs and amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition 13.7 6.2 Analysis of net operating expenses by function: Total Group operating profit 328.8 326.0 Distribution costs 65.8 74.1 1 Relates to Personal Care 3.7m 2017: 0.6m, Life Sciences 6.1m 2017: 3.2m, Performance Technologies 3.5m 2017: 0.6m, Industrial Chemicals 0.4m 2017: 0.1m and operations discontinued Administrative expenses 127.7 117.3 in prior years nil 2017: 1.7m 193.5 191.4 In the following table, revenue has been disaggregated by sector and destination.
This is the primary management information that is Additional information on the nature of operating expenses, including depreciation and employee costs, is provided in note 3. presented to the Groups Executive Committee.
Profit for the year Europe North America Latin America Asia Total m m m m m 2018 2017 m m Revenue 2018 The Group profit for the year is stated after charging crediting : Personal Care 165.7 143.1 57.8 121.2 487.8 Depreciation and amortisation note 12 & 13 56.2 53.3 Life Sciences 128.6 94.6 50.3 51.0 324.5 Staff costs note 9 267.1 265.8 Performance Technologies 217.4 124.3 30.6 84.1 456.4 Redundancy costs non-exceptional 1.1 1.6 Industrial Chemicals 60.7 10.7 2.3 44.5 118.2 Inventories cost recognised as expense in cost of sales 747.5 741.9 Total Group revenue 572.4 372.7 141.0 300.8 1,386.9 Inventories provision movement in the year 1.7 2.4 Research and development 37.5 37.5 Revenue 2017 Hire of plant and machinery and other operating lease rentals 10.0 9.9 Personal Care 157.7 135.6 58.4 114.9 466.6 Net foreign exchange 0.9 1.2 Life Sciences 119.8 111.2 42.6 49.0 322.6 Bad debt credit charge note 17 1.7 0.8 Performance Technologies 217.7 125.7 30.4 83.1 456.9 Industrial Chemicals 60.1 12.9 3.4 50.6 127.0 Total Group revenue 555.3 385.4 134.8 297.6 1,373.1 Adjustments including exceptional items : Adjustments in the Group income statement of 13.7m 2017: 6.2m include a 4.9m exceptional cost relating to the UK defined benefit 2018 2017 pension scheme, being a past service cost to equalise benefits for the effects of unequal Guaranteed Minimum Pensions following the m m precedent set by the 2018 High Court judgement in the Lloyds Bank case 2017: 1.7m relating to environmental costs of businesses Balance sheet discontinued in prior years.
Also included are acquisition costs of 2.7m 2017: 0.8m and amortisation of intangible assets arising on Total assets acquisition of 6.1m 2017: 3.7m.
The tax impact on adjustments in the Group income statement was 2.1m 2017: 0.8m.
In the prior year, Segment total assets: the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act also led to a revaluation of the Groups net deferred tax liability, resulting in a 7.7m exceptional tax credit.
Personal Care 611.3 561.4 Life Sciences 493.7 358.9 2018 2017 Performance Technologies 480.2 444.0 m m Industrial Chemicals 170.8 166.7 Services provided by the Groups auditors Total segment assets 1,756.0 1,531.0 Audit services Tax assets 56.2 33.1 Fees payable to the Group auditors for the audit of Parent Company and consolidated financial statements 0.1 0.1 Retirement benefit assets 24.6 19.1 Fees payable to the Group auditors and its associates for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.8 0.9 Cash and investments 76.0 65.5 Total Group assets 1,912.8 1,648.7 Other audit services Tax compliance services 0.1 0.1 1.0 1.1 Fees disclosed as payable to the Groups auditors in 2018 relate to services provided by KPMG LLP.
Fees disclosed as payable in 2017 relate to services provided by  LLP.
Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 112 Annual report and Accounts 2018 Annual report and Accounts 2018113 112 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 113 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Accounts continued 4.
Deferred tax 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Financial costs The deferred tax balances included in these accounts are attributable to the following: US$100m 5.94% fixed rate 10 year bond 4.5 4.6 Deferred tax assets 2014 Club facility due 2021 2.5 2.9 Retirement benefit liabilities 10.2 12.5 2016 Club facility due 2021 0.1 Tax losses 24.4 30m 1.08% fixed rate 7 year bond 0.3 0.3 Provisions 21.6 20.6 70m 1.43% fixed rate 10 year bond 0.9 0.9 56.2 33.1 30m 2.54% fixed rate 7 year bond 0.8 0.8 Deferred tax liabilities 70m 2.80% fixed rate 10 year bond 2.0 2.0 Accelerated capital allowances 98.4 45.0 Net interest on retirement benefit liabilities 0.6 3.6 Revaluation gains 1.9 1.9 Other bank loans and overdrafts 3.8 2.3 Acquired intangibles 19.2 12.4 Capitalised interest 3.3 5.0 Retirement benefit assets 4.1 3.1 12.1 12.5 Other 1.1 1.0 Financial income 124.7 63.4 Bank interest receivable and similar income 1.1 0.6 Net financial costs 11.0 11.9 The movement on deferred tax balances during the year is summarised as follows: Deferred tax charged credited through the income statement Continuing operations before adjustments 24.5 4.0 5.
Tax Adjustments and exceptional items 2.1 8.5 2018 2017 m m Deferred tax charged directly to equity note 5 b 4.1 22.1 a Analysis of tax charge for the year Acquisitions 8.9 3.4 UK current corporate tax 15.0 16.4 Exchange differences 2.8 0.7 Overseas current corporate taxes 42.1 65.5 38.2 20.3 Current tax 57.1 81.9 Net balance brought forward 30.3 10.0 Deferred tax note 6 22.4 4.5 Net balance carried forward 68.5 30.3 79.5 77.4 Deferred tax charged credited through the income statement relates to the following: b Tax on items charged credited to equity Retirement benefit obligations 1.3 0.2 Deferred tax on remeasurement of post-retirement benefits 4.9 23.8 Accelerated capital allowances 48.4 4.8 Deferred tax on share-based payments 0.8 1.7 Tax losses 23.2 4.1 22.1 Provisions 0.3 2.7 Other 1.2 2.6 c Factors affecting the tax charge for the year 22.4 4.5 Profit before tax 317.8 314.1 Tax at the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK, 19.00% 2017: 19.25% 60.4 60.5 Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the balance sheet liability method at rates appropriate to each subsidiary.
Effect of: Deferred tax expected to reverse in the year to 31 December 2019 and beyond has been measured using the rate due to prevail in the year Deferred tax rate change 0.9 7.7 of reversal.
Prior year overprovisions 2.4 2.9 Tax cost of remitting overseas income to the UK 0.6 0.8 Deferred tax assets have been recognised in all cases where such assets arise, as it is probable the assets will be recovered.
Expenses and write-offs not deductible for tax purposes 0.6 0.6 Net effect of higher overseas tax rates 21.2 26.1 Deferred tax is only recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries to the extent that remittance is expected in the foreseeable 79.5 77.4 future.
If all earnings were remitted, an additional 3.0m 2017: 3.2m of tax would be payable.
Crodas 2018 effective adjusted corporate tax rate of 24.6% is significantly higher than the UKs standard rate of 19%.
Croda operates in All movements on deferred tax balances have been recognised in income with the exception of the charges shown in note 5 b, which have many tax jurisdictions other than the UK, both as a manufacturer and distributor, with the majority of those jurisdictions having rates higher been recognised directly in equity.
than the UK: considerably so in some cases.
It is the exposure to these different tax rates that increases the effective tax rate above the UK standard rate and also makes it difficult to forecast the Groups future tax rate with any certainty given the unpredictable nature of exchange Of the deferred tax assets, 26.6m are expected to reverse within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
No material reversal of any of the rates, individual economies and tax legislators.
Other than the exposure to higher overseas tax rates, there are no significant adjustments deferred tax liability is expected within 12 months of the balance sheet date based on the Groups current capital expenditure programme.
between the Groups expected and reported tax charge based on its accounting profit.
Given the global nature of the Group, and the number of associated cross-border transactions between connected parties, we are exposed to potential adjustments to the price charged for those transactions by tax authorities.
However, the Group carries appropriate provisions relating to the level of risk.
The main rate of UK corporation tax reduced from 20% to 19% from 1 April 2017.
Further reductions to the UK tax rate have been announced that will reduce the rate to 17% by 1 April 2020, although for 2018 the rate is 19%.
The future changes to rates were substantively enacted on 6 September 2016.
Overseas tax is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 114 Annual report and Accounts 2018 Annual report and Accounts 2018115 114 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 115 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Accounts continued 7.
Employees 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Adjusted profit after tax for the year attributable to owners of the parent 250.1 234.7 Group employment costs including Directors Exceptional items, acquisition costs and amortisation of intangible assets 13.7 6.2 Wages and salaries 192.4 190.3 Tax impact of exceptional items, acquisition costs and amortisation of intangible assets 2.1 8.5 Share-based payment charges note 22 15.1 17.0 Profit after tax for the year attributable to owners of the parent 238.5 237.0 Social security costs 35.3 35.0 Post-retirement benefit costs 24.3 23.5 Number Number Redundancy costs 1.1 1.6 m m 268.2 267.4 Weighted average number of 10.36p ordinary shares in issue for basic calculation 131.5 131.1 Deemed issue of potentially dilutive shares 0.7 1.3 Average number of 10.36p ordinary shares for diluted calculation 132.2 132.4 2018 2017 Number Number Pence Pence Average employee numbers by function Basic earnings per share 181.4 180.8 Production 2,755 2,659 Adjusted basic earnings per share from continuing operations 190.2 179.0 Selling and distribution 1,089 1,032 Administration 619 579 Diluted earnings per share 180.4 179.0 4,463 4,270 Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 189.2 177.3 As required by the Companies Act 2006, the figures disclosed above are weighted averages based on the number of employees at each Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit after tax attributable to owners of the parent by the weighted average number month end and include Executive Directors.
At 31 December 2018, the Group had 4,580 2017: 4,309 employees in total.
of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those shares held in treasury or employee share trusts note 24.
Shares held in employee share trusts are treated as cancelled because, except for a nominal amount, dividends have been waived.
Directors and key management compensation Detailed information concerning Directors remuneration, interests and options is shown in the Directors Remuneration Report, For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all potentially which is subject to audit, on pages 69 to 89 forming part of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Aggregate compensation for key management, being the Directors and members of the Group Executive Committee, was as follows: Additional earnings per share calculations are included above to give a better indication of the Groups underlying performance.
Dividends Key management compensation including Directors Pence per 2018 Pence per 2017 share m share m Short term employee benefits 5.6 6.6 Ordinary Post-retirement benefit costs 0.1 0.1 Interim Share-based payment charges 3.6 3.4 2017 interim, paid October 2017 35.00 45.8 9.3 10.1 2018 interim, paid October 2018 38.00 50.0 Final 2016 final, paid June 2017 41.25 54.1 2017 final, paid May 2018 46.00 60.4 84.00 110.4 76.25 99.9 Preference paid June and December 0.1 0.1 110.5 100.0 The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 49.0p per share, amounting to a total of 64.5m, in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2018.
Subject to shareholder approval, the dividend will be paid on 30 May 2019 to shareholders registered on 12 April 2019 and has not been accrued in these financial statements.
The total dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 will be 87.0p per share amounting to a total of 114.5m.
The Directors are also proposing a 150m return to shareholders by way of a special dividend of 115p per share.
Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 116 Annual report and Accounts 2018 Annual report and Accounts 2018117 116 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 117 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Accounts continued The amounts recognised in the balance sheet in respect of these schemes are as follows: 11.
Post-retirement benefits 2018 2017 The table below summarises the Groups net year end post-retirement benefits and activity for the year.
m m Present value of funded obligations 2018 2017 UK pension scheme 961.6 991.6 m m US pension scheme 126.1 127.9 Balance sheet: Netherlands pension scheme 165.5 176.0 Retirement benefit assets 24.6 19.1 Rest of world 15.5 22.3 Retirement benefit liabilities 43.1 49.6 1,268.7 1,317.8 Net liability in Group balance sheet 18.5 30.5 Fair value of schemes assets UK pension scheme 986.0 1,010.1 Net balance sheet liabilities for: US pension scheme 124.1 128.5 Defined pension benefits 6.0 17.1 Netherlands pension scheme 149.7 151.0 Post-employment medical benefits 12.5 13.4 Rest of world 12.9 15.2 18.5 30.5 1,272.7 1,304.8 Net asset liability in respect of funded schemes 4.0 13.0 Income statement charge included in profit before tax for: Present value of unfunded obligations 10.0 4.1 Defined pension benefits 23.9 22.1 Net liability in Group balance sheet excluding post-employment medical benefits 6.0 17.1 Post-employment medical benefits 0.9 1.0 24.8 23.1 2018 2017 m m Remeasurements included in other comprehensive income for: Movement in present value of retirement benefit obligations in the year: Defined pension benefits 20.3 119.9 Opening balance 1,321.9 1,359.7 Post-employment medical benefits 2.3 2.0 Current service cost 18.9 19.1 22.6 121.9 Past service cost plan amendments 4.9 Interest cost 31.5 34.4 Defined benefit pension schemes Remeasurements Change in demographic assumptions 6.3 5.5 The Group operates defined benefit pension schemes in the UK, US and several other territories under broadly similar regulatory frameworks.
Change in financial assumptions 76.0 21.0 All of the Groups final salary type pension schemes which provide benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable Experience gains 1.8 60.3 for life based on salary in the final years leading up to retirement are closed to future service accrual with the exception of a small number of Contributions paid in grandfathered employees in the US scheme.
The UK scheme operated on a final salary basis until 5 April 2016, following which the scheme Employee 2.8 2.6 changed to a Career Average Revalued Earnings CARE defined benefit scheme, with annual pensionable earnings capped and pensions Benefits paid 40.7 41.8 in payment indexed based on CPI previously RPI, for service accrued from 6 April 2016.
This change is expected to reduce the future Exchange differences on overseas schemes 10.9 7.3 comparable cost and risk attached to the UK scheme.
Material defined benefit pension schemes in other territories operate on a similar 1,278.7 1,321.9 basis to the UK, except in the US, which other than for grandfathered employees operates a cash balance pension scheme that provides Movement in fair value of schemes assets in the year: a guaranteed rate of return on pension contributions until retirement.
From 1 October 2017 the US scheme was closed to new joiners who Opening balance 1,304.8 1,229.4 will receive defined contribution benefits.
The US plans also do not generally receive inflationary increases once in payment.
With the exception Interest income 31.4 31.4 of this difference in inflationary risk, the Groups main defined benefit pension schemes continue to face broadly similar risks, as described Remeasurements on page 121.
Return on scheme assets, excluding amounts included in financial expenses 51.2 75.1 Contributions paid in The majority of benefit payments are from trustee administered funds: however, there are also a number of unfunded plans where the relevant Employee 2.8 2.6 Group company meets the benefit payment obligation as it falls due.
Employer 15.2 15.8 Benefits paid out including settlements 40.7 41.8 Exchange differences on overseas schemes 10.4 7.7 Plan assets held in trusts are governed by local regulations and practice in each country, as is the nature of the relationship between the Group and the trustees or equivalent and their composition.
Responsibility for governance of the schemes, including investment 1,272.7 1,304.8 decisions and contribution schedules, predominantly lies with the particular schemes board of trustees with appropriate input from the relevant Group company.
The board of trustees must be composed of representatives in accordance with each schemes regulations As at the balance sheet date, the present value of retirement benefit obligations comprised approximately 360m in respect of active employees, 327m in respect of deferred members and 592m in relation to members in retirement.
Total employer contributions to the schemes in 2019 are expected to be 14.8m.
The actuarial assumptions were as follows: 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 UK US Netherlands UK US Netherlands Discount rate 2.7% 4.2% 1.9% 2.4% 3.6% 1.9% Inflation rate RPI 3.2% 2.5% 1.8% 3.2% 2.5% 1.9% Inflation rate CPI 2.2% n a n a 2.2% n a n a Rate of increase in salaries 4.2% 4.0% 2.4% 4.2% 4.0% 2.4% Rate of increase for pensions in payment 3.0% n a 1.3% 3.0% n a 1.5% Duration of liabilities ie life expectancy years 20.0 10.8 21.8 19.9 11.1 22.4 Remaining working life 12.7 10.9 13.4 12.7 11.1 13.0 Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 118 Annual report and Accounts 2018 Annual report and Accounts 2018119 118 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 119 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Accounts continued 11.
Post-retirement benefits continued Pension and medical benefits risks and volatility Mortality assumptions are based on country-specific mortality tables and where appropriate allow for future improvements in life expectancy.
Through its defined benefit pension schemes and post-employment medical schemes, the Group is exposed to a number of risks, the most Where credible data exists, actual plan experience is taken into account.
Applying the mortality tables adopted, the expected future average significant of which are detailed below: lifetime of members currently at age 65 and members at age 65 in 20 years time is as follows: Asset volatility Current age 65 Age 65 in 20 years The schemes liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields: if scheme assets underperform this UK US Netherlands UK US Netherlands yield, a deficit will be created.
Both the UK and US plans hold a significant proportion of equities, which are expected to outperform corporate Male 21.5 21.1 22.1 23.0 22.5 23.7 bonds in the long term while providing volatility and risk in the short term.
Whilst our Dutch scheme is less mature, regulatory pressures result Female 24.1 23.0 24.5 25.6 24.4 26.0 in lower equity holdings.
As the schemes mature, the Group intends to reduce the level of investment risk by investing more in assets that better match the liabilities.
However, the Group and the pension trustees Trustees believe that due to the long term nature of the scheme The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the significant assumptions is as follows: liabilities and the strength of the supporting Group, a level of continuing equity investment is an appropriate element of the Groups long Impact on retirement benefit obligation term strategy to manage the schemes efficiently.
See below for more details on the Groups asset-liability matching strategy.
Sensitivity Of increase Of decrease Discount rate 0.5% -8.9% 10.3% Changes in bond yields Inflation rate 0.5% 6.3% -6.0% A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase scheme liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value Mortality assumes a one year increase in life expectancy 1 year 3.0% n a of the schemes bond holdings.
The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant.
In practice, Inflation risk this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated.
When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit Some of the Groups pension obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities.
However, the level of inflationary obligation to significant actuarial assumptions, the same method present value of the defined benefit obligation calculated with the projected increases are usually capped to protect the scheme against extreme inflation.
The majority of the schemes assets are either unaffected by unit credit method at the end of the reporting year has been applied as when calculating the retirement benefit obligation recognised in the inflation in the case of fixed interest bonds or loosely correlated in the case of equities, meaning that an increase in inflation will thus increase Group balance sheet.
In the US schemes, the pensions in payment are not linked to inflation, so this is a less material risk.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 19.3 years 2017: 19.3 years.
Life expectancy The assets in the schemes comprised: The majority of the schemes obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an 2018 2018 2017 2017 increase in the schemes liabilities.
This is particularly significant in the UK scheme, where inflationary increases result in higher sensitivity to m % m % changes in life expectancy.
In the case of the funded schemes, the Group ensures that the investment positions are managed within an assetQuoted liability matching ALM framework that has been developed to achieve long term investments that are cognisant of the obligations under the Equities 232.9 19% 355.1 27% pension schemes.
Within this framework, the Groups ALM objective is to match a portion of assets to the pension obligations by investing in Government bonds 87.7 7% 64.5 5% long term fixed interest securities with maturities that match the benefit payments as they fall due and in the appropriate currency.
The Group Corporate bonds 115.0 9% 128.7 10% and Trustees actively monitor how the duration and the expected yield of the investments are matching the expected cash outflows arising Other quoted securities 0% 1.9 0% from the pension obligations.
The Group has not changed the processes used to manage its risks from previous years.
Investments are well Unquoted Cash and cash equivalents 43.3 3% 43.1 3% diversified, such that the failure of any single investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets.
A significant portion of Real estate 68.6 5% 66.8 5% assets in 2018 consist of equities and bonds, although the schemes also invest in property, cash and infrastructure funds.
The Group believes Liability driven instruments 448.8 35% 378.3 29% that equities offer the best returns over the long term with an acceptable level of risk.
Both the UK and Dutch schemes make use of a portfolio Other 276.4 22% 266.4 21% of derivative instruments to mitigate interest rate and inflation risk.
1,272.7 100% 1,304.8 100% The latest triennial valuation of the UK scheme was completed as at 30 September 2017.
The results showed that there was no actuarial deficit Post-employment medical benefits with the funding level standing at 109% on a technical provisions basis, a surplus of 74.7m.
During 2018 the UK scheme took advantage of its favourable funding level to reduce the investment risk it was carrying.
This fide-risking resulted in the proportion of return-seeking assets The Group operates an unfunded post-employment medical benefit scheme in the US.
The method of accounting, significant assumptions in the scheme falling to 50.4% as at 31 December 2018.
The scheme remains approximately 85% hedged against interest rate and inflation and the frequency of valuations are similar to those used for defined benefit pension schemes set out above with the addition of actuarial movements.
The funding review of our US scheme is undertaken annually.
As at 1 December 2017 the scheme was 130% funded, with assumptions relating to the long term increase in health care costs of 5.0% a year 2017: 5.0%.
the funding level allowing for contributions to be received during 2018.
The Groups Dutch scheme is subject to a more rigorous regulatory environment under the supervision of the Dutch National Bank DNB.
As at 31 December 2018 the scheme was 117% funded on an actuarial The amounts recognised in the balance sheet in respect of this scheme are as follows: 2018 2017 basis relative to the DNBs required level of 120% and a minimum funding requirement of 104%.
m m Present value of unfunded obligations The expected distribution of the timing of benefit payments is as follows: US scheme 12.5 13.4 Less than Between Between Beyond 2018 2017 a year 12 years 25 years 5 years Total m m m m m m m Movement in present value of retirement benefit obligations in the year: Pension benefits 36.1 37.6 125.5 1,079.5 1,278.7 Opening balance 13.4 16.2 Post-employment medical benefits 0.5 0.6 1.8 9.6 12.5 Current service cost 0.4 0.4 36.6 38.2 127.3 1,089.1 1,291.2 Interest cost 0.5 0.6 Remeasurements Defined contribution schemes Change in demographic assumptions 0.1 2018 2017 Change in financial assumptions 2.4 1.3 m m Experience gains 0.7 Contributions paid charged to operating profit 5.0 4.0 Benefits paid 0.3 0.3 Exchange differences on overseas schemes 0.8 1.5 12.5 13.4 Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 120 Annual report and Accounts 2018 Annual report and Accounts 2018121 120 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 121 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Accounts continued 12.
Intangible assets Impairment testing for goodwill Other The goodwill relates predominantly to the value of commercial and other synergies arising from the combination of acquired businesses, with Goodwill Software intangibles Total Crodas established global sales, marketing and R&D networks.
This goodwill is allocated to the Groups Cash Generating Units CGUs that m m m m are expected to benefit from that combination.
The carrying amount of goodwill is allocated to CGUs as follows: Cost At 1 January 2017 307.1 18.6 46.7 372.4 2018 2017 Exchange differences 1.1 0.2 1.7 2.6 m m Additions 3.5 3.5 Uniqema Personal Care and Life Sciences 192.1 192.6 Acquisitions 12.8 18.1 30.9 Incotec Life Sciences 72.6 71.4 Disposals and write-offs 0.8 1.0 0.1 1.9 Biosector Life Sciences 26.6 Reclassification from plant and equipment 1.5 1.5 Sipo Performance Technologies and Industrial Chemicals 21.8 21.6 At 31 December 2017 320.2 22.4 66.4 409.0 Other 40.9 34.6 354.0 320.2 At 1 January 2018 320.2 22.4 66.4 409.0 Exchange differences 1.2 0.6 0.9 2.7 As discussed in the accounting policies note on page 107, goodwill is tested at each year end for impairment with reference to the relevant Additions 2.4 1.0 3.4 CGUs recoverable amount compared to the units carrying value including goodwill.
Assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there Acquisitions 32.6 38.4 71.0 are separately identifiable cash flows relevant to the acquisition generating the goodwill.
The recoverable amount is based on value in use Reclassification from plant and equipment 0.3 0.3 calculations using pre-tax discounted cash flow projections based on the Groups current year results and a long term future growth rate.
At 31 December 2018 354.0 25.7 106.7 486.4 Unless the risk profile of a particular acquisition dictates otherwise, forecast cash flows are assumed to grow at a future long-term growth rate Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses of 3% and are discounted using a weighted average cost of capital, which for these purposes has been calculated to be approximately 6.7% At 1 January 2017 12.9 4.2 17.1 pre-tax 2017: 6.6%.
Exchange differences 0.3 0.2 0.1 Charge for the year note 3 1.7 3.7 5.4 Disposals and write-offs 1.0 0.1 0.9 For the purpose of the Sipo calculation, a pre-tax discount rate of 8.8% has been applied because of the higher risk associated with this Reclassification from plant and equipment 1.2 1.2 investment, together with a higher long-term growth rate of 4% commensurate with the market within which the business operates.
This At 31 December 2017 14.5 8.2 22.7 calculation supports the goodwill allocated to the CGU, albeit with limited headroom.
The calculation is sensitive to changes in the underlying assumptions used to assess whether the carrying value of the CGU should be impaired.
In particular, if the discount rate assumption was At 1 January 2018 14.5 8.2 22.7 increased by 0.5% or if the long-term future growth rate decreased by 1%, the CGUs recoverable amount would be reduced to a level Exchange differences 0.4 0.3 0.7 comparable with its carrying value.
Any greater change would result in an impairment of the carrying value of the CGU.
Charge for the year note 3 1.8 6.3 8.1 At 31 December 2018 16.7 14.8 31.5 The key assumptions underpinning the forecasts employed in the value in use calculation reflect a prudent view of past experience and are that market share will not change significantly and that gross and operating margins will remain broadly constant.
In respect of the brought forward Net carrying amount goodwill, the Directors believe there are no reasonably possible changes in assumptions which would give rise to an impairment charge in the At 31 December 2018 354.0 9.0 91.9 454.9 year except as discussed above.
Goodwill arising in the year will be subject to the same assumptions and review process commencing the At 31 December 2017 320.2 7.9 58.2 386.3 year after initial recognition.
At 1 January 2017 307.1 5.7 42.5 355.3 Intangible asset amortisation is recorded in operating costs within the income statement on page 100.
Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 122 Annual report and Accounts 2018 Annual report and Accounts 2018123 122 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 123 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Accounts continued 13.
Future commitments Land and Plant and 2018 2017 buildings equipment Total m m m m m Group capital projects Cost At 31 December the Directors had authorised the following expenditure on capital projects: At 1 January 2017 186.7 808.7 995.4 Contracted, but not provided for Exchange differences 4.6 32.1 36.7 Property, plant and equipment 28.4 22.7 Additions 10.1 150.7 160.8 Intangible assets 0.2 0.5 Acquisitions 3.0 3.0 Authorised, but not contracted for Other disposals and write-offs 5.7 9.6 15.3 Property, plant and equipment 84.5 83.8 Reclassifications 0.1 1.6 1.5 Intangible assets 0.7 1.0 At 31 December 2017 186.6 919.1 1,105.7 113.8 108.0 Operating leases minimum lease commitments At 1 January 2018 186.6 919.1 1,105.7 At 31 December the Groups future minimum lease commitments were due as follows: Exchange differences 6.6 38.0 44.6 Within one year 9.7 9.2 Additions 5.5 98.0 103.5 From one to five years 19.1 14.1 Acquisitions 7.7 7.7 15.4 After five years 6.8 7.4 Other disposals and write-offs 2.4 2.4 35.6 30.7 Reclassifications 0.8 0.5 0.3 At 31 December 2018 205.6 1,060.9 1,266.5 The Group leases various buildings, vehicles and other plant and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements.
The leases have various terms typical of lease agreements for the particular class of asset.
Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses At 1 January 2017 66.6 330.7 397.3 15.
Investments Exchange differences 1.3 8.5 9.8 The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: Charge for the year note 3 5.6 42.3 47.9 Other disposals and write-offs 3.8 8.7 12.5 2018 2017 Reclassifications 1.2 1.2 m m At 31 December 2017 67.1 354.6 421.7 Associate 2.3 1.3 Other investments 2.5 0.9 At 1 January 2018 67.1 354.6 421.7 4.8 2.2 Exchange differences 2.5 15.9 18.4 Charge for the year note 3 6.0 42.1 48.1 On 17 December 2018, the Group increased its minority shareholding in Cutitronics Limited from 24.9% to 38.6% for consideration of 1.2m.
Other disposals and write-offs 2.0 2.0 TM This additional investment will enable Cutitronics to develop and test design updates for its innovative CutiTron device, which is anticipated At 31 December 2018 75.6 410.6 486.2 to result in the first customisable commercial device.
This investment continues to be recognised as an associate on the Group balance sheet.
Net book amount Other investments of 2.5m 2017: 0.9m increased during the year as, on 30 July 2018, the Group acquired a 4.0% minority shareholding in At 31 December 2018 130.0 650.3 780.3 SiSaf Limited.
SiSaf is a pioneering UK based bio-pharmaceutical company and this investment is part of a wider strategic partnership to use At 31 December 2017 119.5 564.5 684.0 and develop SiSafs patented bio-courier, ProSilic, a novel drug delivery technology.
All remaining assets recognised as other investments At 1 January 2017 120.1 478.0 598.1 on the Group balance sheet are non-quoted equity securities measured at fair value.
The net book amount of assets held by the Group under finance leases for plant and equipment at 31 December 2018 was 1.4m The Directors believe the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets.
The leased equipment secures the lease obligations in note 19.
No other property, plant or equipment have been pledged as security for liabilities.
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: The value of assets under construction not yet subject to depreciation at 31 December 2018 was 318.1m 2017: 249.8m.
2018 2017 m m Share of loss of associate 0.2 0.1 Other investments 0.2 0.1 16.
Inventories 2018 2017 m m Raw materials 56.5 48.6 Work in progress 49.0 36.8 Finished goods 181.7 173.1 287.2 258.5 The Group consumed 747.5m 2017: 741.9m of inventories during the year.
Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Annual report and Accounts 2018125 124 Annual report and Accounts 2018 124 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 125 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Accounts continued 17.
Trade and other payables 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Amounts falling due within one year Trade payables 68.2 69.8 Trade receivables 197.8 175.3 Taxation and social security 7.9 7.8 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 3.0 4.8 Other payables 41.7 44.2 Trade receivables net 194.8 170.5 Accruals and deferred income 72.7 79.6 Other receivables 29.4 26.1 190.5 201.4 Prepayments 9.4 5.6 233.6 202.2 All trade payables are payable within one year.
The ageing of the Groups year end overdue receivables against which no provision has been made is as follows: 19.
Borrowings, other financial liabilities and other financial assets This note should be read in conjunction with the further liquidity disclosures in our accounting policies note and the Finance Review 2018 2017 on pages 34 to 37. m m Not impaired 2018 2017 Less than three months 30.6 24.2 m m Three to six months 1.8 Current assets Over six months 0.3 1.5 Investments 4.8 2.2 32.7 25.7 Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 224.2 196.6 229.0 198.8 The provision for impairment of receivables principally relates to customers in unexpectedly difficult economic circumstances.
The overdue Current liabilities receivables against which no provision has been made relate to a number of customers for whom there is no recent history of default, nor any Trade and other payables excluding taxation, social security, accruals and deferred income 109.9 114.0 other indication that settlement will not be forthcoming.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets Unsecured bank loans and overdrafts due within one year or on demand 35.6 10.1 and are considered to be fully recoverable.
Other loans 13.2 7.9 Obligations under finance leases 0.4 0.4 The carrying amounts of the Groups receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 159.1 132.4 Non-current liabilities 2018 2017 2014 Club facility due 2021 131.7 144.4 m m 2016 Club facility due 2021 20.0 Sterling 20.1 13.7 US$100m 5.94% fixed rate 10 year bond 78.8 73.9 US Dollar 68.5 59.2 30m 1.08% fixed rate 7 year bond 27.1 26.6 Euro 71.1 72.1 70m 1.43% fixed rate 10 year bond 63.1 62.1 Other 73.9 57.2 30m 2.54% fixed rate 7 year bond 30.0 30.0 233.6 202.2 70m 2.80% fixed rate 10 year bond 70.0 70.0 Other secured bank loans 0.3 0.7 Movements on the Groups provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: Other unsecured bank loans 25.9 18.3 Obligations under finance leases 0.6 0.4 2018 2017 447.5 426.4 m m At 1 January 4.8 4.4 Exchange differences 0.1 0.1 The Groups 2014 and 2016 Club facilities fall due for repayment upon expiry of the agreements in July 2021.
Interest is charged on both Released charged to income statement 1.7 0.8 agreements at a floating rate based on ICE GBP LIBOR, ICE LIBOR or EURIBOR, depending upon the drawdown currency, plus a variable Net write-off of uncollectible receivables 0.2 0.3 margin.
The margin the Group pays on its borrowings over and above standard rates is determined by the Groups net debt to EBITDA ratio.
At 31 December 3.0 4.8 The Groups Sterling and Euro denominated US private placement bonds have an average maturity of 6.6 years and carry an average fixed rate Amounts charged to the income statement are included within administrative expenses.
of interest of 2.1% at 31 December 2018.
Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Annual report and Accounts 2018127 126 Annual report and Accounts 2018 126 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 127 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Accounts continued 19.
Borrowings, other financial liabilities and other financial assets continued Interest rate and currency profile of Group financial liabilities 2018 2017 Fixed rate m m weighted average Total Fixed Floating Interest rate Fixed period Maturity profile of financial liabilities m m m % Years Repayments fall due as follows: Sterling 163.3 100.0 63.3 2.72 6.6 Within one year US Dollar 203.5 78.8 124.7 5.94 1.1 Bank loans and overdrafts 35.6 10.1 Euro 106.5 90.2 16.3 1.32 6.6 Other loans 13.2 7.9 Other 23.4 23.4 Obligations under finance leases 0.4 0.4 At 31 December 2018 496.7 269.0 227.7 3.19 5.0 49.2 18.4 After more than one year Sterling 147.7 100.0 47.7 2.72 7.6 Loans repayable US Dollar 176.8 73.9 102.9 5.94 2.1 Within one to two years 78.8 0.1 Euro 108.0 88.7 19.3 1.33 7.6 Within two to five years 235.0 237.2 Other 12.3 12.3 Five years and over 133.1 188.7 At 31 December 2017 444.8 262.6 182.2 3.16 6.0 Obligations under finance leases payable between years two and five 0.6 0.4 447.5 426.4 Fair values The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows: The table below details a comparison of the book and fair values of the Groups financial assets and liabilities.
Where there are no readily Within one year 0.4 0.5 available market values to determine fair values, cash flows relating to the various instruments have been discounted at prevailing interest Within one to five years 0.7 0.4 and exchange rates to give an estimate of fair value.
1.1 0.9 Book Fair Book Fair Future finance charges on finance leases 0.1 0.1 value value value value Present value of finance lease liabilities 1.0 0.8 2018 2018 2017 2017 m m m m 2018 2017 Cash deposits 71.2 71.2 63.3 63.3 m m Other investments 4.8 4.8 2.2 2.2 Undiscounted maturity analysis of financial liabilities 2014 Club facility due 2021 131.7 131.7 144.4 144.4 Within one year 2016 Club facility due 2021 20.0 20.0 Bank loans and overdrafts 45.5 14.0 US$100m 5.94% fixed rate 10 year bond 78.8 76.5 73.9 76.4 Other loans 4.8 4.8 30m 1.08% fixed rate 7 year bond 27.1 27.7 26.6 27.0 Obligations under finance leases 0.4 0.5 70m 1.43% fixed rate 10 year bond 63.1 65.3 62.1 63.1 50.7 19.3 30m 2.54% fixed rate 7 year bond 30.0 30.4 30.0 30.5 After more than one year 70m 2.80% fixed rate 10 year bond 70.0 71.4 70.0 71.4 Loans repayable Other bank borrowings 61.8 61.8 29.1 29.1 Within one to two years 92.3 0.1 Other loans 13.2 13.2 7.9 7.9 Within two to five years 254.0 255.6 Obligations under finance leases 1.0 1.0 0.8 0.8 Five years and over 143.3 219.4 Obligations under finance leases 0.7 0.4 For financial instruments with a remaining life of greater than one year, fair values are based on cash flows discounted at prevailing interest 490.3 475.5 rates.
Accordingly, the fair value of cash deposits and short term borrowings approximates to the book value due to the short maturity of these instruments.
The same applies to trade and other receivables and payables excluded from the above analysis.
The analysis above includes estimated interest payable to maturity on the underlying loans.
For the loans due after more than one year 13.1m 2017: 11.1m of the interest falls due within one year of the balance sheet date, 8.8m 2017: 11.1m within one to two years, 13.3m Financial instruments 2017: 16.2m within two to five years and 7.3m 2017: 10.7m beyond five years.
Financial instruments measured at fair value use the following hierarchy: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities level 1 Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices level 2 Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs level 3.
All of the Groups financial instruments are classed as level 2 with the exception of other investments and finance lease obligations, which are classed as level 3.
Borrowing facilities As at 31 December 2018, the Group had undrawn committed facilities of 358.4m 2017: 390.2m.
In addition, the Group had other undrawn facilities of 38.7m 2017: 59.0m available.
Of the Groups total committed facilities of 804.4m, 725.6m expire after 2020.
New and repaid borrowings disclosed in the Group Statement of Cash Flows reflect routine short-term cash management, comprising regular monthly drawdowns and repayments on the Groups revolving credit facilities.
Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Annual report and Accounts 2018 129 128 Annual report and Accounts 2018 128 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 129 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Accounts continued 19.
Borrowings, other financial liabilities and other financial assets continued Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns Financial risk factors for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, as well as maintaining an optimal capital structure to reduce overall cost of capital.
The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: currency risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, and credit risk.
The Groups overall risk management strategy is approved by the Board and implemented and reviewed by the Risk Management Committee.
Detailed financial In order to maintain this optimal structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid, issue new shares, return capital to shareholders risk management is then delegated to the Group Finance department which has a specific policy manual that sets out guidelines to manage or dispose of assets to reduce net debt.
Given the Groups strong balance sheet and sustained trading growth, the Group announced a financial risk.
Regular reports are received from all operating companies to enable prompt identification of financial risks so that appropriate dividend policy in 2011 of paying a dividend of between 40% and 50% of sustainable earnings.
Further details can be found in the Finance action may be taken.
In the management and definition of capital the Group includes ordinary and preference share capital and net debt.
Currency risk Underlying growth coupled to Return on Invested Capital ROIC is the key perceived driver of shareholder value within the Group.
The Groups The Group operates internationally and is exposed to currency risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the US ROIC now stands at 18.2% against a post-tax Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC of 5.1%, thus hitting the Groups target of Dollar and the Euro.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and net investments maintaining ROIC at a higher level than the WACC.
In addition, the Group employs two widely used ratios to measure its ability to service its in foreign operations.
Entities in the Group use foreign currency bank balances to manage their foreign exchange risk arising from future debt.
Both net debt EBITDA and EBITDA interest cover were well ahead of target in 2018.
Further details can be found in the Finance Review commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities.
The Groups risk management policy is to manage transactional risk up to three on pages 34 to 37.
The Group was in compliance with its covenant requirements throughout the year.
Additional information on progress months forward.
The Group has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk.
against Key Performance Indicators can be found on pages 24 and 25.
Currency exposure arising from the net assets of the Groups foreign operations is not specifically hedged but is reduced primarily through borrowings denominated in the relevant foreign currencies where it is efficient to do so.
Provisions Environmental Restructuring Other Total For 2018, had the Groups basket of reporting currencies been 10% weaker stronger than the actual rates experienced, post-tax profit for the m m m m year would have been 17.6m 2017: 17.4m lower higher than reported, primarily as a result of the translation of the profits of the Groups At 1 January 2018 10.2 2.0 0.4 12.6 overseas entities, and equity would have been 68.5m 2017: 56.6m lower higher.
Exchange differences 0.6 0.6 Released to the income statement 0.3 0.3 Charged to the income statement 0.1 0.2 0.3 Interest rate risk Cash paid against provisions and utilised 1.0 1.1 2.1 The Group has both interest bearing assets and liabilities.
In 2016, the Group had a policy of maintaining no more than 60% of its gross At 31 December 2018 9.9 0.6 0.6 11.1 borrowings at fixed interest rates in normal circumstances.
During 2016, the Group increased its amount of fixed rate debt following payment of the 136m special dividend and consequent increase in core debt requirements.
Bonds were issued in the amounts of 100m and 100m Analysis of total provisions with an average maturity of 9.1 years and interest rate of 2.08%.
The Group also retained its US$100m loan note repayable in 2020 carrying a 2018 2017 fixed rate of 5.94%.
During 2017, the policy formally increased the upper limit for fixed rate debt to 75% of gross borrowings.
At 31 December m m 2018, approximately 54% of Group borrowings were at fixed rates.
Current 4.0 5.2 Non-current 7.1 7.4 At 31 December 2018, aside from the loan notes and bonds referred to above, all Group debt and cash was exposed to repricing within 11.1 12.6 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Provisions are made where a constructive or legal obligation has arisen from a past event, can be quantified and where the timing At 31 December 2018, the Groups fixed rate debt was at a weighted average rate of 3.19% 2017: 3.16%.
The Groups floating rate liabilities of the transfer of economic benefits relating to the provisions cannot be ascertained with any degree of certainty.
are predominantly based on LIBOR and its overseas equivalents.
The environmental provision relates to soil and potential groundwater contamination on a number of sites, both currently in use and previously Based on the above, had interest rates moved by 10 basis points in the territories where the Group has substantial borrowings, post-tax profits occupied, in Europe and the Americas.
would have moved by 0.2m 2017: 0.2m due to a change in interest expense on the Groups floating rate borrowings.
In relation to the environmental provision, the Directors expect that the balance will be utilised within ten years.
Provisions for remediation Liquidity risk costs are made when there is a present obligation, it is probable that expenditures for remediation work will be required and the cost The Group actively maintains a mixture of long term and short term committed facilities designed to ensure that the Group has sufficient funds can be estimated within a reasonable range of possible outcomes.
The costs are based on currently available facts and prior experience.
available for operations and planned investments.
The Group also has a share buyback programme that is managed to ensure the efficiency of Environmental liabilities are recorded at the estimated amount at which the liability could be settled at the balance sheet date.
Remediation the Groups funding structure.
of environmental damage typically takes a long time to complete due to the substantial amount of planning and regulatory approvals normally required before remediation activities can begin.
In addition, increases in or releases of environmental provisions may be necessary whenever On a regular basis, management monitors forecasts of the Groups cash flows against both internal targets and those targets imposed by new developments occur or additional information becomes available.
Consequently, environmental provisions can change significantly.
The Group has substantial committed, unused facilities and the Directors are confident this situation will remain the case level of environmental provision is based on managements best estimate of the most likely outcome for each individual exposure.
The Group for the foreseeable future.
has also considered the impact of discounting on its provisions and has concluded that, as a consequence of the significant utilisation expected in a relatively short timescale, the impact is not material.
Credit risk The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk.
It has policies in place to ensure that sales of products are made to customers with an appropriate credit history.
Derivative counterparties and cash transactions are limited to high-credit quality financial institutions.
The Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any individual financial institution.
Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Annual report and Accounts 2018131 130 Annual report and Accounts 2018 130 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 131 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Accounts continued 21.
Ordinary share capital Croda International Plc Sharesave Scheme Sharesave 2018 2017 The Sharesave scheme, established in 1983 and renewed in 2013, grants options annually in September to employees of the Group at a Ordinary shares of 10.36p 2017: 10.36p m m fixed exercise price, being the market price of the Companys shares at the grant date discounted by up to 20%.
Employees then enter into Authorised at 1 January and 31 December a savings contract over three to five years and, subject to continued employment, purchase options at the end of the period based on the 222,788,170 ordinary shares of 10.36p each 2017: 222,788,170 ordinary shares of 10.36p each 23.1 23.1 amount saved.
Options are then exercisable for a six month period following completion of the savings contract.
For options granted in the year, the fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation of the value are as follows: Allotted, called up and fully paid at 1 January and 31 December 135,124,108 ordinary shares of 10.36p each 2017: 135,124,108 ordinary shares of 10.36p each 14.0 14.0 2018 2017 Grant date 27 Sep 2018 13 Sep 2017 During 2018 options were granted to employees under the Croda International Plc Sharesave Scheme to subscribe for 71,178 ordinary shares Share price at grant date 5200p 3777p at an option price of 4144p per share and under the Croda International Plc International Sharesave Plan to subscribe for 225,581 ordinary Exercise price 4144p 3092p shares at an option price of 4144p per share.
Conditional awards over 157,340 ordinary shares were granted under the Performance Share Number of employees 634 594 Plan during the year.
Also granted in the year were 18,392 shares under the Deferred Bonus Share Plan, 621 shares under the Deferred Bonus Shares under option 71,178 84,674 Discretionary Arrangement and 7,188 shares under the Restricted Share Plan.
Vesting period Three years Three years Expected volatility 20% 20% Option life Six months Six months During the year consideration of 1.5m was received on the exercise of options over 66,689 shares.
The options were satisfied with shares Risk free rate 1.0% 0.3% transferred from the Groups employee share trusts.
Since the year end a further 2,198 shares have been transferred from the trusts.
Dividend yield 1.6% 2.0% Possibility of forfeiture 7.5% p. a.
The outstanding options to subscribe for ordinary shares were as follows at the balance sheet date: Fair value per option at grant date 1186.2p 765.3p Option pricing model Black Black Year option Number of granted shares Price Options exercisable from Scholes Scholes Croda International Plc Sharesave Scheme 2015 5,321 2232p 1 Nov 2018 to 30 Apr 2019 2016 106,784 2639p 1 Nov 2019 to 30 Apr 2020 2017 80,234 3092p 1 Nov 2020 to 30 Apr 2021 2018 2017 A reconciliation of option movements over the year is as follows: Weighted Weighted 2018 70,772 4144p 1 Nov 2021 to 30 Apr 2022 average average Croda International Plc International Sharesave Plan 2009 2016 331,411 2639p 1 Nov 2019 to 30 Nov 2019 Number exercise price Number exercise price 2017 254,862 3092p 1 Nov 2020 to 30 Nov 2020 Outstanding at 1 January 266,481 2659p 267,091 2275p 2018 223,829 4144p 1 Nov 2021 to 30 Nov 2021 Granted 71,178 4144p 84,674 3092p Croda International Plc Performance Share Plan 2014 2016 268,154 Nil 4 Mar 2019 Forfeited 7,859 2785p 12,018 2469p 2016 4,870 Nil 31 Oct 2019 Exercised 66,689 2201p 73,266 1791p 2017 226,320 Nil 9 Mar 2020 Outstanding at 31 December 263,111 3174p 266,481 2659p 2018 157,340 Nil 13 Mar 2021 Exercisable at 31 December 5,321 2232p 6,510 1763p Croda International Plc Deferred Bonus Share Plan 2016 77,992 Nil 4 Mar 2019 For options exercised in year, weighted average share price at date of exercise 4754p 4156p 2016 1,909 Nil 16 Mar 2019 Weighted average remaining life at 31 December years 2.2 2.3 2017 98,213 Nil 9 Mar 2020 2018 18,694 Nil 13 Mar 2021 Croda International Plc International Sharesave Plan 2009 International Croda International Plc Deferred Bonus Discretionary Arrangement 2016 1,097 Nil 16 Mar 2019 The International scheme, established in 1999 and renewed in 2009, has the same option pricing model, savings contract and vesting period 2018 631 Nil 13 Mar 2021 as the Sharesave scheme.
At exercise, employees are paid a cash equivalent for each option purchased, being the difference between the Croda International Plc Restricted Share Plan 2018 6,751 Nil 20 Mar 2021 exercise price and market price at the exercise date.
For options granted in the year, the fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation of the value are as follows: 22.
Share-based payments The impact of share-based payment transactions on the Groups financial position is as follows: 2018 2017 Grant date 27 Sep 2018 13 Sep 2017 2018 2017 Share price at grant date 5200p 3777p m m Exercise price 4144p 3092p Analysis of amounts recognised in the income statement: Number of employees 2,082 1,891 Charged in respect of equity settled share-based payment transactions 6.5 6.5 Shares under option 225,581 279,032 Charged in respect of cash settled share-based payment transactions 8.6 10.5 Vesting period Three years Three years 15.1 17.0 Expected volatility 20% 20% Option life One month One month Analysis of amounts recognised in the balance sheet: Risk free rate 0.7% 0.4% Liability in respect of cash settled share-based payment transactions 13.0 11.2 Dividend yield 1.8% 1.7% Possibility of forfeiture 7.5% p. a.
The key elements of each scheme along with the assumptions employed to arrive at the charge in the income statement are set out below.
Fair value per option at 31 December 791.8p 1274.1p Where appropriate the expected volatility has been based on historical volatility considering daily share price movements over periods Option pricing model Black Black equal to the expected future life of the awards and the risk free rate is based on the Bank of Englands projected nominal yield curve with Scholes Scholes appropriate duration.
Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Croda International Plc Annual report and Accounts 2018133 132 Annual report and Accounts 2018 132 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 133
