68 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Governance and Nomination Committee report Committee structure, size and composition Dear shareholder, post the acquisition in both the Company, I am pleased to present the report on the the Bank and Virgin Money plc.
Committees activity during 2018 and to The Committee spent time overseeing the confirm that the Committee has made progress on the recommendations and good progress on its agreed 2018 actions arising from the 2017 evaluation of priorities.
the Board and its Committees and ensured During 2018 the Committee oversaw an that status reports were made to the evaluation of the skills, knowledge and Board periodically.
The Committee worked experience on the Board which was with the Group Human Resources Director documented in a refreshed skills matrix.
and Company Secretary on the approach This review highlighted areas where Board to and design of the 2018 Board and skills and experience could be further Committee evaluation.
In view of the strengthened and helped inform the externally facilitated review in 2017 which selection of new Board members which had looked in-depth at the effectiveness of the Committee recommended to the the Board and its Committees, the Board.
As I mentioned in my Chairmans Committee agreed, with the support of the letter, Geeta Gopalan, Darren Pope and The Committee has made Board, that the 2018 review should be Amy Stirling joined the Board as Noninternally facilitated with a focus on progress on its 2018 priorities Executive Directors on completion of the individual Director effectiveness.
The and has continued to keep the acquisition of Virgin Money on 15 October process is described on pages 65 and 66.
In preparation for these new Board In the year ahead, the Committee will appointments the Committee reviewed the experience under review.
continue to monitor the needs of the arrangements for the full, formal and Board, its Committees and the longer-term tailored induction of the new Directors and leadership of the business.
Key areas of will oversee the delivery of the induction focus will include developing the succession programme through 2019.
The skills matrix plan for the Board and keeping the is also helping inform longer-term composition of the Board and its requirements and future Board and Board Committees under review.
will also continue to oversee the The Committee also spent time reviewing effectiveness of the corporate governance the executive and senior management arrangements particularly in view of the succession planning arrangements and new 2018 UK Corporate Governance continued to develop the Committees and Code and will monitor the implementation Boards role in the areas of talent of actions agreed by the Board following management and leadership development.
Fiona MacLeod, a Committee member, supported the Career Sponsorship Programme along with fellow NonExecutive Director Dr Teresa RobsonCapps.
This Programme aims to develop colleagues into broader or more senior Jim Pettigrew roles reinforcing our high performing Chair, Governance and culture and building greater diversity into Nomination Committee our long-term leadership pipeline.
In addition to the new Board appointments, as part of the preparations for the combination of CYBG with Virgin Money, the Committee reviewed the proposed governance arrangements to be in place upon completion of the acquisition with a strong focus on ensuring that Board and executive governance structures continue to adhere to the highest standards of corporate governance.
This included a review of the intended Board and Board Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 69 Committee attendance Membership and meetings Committee role and The core activities of the Committee were responsibilities The current members of the Committee carried out in five scheduled meetings of are: During the year, the Committee revised its the Committee.
The table below shows the Charter which sets out the role and Committee members during the year to Jim Pettigrew, Chair responsibilities of the Committee.
The 30 September 2018 and their attendance David Bennett Charter of the Committee can be found on at scheduled Committee meetings.
com Fiona MacLeod Number of about-us corporate-governance scheduled Number of The Committee is chaired by the Chairman Committee scheduled of the Board and the members of the meetings Committee Committee performance eligible to meetings Committee are independent Nonattend attended evaluation Executive Directors, in accordance with the Committee Chair provisions of the Code.
If a matter were to During the year the Committee made Jim Pettigrew 5 5 concern the Chairman, then he would leave progress on key findings from the in-depth the meeting and the remaining members Committee Board Performance Evaluation carried out would elect one of their number to take members in 2017, which included an assessment of the Chair, unless the Chairman had David Bennett 5 5 the Committees effectiveness, by agreeing designated a member to do so.
1 Fiona MacLeod 5 4 a work plan to address the Committees priorities for 2018 in addition to its wider The Chief Executive Officer attends 1 Unable to attend the meeting due to personal Charter responsibilities.
This work plan has meetings at the invitation of the reasons.
driven the matters considered by the Committee.
The Group Human Resources Committee during the year as set out on Director also attends meetings at the pages 70 and 71.
The Committee has invitation of the Committee, particularly adopted a continuous improvement when it is considering Executive succession approach to its performance evaluation planning matters.
and considers at the end of each meeting Members of the Committee took no part the effectiveness of the meeting and the in any discussions concerning their own quality of the reports that were presented.
membership of the Board or appointment During the year the Committee noted as a Chair of a committee.
the improvement made in Committee agenda setting and reporting which enabled a fulsome discussion and debate with several actions generated and decisions made to progress matters within the Committees remit.
70 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Governance and Nomination Committee report Matters considered and actions taken by the Committee The significant matters addressed by the Committee during the year ended 30 September 2018 and in evaluating the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts are described in the following pages.
Role of the Committee Key matters considered and actions completed Board and Board committee Reviewed the structure, size and composition of the Board and Board Committees composition including skills, experience, independence, knowledge and diversity and considered the Membership of the Board and the current longer-term succession of Board and Board Committee members relative to tenure, and future composition of its committees mix and diversity of skills and the Groups strategy, future, challenges and opportunities and reported the outcome and recommendations to the Board: Recommended to the Board the appointment of Geeta Gopalan and Darren Pope as independent Non-Executive Directors and of Amy Stirling as a Non-Executive Director: Reviewed the time commitment including external appointments of serving Directors: and Undertook the annual review of the Conflicts of Interests Register.
Skills and independence Agreed the methodology for and oversaw an evaluation of the skills, knowledge and experience on the Board: reviewed the outcomes and agreed a refreshed skills matrix: the skills matrix will be used to inform future Board and Board Committee succession plans: Assessed the independence of Non-Executive Directors having regard to both the Code requirements on independence and factors such as length of tenure and the ability of Non-Executive Directors to objectively challenge the Executive, free from relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the Directors judgement.
The Committee also took account of any relationships that had been disclosed and authorised by the Board.
Based on the assessment for 2018 the Committee is satisfied that throughout the year, all Non-Executive Directors remained independent as to both character and judgement and that Jim Pettigrew, the Board Chairman, was considered independent on appointment.
At least half the Board comprised independent Non-Executive Directors: and Recommended to the Board the election of Geeta Gopalan, Darren Pope and Amy Stirling and recommended to the Board the re-election of all other Directors.
Executive succession planning and Received updates from the Group Human Resources Director on the executive and talent management senior management succession plan: Monitored executive succession plans including the strength and depth of succession coverage both on a contingency and permanent basis: and Kept informed of the Groups talent management and leadership development programme and participated in events designed to broaden Directors engagement with senior colleagues.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 71 Role of the Committee Key matters considered and actions completed Diversity and inclusion The Board is committed to delivering the Groups inclusion strategy and although new appointments are always based on merit, careful consideration is given to the benefits of improving and complementing the diversity, skills, experience and knowledge of the Board.
In making recommendations to the Board, the Committee makes sure that the Board is made up of competent colleagues with the necessary balance of diversity, skills and experience required to ensure that the Board can function effectively: The Board remains committed to building strong female representation at all levels within the Group including at Board, executive and senior management levels.
The Committee and the Board remains committed to achieving the target it set last year to achieve 33% female representation on the Board by 2020, achieved through the natural cycle of Board renewal.
It remains the Boards intention to broaden diversity on the Board beyond gender diversity alone, to reflect the communities in which the Group operates and the diversity of our customers.
As at 30 September 2018 there were three female Directors 27% on the Board which has risen to four 31% following the appointment of Geeta Gopalan and Amy Stirling on 15 October 2018 and Debbie Crosbie stepping down from the Board on 19 November 2018: The Group supports the Women in Finance Charter and has a target of 40% women in senior management roles by 2020.
During the year a new Culture Dashboard was introduced for the Board which enables the Board to track progress on both gender diversity and broader inclusion metrics and commitments.
Board and Board committee Oversaw progress on the recommendations and actions arising from the 2017 effectiveness review in-depth, externally facilitated evaluation of the Board and its Committees: Ensured status reports on progress of actions were made to the Board periodically: Agreed the approach, methodology and timing of the 2018 evaluation of the Board, its Committees and of individual Director effectiveness which was internally facilitated and oversaw progress: and Reviewed the arrangements for the full, formal and tailored induction for new Directors in preparation for their appointments becoming effective.
The full Board was updated on the plans for developing Directors knowledge of the Virgin Money business following completion of the acquisition.
Governance Reviewed and challenged the proposed governance arrangements to be in place upon completion of the acquisition by the Company of Virgin Money including a review of the intended Board and Board Committee structure, size and composition, post the acquisition in both the Company, the Bank and Virgin Money plc: Agreed a work plan to ensure that the Committee would address its priorities for 2018 in addition to its wider Charter responsibilities and monitored progress throughout the year: Received an update on proposed corporate governance reforms: and Reviewed and agreed a revised Committee Charter setting out the Committees role and responsibilities.
