Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 79 Risk Committee report and scenario analysis to give assurance on The following report sets out the principal the Groups ability to mitigate potential risks, and areas of top and emerging risks risks.
the Committee evaluated over the year.
More details on the wider risk profile and An area of focus for the Committee, was to the RMF that the Committee oversees can provide oversight of performance of IRB be found in the Risk overview within the models submitted to the PRA to support Strategic report on pages 16 to 17 and in the Groups application to adopt the IRB the Risk report on pages 121 to 170. approach for the calculation of Credit Risk Weighted Assets RWA.
I am delighted the Looking ahead Group received IRB accreditation for the Many of the areas the Committee focused Groups mortgage and SME Corporate on in 2018 will again be areas of focus for portfolios which was announced on the Committee in 2019, reflecting the 11 October 2018 and this will take effect in complex environment in which the firm the first quarter of the 2019 financial year.
operates and the rightly high expectations Achieving IRB status improves our capital of our stakeholders that the Bank is ratios and capital efficiency and will help us managed prudently and in the interests of grow the business in a prudent, sustainable our customers.
In addition, the Committee The Committee maintained manner.
Jointly with the Audit Committee, it will oversee the embedding of IRB into the also reviewed the model and calculation its approach of supporting the business and following the acquisition of engine capability to support the credit Board in ensuring strong and Virgin Money, as part of the integration impairment element of IFRS 9 to support planning, the Committee will consider how effective risk management and implementation from 1 October 2018. the RAS and RMF are applied across the promoting a risk culture that The Committee, through a balanced Combined Group to ensure the Group has supports the safety and agenda, has ensured there is sufficient the appropriate risk tolerances in place.
soundness of the firm and fair focus on the management of principal risks and the identification and monitoring of treatment of its customers.
top and emerging risks that may have an impact for its customers, products, Dear shareholder, Clive Adamson operating model and strategy.
The Chair, Risk Committee I am pleased to report on how the environment in which the Group operates Committee has discharged its continues to be subject to considerable responsibilities throughout the financial change.
Uncertainties include heightened year ended 30 September 2018. political and economic risk in the UK in the backdrop of the UKs withdrawal from the On 30 June 2018, David Browne retired as EU and the uncertain outcome of Brexit a Director of the Company and Id like to negotiations and wider geopolitical risks.
thank him for his contribution as a member The Committee has monitored of the Committee.
Following the developments and associated impacts on acquisition of Virgin Money on 15 October the Groups risk profile.
Given high profile 2018, the Committee welcomed Geeta cybersecurity breaches and the rising level Gopalan to the Committee.
As a result, the of cyberthreat across many industries, Committee continues to comprise six where the dynamic nature and significance independent Non-Executive Directors.
of related risks and challenges continue to evolve, the Committee has increased focus Highlights in 2018 on ensuring strong levels of operational During the year, the Committee maintained resilience including improving defences for its approach of supporting the Board in cybersecurity.
The Committee has also ensuring strong and effective risk been provided with ongoing updates to management and promoting a risk culture monitor changes in various mandatory that supports the safety and soundness of regulatory requirements on the horizon, the firm and fair treatment of its including ring-fencing legislation and the customers.
The Committee considered the Minimum Requirement on Own Funding Groups RAS and associated metrics in and Eligible Liabilities MREL and provides alignment with the Groups strategic and oversight of the Executive Leadership financial plans and provided appropriate Teams plans to implement and apply these challenge to ensure that the RMF remains regulations.
It continued to review stress 80 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Risk Committee report Committee attendance Membership and meetings Committee role and The core activities of the Committee were responsibilities The current members of the Committee carried out in four scheduled meetings of are: During the year, the Committee revised its the Committee.
One additional ad hoc Charter which sets out the role and meeting was arranged for decisions Clive Adamson, Chair responsibilities of the Committee.
The required outside scheduled meetings.
The David Bennett Charter of the Committee can be found on Audit Committee and Risk Committee also the Companys website www.
com hold at least one joint meeting per year.
Paul Coby about-us corporate-governance The table below shows the Committee Geeta Gopalan appointed 15 October members during the year ended 2018 30 September 2018 and their attendance Committee performance at scheduled Committee meetings.
Fiona MacLeod evaluation Number of Tim Wade During the year, the Committee adopted scheduled Number of om C mittee scheduled the work plan from the external Board As at the date of this report, the meetings ommittee Performance Evaluation carried out in Committee comprises six independent eligible to meetings 2017 which has driven the agenda setting attend attended Non-Executive Directors who have a and debate and discussion during the year.
variety of industry backgrounds, including Committee Chair The internal evaluation of the Committee banking and financial services.
Membership Clive Adamson 4 4 at the end of 2018 concluded the of the Committee has been designed so Committee members Committee was effective with no significant that there is a deep understanding of the David Bennett 4 4 areas of concern noted.
risk management, banking and financial Paul Coby 4 4 sector expertise it needs to fulfil its 1 Fiona MacLeod 4 3 responsibilities.
In addition to the Committee members, the Chairman, Chief Tim Wade 4 4 Executive Officer, Group Chief Financial Former Committee members Officer, Group Chief Operating Officer, 2 David Browne 3 3 Group Chief Risk Officer, Company 1 Unable to attend the meeting due to personal Secretary, Group General Counsel, Group reasons.
Director Internal Audit, and Head of 2 David Browne retired as a Committee member on Regulatory and Compliance Risk are invited 30 June 2018. to attend Committee meetings.
The Chair is also a member of the Audit Committee.
C Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 81 Matters considered and actions taken by the Committee The significant matters addressed by the Committee during the financial year ended 30 September 2018 and in evaluating the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts are described in the following pages.
Role of the Committee Key matters considered and actions completed Enhancing the RAS and stress testing Conducted six-monthly reviews and recommended any updates to the Board for Reviewing and approving the Groups risk approval of the RAS taking into consideration the strategic objectives and target appetite business model of the Group as well as the environment in which it operates: Reviewed a combined Group Day 1 RAS for the acquisition of Virgin Money to ensure the Combined Group had the appropriate risk tolerances in place: Reviewed regular reports of performance against each RAS measure, and assessed and confirmed the adequacy of management actions in relation to actual or potential breaches of Red and Amber RAS thresholds: Refreshed the statements of appetite and limit settings for the material sources of risk during the year: and Reviewed deep-dive analysis on a variety of risk matters including: Corporate Failure Contagion, Financial Crime and IT Cyber Security, Technology and Resilience Risk.
Reviewing the ICAAP and ILAAP and Reviewed and monitored the capital, funding and liquidity profile through the ICAAP recommending approval to the Board and ILAAP processes.
Embedding the risk framework and Reviewed and approved proposals to refresh and update the RMF in relation to the governance evolving nature of the Groups activities: Providing oversight and reviewing the Reviewed and approved an updated Policy Management Framework which provides application of the Groups risk the overarching principles and minimum control requirements that operate across the management, compliance and control Group to mitigate risks to within the Groups risk appetite: systems Considered a refresh of and updated the Groups range of Principal Risk Policy Statements which were supported by deep dive reviews into the application and effectiveness of the policy led by the Policy Statement owners: Received reports on the Risk Management Framework with a focus on the effectiveness of controls relating to the Groups Policy Statement: Considered an annual review of the Groups anti-money laundering and counterterrorist policy, systems and controls: and Reviewed the policies and procedures for preventing and detecting fraud and bribery.
Supporting an effective risk culture Continually assessed risk culture, including considering risk events and undertaking Ensuring that all colleagues operate in line root cause analysis: with the Groups risk focused culture Considered any risk adjustments to be taken into account by the Remuneration Committee when making remuneration decisions for 2018 and 2019.
Risk management Reviewed and challenged regular reports from the Group Chief Risk Officer that Overseeing the risk profile and risk considered matters of concern on the material sources of top and emerging risks to management of the Group within the the Group and outlined the remedial activities initiated to ensure that the risk was Board approved RAS brought within risk appetite: Reviewed and challenged regular reports from the Group Chief Financial Officer to manage the risks related to Funding, Liquidity and Capital: Approved the annual Three Lines of Defence Oversight and Assurance Plans and received regular updates on the adequacy and effectiveness of the application of the risk and control framework: Received updates on the output of assurance activities from the Three Lines of Defence regarding internal control processes for risk management: Carried out an assessment of the Viability Statement in the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts and advised the Board and Audit Committee to that effect: and Alongside other risk categories, oversaw Conduct Remediation Programmes ensuring that they deliver the right outcomes for our customers.
82 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Risk Committee report As part of the RMF, during the year the Committee maintained oversight of the following identified principal risks and associated top and emerging risks: Risk categories considered Key matters considered and actions completed Credit risk The Committee regularly reviewed the performance of the credit risk portfolio, The risk of loss of principal or interest including concentrations alongside changes in the economic environment to ensure stemming from a borrowers failure to that concentration risks were minimised.
An area of particular focus and attention is meet contracted obligations to the Group the Groups mortgage portfolio spread and the level of concentration of mortgage in accordance with the terms agreed.
lending: and Credit risk is evident at both a portfolio Jointly with the Audit Committee, reviewed the model and calculation engine and transactional level.
capability to support the credit impairment element of IFRS 9 for implementation from 1 October 2018: Emerging risk Macroeconomic environment The impact of the sustained low interest rate environment places increased pressure on the Groups financial performance and, conversely, a sharp rise in interest rates may lead to an increased risk of default rates and credit losses.
Emerging risk Consumer credit Maintaining awareness of the risk of significant unforeseen credit losses occurring within a short time period which has the potential to have a detrimental impact on earnings and profitability.
Unsecured consumer lending is an area of considerable regulatory focus and one where the Group is particularly alert to potential regulatory, economic and customer impacts.
Balance sheet and Prudential regulation The Committee monitored closely the Groups funding and capital positions giving due risks consideration to any additional risks arising from increased market uncertainty This covers a number of categories of risk following changes in the macroeconomic environment, including the Brexit which, combined, affect the manner in negotiations, which continue to create significant economic uncertainty for the UK: which the Group can support its At each meeting the Committee considered a report from the Treasurer which customers in a safe and sound manner provided an update on the Groups exposure to balance sheet and prudential regulation risks: Considered the Groups recovery plan in the event of a significant deterioration in financial stability: and The Committee considered the impact of Structural Reform legislation and the Groups progress to compliance.
Regulatory and compliance risks The Committee obtained frequent briefings from management on forthcoming This consists of regulatory strategy and regulatory developments and upstream risk, to allow members to consider and change risk, regulatory relationship risk oversee the implications of these on the Groups strategic objectives and operations, and the risk of failing to understand and systems and controls: and comply with relevant laws, regulations, Regular updates were received by the Committee from the Group Chief Risk Officer licence conditions, supervisory on progress made towards achieving IRB accreditation and reviewed the performance requirements, industry codes of conduct of IRB models submitted to the PRA to support the Groups application to adopt the and voluntary initiatives.
IRB approach for the calculation of Credit Risk Weighted Assets RWA.
Emerging risk Regulatory capital requirements The Group, in common with the financial services industry as a whole, continues to face a significant agenda of regulatory and legislative change, such as the Basel III framework and MREL requirements.
Conduct risk Through the execution of the Group Conduct Strategy, the Committee oversaw the Defined as the risk of treating customers pro-active review of the business for potential conduct issues: unfairly and or delivering inappropriate The Committee monitored progress to remediate key legacy conduct issues outcomes resulting in regulatory fines, throughout the year, including PPI and other remediation programmes: and compensation, redress costs and or reputational damage.
The Committee received regular updates on the implementation and effective execution of the Group Conduct Strategy including the bi-annual Conduct Framework assessment and the development of enhancements to conduct risk management information and assurance.
The Committee oversaw performance against conduct risk appetite including the introduction of additional and enhanced Conduct-related RAS measures.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 83 Risk categories considered Key matters considered and actions completed Operational risk The Committee reviewed the Groups Operational Resilience Framework to ensure The risk of loss resulting from inadequate that the controls and processes associated with the four key resilience pillars of or failed internal processes and systems or People, Information Technology including oversight of the effectiveness of actions to from external events.
exit remaining Transitional Service Agreements TSA with NAB, Suppliers and Property were embedded across the organisation.
Emerging risk Cybersecurity and IT As there are increasing levels of attempted cyberattacks across the industry, the Group remains vigilant to the potential risk of such attacks including: service interruption, data loss, customer and financial detriment and reputational damage.
Financial crime risk The Committee maintained oversight of the effectiveness of the Financial Crime The risk that the Groups products and Framework for monitoring, management and mitigation of financial crime and services will be used to facilitate financial considered reports on the strength of the Groups cybercrime defence strategy.
crime against the Group, its customers or Emerging risk Financial crime including cyber-enabled financial crime The third parties.
Group in conjunction with the wider industry continues to be subject to increasing fraud attacks.
There is a risk that the Group is unable to keep pace with the increased threat of cyber-enabled crime that digital expansion presents.
External data loss events are driving an increasing threat of social engineering and account takeover due to the volume of compromised data available.
Strategic, business and financial The Committee reviewed a consolidated report outlining the triggers and exposure to performance risk strategic risk by the Group Chief Risk Officer.
The risk of significant loss of earnings and Emerging Risk Acquisition of Virgin Money The risks associated with the or damage arising from business decisions acquisition of Virgin Money have been described in detail in the prospectus to the that impact the long-term interests of transaction.
The acquisition presents a significant programme of change requiring stakeholders or from an inability to adapt prudent management in order to deliver the benefits from the transaction.
Emerging risk Geopolitical uncertainty The UKs withdrawal from the EU Brexit with ongoing negotiations has created significant economic uncertainty and a potential negative impact for the UK macroeconomy.
Emerging risk Competition The financial services industry is a highly competitive environment.
The emergence of new entrants and regulatory initiatives, such as Open Banking, may lead to material changes in the future provision of financial services.
People risk The Committee provided oversight of key people risks such as capability and capacity The risk of not having sufficiently skilled planning, values and behaviours, inclusion and health and well-being.
and motivated colleagues who are clear on their responsibilities and accountabilities and who behave in an ethical way.
Further details on the Groups approach to risk appetite, risk culture, the RMF, and significant and emerging risks can be found in the Risk report beginning on page 121.
