50 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Board of Directors Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51 Left to right Dr Teresa Robson-Capps Independent Non-Executive Director Clive Adamson Independent Non-Executive Director Paul Coby Independent Non-Executive Director David Duffy Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer Jim Pettigrew Chairman Adrian Grace seated Independent Non-Executive Director Tim Wade Independent Non-Executive Director Ian Smith Executive Director and Group Chief Financial Officer Fiona MacLeod Independent Non-Executive Director Debbie Crosbie Executive Director and Group Chief Operating Officer stepped down from the Board on 19 November 2018 David Bennett Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed on 15 October 2018 not pictured Geeta Gopalan Independent Non-Executive Director Darren Pope Independent Non-Executive Director Amy Stirling Non-Executive Director 52 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Board of Directors Board roles and responsibilities The Board has agreed a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
The Chairmans priority is to lead the Board and ensure its effectiveness and the Chief Executive Officers priority is to manage the day-to-day running of the Groups business.
The roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and other Directors are clearly defined so that no single individual has unrestricted powers of decision.
Their key responsibilities are set out below.
Position Name Roles and responsibilities Chairman Jim Pettigrew Leading the Board and its effectiveness by organising its business and setting its agendas, ensuring that the Board as a whole plays a full and constructive part, being forward looking, and primarily focused on strategy, performance and key value creation matters.
Guiding the Board in establishing the culture, value and ethics of the Company.
Promoting the highest standards of corporate governance including promoting a culture of openness and debate and ensuring that the Board receives accurate, timely and high-quality supporting information.
Ensuring properly constructed Board induction, evaluation and development, and effective communications with the Groups shareholders.
Deputy Chairman and David Bennett Deputy Chairman Supporting the Chairman, and when required, Senior Independent acting as the Chairmans delegate and ensuring continuity of Non-Executive Director Chairmanship.
Being available to the Board for consultation and advising and representing the Groups interests at official enquiries and with review bodies.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Providing a sounding board for the Chairman and serving as a trusted intermediary between the Chairman and the other Directors when necessary, and ensuring that the views of all Directors are conveyed to the Chairman.
Being available to shareholders in the event of any matters which cannot be resolved through the normal channels of communication with the Chairman or the Executive Directors.
Maintaining contact as required with major shareholders to understand their issues and concerns, maintaining stability and cohesion within the Board particularly during periods of stress.
Meeting with the Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present at least annually and leading the Non-Executive Directors in the ongoing monitoring and annual evaluation of the Chairman.
Chief Executive Officer David Duffy Leading the day-to-day management of the Groups business ensuring its effective running.
Leading the Executive Leadership Team, being responsible for developing, coordinating and proposing to the Board all activities to implement the Groups strategy and its overall objectives in accordance with the Groups risk appetite, and maintaining a close working relationship with the Chairman.
Non-Executive Directors Clive Adamson Bringing an external perspective, knowledge, experience and insight from Paul Coby other industries and applying sound judgement and objectivity to the 1 Geeta Gopalan business of the Board.
Developing and setting the Groups strategy and Adrian Grace monitoring its implementation, reviewing the RMF, and supporting and Fiona MacLeod constructively challenging Executive Directors.
Satisfying themselves on 1 Darren Pope the integrity of financial information, considering and taking account of Dr Teresa Robson-Capps the views and concerns of the Companys shareholders and other 1 Amy Stirling stakeholders.
Having a principal role in appointing and, where necessary, Tim Wade removing Executive Directors.
Devising appropriate succession plans and approving appropriate levels of remuneration for the Executive Directors following recommendations from the Remuneration Committee.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 53 Key: REM Remuneration Committee RISK Risk Committee AUDIT Audit Committee GOV Governance and Nomination Committee Chair Non-Executive Directors Jim Pettigrew David Bennett Clive Adamson Chairman Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director GOV REM REM RISK AUDIT GOV RISK AUDIT Joined the Group Joined the Group Joined the Group September 2012 and became October 2015 July 2016 Chairman in 2014 Key areas of expertise Key areas of expertise Key areas of expertise Finance, Governance, M&A Finance, M&A, Retail Banking Governance, Financial Services Regulation, Risk Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Jim has over 30 years experience in David has significant experience in retail Clive has considerable experience of UK business and finance gained from executive banking gained from a career spanning and global economic, banking and and senior positions principally within more than 30 years and including executive regulatory matters gained from an financial services.
Jim was formerly Chief and senior roles in both the UK and extensive career in banking and financial Executive Officer at CMC Markets PLC, internationally.
David was Group Finance services regulation.
He held senior Chief Operating Officer at Ashmore Group Director of Alliance & Leicester plc for six executive and advisory positions with the PLC, Group Finance Director at ICAP PLC years before becoming its Group Chief Financial Conduct Authority FCA, the and Deputy Group Finance Director and Executive.
Following the acquisition of former Financial Services Authority and the Group Treasurer at Sedgwick Group PLC.
Alliance & Leicester plc by Banco Santander Bank of England.
He was previously Head of He is a chartered accountant and has he was appointed Executive Director on Supervision and an Executive Director of extensive Non-Executive Director the Board of Abbey National plc.
His the Board of the FCA until May 2015.
His experience in a listed environment.
He was in-depth experience of retail banking and strong understanding of the UK and global previously Chairman of The Edinburgh involvement in organisational, operational banking industry and related risks is Investment Trust PLC, Senior Independent and structural change is invaluable as the invaluable to the Board.
Non-Executive Director of Crest Nicholson Group executes its strategy.
He was PLC, Non-Executive Director at Aberdeen formerly Chairman of Homeserve Asset Management PLC, Non-Executive Membership Limited and has significant Director at AON UK Limited and NonNon-Executive Director experience in a Executive Director at Hermes Fund listed environment which has included Managers Limited.
He is a past President of being a Non-Executive Director of Bank of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Ireland UK PLC, easyJet plc, and CMC Scotland.
His breadth of experience, Markets PLC.
credibility with key stakeholders and strong leadership qualities make him an effective Chairman.
Key external appointments: Key external appointments: Key external appointments: Senior Independent Non-Executive Chairman of Ashmore Group plc, Chairman at JP Morgan International Director of Rathbone Brothers Plc and Non-Executive Director of PayPal Bank Limited: Senior Independent Director of a subsidiary company within Europe S. a. r. l et Cie, S. C. A and Chairman Non-Executive Director at Ashmore the Rathbone Brothers Plc group: of various companies within the Together Group plc: Non-Executive Director of Chairman of Miton Group PLC: Chairman Financial Services Limited group.
The Prudential Assurance Company of RBC Europe Limited and Director of Limited: and senior adviser at McKinsey & subsidiary companies within the RBC Company.
Group: Chairman of Scottish Financial Enterprise: and Co-Chair of Scotlands Financial Services Advisory Board.
54 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Board of Directors Non-Executive Directors Paul Coby Adrian Grace Fiona MacLeod Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director RISK REM RISK GOV REM Joined the Group Joined the Group Joined the Group June 2016 December 2014 September 2016 Key areas of expertise Key areas of expertise Key areas of expertise Information Technology, Strategy Finance, Financial Services Regulation, M&A, Marketing, Strategy Strategy Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Paul is an accomplished IT professional with Adrian has extensive financial, business Fiona has 30 years international business significant e-commerce, international and leadership and general management experience in leading complex, large-scale technology experience.
In particular his experience gained from a career which has business transformation and in managing understanding of how technology has spanned a range of consumer and the commercial, human resources and changed consumer behaviour, how commercial financial services sectors and cultural aspects of change programmes.
advances in digital technology can impact involved a variety of senior roles.
Adrians She has demonstrated this both as an customer outcomes and his appreciation of experience of designing and implementing executive and as an advisory consultant to the end-to-end customer journey in a substantial change programmes and both listed and governmental organisations.
strategic omni-channel context is invaluable delivering transformational growth through A substantial part of her career was at BP to the Group as we develop new products simple customer focused visions and plans is Group plc where she held various executive and digital capability.
In April 2018, Paul was aligned to the Groups strategy.
Having positions encompassing Mergers and appointed Chief Information Officer CIO started his career with the Leeds Acquisitions, Branding and Marketing and of Johnson Matthey PLC.
Prior to this, Paul Permanent Building Society and then latterly the role of President Retail, USA & was the John Lewis Partnerships CIO, Mercantile Credit, Adrian joined GE Capital Latin America.
Fiona was formerly Senior responsible for leading and coordinating IT where he spent time in the UK, Asia, and Independent Non-Executive Director of across the John Lewis, Waitrose and JLP the Americas.
He became Managing SThree plc.
Previously, Paul was IT Director at Director of the Small Business Division at John Lewis and CIO at British Airways for Sage Group plc.
He was Chief Executive at 10 years.
Pauls other previous roles include Barclays Insurance and Managing Director Chairman of the Socit Internationale fide of Commercial Banking within the Tlcommunications Aronautiques SITA, Corporate Division of HBOS.
Since 2011 the global provider of systems, solutions Adrian has been Chief Executive Officer at and telecommunications to the air Aegon UK having joined Aegon in 2009 as transport industry, Non-Executive Director Group Business Development Director.
He at Pets at Home Group Plc and at P&O was previously on the boards of the Ferries Limited, Chairman of the eSkills UK Association of British Insurers and Scottish CIO Board and Chairman of the oneworld Financial Enterprise.
CIO Group which coordinated IT links across the 10 airline oneworld Alliance partners.
Key external appointment: Key external appointments: Key external appointment: Chief Information Officer of Johnson Director of various companies within the Non-Executive Director of Denholm Matthey PLC.
Aegon Group and a member of the FCA Oilfield Services Limited.
Practitioner Panel representing the life and pensions sector.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 55 Key: REM Remuneration Committee RISK Risk Committee AUDIT Audit Committee GOV Governance and Nomination Committee Chair Additional Non-Executive Directors of the Board following the acquisition of Virgin Money on 15 October 2018 Dr Teresa Robson-Capps Tim Wade Geeta Gopalan Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director AUDIT AUDIT RISK RISK Joined the Group Joined the Group Joined the Group October 2014 September 2016 October 2018 Key areas of expertise Key areas of expertise Key areas of expertise Finance, Strategy Finance, M&A, Retail Banking, Risk Finance, Financial Services, Retail Banking, Digital Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Teresa has extensive financial, customer Tim has over 20 years senior experience in Geeta has over 25 years of experience of service and general management retail financial services, including retail financial services and retail banking, experience from across a range of banking in both the UK and internationally.
particularly payments and digital innovation.
industries including telecommunications, An Australian national, he is an experienced Geeta was Director of Payment Services financial services and retail.
She is a Chief Financial Officer, a chartered with HBOS plc and previously Managing chartered management accountant and has accountant and a Fellow of the Institute of Director, UK Retail Bank and Business a Doctorate in Accounting and Chartered Accountants of Australia.
Tim Development Head EME at Citigroup.
Teresa has a breadth was Managing Director at AMP Geeta was also formerly the Chair of of experience gained from executive International, responsible for AMP Bank Monitise Europe and was previously a leadership roles with BT Mobile, Sears plc, and the Virgin Direct now Virgin Money Non-Executive member and vice-chair of Eagle Star Zurich Financial Services, Cable joint venture.
He began his career at Arthur the England Committee of the Big Lottery & Wireless, Reality and Accenture.
She Andersen working in Melbourne and Fund.
joined HSBC Group in 2006 and from Singapore, and in 1994 he joined Colonial 2010 was Deputy Head, Direct Bank & First Limited, the mutual financial services group, Direct.
Teresa also has strong board as Chief Taxation Counsel.
He became experience gained from her previous roles Group Chief Financial Officer in 1997 and as Chairman of ACS Clothing Group Executive Director of State Bank of New Limited and Non-Executive Director of South Wales.
Tim subsequently oversaw Broker Network Holdings Limited, the Initial Public Offering IPO of Colonial Paymentshield Group Holdings Limited, and was involved in Colonials subsequent PowerPlace Insurance Services Limited, acquisition by Commonwealth Bank at Towergate Insurance Limited and Yorkshire the time the largest acquisition in Australian Water Services Limited.
His previous NonExecutive Director board experience includes Friends Life Group Limited and Monitise plc.
Key external appointments: Key external appointments: Key external appointments: Non-Executive Director of Hastings Chairman at Macquarie Bank Non-Executive Director of Funding Group Holdings PLC and FIL Holdings International Limited: Non-Executive Circle Holdings plc, Ultra Electronic UK Limited.
Director of companies within the Chubb Holdings Plc and Wizink Bank S. A. European Group Limited and The Access Bank UK Limited groups: and NonExecutive Director of The Coeliac UK Trading Company Limited.
56 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Board of Directors Additional Non-Executive Directors of the Board following the acquisition of Virgin Money on 15 October 2018 Executive Directors Darren Pope Amy Stirling David Duffy Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Executive Director and AUDIT Chief Executive Officer Joined the Group Joined the Group Joined the Group October 2018 October 2018 June 2015 Key areas of expertise Key areas of expertise Key areas of expertise Finance, Financial Services, Retail Banking Finance, Strategy, Operations Banking, Finance, M&A, Strategy Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Darren has over 30 years of experience in Amy has extensive board, financial and David has significant international finance retail banking and financial services.
Darren management experience from senior and and banking experience gained from a held the post of Chief Financial Officer of board roles in a range of sectors including career spanning almost three decades.
TSB Bank plc, having taken a lead role in the telecommunications, financial services Davids proven ability to build and transform design and divestment of the TSB business businesses and lead strong management and commerce.
She was previously from Lloyds Bank plc and its subsequent Non-Executive Director of Pets at Home teams brings significant value to all of the IPO and takeover.
He previously held a Groups stakeholders.
Prior to joining the Group Plc and the UK Cabinet Office.
Amy number of executive and senior roles at is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Group, David was Chief Executive Officer at Lloyds Banking Group plc including Retail Allied Irish Banks plc, one of the largest Accountants for England and Wales.
Darren is a retail and commercial banks in Ireland.
He is Fellow of the Chartered Institute of a former Chief Executive Officer of Certified Accountants.
Standard Bank International where he had responsibility for operations in the UK, Europe, Latin America and Asia.
He was also previously Head of Global Wholesale Banking Network with ING Group and President and Chief Executive Officer of the ING wholesale franchises in the United States and Latin America.
David is a past President of the Banking and Payments Federation of Ireland and a past Director of the European Banking Federation.
Davids broad-based skills, leadership, energy and strategic vision are invaluable to the Group as it continues its strategic journey and cultural transformation.
Key external appointment: Key external appointments: Key external appointments: Senior Independent Non-Executive Chief Financial Officer of the Virgin Senior Independent Director of NewTA Director of Equiniti Group plc.
Group and Non-Executive Director of Limited trading as UK Finance, the RIT Capital Partners plc.
industry body representing leading firms providing finance, banking, markets and payments-related services in or from the UK: HM Treasury Fintech Envoy for England: and a Board member of The Northern Powerhouse Partnership.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 57 Key: REM Remuneration Committee RISK Risk Committee AUDIT Audit Committee GOV Governance and Nomination Committee Chair Company Secretary Debbie Crosbie Ian Smith Lorna McMillan Executive Director and Executive Director and Company Secretary Group Chief Operating Officer Group Chief Financial Officer stepped down from the Board on 19 November 2018 Joined the Group Joined the Group Joined the Group June 1997 November 2014 September 1994 Key areas of expertise Key areas of expertise Information Technology, Retail Banking, Banking, Finance, M&A, Strategy Strategy, Operations Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Debbie has broad experience and knowledge Ian has considerable experience in finance, Lorna has broad experience and knowledge gained over 20 years in the banking sector, audit and advising on bank strategy and gained from over 20 years in the Group particularly around information technology, corporate transactions from a career having held various roles in retail and complex project delivery, material spanning more than 25 years.
He has held business banking, wholesale banking, risk outsourcing and strategy and planning.
senior finance roles in HBOS plc and Lloyds management and legal and governance She has significant experience at a senior Banking Group plc.
He joined the Group in areas.
Lorna was appointed Company management level and is a strong advocate November 2014 from Deloitte LLP where Secretary in October 2014. for customers and improving the customer he was a partner specialising in financial experience by driving a change and services.
transformation journey which has the customer as its core focus.
Since joining the Group in 1997 Debbie has held a variety of positions including Head of Technology Governance, Head of Strategic Projects and Head of the Groups Development Centre.
She was Chief Information Officer from 2008 to 2011, became Operations and IT Director in 2011, was appointed Executive Director in 2014 and became Chief Operating Officer in 2015.
Debbie was Acting Chief Executive Officer from February 2015 to June 2015 and during this period led the preparation for the Groups demerger and IPO and was part of the management team which completed the transaction.
She was previously a Non-Executive Director of the Scottish Court Service.
She holds an Honours degree in Industrial Relations from the University of Strathclyde and is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers.
Key external appointments: Key external appointment: Vice-Chair of the Board of CBI Scotland, Non-Executive Director of 67 Pall Mall member of the Board of Glasgow Limited.
Economic Leadership and Member of the Strathclyde Business School Advisory Board.
