58 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Executive Leadership Team The Executive Leadership Team operates Before joining the NTMA, he worked with Fergus also held a number of senior under the direction and authority of the Merrill Lynch in New York, London and positions at Rabobank International Chief Executive Officer and is responsible California, in their investment banking and between 1994 and 2007.
He served as capital markets divisions, focusing on client CEO Asia Region from 2003 and was for supporting him in all aspects of his role.
advisory and equity transactions for global previously a member of their Global Each member has been assigned individual clients on a cross industry basis.
Financial Markets management team, accountability for delivery of the overall holding roles as Head of Global Treasury strategy and the principal risks outlined in and Head of Global Investment Banks.
They also have Fergus spent his earlier career in the BNP accountability for delivering against the Group working as a derivatives and initiatives designed to underpin our corporate trader in the Markets division.
strategic priorities of improving efficiency, driving sustainable customer growth and capital optimisation David Duffy Executive Director and Kate Guthrie Chief Executive Officer Group Human Resources Director Joined the Group Debbie Crosbie January 2016 Executive Director and Skills and experience: Group Chief Operating Officer Gavin Opperman Kate joined the Group in January 2016, and Group Customer Banking Director is responsible for developing and leading HR Ian Smith Joined the Group strategy.
Kate has over 30 years of domestic Executive Director and November 2015 and international HR experience, having Group Chief Financial Officer worked in six different blue-chip organisations Skills and experience: in four industrial sectors.
Kate joined from Gavin joined the Group in November 2015.
Lloyds Banking Group after 11 years of He has over 30 years of leadership service in a number of senior HR Director experience in risk, operations and across positions, most recently HR Director, Culture, front-line digital, retail, commercial, corporate Capability and Engagement.
Gavin was previously Regional Head of Consumer Banking, Standard Chartered based in China, and prior to that held a number of senior positions across Asia in a career spanning 20 years with Barclays Group.
Enda Johnson Group Corporate Development Director Joined the Group September 2015 Skills and experience: Fergus Murphy Enda joined the Group in 2015 and he is Group Customer Value Director responsible for leading the strategic planning Joined the Group process across the Group, and its strategic January 2016 stakeholder engagement plan, fully aligning Skills and experience: this to the Groups cultural transformation Helen Page Fergus joined the Group as Products and customer commercial strategies.
Group Innovation and Marketing Director Director in January 2016.
He has over 20 Before joining the Group, Enda worked at Joined the Group years experience in financial services and he Allied Irish Banks in Dublin, where he joined December 2012 is responsible for the delivery of the Groups as Head of Strategy and was appointed to product suite, including pricing, liability Skills and experience: Head of Corporate Affairs Strategy and the strategy and capital allocations.
Helen joined the Group in December 2012 Executive Leadership Team in July 2012. with over 25 years experience in marketing, Prior to joining the Group, Fergus held a Prior to this, Enda was a member of the consultancy and product development.
number of key roles at Allied Irish Banks Banking Unit at the Irish National Treasury Almost 15 years of those have been spent from 2011 until 2015 including Director of Management Agency NTMA, where he in financial services.
Products and Capital Markets and, most worked on the recapitalisation and recently, Director of Corporate and Prior to joining the Group, Helen spent restructure of Irish banks following the Institutional Banking.
From 2008 until 2011 eight years at RBS in a number of roles.
global financial crisis and subsequent he served as CEO and Managing Director programme of financial support for Ireland of BES Building Society and EBS Limited.
provided by the IMF, ECB and EU in 2010.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 59 She became Managing Director for At MBNA Hugh held executive roles in HR, Marketing and Innovation and held Credit Management, Customer Satisfaction responsibility for all UK brands across the and Marketing before becoming Chief Retail, Commercial and Corporate divisions.
Operating Officer and then UK Managing During this time, Helen was responsible for Director.
In 2007 Hugh joined RBS Retail developing and delivering Helpful Banking to run the consumer credit card business.
He subsequently ran the current account, savings, investments and insurance Helen was also Head of Brand Marketing at products.
Hugh joined Virgin Money in Argos, where she relaunched the catalogue Mark Thundercliffe June 2016 with responsibility for company as a Retailer, and played a key role Group Chief Risk Officer commercial performance, customer when the business became Retailer of the Joined the Group outcomes and optimising distribution and Year and Advertiser of the Year in 2003.
Prior to Argos, Helen held a number of Skills and experience: product and marketing roles at Abbey Mark was appointed in September 2016 National now Santander, where she and has over 29 years of financial services became Head of Marketing.
He joined the Group from experience in research, consultancy and HSBC where he was Chief Risk Officer central government roles.
Helen has a responsible for management and oversight degree in economics, development and of risk for HSBCs Retail Banking and planning and holds a diploma in Marketing Wealth Management business in 18 from the Chartered Institute of Marketing.
countries across the UK, Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
Peter Bole Mark has also held a number of senior Integration Director international positions, including President Joined the Group and CEO Asia with Home Credit in Hong October 2018 Kong and he was also an Executive Director Skills and experience: and Business Head Russia with Peter is a Chartered Accountant and has Renaissance Capital in Moscow.
With over 25 years of experience in financial Citigroup he progressed from Chief Risk services.
Following roles with Deloitte and Officer UK and Ireland to become CEO of Standard Life, Peter joined RBS in 2001 James Peirson CitiFinancial Russia.
Prior to Citi, he where he held a variety of senior finance Group General Counsel worked with Associates Capital roles, latterly in RBS Insurance.
In 2009, he Corporation, latterly as Executive and Joined the Group joined Tesco Bank where he established the November 2014 Business Head, based in India.
finance function as Chief Financial Officer Skills and experience: and played a key role in the leadership of James joined National Australia Bank Additional members of the Executive the business as it was migrated from RBS Limited NAB in May 2005 and was Leadership Team following the infrastructure.
Peter joined Virgin Money in appointed as General Counsel for the 2016 and became Chief Financial Officer in acquisition of Virgin Money on Group in November 2014.
Peter has responsibility for 15 October 2018 roles include leading NABs London Branch leading our integration programme across legal team and roles supporting NAB and all functions, leveraging the best talent Clydesdale Bank Treasury activities as part from CYBG and Virgin Money while of NABs Capital and Funding legal team in minimising disruption to the Groups Melbourne and London.
Prior to joining operations and customer base.
NAB, James worked in private legal practice at Hogan Lovells in London.
Hugh Chater Managing Director, Core Bank Virgin Money Joined the Group October 2018 Skills and experience: Hugh has over 25 years of experience in financial services.
He was an executive founder at MBNA Europe, joining in 1993 from KPMG Management Consulting.
