72 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Audit Committee report external audit process and the In particular the Committee kept existing performance of the External Auditor, EY provisions for liabilities such as those in through an annual effectiveness review relation to PPI and other related conduct against four themes in line with the FRC issues including potential redress and guidance: judgement, mindset and culture administrative costs under close review skills, character and knowledge and an throughout the year to ensure they overarching assessment of quality control.
With the The Committee considered the review and Committees oversight, this resulted in the concluded in terms of the themes assessed 350m provision increase recorded in that the external audit process was March 2018 and the 150m increase effective.
Based on the Committees recorded in September 2018.
While PPI recommendation, the Board is proposing itself will be finalised by the end or shortly that EY be reappointed as external auditors after 2019 time bar, the Committee will at this years AGM.
continue to focus on the financial impact of both legacy and emerging conduct issues During the year, the Committee received as a matter of priority.
reports on the Groups Whistleblowing The Committee spent a considerable programme and as Whistleblowing During the year the amount of time overseeing and challenging Champion, I am responsible for ensuring the transition to IFRS 9 and the accounting and overseeing the integrity, independence Committee maintained its judgements which underpin this, which the and effectiveness of the Groups policies focus on supporting the Board Group adopted on 1 October 2018. and procedures on whistleblowing and to in ensuring appropriate promote a safe and effective culture for In addition, it has provided oversight of the challenge and governance in employees to raise genuine concerns Groups financial and internal controls to without fear of reprisals.
The promotion the integrity of the Groups ensure that risks are carefully identified and and enhancements to the operating model financial reporting and assessed, and that sound systems of risk of whistleblowing continued during the management and internal control are in financial internal controls.
Managements response and handling place.
In conjunction with the Risk of reported cases continues to be Committee, the Committee challenged the Dear shareholder, considered appropriate and satisfactory by Three Lines of Defence model in relation the Committee.
As Chair of the Audit Committee, I am to the Groups internal controls which are pleased to present the report from the fundamental to the appropriate Looking ahead Committee for the year ended management and mitigation of risks.
The Committee will ensure the appropriate 30 September 2018.
The Group Director Internal Audit provided oversight over the Combined Group David Browne, Independent Nonregular updates to the Committee on following the acquisition of Virgin Money Executive Director, retired from the Board enhancements made during the year to the and I have already received a detailed on 30 June 2018.
Id like to thank David for Internal Audit function.
The Committee briefing from the Virgin Money Audit his knowledge and advice as a member of reviewed the scope, skills and competencies Committee Chair.
At the same time, Id of this function against a backdrop of Many of the areas of focus of the like to welcome Darren Pope who became significant projects and programmes to Committee during the year will again be a member of the Audit Committee on understand and fully challenge where the focus for the Committee in 2019.
Internal Audit has focused and how it Specifically, the Committee will monitor the optimises value from its resource.
In application of the Three Lines of Defence Highlights in 2018 particular, the Committee continued to Model, review Internal Audits oversight of The report will outline how the Committee assess the Internal Audit oversight of the the IRB project as practices continue to has fulfilled its key objectives of providing Groups IRB application and the successful embed and assess the critical accounting effective governance of the Groups receipt of the PRAs formal IRB estimates and judgements in relation to the financial reporting, discussing and accreditation for the Groups mortgage and Groups adoption of the expected credit challenging the judgements made by SME Corporate portfolios.
The Committee loss model for measuring impairment losses management and the assumptions and concluded after considering feedback from under IFRS 9. estimates on which they are based.
The stakeholders, peer benchmarking analysis, Committee has exercised judgement in results of quality assessments and the deciding which of the issues it considered in Internal Audit reports provided to the the financial statements as being significant Committee, that the Internal Audit and this report sets out the material activities were effective.
Tim Wade matters that it has considered in these Chair, Audit Committee deliberations.
The Committee closely monitored the Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 73 Defence: the Viability Statement: and Membership and meetings Committee role and bonus risk adjustments to be responsibilities The current members of the Committee recommended to the Remuneration are: During the year, the Committee revised its Committee.
There was a joint discussion on Charter which sets out the role and the Groups RAS, including a Day 1 RAS for Tim Wade, Chair responsibilities of the Committee.
The the acquisition of Virgin Money.
The RAS Clive Adamson Charter of the Committee can be found on will be kept under close scrutiny for the the Companys website www.
To support the David Bennett about-us corporate-governance coordination of information between the Darren Pope appointed 15 October 2018 committees, the Chairs of each of the Audit and Risk Committees are members Dr Teresa Robson-Capps Committee performance of both committees.
evaluation As at the date of this report the Committee comprises five independent Non-Executive Committee attendance During the year the Committee Directors.
Tim Wade, Chair, has recent and The core activities of the Committee were incorporated a work plan resulting from an relevant accounting and audit experience carried out in six scheduled meetings of the in-depth external Board Performance for the purposes of the Code, having held a Committee.
The Audit Committee and Risk Evaluation carried out in 2017.
An internal number of senior finance roles.
The other Committee also hold at least one joint evaluation of the Committee at the end of Committee members have significant meeting per year.
The table below shows 2018 concluded that the Committee was current or recent experience in the the Committee members during the performing well and had progressed its financial services and banking industries year ended 30 September 2018 and their agenda setting and reporting at its details of which are contained within the attendance at scheduled Committee meetings.
biographies section on pages 53 to 56. meetings.
This depth of experience enables the Number of Committee to deal effectively with the scheduled Number of matters within its remit and to challenge Committee scheduled management and auditors when required.
meetings Committee eligible to meetings attend attended In addition to the Committee members, the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Group Committee Chair Chief Financial Officer, Group Head of Tim Wade 6 6 Finance, Group Chief Risk Officer, Company Committee Secretary, Group General Counsel, Group members Director Internal Audit and the External Clive Adamson 6 6 Auditor are invited to attend Committee David Bennett 6 6 meetings.
The Chair is also a member of Dr Teresa the Risk Committee.
Robson-Capps 6 6 Private sessions are held with the External Former Committee Auditor and Group Director Internal Audit members to provide additional opportunity for open 1 David Browne 5 5 dialogue and feedback without management being present.
The Chair of 1 David Browne retired as a Committee member on the Committee also meets with the Group 30 June 2018.
Director Internal Audit and the Senior Statutory Auditor outside the formal Committee process at regular intervals throughout the year.
Alignment with Risk Committee The Committee recognises the common interest in issues relevant to both the Risk Committee and Audit Committee and in particular the responsibilities of both in relation to the effectiveness of internal control.
Joint discussions by both committees for the financial year ended 30 September 2018 included: progress made towards the implementation of IFRS 9: assurance plans from the Three Lines of 74 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Audit Committee report Matters considered and actions taken by the Committee The significant matters addressed by the Committee during the financial year ended 30 September 2018 and in evaluating the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts are described in the following pages.
Role of the Committee Key matters considered and actions completed Accounting, tax and financial reporting To review and challenge the Understood the process for the production of the reports under the remit of the appropriateness of the Companys financial Group Chief Financial Officer and the level of involvement of cross-functional subject statements, including the content of the matter experts, including monitoring the procedures in place to ensure that all Interim Financial Report, Annual Report contributors attested to the completeness, accuracy and appropriateness of the and Accounts, and related Preliminary disclosures provided.
Results Announcements, Interim and quarterly results announcements and supporting analyst presentations.
Accounting policies and practices Reviewed with both management and the External Auditor, the critical accounting To review and challenge the critical estimates and judgements, and significant accounting policies and disclosures for the accounting policies, disclosure obligations Groups interim and annual financial statements during the year: and changes in accounting requirements.
Received regular updates from the Group Accounting Policy team and External Auditor on key changes and developments in financial reporting requirements: Monitored the Groups readiness for the adoption of IFRS 9 with effect from 1 October 2018 which included regular updates from management on the progress being made throughout parallel run and detailed analysis of the Day 1 impact and related disclosure requirements: Received updates from management on the readiness for adoption of IFRS 15 Revenue Recognition with effect from 1 October 2018 and agreed with managements assessment that the introduction of IFRS 15 will not result in a significant impact on the Group: Received updates from management on the preparation for the adoption of IFRS 16 Leases with effect from 1 October 2019: and Considered the financial disclosures for the acquisition of Virgin Money.
Significant issues and areas of judgement To consider where necessary, the actions of management on those areas identified as requiring the exercise of critical accounting estimate and judgements.
These are summarised in note 1.8 to the financial statements.
Impairment losses on loans and advances Reviewed regular reports from management in relation to the level of impairment The Groups loans and advances are provisioning, with the key focus being on the assumptions used within the collective subject to impairment losses, which are provisioning element: measured as the difference between the Reviewed and challenged the inputs and resulting output of the base models, with a assets carrying amount and the present particular focus on probabilities of default and the estimate of future recoveries: value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the assets effective interest Reviewed and challenged the level of overlays included within the collective provision rate.
and the rationale for their inclusion that augment the collective provisioning modelled output: The process of calculating the collective loan loss provision requires the use of Agreed that the judgements and assumptions used were necessary and appropriate at significant estimates and judgements over 30 September 2018: and the following: i estimating the probability Noted that the introduction of IFRS 9 with effect from 1 October 2018 would of default PD and estimates of future increase the overall level of credit impairment provisioning held.
recoveries in Base Models: ii Model Risk Reserves: and iii the use of overlays.
The disclosures relating to impairment provisions are set out in note 3.6 to the financial statements and in the Risk report from page 129.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 75 Role of the Committee Key matters considered and actions completed PPI redress provision and other conduct Reviewed and challenged the assumptions made by management when determining related matters the level of provisions required for PPI and other conduct related matters: The level of provisions required for both Reviewed in detail proposals in relation to PPI and other conduct scenarios including redress and administration in relation to potential redress and administrative costs presented by management which reflected past conduct related matters requires alternative potential outcomes before concluding on the 350m provision increase assumptions to be made that are based recorded in March 2018 and the 150m increase recorded in September 2018.
Under upon a combination of historical data and the terms of the Conduct Indemnity Deed in place with NAB, the impact of this on the management judgement.
As at 30 September 2018, the Conduct These judgements are inherently complex Indemnity Deed in place with NAB had been fully utilised: and as they involve making estimates based on Based upon the most recent information the Committee concluded that management multiple factors that incorporate assumptions were supportable and that the other related conduct provisions recorded expectations of future customer at 30 September 2018 were appropriate.
behaviour, the impact of regulatory rule making and the application of precedent The disclosures relating to provisions for conduct matters and the impact of the Conduct from the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Indemnity Deed are set out in note 3.14.
Deferred tax assets Reviewed the recoverability of deferred tax assets throughout the year: The largest elements of the Groups Considered the judgements made by management over the forecast future deferred tax asset are historic losses and profitability of the Group and the time horizon over which the use of tax losses was capital allowances.
foreseeable in light of the continuing and progressively tightening restrictions on their In determining that the deferred tax asset use: and balance remains on the balance sheet, Agreed that the recognition of a deferred tax asset balance of 206m at management has exercised judgement 30 September 2018 was appropriate.
over the forecast future profitability of the Group: and the number of years over The disclosures relating to the Groups deferred tax asset position as at 30 September which to take account of future profits, 2018 are set out in note 3.11. i. e. the period over which profits can be reliably estimated.
Retirement benefit obligations Reviewed the discount and inflation rate assumptions proposed by management at The actuarial valuation of the Groups 30 September 2018 against a benchmark range provided by the external adviser and defined benefit scheme liabilities involves concurred with these key assumptions.
making several financial and demographic The disclosures relating to the Groups retirement benefit obligations at 30 September assumptions, including: discount rate: future 2018 are set out in note 3.16. inflation rates: and future mortality rates.
Fair value of financial instruments Reviewed the judgement made by management and concurred with the level of CRA Significant management judgement is over applied at 30 September 2018. future expectation of credit losses in the The disclosures relating to the Groups fair value loan portfolio and fair value fair value loan portfolio, through the measurements at 30 September 2018 are set out in note 3.3. application of a credit risk adjustment CRA.
The Committee considered managements review of the disclosed critical accounting estimates and judgements and concluded that the judgements had been applied appropriately and that the disclosures were sufficient.
Going concern Reviewed and challenged the going concern assessment undertaken by management including evidence of the Groups capital, liquidity and funding position and confirmed to the Board that it was appropriate for the Groups financial statements to be prepared on a going concern basis.
Long-term viability Reviewed and challenged the viability assessment including the three-year time horizon selected undertaken by management in the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts, including the impact from the acquisition of Virgin Money.
The Committee considered the process to support the viability statement in conjunction with an assessment of principal risks and strategy business model disclosures, taking into account the assessment by the Risk Committee of stress testing results and risk appetite.
The Committee recommended the draft viability statement as set out on page 117 to the Board for approval.
76 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Audit Committee report Role of the Committee Key matters considered and actions completed Assessment of the fair, balanced and Considered, at the request of the Board, the comprehensive review process which understandable reporting supports the Board and Committee in reaching its conclusion whether the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts was fair, balanced and understandable and whether it provided the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
The process which enabled the Committee to reach this conclusion included: the production of the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts which was managed by the Group Chief Financial Officer, with overall governance and coordination provided by a cross-functional team of senior management led by the Group Head of Finance: cross-functional support to drafting the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts, which included input from Finance, Risk, Legal and Governance, Investor Relations, HR and the wider business: a robust review process of inputs into the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts by all contributors to ensure disclosures were balanced, accurate and verified, and further comprehensive reviews were conducted by senior management: a review by the Company Secretary of all Board and Committee minutes to ensure all significant matters discussed at meetings were appropriately disclosed in the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts as required: a formal review by the Committee of the draft 2018 Annual Report and Accounts in advance of final sign-off: and a final review by the Board of Directors.
After careful review and consideration of all relevant information, including principal risks, the Committee was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable and has affirmed that view to the Board.
This process was also undertaken in respect of all the Groups financial reporting during the year to ensure that, taken as a whole, based on the information supplied to it and challenged by the Committee, they were fair, balanced and understandable, and advised the Board to that effect.
Regulatory compliance Reviewed the integrity of the Pillar 3 Disclosures and recommended approval by the Oversight of the Groups compliance with Board: and all necessary regulatory reporting.
Oversight of significant management judgement in the regulatory returns to the Groups regulators, the PRA, BoE and FCA.
Internal controls and RMF Reviewed in line with the Internal Audit plan, the output of Internal Audit reports Details of the internal controls and risk including thematic and focused reviews of prudential, credit, conduct and strategic management systems for the Groups change risks to confirm the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk financial reporting process are provided management systems: within the Corporate governance report Considered the Groups Financial Reporting Control Effectiveness Statement for on page 66 and in the Risk report on Finance and Treasury together with an overview of key financial reporting controls: pages 121 to 170. and Considered the findings of the External Auditor in connection with the Groups control environment.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 77 Role of the Committee Key matters considered and actions completed Monitoring the effectiveness of the Considered periodic whistleblower framework reports covering the Groups Groups whistleblower framework whistleblowing arrangements, including monitoring the trends in reported and The Chair of the Committee is the substantiated whistleblowing cases: Whistleblower Champion in accordance Obtained assurance on the completion of training by colleagues and campaign to with the Senior Managers Regime with promote and raise awareness across the organisation of the whistleblower framework: responsibility for the integrity, and independence and effectiveness of the Groups policies and procedures on Had oversight of updates to the whistleblowing policy standard.
whistleblowing and the Committee has oversight of the whistleblower policy standard and framework.
As a result, the Committee, in conjunction with the Risk Committee, is satisfied that internal controls for financial reporting and risk management systems were appropriate and fit for purpose throughout the year.
Independence and assurance Approved revisions to the Internal Audit Charter which sets out the role and Internal audit responsibilities of the function.
The Internal Audit Charter can be found on the Monitoring the role and effectiveness of Companys website at www.
com about-us corporate-governance the Internal Audit function including the Approved the audit plan and monitored progress to deliver the plan and material role of the Group Director Internal Audit changes to it on a quarterly basis: Reviewed the outcomes of Internal Audits work, the actions agreed with management to address any issues raised and the status of previously agreed actions: Regular interactions with the Group Director Internal Audit during the year, including private sessions with the members of the Committee and specific workshops with Internal Audit and senior management to discuss audit planning and priorities: Assessed the annual performance of the Group Director Internal Audit.
The Group Director Internal Audit continued to report directly to the Chair of the Committee, with a secondary reporting line to the Chief Executive Officer for administrative purposes: Considered deep dive analysis from Internal Audit on a number of matters including: Internal Audits increasing use of Data Analytics and Internal Audits delivered and planned work across the Groups IRB framework: and Reviewed the results of internal and external quality assurance reviews on the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
The Internal Audit function was sufficiently Monitored the adequacy of Internal Audit resources, including the financial budget and resourced and skilled to operate as a capability to draw on external specialists when appropriate.
This included an externally standalone entity facilitated peer benchmarking exercise conducted during the year.
External audit Approved the annual audit plan, approved the engagement letter and agreed the Responsible for overseeing the auditors remuneration.
The Committee was authorised by shareholders at the 2018 relationship with the External Auditor AGM to agree the remuneration of the External Auditors: Reviewed the findings of the external audit including key judgements and the level of challenge provided by the External Auditor: Reviewed the findings of the FRCs Audit Quality teams inspection of EYs audit of the 2017 Group audit: Reviewed the External Auditors representation letter: and Reviewed managements responses to control findings, non-compliance and any other findings identified by external audit.
Assessed the performance of the External The Committee considered the effectiveness of the audit process and the External Auditor Auditor performance as part of an annual performance review which takes into account managements assessment of audit effectiveness.
The assessment focused on the areas of judgement: mindset and culture: skills, character and knowledge: with an overarching assessment of quality control.
78 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Audit Committee report Role of the Committee Key matters considered and actions completed External Auditor independence and Both the Board and the External Auditor have safeguards in place to protect the objectivity, and remuneration for audit and independence and objectivity of the External Auditor which are detailed in the non-audit services External Auditor Policy Standard Policy Standard.
This Policy is reviewed at least annually and was refreshed during 2018: The Policy Standard details the nature of the services that the External Auditor may not undertake and specifies that non-audit services may not be pre-approved and are subject to prior approval from the Committee or a delegate.
In certain cases, the External Auditor may be selected over another service provider due to their detailed knowledge and understanding of the Groups operations.
Any allowable non-audit service with a value above 100,000 requires approval from the Chair of the Committee.
The Policy Standard also specifies that the overall fee for non-audit services be continually monitored and should not exceed 70% of the average audit fee over the prior three-year period: The total amount paid to the External Auditor in 2018 was 2,518k 2017: 1,766k.
Non-audit services of 820k 2017: 432k performed by the auditor during the year included the review of the Interim Financial Report: agreed upon procedures under the Conduct Indemnity arrangement with NAB: preparation of a comfort letter for the global medium-term note programme issuance: and a TFS assurance review.
The increase in the year is principally due to reporting accountant procedures in relation to the Virgin Money transaction.
Payments by the Group for both audit and non-audit services provided in 2018 and 2017 are further detailed in note 2.4 to the financial statements: and The Policy Standard also regulates the appointment of former audit colleagues to senior finance positions in the Group.
Following the Committees review of the effectiveness of the external audit process and the assessment of the External Auditors independence and objectivity, it has recommended to the Board the reappointment of EY as the Groups External Auditor for recommendation to and approval by shareholders at the 2019 AGM.
The External Auditor, the Senior Statutory EY has been the External Auditor for Clydesdale Bank PLC and other Group entities Auditor and The Statutory Audit Services since January 2005.
EY was appointed as the Companys External Auditor on for Large Companies Market Investigation 14 January 2016 following an audit tender, shortly before the Company became the Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender holding company of the Group and for the initial period, post the Demerger and IPO Processes and Audit Committee in February 2016, however, the Committee recommended that this be kept under Responsibilities Order 2014 review: The Group has no current retendering plans.
The Committee undertook a competitive tender of the audit of the Group in early 2015.
In applying the CMAs requirements, the next mandatory tender would be in respect of the 2026 financial year: Steven Robb fulfils the role of Senior Statutory Auditor for the second year and EY will continue to practice the rotation of the Senior Statutory Auditor responsible for the Group audit at least every five years: all other audit partners and audit senior management will be required to rotate at least every seven years: The Committee continues to follow developments in the reform of the external audit regulations and the UK and European requirements on publicly listed banking groups: and The Committee confirms that the Group has complied during the period of financial review and to the date of this report with The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014, which relates to the frequency and governance of tenders for the appointment of the External Auditor and the setting of a policy on the provision of non-audit services.
