60 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Corporate governance report Risk Committee are contained in this Statement of compliance Leadership report.
A report from the Remuneration The Annual Report and Accounts for the The Board is the principal decision-making Committee is included in the Directors year ended 30 September 2018 has been body of the Group and is collectively remuneration report.
prepared in accordance with the UK responsible to shareholders for promoting As required, the Board may also establish Corporate Governance Code 2016 Code the long-term success of the Company.
special purpose Committees to assist the which was issued in April 2016.
The Code is The Boards role is to provide leadership to Board in the oversight of specific areas that available at www.
the business as a whole within a framework may require more detailed attention.
The Throughout the year ended 30 September of prudent and effective controls which Board established a special purpose IRB 2018 the Board confirms that the Company enable risk to be assessed and managed.
It and Credit IFRS 9 Committee which fully complied with all relevant provisions of sets strategy and oversees its delivery and provided oversight for the transition from a the Code, except with regard to establishes its culture, values, ethics and standardised approach to calculating capital membership of the Remuneration standards.
It sets the Groups risk appetite, requirements for credit risk to an IRB Committee from 1 July 2018, following the monitors operational and financial approach with accreditation announced on retirement of David Browne, a former performance and reporting, ensures the 11 October 2018, and the implementation independent Non-Executive Director and Group is adequately resourced and has of the credit element of the IFRS 9 member of the Remuneration Committee.
effective controls and remuneration accounting standard which has been in policies, and that there are appropriate effect for the Group from 1 October 2018.
The Governance and Nomination succession planning arrangements.
Committee, in consultation with the The charts below and on page 126 of the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, In order to assist the Board in carrying out Risk report provide further details of the reviewed the composition of the its functions and to ensure that there is Board and management structure as at Remuneration Committee and appointed independent oversight of financial 30 September 2018.
Fiona MacLeod, as a member of the reporting, internal controls, risk Remuneration Committee with effect from management, governance and 5 November 2018.
The Board confirms that remuneration matters, the Board delegates the Company from 5 November 2018 to certain clearly defined responsibilities to its the date of this report fully complied with all four principal committees.
Reports from relevant provisions of the Code.
the Governance and Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee and the Board governance framework CYBG Board The Boards role is to provide leadership to the business by setting the strategy and overseeing its delivery and it is collectively responsible to its shareholders as a whole for promoting the long-term success of the Company.
Governance and Audit Risk Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee Committee Board composition, Financial reporting, internal Overseeing risk management Remuneration framework evaluation, succession and control, internal and external activities, including the and individual Director governance standards.
auditor effectiveness and Groups risk appetite, the risk packages.
monitoring the Groups management framework and See pages 68-71 for See pages 96-97 for whistleblowing effective risk culture.
See pages 79-83 for further information.
See pages 72-78 for further information.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 61 Number of Matters reserved to the Board and in advance of the meeting whether they scheduled Number of delegated authorities are able to attend or not in order that they Board scheduled In order to retain control of key decisions may have the time to consider the meetings Board eligible to meetings and ensure there is a clear division of proposals put forward, seek clarification or, Director attend attended responsibilities at the head of the Company, if required, request further information.
Chairman the Board has identified certain reserved As well as considering scheduled agenda Jim Pettigrew 11 11 matters that only it can approve.
Other items in line with the Boards annual plan matters, responsibilities and authorities Non-Executive and ad hoc items as required, at each main have been delegated to its committees and Directors meeting the Board discusses: the Chief Executive Officer.
Clive Adamson 11 11 the Chief Executive Officers report David Bennett 11 11 The matters reserved to the Board are set including performance against the 1 3 out in the Charter for the Board and this, David Browne 8 7 strategic plan, key developments in the 2 as well as the Charters for each principal Paul Coby 11 10 external environment, the economic Board committee, is available to view on 3 Adrian Grace 11 10 outlook and impacts for the Group, the Companys website www.
com 3 Fiona MacLeod 11 10 business performance, product and about-us corporate-governance.
The Dr Teresa proposition developments, stakeholder Charters are also available on request from Robson-Capps 11 11 engagement and investor relations the Company Secretary at the Companys matters, material regulatory issues, and Tim Wade 11 11 registered office.
During the year the Board key matters relating to people, cultural Executive Directors and each of the Board committees and organisational transformation and reviewed its Charter.
David Duffy 11 11 capability: 3 Debbie Crosbie 11 10 The authorities delegated by the Board to the Group Chief Financial Officers Ian Smith 11 11 the Chief Executive Officer are set out in report including performance against the Delegation of Authority Framework.
1 David Browne retired from the Board on 30 June the financial plan, key performance 2018. indicators, capital, liquidity and funding Board attendance 2 Unable to attend the meeting due to a conflicting matters: business commitment.
The core activities of the Board were 3 Unable to attend the meeting due to personal carried out in 11 scheduled meetings.
13 the Group Chief Operating Officers circumstances.
additional ad hoc meetings of the Board report including delivery against were arranged when matters required to be customer service commitments, Board activity brought to the Boards attention or when operational efficiency, IT service and Setting the Board agenda decisions were required outside scheduled security, and the status of major There is a comprehensive and continuous meetings, which during the year were investment programmes: and process in place for ensuring the Board has predominately related to the acquisition of the Group Chief Risk Officers report full and timely access to all relevant Virgin Money.
including the risk profile and risk information in an insightful format.
The attendance of Directors at scheduled categorisation and principal and The Chairman is responsible for setting the Board meetings, which they were eligible to emerging risks, key risk issues and RAS Board agenda and is assisted by the Chief attend, and the number of meetings performance and trends.
Executive Officer and Company Secretary.
attended in the year ended 30 September The Board agenda is structured to ensure it 2018 is shown in the following table.
covers each of the three strategic priorities and underpinning core capabilities to support strategy engagement and the challenge and debate on performance and delivery at Board level.
The Chairman reviews the time allocation with the Company Secretary to ensure adequate time is allowed to discuss material matters.
The Company Secretary keeps the Chairman informed of any agenda items requested by Non-Executive Directors.
In order to carry out its work, a yearly planner is prepared by the Company Secretary to map out the flow of key items of business to the Board and to ensure that sufficient time at the meeting is provided for debate and challenge.
Directors are sent papers for Board meetings up to five working days 62 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Corporate governance report membership comprises Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors such that no How Board meetings are run Directors only and is chaired by an individual or small group of individuals can Prior to the start of a scheduled Board experienced Chair.
Committee memberships dominate the Boards decision making.
The meeting, the Senior Independent Nonare spread between the Non-Executive names of the Directors together with their Executive Director meets with NonDirectors, drawing on each of their relevant full biographical details, including the skills Executive Directors excluding the skills and experience.
Only members of the and experience they each bring to the Chairman and then with the Chairman committees are entitled to attend their Board, are on pages 53 to 57.
Further details present to discuss matters of concern or meetings, but others may attend at the on the composition of the Board and focus.
Both the Chairman and the Senior discretion of the committee Chair.
independence of the independent NonIndependent Non-Executive Director Executive Directors are provided in the report to the Board on issues to be Governance and Nomination Committee Stakeholder engagement brought to the Boards attention at the report on page 70. commencement of each meeting and Directors, either collectively or individually, these are recorded in the Board minutes.
undertook site visits and met with Time commitments The Chairman ensures Board meetings are customers and representatives from our The Board recognises that it is vital that structured to facilitate open discussion, wider communities.
Site visits provide an Directors should be able to dedicate debate and challenge with dissenting views opportunity to get closer to business sufficient time to the Company to of Directors being freely expressed and operations, current issues and customer effectively discharge their responsibilities.
discussed within the decision-making service in an operational environment.
This The time commitment is considered by the process, leading to Board decisions being provides insight into customer experiences Board on appointment and kept under made on a sound and well-informed basis.
and allows Directors to connect with review.
The letters of appointment of the management and colleagues alike.
The Chairman and of each of the NonAll Directors are expected to attend each Board attended colleague events in Leeds Executive Directors set out the minimum Board meeting and committee meeting for and Birmingham during the year and time commitment for their roles and that which they are members, save for in participated in informal discussion sessions they undertake to allocate sufficient time exceptional circumstances.
Reasons for with colleagues as part of the broader to the Company as is necessary for the non-attendance are generally unavoidable Talent Engagement Programme when the effective discharge of their duties.
conflicts with prior business commitments, topics of culture, values, behaviours and personal reasons or illness, and nonThe Chairman is expected to commit at inclusion were discussed.
In October 2017, attendance must always be notified in least 60 days per year on Company Directors met in Leeds with customers, advance to the Chairman, relevant business, the Deputy Chairman 45 days per business leaders and representatives of The committee Chair or the Company year and Non-Executive Directors at least Northern Powerhouse Partnership which Secretary.
In the rare event of a Director 35 days.
Time commitment increases for enabled the Board to gain insight on being unable to attend a meeting, he she other Board roles such as the Senior opportunities to support growth in the has the opportunity to discuss with, or Independent Non-Executive Director and North of England region, particularly for notify, the Chairman, relevant committee committee Chairs and for involvement in a SMEs, and to reinforce its commitment to Chair or the Company Secretary of any committee as a member.
help the delivery of the Northern matters he she wishes to raise and to Powerhouse agenda.
Meetings followed in As described within the relevant sections of follow up the decisions made at the March 2018 with stakeholders in the this Corporate governance report, the meeting.
The Chairman and Company political and business community in Non-Executive Directors preparation for, Secretary, together with members of the Birmingham and the West Midlands region and attendance at, Board and committee Executive Leadership Team, are available to which provided the Board with insight into meetings is only part of their role.
discuss issues relating to meetings or other current economic, political and business matters with Directors.
The other significant commitments of the challenges and opportunities in that region.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors During the year, the Chairman held a are disclosed to the Board before number of meetings with Non-Executive Effectiveness appointment, with an indication of time Directors without the Executive Directors involved.
During the year, the Governance Board size and composition being present.
and Nomination Committee kept under At the date of this report, the Board review the number of external comprises the Chairman, two Executive Board committees directorships held by each Director and Directors, nine independent Non-Executive The Board delegates certain clearly defined considered the limits on the number of Directors and one Non-Executive Director responsibilities to its four principal Board directorships which Directors may hold as a appointed by Virgin Enterprises Limited committees, namely: the Governance and result of PRA Rulebook General pursuant to its right under the Brand Nomination Committee: the Audit Organisational Requirements 5.4 having Licence Agreement.
The size of the Board is Committee: the Risk Committee: and the regard to General Organisational considered to be suitable in the context of a Remuneration Committee.
Requirements 5.5 and 5.6 and FCA highly complex commercial and regulatory The committee Chairs report to the Board Handbook Senior Management operating environment, and reflecting the on the activities of the committees at each Arrangements, Systems and Controls acquisition of Virgin Money, consists of the Board meeting.
5R having regard to SYSC appropriate combination of Executive and Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 63 are considered and all relevant material will 4.3A.
Details of the Further details about the Groups approach be restricted including Board papers and Chairmans other significant commitments to succession planning and diversity can be minutes.
A Director with a potential or are set out on page 53.
Details of the found in the Governance and Nomination actual conflict will not be permitted to form Non-Executive Directors other significant Committee report on pages 70 to 71. part of the quorum or vote upon the commitments are set out on pages 53 to Changes to committee memberships are matter giving rise to the conflict.
Any changes to the Non-Executive set out on pages 73, 80 and 96. do not participate in decisions concerning Directors time commitments were their own remuneration or interest.
All reported by the Governance and Board independence potential conflicts authorised by the Board Nomination Committee to the Board.
The It is the Companys policy that at least half are recorded in a Register of Directors Board is satisfied that each Non-Executive the Board should be independent NonConflicts of Interests which is reviewed by Director is able to devote sufficient time to Executive Directors.
The Board assesses the Board annually.
the independence of Directors on an annual basis following a review by the Executive Directors are encouraged to Board induction Governance and Nomination Committee.
take non-executive positions in other The Board considers Clive Adamson, Paul The Chairman ensures that each newly companies and organisations to broaden Coby, Geeta Gopalan, Adrian Grace, Fiona appointed Director receives a full and their experience.
The appointment to such MacLeod, Darren Pope, Dr Teresa formal induction on joining the Board positions is subject to the approval of the Robson-Capps and Tim Wade to be which is tailored to reflect a Directors skills, Board which considers, in particular, the independent in character and judgement.
Amy Stirling is not considered by the Board The Company Secretary designs and to be independent as her appointment as a Board changes facilitates the induction programme having Non-Executive Director is pursuant to the David Browne, independent Nonconsulted with the Chairman and having right of Virgin Enterprises Limited to Executive Director, retired from the Board regard to the particular needs of the new nominate a director under the terms of a on 30 June 2018.
Progress is reported to the Brand Licence Agreement.
The Chairman Darren Pope, independent Non-Executive Chairman and reviewed regularly by the was considered independent on Directors, and Amy Stirling, Non-Executive Chairman with each Director.
Further information is given Director, were appointed to the Board on in the Governance and Nomination The aim of the induction programme is to 15 October 2018.
Debbie Crosbie stepped Committee report on page 70. quickly provide a new Director with an down as an Executive Director of the understanding of how the Group works Board on 19 November 2018.
Conflicts of interest and the key opportunities and challenges Pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, the that it faces to enable them to contribute The Governance and Nomination Directors have a statutory duty to avoid fully in Board and Committee meetings and Committee is responsible for considering situations in which they have or can have a covers at least the following: the recruitment of new Directors and it direct or indirect interest in the Company, adopts a formal, rigorous and transparent the Group and its strategy: unless that interest is first authorised by the procedure with due regard to diversity, other Directors.
This duty is in addition to key business drivers of performance and including gender.
Before commencing the the existing duty that a Director owes to the competitive environment and recruitment process, the Committee the Company to disclose to the Board any regulatory landscape in which the Group evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge, transaction or arrangement under operates: experience, independence and diversity on consideration by the Company.
Prior to the Board and, in light of this evaluation, major strategic and investment appointment, potential conflicts of interest prepares a description of the role and programmes and priorities: are disclosed and assessed to ensure that capabilities required.
In identifying suitable there are no matters which would prevent the key current and top and emerging candidates, the Committee: the incoming Director from taking the risk issues and challenges for the uses open advertising or the services of appointment, and during their tenure business and risk appetite: external advisers to facilitate the search: Directors are asked to consult with the the organisational culture and Company Secretary and the Chairman considers candidates from different capabilities, the role of the Board and its before taking up any external appointment genders and a wide range of committees, and the Companys or responsibilities.
Any changes to the backgrounds: corporate governance practices: and commitments of Directors are reported to considers candidates on merit and the Governance and Nomination training on the role and responsibilities against objective criteria ensuring that Committee and the Board.
Directors are of a Director, including statutory duties.
appointees have sufficient time to reminded, at each Board meeting, of their devote to the position, in light of other The induction programme is delivered duty to report any actual or potential potential significant positions: and through a combination of: one-to-one conflict as soon as they become aware of briefings with the Chairman, Company any such events.
If any actual or potential engages from time to time with the Secretary, current Directors and members conflict arises, the relevant Director will Groups major shareholders in future of the Executive Leadership Team: site excuse himself herself from any meeting or skills requirements and ideas for visits to some of the Groups customerdiscussions where the potential conflicts potential candidates.
64 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Corporate governance report Board focus in 2018 Regular agenda items Chairmans report The significant matters addressed by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Directors report Board during the financial year ended Chief Executive Officers report 30 September 2018 and its evaluation of Group Chief Financial Officers report the Companys 2018 Annual Report and Group Chief Operating Officers report Group Chief Risk Officers report Accounts are described below.
Reports from committee Chairs Board administration and governance Strategy and business performance Financial reporting and controls Stakeholders and customers Monitored delivery of the Groups strategic Approved an increase to the provision for Received updates on the customer growth plan and performance of the financial plan legacy PPI costs strategy and customer-centric key including the impacts of changes in the performance indicators including measures Approved the Companys Annual Report and economic, political, regulatory and of customer satisfaction Accounts, Interim Financial Report, related competitive environment announcements and supporting analyst Reviewed progress of the PPI complaints Received updates on the progress on the presentations remediation programme efficiency programme, preparation for IRB Reviewed quarterly trading updates Monitored the Conduct Framework accreditation and major investment progress and outcomes Approved the annual Pillar 3 Disclosures programmes: monitored key performance Received investor relations updates and Approved the Dividend Framework indicators feedback on shareholder engagement Approved the all-share off for Virgin Money Risk and control Received updates on the stakeholder and related matters including the regulatory Approved the Cybersecurity strategy engagement strategy Change in Control application and Approved the RAS and received updates on supporting governance arrangements: Kept informed of regulatory changes and RAS performance received updates on the readiness for material updates from regulatory Change in Control becoming effective and engagement Approved the Groups recovery plan in the the integration of the CYBG and Virgin event of a significant deterioration in Corporate governance Money businesses financial stability Monitored completion of actions from the Approved the property strategy including Monitored the Groups top and emerging 2017 Board performance evaluation and plans for a new Glasgow head quarters risks agreed the approach to the 2018 Board Approved the Group tax strategy Reviewed internal control systems: effectiveness review completed the annual review of Approved major capital and investment Approved the Groups Diversity Policy and underwriting Delegated Commitment expenditure including IRB Programme targets Authorities and that of the Chief Executive funding requests Approved the division of responsibilities Officer Received the draft FY19-FY23 Financial between the Chairman and Chief Executive Received updates on the Groups transition Plan: reviewed financial and economic Officer to using an IRB approach to capital forecasts Reviewed the structure, size and requirements for credit risk and the composition of the Board and its Structure and capital implementation of IFRS 9 from 1 October Committees: considered the independence Reviewed the adequacy of capital, funding 2018 of Non-Executive Directors: reviewed the and liquidity and approved the Capital Plan Approved the renewal of Group insurance register of Conflicts of Interest and the Funding Plan programmes including a Directors & Officers Reviewed and approved the Charters for the Liability Insurance Policy Approved the Internal Liquidity Adequacy Board and each Board Committee: Assessment Process ILAAP Received updates on material litigation appointed a Board Committee in relation to Approved the proposed scenarios and risks Received updates on readiness for the the acquisition of Virgin Money for assessment under the Internal Capital introduction of Ring-fencing Approved the appointment of new Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP and Received an update on duties under the Non-Executive Directors the economics to be used for assessing Senior Manager and Certification Regime Approved and recommended to capital requirements: approved an shareholders the reappointment of the addendum to the ICAAP reflecting the People, culture and conduct External Auditor impact of IRB accreditation Reviewed the Culture Dashboard and Recommended the election or re-election Received briefings on IFRS 9 implementation monitored progress on transforming culture by shareholders of Directors at the Annual Approved additional PPI provisions Considered the results from the annual General Meeting MyVoice colleague engagement survey Received an update on the refresh of the Received health and safety updates executive management governance committee framework Approved the Modern Slavery Act Statement Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 65 Leadership framework introduced to the facing and operational areas: and reading and knowledge need to be kept up to date Group in 2017 and which sets the materials including archive Board and to ensure the effectiveness of the Board as expectations of all leaders.
The review also committee papers and other key corporate a whole to allow every Director to sought feedback on the Boards strengths governance documents.
Meetings are also contribute fully in Board and committee and the greatest opportunities for arranged with other selected senior meetings.
The structure of the survey managers, including the Group Director Programme includes components covering: enabled feedback to be produced for the Internal Audit, and with external Board deep dive and briefing sessions Board collectively and also at an individual stakeholders including the External Auditor.
details below : stakeholder engagement see Director level.
In addition, a report was page 62 : opportunities for wider Directors joining the Board to perform a produced on the Chairmans performance.
stakeholder engagement in the community specific role or holding a senior in which the Group operates: seminars, management function role, such as a Key themes were collated from the courses and round tables to provide external committee Chair, are provided with feedback on the Board collectively and insights on topical issues, technical briefings additional in-depth training including shared with the Governance and and peer group debates: and Board briefings meeting with the outgoing role holder or Nomination Committee and the Board, and details below.
committee Chair where possible and where relevant the Board committees.
The Chairman reviews with each NonChairman meets regularly with each Particular attention is given to the tailored Executive Director their individual training Non-Executive Director and uses the components of the programme where a and development need and progress at individual feedback reports to inform Director is appointed from outside the regular one to one meetings.
discussions on individual contributions and financial services sector or where a development needs.
The Senior The Company Secretary maintains a training Director has not previously served on a UK Independent Non-Executive Director and development log for each Director.
Directors who take received the report on the Chairmans on or change role during the year performance which he used to inform the Board performance evaluation participate in an induction programme annual review of the Chairmans Following the very thorough externally tailored to their new role.
performance in addition to seeking the facilitated review undertaken in 2017 input of other Directors.
This feedback was covering both the Board and Board As described in the following section, the shared with the Chairman individually and Committees, the 2018 Board effectiveness Board has in place a professional with the Non-Executive Directors without review was an internal review led by the development and training programme the Chairman being present.
Chairman with the support of the Group which ensures that Director development Human Resources Director and Company Overall the conclusion from the 2018 continues after the initial induction Secretary.
It took the form of a survey review was that the Board strongly programme has been completed.
completed by each Board member and key demonstrates all elements of Great stakeholders.
The review sought the Leadership with strengths being the good Professional development and training Directors views on performance against balance of enterprise-wide and longerContinuing professional development is an each of the six elements of the Great term Board focus and appropriate important aspect of a Directors role.
Skills Deep dives and Board briefings The Board has a programme of deep dive and briefing sessions focusing on thematic updates aligned to the strategic priorities and core capabilities which give Directors the opportunity to engage with management in a more informal way outside of the structure of a Board meeting to gain insight on topics of interest or focus for the Board.
Listed below are the deep dive and briefing topics which were discussed during the year.
In addition a significant part of the Boards time was dedicated to preparing for the acquisition of Virgin Money and Board time was allocated to Board reports and briefings on this topic.
Deep dives and board briefings The cultural transformation programme Top and emerging risks The Companys role and opportunities to support economic growth in the North of England Brand awareness and development opportunities Improvements to enhance the customer experience and improve automation Progress on our digital strategy Cybersecurity threats and emerging risks Arrangements for business and operational resilience to ensure continuity of critical processes The Board receives regular briefings on regulatory and corporate governance change.
During the year these topics included Open Banking, IFRS 9, ring-fencing regulations and updates to the Senior Managers Regime.
66 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Corporate governance report challenge and oversight of the business.
In Service contracts and letters of Reviews by the Board 2019 the focus will be on further appointment The effectiveness of the risk management developing the Board agenda and the Details of Executive service contracts and and internal control systems is reviewed quality of information provided to the letters of appointment of the Board are set regularly by the Risk Committee and the Board so that the Board is able to balance out on pages 93 and 94 of the Directors Audit Committee.
The Risk Committee is its time on business performance, the Remuneration report.
responsible for providing oversight and integration of the CYBG and Virgin Money advice to the Board in relation to current businesses and future thinking, in particular, and potential future risk exposures.
The Internal control continuing to involve customer experience Audit Committee assists the Board in Board responsibility insights more fully in Board discussions.
discharging its responsibilities with regard The Board is responsible for the Groups to external and internal audit activities and During the year the Governance and systems of internal control.
The internal controls including reviewing audit reports, Nomination Committee, the Board and the control framework is designed to facilitate internal controls and risk management other Board Committees also reviewed the effective and efficient operations, ensure a systems.
progress made on the continuous high quality of internal and external improvement actions identified in the 2017 The Groups risk management and internal reporting, and ensure compliance with review and agreed that the Board had control systems are regularly reviewed by applicable laws and regulations.
The continued its evolutionary development the Board and are consistent with the Directors and management are committed and had made strong progress across all guidance on Risk Management, Internal to maintaining a robust control framework previous recommendations and actions.
Control and Related Financial and Business as the foundation for the delivery of Reporting issued by the FRC and compliant effective risk management.
Owing to the Information and support with the requirements of the Capital limitations inherent in any internal control The Board has processes in place to ensure Requirements Directive IV CRD IV.
They framework, the controls have been that it is supplied in a timely manner with have been in place for the year under designed to manage and mitigate, rather information in a form and of a quality to review and up to the date of the approval than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve enable it to effectively discharge its duties.
of the Annual Report and Accounts.
the Groups business objectives and can The Chairman, through the Company provide only reasonable, not absolute, Secretary, is responsible for ensuring Control effectiveness assurance against material misstatement or communication flows between the Board A review of the effectiveness of controls is loss.
The Directors acknowledge their and its committees with the support of the regularly undertaken across the Group, responsibilities in relation to the Groups Executive Directors and management, and providing an assessment and statement on internal control framework and for ensures that this information is of high the effectiveness of the Groups control reviewing its effectiveness.
quality in terms of its currency, clarity, environment.
This provides assurance to The Board confirms that throughout the accuracy, appropriateness and the Risk Committee that no new material year ended 30 September 2018 and up to comprehensiveness.
All Directors have control issues have been identified and that the date of approval of this Annual Report access to the advice of the Company robust management actions are in place to and Accounts, there have been rigorous Secretary in relation to the discharge of address specific known gaps.
processes in place to identify, evaluate and their duties and matters of governance.
manage the principal risks faced by the Directors are able to seek clarification or Bribery and corruption Group, including those that would threaten further detail from management where In compliance with the Bribery Act 2010, its business model, future performance, necessary.
The Company Secretary is also the Group has in place risk assessments, solvency or liquidity, the likelihood of a risk responsible for facilitating communications policies and guidelines on interacting with occurring and the costs of control in with shareholders, as appropriate, and customers, suppliers and agents, including accordance with the Guidance on Risk ensuring due regard is paid to their specific policies for gifts and hospitality.
Management, Internal Control and Related interests.
All Directors are provided with Certain Senior Managers are required to Financial and Business Reporting published sufficient resources to undertake their assess money laundering risks and the by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
In appropriate circumstances, adequacy of related internal controls within Directors may obtain, at the Groups their areas of responsibility on an ongoing In order to assist in the identification and expense, independent professional advice basis.
Formal anti-bribery and corruption management of the principal risks, the where they judge it necessary to discharge training is required for all colleagues, the Board has established a RMF which is their responsibilities as Directors.
The Executive Leadership Team and Directors.
integrated into the Groups overall appointment and removal of the Company framework for risk governance and has Secretary is a matter reserved for the Overall assessment developed a system of regular reports from Board as a whole.
Over the past year, the Group has further management.
The Board has authorised enhanced the RMF, strengthening the Risk Committee to oversee the Groups expectations around managing risks compliance with the Boards approved RAS, relating to vulnerable customers, model RMF and risk culture.
Further details can be risk, ring-fencing and GDPR.
The control found in the Risk report on pages 121 to environment remains stable with the 2018 170.
Control Effectiveness Statement providing Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 67 assurance that ineffective controls are Relationships with retail shareholders escalated appropriately and have adequate The Company Secretary oversees Reporting Stakeholder action plans in place.
communication with retail shareholders events engagement and provides feedback to the Board and The Risk Committee, in conjunction with the appropriate committees to ensure the Audit Committee, concluded that the views of retail shareholders are received Q1 Groups risk management and internal and considered.
control framework in relation to the Groups Nov 2017 Nov 2017 risk profile and strategy was effective and The Groups Registrar, Computershare, 2017 preliminary 2017 results adequate, and was recommended to and provides a dedicated shareholder service at results Analyst presentation and approved by the Board.
co. uk in the UK and Q&A session www.
au in Australia through which shareholders can manage Remuneration Dec 2017 Nov 2017 their shareholding online, receive Company 2017 Annual 2017 results The statement by the Chair of the communications and cast proxy votes for Report and Investor Remuneration Committee and the forthcoming general meetings.
Accounts engagement published Directors annual report on remuneration are set out on pages 84 to 114.
The annual general meeting AGM The Board and the Executive Leadership Team consider the AGM to be a key date Shareholder relationships Q2 for shareholder engagement.
It provides an The Board recognises the need for a opportunity to engage with shareholders, programme of engagement which offers all Jan 2018 Jan 2018 particularly retail shareholders, on the key shareholders opportunities to receive Q1 trading update Q1 trading update issues facing the Group and any questions Analyst information from the Company and they may have.
The majority of the engagement enables them to share their views with the Directors, including the Chairman, were Board.
In addition, the Board regularly available for informal discussion either Jan 2018 Feb 2018 receives feedback on shareholder before or after the 2018 AGM.
2018 AGM Australian investor sentiment and sell side analyst views of the London roadshow Group and the wider industry.
All resolutions proposed at the 2018 AGM, which were considered on a poll, were duly The Board is committed to ensuring that passed by the Companys shareholders.
The there are effective channels of Company noted that a significant number communication with the Companys Q3 of votes were cast against resolution 24, to shareholders and the Groups website authorise the calling of general meetings of enables access to documents and May 2018 the Company by notice of 14 clear days.
May 2018 communications as soon as they are Interim results Interim results Following a review during the year, the Analyst and announcement published, including recordings of webcasts Company provided the Companies Act investor and investor presentations.
engagement 2006 minimum notice period for general meetings of 21 clear days for the General A significant level of engagement with Meeting held on 10 September 2018 in institutional investors both existing and Jun 2018 Jun 2018 Virgin Money Offer Virgin Money relation to the acquisition of Virgin Money.
potential investors took place throughout announcement transaction The Company is also not seeking a special the year, in order to update the market on investor roadshows resolution to reduce the minimum notice London and our progress against the Groups long-term Australia period for general meetings from 21 clear strategy, recent financial performance and days notice at the Companys next AGM the acquisition of Virgin Money.
Investor in 2019. roadshows were held in both the UK and Australia reflecting the nature of the Q4 Companys shareholder register, and were attended by an appropriate mix of Aug 2018 Aug 2018 Q3 trading update Q3 trading update Directors including the Chairman, Chief Analyst Executive Officer, Group Chief Financial engagement Officer and Group Chief Operating Officer, among others.
Sep 2018 Aug 2018 General Meeting Virgin Money The Board receives regular feedback on for Virgin Money acquisition share price performance, investor and transaction Stakeholder Shareholder engagement analyst views and changes to the approval shareholder register via regular monthly reports, a quarterly detailed investor relations update and ad hoc intelligence.
