DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Formation, role and responsibilities The Audit Committee was formed during the year ended 31 March 2018 and, up until the date of approval of this Annual Report, has met three times.
Mr Benaim and Mr Srulowitz attended all three meetings.
Mr Davis attended two meetings.
It is intended that the Audit Committee will formally meet at least three times during each financial year in future.
The Audit Committee will meet at least once a year with the Groups external auditor without any other party being present.
The primary role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in ensuring the integrity of the Groups financial reporting, internal controls and risk management framework.
Membership The three members of the Audit Committee are Mr S B Benaim Chairman, Mr D Davis and Mr S Srulowitz, all of whom are non-executive directors of the Group and were all appointed when the committee was formed.
Mr Benaim is a Chartered Accountant and was formerly a partner in, and Global Head of Real Estate at, the accountancy firm BDO.
Mr Davis is a Chartered Accountant and was formerly a partner in the accountancy firm Cohen Arnold.
Mr Srulowitz is a practising lawyer in the USA, specialising in property matters.
Pursuant to provision C. 3.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, the Board considers Mr Benaim to have significant, recent and relevant financial experience and additionally that each member of the Audit Committee possesses relevant sectoral competence and appropriate levels of independence and experience.
As noted on page 36, in view of his length of service, Mr Davis is not technically independent and therefore whilst the composition of the Audit Committee is consistent with the EU Directive which requires the majority of members to be independent, it is not strictly compliant with the Code which requires all members to be independent.
Main activities since formation Membership The three members of the committee each agreed to serve and Mr Benaim agreed to be the chairman of the committee.
Adoption of terms of Terms of reference were reviewed in detail and recommended for approval reference by the main Board.
Risk management and The Groups register of risks and the specific controls in place designed to internal controls mitigate them, together with the broader internal control framework were reviewed in detail.
As part of their robust assessment, management were challenged by the Audit Committee on the appropriateness and completeness of both the register and the internal controls framework.
Particular attention was paid to the value of investment properties and the corporate tax creditor and the risk that either of these amounts might be materially misstated.
The Audit Committee considered relevant professional advice received by the Group and the Chairman met with the valuers of the UK property portfolio.
The Audit Committee were satisfied that the carrying values of both investment properties and the corporate tax creditor shown in the financial statements are appropriate.
Further details of the principal risks faced by the Group are included in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 15.
The key elements of the Groups internal control framework are included in the Corporate Governance report on page 37.
Page 39 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued 2018 Annual Report The Audit Committee reviewed the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts and concluded that taken as a whole, it presents a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
FRC review The Audit Committee reviewed the correspondence received by the Company during the year from the FRCs Audit Quality Review team and were satisfied with the responses received to the issues they raised with the external auditor and Management.
External auditor The Audit Committee reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the external auditor, including by meeting with them, scrutinising their external audit plan and considering observations from the Groups Finance team.
The Audit Committee is satisfied with their review and recommends that they be re-appointed at the forthcoming AGM.
Further details of the Groups policies towards and relationship with the external auditor is included on page 36.
