DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Overview The Board is required to report on the extent of its application of the principles and of its compliance with the provisions contained in the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Board reviews each year the extent to which it is compliant with the Code and considers any changes which might be necessary in the light of developments in the principles and provisions of the Code and in the context of the needs of the Groups business.
During the year we did not comply with certain provisions of the Code in connection with nonexecutive representation on the Board.
The Board has previously shared responsibility for all facets of the Companys business, without reserving areas of decision making solely for non-executive Directors or sub-committees, with those matters which the Code recommends should be reserved for audit, nomination and remuneration committees being dealt with by the entire Board.
However, during the year and in accordance with the Code, the Board decided to establish formal audit, nominations and remuneration committees.
Further details of these are included on pages 39 to 46.
Given the extensive experience and knowledge of the Group possessed by the current Chairman it is not considered necessary to split the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive.
The Groups independent non-executive directors provide some checks on this joint arrangement.
Executive remuneration is not directly related to performance, but a link is established by virtue of executive remuneration not being agreed upon until after the results for the year are known.
The Board The Group is controlled through the Companys Board of Directors.
The Boards main roles are to create value for shareholders, to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Group, to approve the Groups strategic objectives and to ensure that the necessary financial and other resources are made available to enable those objectives to be met.
The Board meets regularly throughout the year on both a formal and informal basis.
Comprehensive management information covering all aspects of the Groups business is supplied to the Board in a timely manner and in a form and quality which enables it to discharge its duties.
The Boards principal focus, in accordance with the formal schedule of matters referred to it for decision, is on the formation of strategy and the monitoring and control of operations and financial performance.
The performance of the Board, its committees and individual directors is kept under constant review by the Chairman and therefore it is not considered necessary to undertake a more formal process of evaluation, either internally or externally.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring compliance with the Board procedures.
The Board has agreed a procedure for directors in the furtherance of their duties to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
All directors are briefed by the Chairman of the views, and any changes to them, of the major shareholders.
The Chairman of each of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees formally report to the Board on matters discussed at, decisions made at and any recommended actions arising from, meetings of these sub-committees.
The Board consults on a regular basis with the Groups external auditor and is charged with ensuring that its objectivity and independence is safeguarded.
Page 35 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued The entire Board is responsible for the approval of candidates for appointment to the Board, following recommendations from the Nominations Committee.
All Directors retire and submit themselves for re-election to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting each year.
During the year there were three full formal board meetings attended by all Directors, except MrCBFreshwaterand MrSIFreshwaterwho were eachunable to attend one meeting.
Directors and Directors Independence The Board currently comprises the Chairman, who acts in an executive capacity, one further executive Director and six non-executive Directors.
The names of the Directors together with their biographical details are set out on pages 30 and 31.
Mr A M Freshwater, Mr C B Freshwater and Mr R E Freshwater are not independent by virtue of their membership of the Freshwater family.
The Board acknowledges that, in view of his length of service, Mr D Davis is technically not independent.
Financial Reporting The Board has ultimate responsibility for all aspects of the Groups financial reporting obligations and is assisted by the Audit Committee in discharging that responsibility.
The key aspects of these obligations are as follows: Accounting and significant areas of judgement It is essential to the standard of the Groups financial reporting that appropriate accounting policies are adopted and applied on a consistent basis.
The Board is updated by the Chairman of the Audit Committee of the impact of new and emerging accounting standards and keeps under careful review those areas of its accounting policies requiring subjective or complex judgements or estimates.
These areas, particularly in relation to fair value measurements of investment property and the assessment of tax liabilities, are set out in Note 1 u to the financial statements.
As part of their review of the accounts, the Board also considers the valuation reports and discusses these with its valuers and discusses the tax position of the Group with its advisers.
External auditor KPMG LLP, and its predecessor entities, has been the Groups statutory auditor since the Group in its current form was created by reverse takeover in 1959.
The Board and the Audit Committee keep under careful review the independence of the auditor and the quality of its services to the Group and is satisfied that KPMG LLP and Richard Kelly who has been the Senior Statutory Auditor since 2015 provide a high quality, objective and cost effective service, from the sound base of their understanding of the Groups business.
Although the Code would now recommend the company re-tender the audit, under a recent EU Audit Directive and EU Regulation the Company will be required to appoint a different external auditor by 2020 provided these regulations still apply at that time.
It is therefore not the current intention of the Board to put the external audit contract out to tender before then, but the position will be kept under regular review.
The Board has a policy of using KPMG LLP to provide non-audit services to the Group only in relation to matters closely associated with the audit and maintains close scrutiny of its non-audit services and fees in order to safeguard objectivity and independence.
Page 36 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Internal Controls The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Code requires that the Directors review the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, covering financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant business risks faced by the Group and the internal control systems, and that this process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report & Accounts.
This process is considered by the Audit Committee in detail and reviewed by the Board at regular intervals.
The Board has considered the benefits likely to arise from the appointment of an internal audit function and has concluded that this is not currently necessary having regard to other controls which operate within the Group.
Key elements of the Groups system of internal controls These are as follows: Control environment: The Group is committed to the highest standards of business conduct and seeks to maintain these standards across all its operations.
The Group has a clear organisational structure for planning, executing and monitoring business operations in order to achieve the Groups objectives.
Lines of responsibility and delegation of authority are well defined.
Risk identification and evaluation: Management is responsible for the identification and evaluation of key risks applicable to the areas of the property market which impact its objectives.
These risks are assessed on a continual basis, are subject to a robust annual assessment and may be associated with a variety of internal and external sources.
The Board considers the risk implications of business decisions including those affecting all major transactions.
Information and communication: Periodic strategic reviews are carried out which include the consideration of long term financial projections.
Financial performance is actively monitored at Board level.
Through these mechanisms group performance is monitored, risks identified in a timely manner, their implications assessed, control procedures re-evaluated and corrective actions agreed and implemented.
Control procedures: The Group has implemented control procedures designed to ensure complete and accurate accounting for financial transactions and to limit the potential exposure to loss of assets or fraud.
Measures include physical controls, segregation of duties, use of external experts and advisers where beneficial, reviews by management and reviews by the Companys external auditor to the extent necessary to arrive at their audit opinion.
Monitoring and corrective action: The Board and the Audit Committee meet regularly, formally and informally, throughout the year to review the internal controls.
This process includes a detailed annual review of the significant business risks and formal consideration of the scope and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
In addition, the executive Directors and senior management have a close involvement in the day-to-day operations of the Group and as such, the controls are subject to ongoing monitoring.
The Board is satisfied with the scope and effectiveness of the internal controls.
Page 37 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Investor Relations The Board values communication with private and institutional shareholders and with analysts.
The Annual General Meeting is used as the primary opportunity for the Board as a whole to meet private shareholders.
Other opportunities are taken as they arise during the year to discuss strategic and other issues with institutional shareholders and analysts.
The Board continues to support the concept of individual resolutions on separate issues at Annual General Meetings.
Details of proxy voting on each resolution will be disclosed on the company website after the meeting.
In accordance with the Code, notice of the Annual General Meeting and the Annual Report & Accounts will be sent to shareholders at least twenty working days before the meeting.
Compliance Statement The Board considers the Company has complied throughout the year ended 31 March 2018 with all the provisions of the Code with the exception of the following paragraphs: Paragraph s Subject compliance achieved A.
3.1 Division of Chairman and CEO responsibilities A.
1.2 Non-executive directors and composition of the Board B.
3.1-2 Nomination committee and its responsibilities B.
6.1-3 Evaluation of the Board C. 3.1-8 Audit committee and its responsibilities D. 1.1: D. 2.1-2 Remuneration committee and its responsibilities Following the formation of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees on 28 November 2017, the Company has become compliant with additional paragraphs of the Code during the current year and further compliance will be achieved next year once these committees have had a full year of operation.
Going Concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 4 to 28, which also refers to the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities.
In addition, Note 16 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its financial risks, together with details of its financial instruments, hedging activities and exposures to credit, liquidity and market risks.
As shown in the consolidated statement of cash flows, the Group generated net cash from operating activities of 35.5 million during the year 2017 19.0 million.
Gearing, on the basis of gross debt to total assets, was 13.8% 2017 14.6%.
Net debt total loans and borrowings less cash and cash equivalents has decreased to 251.7 million 2017 268.3 million, due principally to the strengthening of Sterling against the US dollar during the period.
The Group has undrawn committed facilities of 63.4 million at the balance sheet date 2017 48.4 million.
The Group has considerable financial resources and very low gearing and therefore, the Directors consider that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully in the current and foreseeable economic conditions.
Consequently, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for at least twelve months from the date of approving this Annual Report & Accounts.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
