Nomination Committee Report Tony Rice Non-Executive Chairman Dear Shareholder Committee Membership and Attendance The membership of the Committee, together with appointment dates On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Nomination and attendance at meetings during the year, is set out on page 68 of the Committee the Committee report.
Other attendees at the meetings include the Chief Executive Officer, the Group HR Director and the Company During the year the Committee focused on the size and composition Secretary who acts as secretary to the Committee.
of the Board, which has led to the commencement of a recruitment process for an additional Non-Executive Director.
The Committee The Chairman does not chair the Committee meeting if it is dealing with believes that the appointment of an additional Non-Executive Director the appointment of his successor.
The Senior Independent Director, will strengthen the existing capability and good dynamics of the Ishbel Macpherson, takes the chair when required.
The Committee believes that the Board continues to have the Role and Responsibilities appropriate skills, knowledge and experience to oversee the effective The role and responsibilities of the Committee are set out in the written delivery of our strategy.
The Committee also oversaw the Senior terms of reference, which are available on the Company website at Executive Team SET succession and emergency planning.
The Committees terms of reference are reviewed on of this the Committee believes that the Company has an evolving and an annual basis and during the 2018 financial year this took place at the experienced SET to lead the development and implementation of this February meeting.
An overview of the terms of reference is detailed on strategy.
page 69 of the Corporate Governance Report.
The following report provides an overview of the work carried out during Principal activities of the Committee during the year included: the year under review.
Board Structure, Size and Composition Should you have any questions in relation to this report or the The Board seeks to ensure that the Board and the Committees have Committee, please contact me or the Company Secretary.
an appropriate composition to manage their duties effectively and to Tony Rice manage succession issues.
It supports diversity in its broadest sense Nomination Committee Chairman and considers it an essential driver of Board effectiveness.
The Board 3 September 2018 recognises it is important that its composition is sufficiently diverse and reflects a wide range of knowledge, skills and experience.
Board Composition Non-Executive Chairman 14% Non-Executive Directors 43% Executive Directors 43% During the year, the Board formalised its policy on diversity.
It believes that everyone should be recruited and promoted on the basis of their personal ability, contribution and potential.
The Board is committed to ensure that a culture of fairness, respect and equal opportunity is promoted and supported across the Group.
The policy and its implementation will be reviewed annually.
80 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2018 www.
com The Board is generally opposed to the idea of stated gender quotas, Non-Executive Recruitment however it acknowledges that there is a current low representation of During the year, an independent recruitment consultancy, Dzaleta female Directors 14.3% on the Board.
This is not a true reflection of Consulting, was retained.
Dzaleta Consulting was provided with a the Group as female representation below Board level is 33% of the role description detailing the skills and experience required for the Senior Executive Team and 53% of the overall workforce.
The Committee in drafting the role description took into account the challenges and opportunities It is our intention to restore the balance and as such we have facing the Group and what skills and expertise were needed on commenced the recruitment for a further Non-Executive Director see the Board in the future.
In particular it was determined that the below.
This would take our female representation at Board level to candidates should have a Human Resources background which above 20%.
would be beneficial in light of the new Corporate Governance requirements around engagement with the workforce and oversight The Board Senior Executive Team of the wider Group remuneration principles by the Remuneration as at 30 June 2018 as at 30 June 2018 Committee.
In addition, they were required to have a broad business experience and be a good fit with the culture of the Company.
Other areas of expertise were also considered such as a good knowledge and experience of digital and technology developments and their impact and use in business.
Dzaleta Consulting were previously retained in relation to the recruitment of the last two SET vacancies.
To assist Dzaleta Consulting with the understanding of the requirements of the role, they met with the Group HR Director, Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman, and a long list of candidates were identified for interview.
All of the candidates had a broad range of experience from a wide range of different backgrounds including Male 86% Male 67% executives in blue chip FTSE organisations, partners in consulting Female 33% Female 14% firms and a number of candidates with an established portfolio career.
Overall Workforce Management Tier below the The long list of candidates was circulated to the Committee for as at 30 June 2018 Senior Executive Team comments before a short list was agreed.
The first interviews as at 30 June 2018 were with the Chief Executive Officer and Group HR Director, the second interviews will be held with the Chairman, and successful interviewees will meet with the remaining Non-Executive Directors prior to appointment.
SET Succession Planning and Leadership Needs of the Group Two of our key risks are people focused and they are: the failure to retain high calibre, talented senior managers and other key roles in the business: and failure to recruit or develop the good quality people to achieve our strategic aims.
Male 62% Male 47% Female 38% To assist with this, the Group HR Director regularly presents to Female 53% the Committee on the Groups succession planning and talent development programme.
A regular review of succession planning takes place across the Group, with a particular focus given to the SET succession.
The process of documenting the Groups Talent Map supports the decisions about the organisation design and structure.
The results of this review are incorporated into the succession planning process and the Committee discusses the succession plan for the SET at least annually.
For Executive Directors and the SET, plans are in place for sudden, unforeseen absences, for medium term orderly succession and for longer term succession as well as supporting significant acquisitions that require full time Dechra leadership during the integration phase.
For each SET member, we have either identified an internal candidate or have identified roles that would benefit from bringing new experience into the team.
In addition the Committee has reviewed the emergency succession planning, which clearly identified individuals capable of covering key management roles on an interim basis whether this be due to an unanticipated absence or secondment of a key resource into a different role for a defined period.
All these individuals will receive, or have received, the necessary coaching to assist them in obtaining the required skills to provide any critical support when needed.
Stock Code: DPH 81 Nomination Committee Report continued In addition to this, a forward looking review of the future anticipated shape of the organisation will be considered next year to identify any potential gaps that may emerge and work to ensure the organisations design remains fit for purpose.
One of the elements of our People Plan has focused on the continual development of the SET to provide world class leadership to the Group.
We encourage regular contact between members of the SET and the Board, with all SET members presenting to the Board at least once a year, leading site visits of their respective businesses and attending one-to-one sessions with Non-Executive Directors to discuss specific issues when applicable.
Through acquisitions, recruitment and internal promotion we now have an experienced SET, with clearly defined roles.
Dechra has increasingly focused on the centralisation of support services, to allow the Business Unit leaders to focus their efforts on their core businesses.
During the year a Group Marketing Director, Andrea Dodds, was recruited to continue the evolution of the team.
In addition to this the newly promoted Company Secretary, Melanie Hall, was appointed to the SET.
Post year end the Group Manufacturing and Supply Director left the business and a recruitment process has been commenced.
Effectiveness of Committee and Directors The external evaluation, further details of which are provided on page 71 of the Corporate Governance Report, found that the Committee was operating effectively and was covering all areas within its remit.
It recommended that a Board skills matrix was compiled to inform future discussion and this was presented to the Committee for its discussion at the June 2018 meeting.
Following the external evaluation, which concluded that the Board is dynamic, robust and challenging, the Committee has concluded that each of the Directors seeking re-election continues to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment, not only in respect of their roles and responsibilities, but also in relation to the Group and its shareholders.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, all of the Directors will retire and offer themselves for re-election.
Tony Rice Nomination Committee Chairman 3 September 2018 82 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2018 www.
