Letter from the Audit Committee Chairman Julian Heslop Audit Committee Chairman Dear Shareholder Annual Report 2018 The judgements and factors that the Committee considered in reviewing the Annual Report and Accounts for 2018 Annual Report 2018 are set On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present this years Audit out in its report on page 76.
During the year in addition to our regular duties, we focused on revising the non-audit fees policy and The report also outlines significant accounting matters which received the proposed amendments to the risk reporting and viability statement particular focus during the period.
It explains why the issues were following guidance from the Financial Reporting Council.
considered significant and how the Committee satisfied itself on the validity of the judgements made.
Non-Audit Services For the first time in four years the level of non-audit fees exceeded The Committee has reviewed the revised viability statement, which now 50% of the audit fee, which was wholly due to the engagement of clearly distinguishes the assessment of long term prospects from the  LLP PwC as the reporting accountant for the viability assessment, with a five year time frame for long term prospects circular to shareholders to approve the acquisition of AST Farma B. V. and a three year time frame for viability.
and Le Vet Beheer B. V. the Acquisition, which completed in February Finally, we specifically reviewed, at the request of the Board, whether 2018.
The time to complete this assignment was extremely short as a the 2018 Annual Report was fair, balanced and understandable and result of the vendor requirements which gave the Company a limited concluded that it was.
The basis supporting our conclusion is set out period of exclusivity.
The Committee consequently considered the on page 77. proposal by management to use PwC who were best placed to meet the assignment timetable and exceptionally gave their approval for the I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions engagement.
In giving their approval the Committee noted that a team about our work.
independent of the audit team would carry out the work, the absence Julian Heslop of any remuneration payable to the audit partner or team as a result of Audit Committee Chairman the work, its consistency with the revised ethical standard published by 3 September 2018 the FRC, and the low level of non-audit fees over the previous three year period.
It also made the decision not to use PwC in future for such work.
It consequently concluded that this appointment would not adversely impact PwCs independence or integrity as auditor.
The Committee also agreed during the year that in addition to their policy of not using the external auditor where another professional firm can provide the same or similar service they would set an annual cap that non-audit fees would not exceed 30% of the annual audit fee in future years.
It is the Committees expectation going forward that the result of this policy will be that, excluding the fee paid to the external auditor for their review of the interim accounts, other non audit fees will be minimal and related to work required by legislation of the countries in which the Group operates.
74 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2018 www.
com Audit Committee Report The Purpose and Function of the Audit Committee the Committee Purpose The Committees key role is to review and report to the Board on financial reporting, internal financial control effectiveness and to oversee the relationship with the external auditor.
The main responsibilities are summarised on page 69 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Membership, Meetings and Attendance The membership of the Committee, together with appointment dates and attendance at meetings, are detailed on page 68 of the Corporate Governance Report.
The Board considers that all members of the Committee are independent.
Julian Heslop has recent and relevant financial experience as a result of his financial background and qualification.
Ishbel Macpherson and Lawson Macartney provide different but relevant skills and experience which support the Committee in meeting its objectives.
The biographies of all Committee members are detailed on page 67.
The Company Secretary attends each meeting and acts as its secretary assisting the Chairman in ensuring that all papers are provided prior to each meeting in a timely manner and providing advice on all governance related matters.
Other members of the Board normally attend each meeting together with the  LLP PwC Lead Audit Partner, the Group Financial Controller and the Head of Internal Audit and Risk Assurance.
The Committee meets with the external and internal auditors without management being present, after each scheduled meeting, to discuss their respective areas and any issues arising from their audits.
Neither the Company nor its Directors have any relationships that impair the external auditors independence.
Role and Responsibilities The main role and responsibilities of the Committee are set out in the written terms of reference which are available on the Company website at www.
The Board reviewed the Committees terms of reference at the November 2017 meeting and amended them to reflect the revised UK Corporate Governance Code and updated Financial Reporting Council FRC Guidance on Audit Committees.
Major Activities of the Committee during the Year The Committee met seven times since the last Annual Report was issued.
Four of the meetings were scheduled meetings, and these are generally timed to coincide with the financial reporting timetable of the Company.
Three additional meetings were held to discuss the acquisition of AST Farma B. V. and Le Vet Beheeer B. V. the Acquisition.
The Committee Chairman and the Company Secretary have developed an annual programme of business.
This allows the Committee to ensure that standing items of business are appropriately considered alongside any exceptional matters that may arise during the course of the year.
At each meeting the Committee reviews the following items routinely: status of statutory audits, global tax management and compliance support: non-audit fees including actual and projected spend : and the internal audit progress and assurance report.
The table below provides an overview of the other matters discussed at the meetings: Meeting Date Main Activities 30 November 2017 Review and approval of the annual internal audit plan Review and approval of PwC Half-Yearly review plan Review of the Committees terms of reference Review of Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption and Whistleblowing Policies Progress update on procedures to prevent tax evasion 20 December 2017 Review and approval of Non-Audit fees relating to the Acquisition 18 January 2018 Review of Historical Financial Information, Financial Reporting Procedures and Working Capital with respect to the Acquisition 23 January 2018 Review and approval of the Enlarged Group Working Capital 22 February 2018 Review of the Groups Half-Yearly Report and supporting papers Consideration of the Half-Year Review Memorandum prepared by the external auditor Half year review of internal financial controls Review and approval of Internal Audit Charter Review of the dividend policy and interim dividend proposal Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption and Sanctions progress update 11 May 2018 Review and approval of the year end external audit strategy including timetable, scope and fees Discussion in relation to the Companys expectations of the external auditor and audit process Review of year end accounting treatment for acquisitions, non-underlying items and new accounting standards Review and approval of revisions to the non-audit fee policy Review of tax strategy and policy framework Review of draft viability statement Review of treasury policy and practice Review and approval of the amendments to How to Raise a Concern Procedure Stock Code: DPH 75 Audit Committee Report continued Meeting Date Main Activities 28 August 2018 Review of the Groups preliminary statement, draft Annual Report including the Audit Committee Report for the year ended 30 June 2018 and supporting papers, and the proposed final dividend Consideration of the Audit Memorandum prepared by the external auditor, including: review of accounting treatment of non-underlying items assessment of acquired intangible assets and goodwill commentary on the general control environment across the Group Review and commend the going concern and viability statements Review and approval of the internal control and risk management statements Full year review of internal financial controls for the period ended 30 June 2018 Review of the external audit effectiveness, external auditors independence and level of non-audit fees Fair, balanced and understandable recommendation of the Annual Report Financial and Narrative Reporting All significant matters under consideration by the Committee during the year were supported by relevant justification papers and fully discussed in order to ensure that due and appropriate consideration was given before any decision was approved.
Further detail in relation to a number of the matters is provided below.
Financial Judgements The Committee reviewed both the half-year and the annual financial statements.
This process included an analysis by management of key judgements made in determining the results.
The Committee reviewed this in detail and endorsed managements judgements.
The Committee gave particular attention to significant matters where judgement was involved, which were complex in nature, or where alternative performance measures APMs were provided to enhance investors understanding of the underlying performance.
The Group uses various non-GAAP APMs within internal management reporting, the Half-Yearly Report and the Annual Report.
The objective of these APMs is to isolate the impact of exceptional, one-off or non-trading related items to allow the Board and investors to understand better the underlying performance of the business.
The Group also uses constant exchange rate growth percentages to eliminate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations and show the underlying business growth.
These matters were well supported by briefing papers provided by management and were specifically reviewed and agreed by the external auditor in their reports to the Committee and in related discussions.
The key matters reviewed are shown in the table below: Significant risks considered by the Committee in relation Corresponding actions taken by the Committee to to the financial statements address the issues Review of the carrying value of intangible assets and goodwill of The Committee reviewed managements process for reviewing and 709.8 million, which represents 69.8% of total Group assets.
testing goodwill and other intangible assets for potential impairment.
It noted the significant headroom between the value in use and the carrying value of the goodwill.
Review of the remeasurement of the intangibles and associated The Committee reviewed the accounting basis of the adjustments which contingent consideration for the Animal Ethics Pty Ltd and Kane Biotech supported the remeasurement and considered the appropriateness of Inc in-licensing transactions which were remeasured during the year.
Valuation of the acquired intangible assets and goodwill acquired during The Committee reviewed the calculations and assumptions provided business combinations in the year, which total 362.5 million.
by management and third party experts which support the valuation of these acquired assets and these valuations were assessed for Valuation and accounting for the acquired commercial licensing completeness.
The Committee reviewed the useful economic lives of agreement intangibles of 8.7 million together with the related deferred the identifiable intangible assets and the future growth rate assumptions consideration.
Significant judgements considered by the Committee in relation Corresponding actions taken by the Committee to to the financial statements address the issues Review of the corporate tax rate for the year of -24.9% 20.5% on The Committee discussed the key risks in respect of corporate tax and underlying operations.
reviewed that appropriate controls were in place to ensure that taxation calculations were not materially misstated.
Areas where significant judgements such as uncertain tax positions had been applied were reviewed and challenged and external audit work and conclusions were considered.
In order to assist investors with a better understanding of the underlying The Committee reviewed the basis for calculating the underlying performance of the business, management present within the financial figures and its consistency with previous years figures.
It also sought statements figures for underlying profit and earnings.
confirmation from the external auditor, PwC, that they were satisfied that the application of the accounting policy was appropriate.
This is reconciled to the figures provided in the financial statements The Committee also reviewed material one-off income and costs within and excludes matters such as impairment and amortisation of acquired the underlying results, if any, and ensured these were clearly disclosed intangible assets and related deferred consideration, acquisition cost, within the financial statements and notes.
restructuring costs, and the fair value uplift on inventory acquired through business combinations.
76 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2018 www.
com Going Concern and Viability Statements The Committee reviewed the Groups going concern and viability statements set out on pages 71 and 72 of the Corporate Governance Report.
In considering the viability statement the Committee paid particular attention to the robustness of the stress testing scenarios.
The external auditor reviewed managements assessment and discussed this review with the Committee.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the changes to Dechras risk reporting and viability statement following recent guidance from the FRC.
The statement was revised to distinguish clearly the assessment of long term prospects from the viability assessment, with a five year time frame for long term prospects and a three year time frame for viability.
Fair, Balanced and Understandable Assessment of the Annual Report At the request of the Board, the Committee considered whether the 2018 Annual Report was fair, balanced and understandable and whether it provided the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Groups performance pages 19 to 25, business model page 8 and strategy pages 12 and 13.
The Committee based its assessment on a review of the processes and controls put in place by management.
This included the relevant senior management providing information on their own business units and their confirmation that it was fair, balanced and understandable.
In addition, the final draft document was reviewed by all members of the Senior Executive Team SET who also concluded that it met the fair, balanced and understandable test.
An integral part of the process was the Committees final review: other Board members and the external auditor were invited to comment so that issues could be debated and a final assessment made.
The external auditor confirmed that in their opinion the Annual Report 2018 was fair, balanced and understandable, which can be found on pages 104 to 110.
This assessment was carried out by the Committee on 28 August 2018, following which the Committee reported to the Board that it was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Annual Report 2018 is fair, balanced and understandable.
Internal Controls and Risk Management The Board retains overall responsibility for the management of the Groups risk management and internal control framework.
The Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls.
The Committee has also reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control processes.
This includes: confirmation that the rolling programme of risk and control reviews by the Board has been completed: a review of the SETs assessment of material internal control effectiveness: a review of the going concern and viability statements together with the financial stress testing conducted to support these statements: and a review of baseline financial controls and management representations on their effectiveness across the Group.
Further details in respect of the Groups risk management and internal control processes are provided on pages 54 and 55 of the Strategic Report and the Boards statements on the effectiveness of these processes are provided on page 72 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Review of Policies and Procedures During the year the Committee reviewed the following policies: Finance Policies The Committee undertook the annual review of the Group Tax Policy and Strategy which had been amended to reference the Groups new policy on prevention of criminal facilitation of tax evasion.
It also reviewed the Treasury Policy which has been amended to increase governance, monitoring and reporting on Treasury activities and compliance.
Non-Audit Fees Policy The Committee formalised the non-audit fees policy, further details of which can be found on page 79.
Whistleblowing Policy now referred to as How to Raise a Concern This policy was reviewed as part of the data privacy compliance work, the main changes included encouraging employees to raise an issue when it was a concern, an increase in the number of reporting channels, and an outline of how an investigation would be conducted and the reporting of the outcome.
Internal Audit The Head of Internal Audit and Risk Assurance provides objective assurance and advice on the management of the Groups risks and its systems of internal control.
Internal Audit is supported by a co-sourcing arrangement with KPMG LLP KPMG to provide a flexible resource model and access to specialist expertise and language skills in worldwide geographies.
Internal Audit operates a three year assurance plan which seeks to provide balanced coverage of the Groups material financial, operational and compliance control processes.
It consists of a rolling programme of core assurance activities together with initial controls reviews on new acquisitions and reviews of major business process and systems changes, including the implementation of the Oracle ERP system.
The annual delivery plan, which defines the specific assurance projects to be delivered each calendar year, is developed from the three year plan.
The annual plan for the year to June 2019 was approved by the Committee in May 2018.
Internal Audit recommendations are communicated to relevant business leaders, appropriate control improvements agreed with them, and implementation of agreed actions is monitored monthly.
Audit reports are provided to the Committee together with regular progress reports on managements implementation of control improvements.
During the year the Committee reviewed and approved an Internal Audit Charter, and concluded that Internal Audit continued to be effective.
Stock Code: DPH 77 Audit Committee Report continued External Auditor Following a competitive tender in 2015, PwC were appointed as the Companys external auditor effective from the 2016 audit.
The Company complies with the Competition and Market Authority Order 2014 relating to audit tendering and the provision of non-audit services.
Audit Plan PwC agreed their audit plan with the Committee, which included their audit scope, key audit risk areas and materiality.
The Committee discussed the audit plan with PwC and approved it, together with the fees proposed.
Independence, Effectiveness and Objectivity of the Audit Process The Committee conducted a review of the external auditors independence, effectiveness and objectivity based on: the Committees own assessment of the quality of the audit plan, the rigour of the audit findings and conclusions, the extent to which the Lead Audit Partner understands the business and constructively challenges management and the quality and clarity of the technical and governance advice provided: the results of a questionnaire on external auditor effectiveness and efficiency further detail on which is provided below : a report prepared by PwC setting out its processes to ensure independence and its confirmation of compliance with them: and the level of non-audit fees as a percentage of the audit and half-yearly review fees paid to the external auditor, which were 62.3% 2017: 8.5% in relation to services rendered by PwC.
Responses to the questionnaire have been received from all finance directors across the Group who provided information and assistance to the external auditor.
The questionnaire covered a number of areas, including: quality of the audit team: knowledge and understanding of the Group: appropriateness of the areas of audit focus: interaction with audit specialists: and timeliness and adequacy of communication by the external auditor.
The results of the questionnaire were reported to the Committee at the meeting on 28 August 2018.
Based on the review set out above, the Committee is satisfied with the external auditors independence, effectiveness and objectivity.
Re-Appointment of External Auditor At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, a resolution to re-appoint PwC as the external auditor and to authorise the Committee to set their remuneration will be proposed.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Committees capacity to recommend a particular firm as external auditor and the Company does not provide an indemnity to the external auditor.
External Audit Engagement Partner Rotation In line with the ethical standards of the Audit Practices Board, the Lead Audit Partner will be rotated every five years.
The current Lead Audit Partner was appointed during the 2016 financial year and consequently will stand down at the latest after the completion of the audit of the 2020 financial year.
78 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2018 www.
com Non-Audit Assignments With respect to non-audit services undertaken by the external auditor, the Company has a policy of ensuring that the provision of such services does not impair their independence or objectivity.
For the first time in four years the level of non-audit fee paid to the external auditor exceeded 50%, which was wholly due to the engagement of PwC as the reporting accountant for the circular to shareholders to approve the Acquisition, which completed in February 2018.
The time to complete this assignment was extremely short as a result of the vendor requirements which gave the Company a limited period of exclusivity.
The Committee consequently considered the proposal by management to use PwC, who were best placed to meet the assignment timetable, and exceptionally gave their approval for the engagement.
In giving their approval the Committee noted: the tight timescales: the fact that the audit team would not be compensated for work being assigned to PwC: consistency of the work to be done with the revised ethical standard issued by the FRC: that the proposed work had been internally approved by the PwC Ethics Partner: and PwC non-audit fees had been very low over the previous three years relative to the audit fee.
In May 2018 the Committee amended its policy for the use of the auditors, PwC, for non-audit work, by agreeing a cap of 30% for the ratio of non-audit fees to the audit fee and reconfirmed the underlying principle that the external auditor should never be used where another professional firm can provide the same or similar service.
It is consequently expected, going forward, that the external auditor will continue to review the half-yearly accounts but will carry out little other work for the Company other than those situations where it is required to do so by legislation.
The Committee will continue to approve in advance any non-audit work carried out by the external auditor.
In all instances the Committee will assess the qualification, expertise, independence and objectivity of the external auditor prior to granting approval.
As such, non-audit fee spend is a standing item on the agenda for every Committee meeting.
The Committee firmly believes that there are certain non-audit services where it is appropriate for the Group to engage the external auditor.
In such cases safeguards are in place to ensure continued external auditor independence, including the use of separate teams to undertake the non-audit work and the audit work.
A summary of audit and non-audit fees in relation to the year is provided in note 7 to the Groups financial statements.
This shows that non-audit work carried out by the external auditor represented 62.3% 2017: 8.5% of the annual audit fee and half-yearly review fee.
This fee is higher than in previous years, and is due to the external auditor providing the services of reporting accounting with respect to the Acquisition.
The Committee fully considered this engagement and concluded that it did not consider that the performance of this non-audit work affected or impaired the external auditors integrity for the reasons outlined above.
The four year average of non-audit fees as a percentage of the audit fees to 30 June 2018 is 35.2%.
2018 2017 2016 2015 PwC PwC PwC KPMG Audit fees including related assurance services m 0.80 0.57 0.50 0.26 Non-audit fees m : Review of HalfYearly Report 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04 Other work 0.52 0.05 0.02 Ratio of non-audit fees to audit and Half-Yearly Report fees 62.3% 8.5% 3.9% 1.0% Role of the Committee in the Acquisition The Committee had responsibility for the review and recommendation to the Board of: the Enlarged Group Working Capital for inclusion in the circular, which was reviewed by KPMG: the Financial Reporting Procedures Report, which was reviewed by KPMG: and Historical Financial Information included in the circular, which was audited by PwC.
Julian Heslop Audit Committee Chairman 3 September 2018 Stock Code: DPH 79
