104 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Governance 105 Dear Shareholder, Committee composition Financial reporting I am pleased to present our Audit Committee report for 2018 which During the year under review, the Committee was composed of One of the Committees principal responsibilities is to review and describes our activities and areas of focus.
fourindependent Non-Executive Directors with a wide range of report to the Board on the clarity and accuracy of the Groups AUDIT experience, including real estate and finance.
The Chair, Stephen financial statements, including the Annual Report and interim Financial reporting Young, is a qualified accountant and has an appropriate level of statement.
When conducting its reviews, the Committee considers Our review of the significant financial judgements made during the recent and relevant financial experience to discharge his duties the overall requirement that the financial statements present a year and key financial reporting issues are described on page 105 aschair of the Committee.
Lucinda Bell, who joined the Committee trueand fair view and the following: COMMITTEE ofthis report.
on1January 2019, will become chair of the Committee following Stephen Youngs retirement from the Board on 17 May 2019. the accounting policies and practices applied see page 109 We were pleased to advise the Board that the 2018 Annual Report ofthis report for further details on internal financial controls : isfair, balanced and understandable and provides the necessary material accounting judgements and assumptions made by Number of REPORT information for our shareholders to assess the Companys position, Independent meetings Attendance management: prospects, business model and strategy.
Our review process is Stephen Young, Chair Yes 3 100% significant judgements or key audit matters identified by the described in greater detail on page 108. external Auditor see pages 105 and 140 : and Simon Fraser Yes 3 100% compliance with relevant accounting standards and other Richard Dakin Yes 3 100% Audit quality regulatory financial reporting requirements including the Claudia Arney Yes 3 100% During the year, the FRC conducted an audit quality review AQR UKCorporate Governance Code.
ofour 2017 year end audit which had been performed by PwC.
TheCommittee was delighted with the outcome of the AQR which The Committees role and responsibilities are set out in the terms In order to assess the financial statements, the Committee regularly confirmed there were no significant recommendations for further ofreference, which were last updated in August 2017 and are reviews reports from members of the finance team and external improvement see page 107. available on the Companys website at: www.
com Auditors who are invited to attend the Committees meetings.
investors governance board-committees Through face-to-face discussions and detailed written reports, Internal audit theCommittee are able to understand the business rationale for In conjunction with our review of the Groups internal financial Meetings of the Committee transactions and how they are being recorded and disclosed in the controls, we consider on an annual basis whether Derwent London During the year under review, the Committee met three times, in financial statements.
could benefit from an internal audit function.
After detailed February, August and November 2017: four meetings.
In addition discussions with management in August 2018, it was agreed that an tothe Committee members, meetings are attended by the external outsourced internal audit function would be established toimprove Auditor and members of the Groups senior management team, the Groups procedures and to help achieve the highest standards for atthe request of the Committee Chair.
Two additional meetings governance and compliance.
Following a tender process, RSM have areheld each year with the Groups external property valuers to been appointed, initially for athree-year period.
The 2019 internal consider the valuation of our property portfolio.
audit plan will be approved bythe Committee in May 2019.
Further information on the review of the internal financial controls Significant financial judgements and the establishment of an outsourced internal audit function can Any key accounting issues or judgements made by management are monitored and discussed with the Committee throughout the year.
Thetable below provides information on the key issues discussed with the Committee in 2018 and the judgements adopted.
Stephen Young Issue Judgement Chair of the Audit Committee Succession Valuation of the Groups property portfolio After serving as a Non-Executive Director for nine years, and as chairof the Audit Committee since April 2011, I will be stepping The Committee considers this to be a The valuation is performed by CBRE Limited and Savills UK Limited the external valuers downin May 2019 after a comprehensive handover to Lucinda Bell.
major area of judgement in determining the and, due to its significance, is also reviewed by the external Auditor.
The valuation is determined FOCUS AREAS IN 2019 Lucinda isa qualified accountant and has significant and recent accuracy of the financial statements as it is without management being present see page 106.
The Committee reviewed the underlying financial experience, having been CFO of The British Land Company the principal component of the Groups net assumptions used in the valuation and the external valuers independence and methodology.
Ensure a smooth transition as John Waters becomes the new asset value These procedures enabled the Committee to be satisfied with the assumptions and judgements plc for seven years.
I am confident she will make an excellent audit partner used in the valuation of the Groups property portfolio.
Approve the 2019 internal audit plan and review the outcome of the assurance reviews Taxation and REIT compliance Following the 2018 year-end audit, Craig Hughes will step down Review the significant judgements applied in the preparation Should the Group not comply with the REIT The Group employs a qualified and experienced Head of Tax whom the Committee meets at asour audit partner in accordance with the five-year rotation and of the Annual Report and Accounts regulations, it could incur tax penalties least annually.
The Committee noted the frequency with which compliance with the regulations willbe succeeded by John Waters.
After discussing the handover Review our internal financial control procedures to ensure or ultimately be expelled from the REIT was reported to the Board and considered the margin by which the Group complied.
Based on process in detail with Craig Hughes and our Finance Director, they continue to operate effectively regime, which would have a significant this and the level of headroom shown in the latest Group forecasts the Committee agreed that, DamianWisniewski, we are confident that the transition and effect on the financial statements once again, no further action was required for the current year.
handover period will be efficiently managed.
Borrowings and derivatives Further engagement Calculation of the fair values of the Groups The Committee noted that the valuations were carried out by an independent third party I welcome questions from shareholders on the Committees activities.
financial instruments, such as the 2019 which had valued the instruments in previous years and that the external Auditor used its own If you wish to discuss any aspect of this report, please contact me convertible bonds and interest rate swaps treasury specialists to re-perform the valuation and to assess the reasonableness thereof.
viaour Company Secretary, David Lawler telephone: 44 0 20 7659 Theexternal Auditor subsequently confirmed that no issues had arisen relating to the valuation.
The Committee was satisfied with the level of assurance gained from these procedures.
I will be attending the 2019 AGM, alongside my fellow Board members, and look forward to meeting you there.
Stephen Young Chair of the Audit Committee 26 February 2019 106 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Governance 107 Annual review of the external Auditor Non-audit services AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Following the year end audit, the Committee assessed the The objective of maintaining the Non-Audit Services Policy is to effectiveness of the external Auditor.
The assessment took into ensure that the provision of such services do not impair the external account the views of senior management and was supported by Auditors independence or objectivity.
During 2018, PwC provided Valuation External Auditor aquestionnaire which covered the Auditors resources, objectivity, non-audit services which totalled 45,095, including the review of Our property portfolio is valued by the external valuers for our The Committee has primary responsibility for overseeing the character, knowledge, organisation, judgements and quality our half-year results 2017: 43,715. interimand year end results.
As at 31 December 2018, it was relationship with the external Auditor, including assessing their ofreporting.
000 2018 2017 valuedat 5.2billion 2017: 4.9 billion and principally consists performance, effectiveness and independence annually and Audit of Derwent London plc and 350 340 of86properties in 13 villages across London.
recommending to the Board their reappointment or removal.
As part of their review, the Committee reviewed the audit plan, subsidiaries whichwas focused on risk and materiality, and considered the Review of interim results 41 40 The valuation of the portfolio underlies the net asset value.
Following a comprehensive tender in 2014,  quality of their planning, whether the agreed plan had been met, Other non-audit services 4 4 Movements in that valuation are a significant part of how we LLP PwC were appointed as the Groups Auditor.
Prior to this theextent to which it was tailored to our business and its ability measure our progress and a key determinate of the Groups appointment, BDO had been the Groups Auditor since 1985. torespond to any changes in the business.
Total fees 395 384 totalreturn a KPI and a performance measure for our Executive TheCommittee anticipates that the next competitive tender will be Directors variable remuneration see pages 40 and 125. conducted no later than 2024 in accordance with current regulation An important aspect of managing the external Auditor relationship is Overview of our Non-Audit Services Policy Duetoitssignificance, the Committee monitors the objectivity that requires a tender every 10 years.
There are no contractual ensuring there are adequate safeguards to protect Auditor objectivity Under the policy, all services provided by the external Auditor other andindependence of the external valuers work and hosts the obligations which restrict the Committees choice of Auditor or and independence.
In assessing this matter, the Committee than the audit itself are regarded as non-audit services.
Our policy valuation meetings without management being present.
considered the following: draws a distinction between permissible services which could be provided subject to conditions set by the Committee and prohibited The valuation meetings typically occur in February and July prior to The Company has complied with the provisions of the Competition the Auditors independence letter which annually confirms their services which may not be provided by the external Auditor except Audit Committee meetings.
Due to his position as Managing Director and Markets Authoritys Order for the financial year under review in independence and compliance with the Financial Reporting inexceptional circumstances when the Auditor has been provided of Capital Advisors Limited a wholly-owned subsidiary of CBRE respect to audit tendering and the provision of non-audit services.
Councils FRC Ethical Standard: with approval by the Financial Conduct Authority.
The type of Limited, Richard Dakin does not take part in discussions regarding the operation, and compliance with, the Groups policy on non-audit services deemed to be permissible include: review the valuation of the Groups property portfolio see page 97.
Change in audit partner non-audit work being performed by the Auditor: ofthehalf-year results, assurance work on non-financial data, Craig Hughes will reach the end of his term as audit partner the tenure of the external Auditor and the lead audit partner: taxservices, including tax advisory, and reporting best practice.
Key matters discussed during the meetings include the assumptions followingthe 2018 year end audit.
The Committee met with the how the Auditor identified risks to audit quality and how these underlying the valuation, any valuation which required a greater level newaudit partner, John Waters, during the year.
The transitionary were addressed, including the network level controls the Auditor The Committee has provided pre-approval which allows management of judgement than normal, for example development properties, arrangements were discussed in detail with PwC and our Finance relied upon: and to appoint the external Auditor to conduct permissible non-audit andany valuation movements that were not broadly in line with Director to ensure a smooth handover and induction process.
the outcome of the FRCs inspection of PwCs audit quality services if they fall below a set fee level.
The Committee review thatof the MSCI Investment Property Databank IPD benchmark.
Thefirst audit under the supervision of John Waters will be the further information is provided below.
thepre-approval limit on an annual basis and it is currently set at Theassumptions are discussed with the external Auditor and 2019year end audit.
Permissible services which are above the pre-approval limit anupdate on the matters discussed at the meetings is provided After taking all of these matters into account, the Committee require approval from at least two members of the Audit Committee tothe Board.
Working with the Auditor concluded that PwC had performed their audit effectively, efficiently including the Committee Chair.
When considering if the services The external Auditor the lead audit partner and his team attends and to a high quality.
Accordingly, the Committee has recommended should be approved, the Committee will ensure that the Auditors the Committees meetings to provide insight and challenge and to to the Board that PwC be reappointed as Auditor to the Group for objectivity and independence are not threatened.
Anynon-audit present their reports on the review of the half-year results and audit theyear ending 31 December 2019.
Any feedback arising from the service provided by the external Auditor is reported tothe Board.
of the year end financial statements.
To further facilitate open annual assessment will be discussed with the external Auditor for Inthe unlikely event that the provision of non-audit services would dialogue and assurance, the Committee holds private sessions implementation into the audit plan for the next year end audit.
exceed 100,000, the Committee would request Board approval.
withthe Auditor without members of management being present.
FRCs Audit quality review The FRCs Audit Quality Review team AQR carried out a review of the audit of our financial reporting for the 31 December 2017 financial year as part of their routine process.
The chair of the Committee was involved in the planning for the review which included a preparatory call with the FRC.
Following completion of the AQR, the Committee was provided with a report from the FRCs AQR Team and received averbal update on the outcome from PwC.
The Committee were pleased to note that there were no significant recommendations made by the FRC for further improvement.
108 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Governance 109 Internal control During 2018, the following changes were made to our system of AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED On an ongoing basis, the Committee reviews the adequacy and internal controls: effectiveness of the Groups system of internal financial controls which are described briefly in the table below.
Payroll: After the Head of HR has approved the payroll, Internal audit Review of the 2018 Annual Report ananalytical review is performed by the Group Financial On an annual basis, the Committee considers whether Derwent At the request of the Board, the Committee was asked to review the While Derwent London is a large business in terms of the size of its Controller of each employees pay and changes are investigated.
London would benefit from the establishment of an internal audit Groups Annual Report and to consider whether, taken as a whole, balance sheet and market capitalisation, we are relatively small A summary sheet explaining the movements from one month to function.
Although historically this was not deemed necessary itwas fair, balanced and understandable.
In carrying out its review, when considering the number of people working directly in the the next is also now given to the approver and authoriser of the dueto the relatively small scale and level of complexity of the the Committee had regard to the following: business.
Almost all of our staff work in the same building and salary BACS.
organisation, the focused nature of the Groups business and the areinclose proximity to our Executive Committee members, Know your client procedures: These have been subject to close involvement of Directors in day-to-day operations it was Fairness and balance makingforclose supervision and easy monitoring.
Our Group in-depth review and have been further strengthened to agreed in August 2018 that an outsourced internal audit function Is the report open and honest, are we reporting on our structure isorganised to be simple and transparent i. e. relatively minimiserisk exposure.
The Committee reviewed a flowchart would be established to provide additional assurance and weaknesses, difficulties and challenges alongside our successes fewsubsidiaries, no offshore structure, very few joint ventures and ofprocesses at its November meeting, and the forms which suggestions for best practice improvements.
ourinternal control procedures and policies are well established, require completion for all property acquisitions, disposals and Do we provide clear explanations of our KPIs and is there strong reviewed annually and subject to external verification.
Further information on tenant covenants In November, four internal audit firms presented to the Committee linkage between our KPIs and our strategy?
It was agreed that RSM would be appointed Do we show our progress over time and is there consistency The Committee received detailed reports on the operation and Anti-bribery and corruption: Our procedures have been reviewed to provide an outsourced internal audit function, initially for a inour metrics and measurements?
effectiveness of the internal controls from members of the senior and strengthened during the year with a revised anti-bribery three-year period, to conduct a series of risk-based internal audits management team.
The outcome of the external audit at year end policy and Hospitality & Gift Return see page 113. and projects.
RSM perform no other work for the Group andare Understandable and the half year review are considered in respect to our internal Whistleblowing: The Committee reviewed the whistleblowing considered by the Committee to be independent.
Do we explain our business model, strategy and accounting controls.
The Committee also receives updates on the policies and procedures and recommended the introduction of an anonymous policies simply using precise and clear language?
procedures in place and how these are being communicated to and reporting line for concerns via an independent third party.
The Committee will approve the internal audit plan for 2019 in Do we break up lengthy narrative with quotes, tables, complied with by our staff.
Thenew system will be operational in Q2 2019.
Further May 2019 in liaison with the Risk Committee.
RSM will attend each casestudies and graphics?
information on whistleblowing is available on page 108.
Committee meeting to present their findings and progress against Do we have a consistent tone across the Annual Report?
The Committee remains satisfied that the review of internal controls the internal audit plan.
The other Board Committees will be kept Are we clearly signposting to where additional information did not reveal any significant weaknesses or failures and they updated on the outcome of any reviews which fall within their areas canbe found?
Specific considerations for the 2018 Annual Report Overview of internal controls Viability statement Are we providing clear and detailed explanations in respect of: Governance framework Our governance framework see page 87 supports effective internal control through an approved schedule We have reviewed the process and assessment of the Companys of matters reserved for decision by the Board and the Executive Committee, supported by defined prospects and viability made by management for the next five years Our Board succession plans and how we intend to mitigate responsibilities, levels of authority and supporting committees.
which formed the basis for the viability statement see page 44. against any governance issues?
Financial reviews and Comprehensive systems of financial reporting and forecasting which are conducted frequently and include Brexit risk and opportunities?
internal procedures both sensitivity and variance analysis.
An annual budgeting exercise is carried out with three rolling Whistleblowing The remuneration paid to Executive Directors and senior forecasts prepared.
A five-year strategic review is prepared annually.
Break-even and sensitivity analyses As a business, we seek to conduct ourselves with honesty and managers in respect to Board succession changes?
are included in both the five-year strategic review and the rolling forecasts.
integrity and believe that it is our duty to take appropriate measures Risk identification The Risk Committee regularly reviews the Groups risk register, the schedule of key controls and key risk to identify and remedy any malpractice within or affecting the Structural changes to the 2018 Annual Report included: and monitoring indicators.
The schedule of key controls provides evidence of how the controls are being operated and their Company.
Our employees embrace our high standards of conduct effectiveness.
Our risk management procedures are robust and include initiatives such as a tenant at risk and are encouraged to speak out if they witness any wrongdoing the introduction of a dedicated stakeholder section within register and a back-up IT facility.
The Risk Committees report is on pages 110 to 115. which falls short of those standards.
theStrategic report see pages 18 to 19 : Training and staff awareness Staff compliance with internal policies are routinely confirmed to the Committee.
Staff are aware of the restructuring the Responsibility report to provide clearer delegated authority limits set by the Board and confirm their understanding of our internal policies which Our whistleblowing procedures are included within our staff explanation and linkage see pages 74 to 81 : are contained on our Group intranet and in our employee handbook.
Staff have six-monthly performance handbook, on our Group intranet and staff noticeboards.
In addition expanded disclosures on our viability assessment see pages reviews with any training requirements identified and fulfilled within six months.
The Group operates to an independent reporting line for anonymous reporting of 44to 45 : and a whistleblowing policy which includes access to an independent helpline for anonymous reporting of concerns, the Senior Independent Director acts as an independent the introduction of Governance at a glance and Remuneration concerns.
point of contact for whistleblowing concerns.
at aglance to improve readability see pages 86 and 118.
External verification During the year, no significant deficiencies had been raised by PwC as a result of their controls testing undertaken as part of the annual audit.
The Groups VAT procedures are subject to ongoing periodic review by external advisers.
Comprehensive reviews of the Groups financial controls have also been undertaken Our whistleblowing policy ensures that any significant issues relating The Committee paid particular attention to these changes to ensure with assistance from external advisers.
Regular annual credit ratings, including risk assessments, are to potential fraud are escalated to the chair of the Committee they did not impact on the balance and clarity of the Annual Report.
In 2018, we appointed Fitch to provide our corporate credit rating.
Each year, at renewal, immediately.
The Committee receives updates from the Company acomprehensive review of the Groups insurance cover isprepared by its independent insurance adviser.
Secretary on the operation of the whistleblowing system.
During the Following its review, the Committee confirmed to the Board that the year under review, we did not receive any whistleblowing messages 2018 Annual Report is fair, balanced and provides sufficient clarity 2017: no messages.
for shareholders to understand our business model, strategy, position and performance.
