110 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Governance 111 Dear Shareholder, Committee composition How do we monitor risks?
I am pleased to present our Risk Committee report for 2018 During the year under review, the Committee was composed of three Once a risk has been identified and assessed, a risk owner is whichdescribes our activities and areas of focus during the year.
Lucinda Bell will become assigned who is considered to be in the best position to influence RISK aCommittee member from 1 January 2019 in advance of Stephen and monitor the outcome of the risk.
As part of our risk management Risk profile of the Group Young stepping down as a Director in May 2019.
In addition to the procedures, the Executive Committee and Risk Committee routinely The political and economic uncertainty triggered by the referendum Committee members, the Board Chairman, other Directors, senior conduct monitoring exercises to ensure that risk management decision to leave the EU is likely to continue until the future trade management or the external Auditor may be invited to attend all or activities are being consistently applied across the Group, that COMMITTEE relationship with the EU is finalised.
part of any meeting as and when appropriate and necessary.
theyremain sufficiently robust and to identify any weaknesses orenhancements which could be made to the procedures.
The Committees responsibility is to ensure that management are Number of Independent meetings Attendance proactively planning for the risks and challenges which could arise Monitoring activities include: Richard Dakin, Chair Yes 3 100% REPORT from the Brexit negotiations and the eventual outcome.
Of particular the regular review and updating of the Schedule of Principal Risks, concern is the impact unfavourable negotiations could have on the Cilla Snowball Yes 3 100% the Groups risk register and on watch register: UK economy and specifically London which will feed through into Stephen Young Yes 3 100% independent third-party reviews of the risk management process ourleasing and development activities.
toprovide further assurance of its effectiveness: alerting the Board to new emerging risks and changes to existing In June 2018, the Board as a whole considered potential Brexit The Committees role and responsibilities are set out in the terms risks: scenarios on the Groups five-year strategic plan and long-term ofreference, which were last updated in November 2018, and are monitoring how the risk profile is changing for the Group: and viability more on page 45.
Despite the potential negative impact available on the Companys website at: www.
com providing assurance that risks are being managed effectively and ofworst case scenarios, the Groups strong financial structure investors governance board-committees where any assurance gaps exist, identifiable action plans are being andflexible business model provides sufficient flexibility to weather implemented.
Meetings of the Committee During the year under review, the Risk Committee met three times, How do we respond to risk?
Additional information on the potential impact of Brexit on the Group inMay, August and November 2017: four meetings.
We implement controls and procedures in response to identified is contained on page 47.
The Boards risk tolerance is contained on risks with the aim of reducing our risk exposure, so that it is aligned page 112 of this report.
Risk management orbelow our risk appetite.
The successful management of risk At Derwent London, the management of risk is treated as a critical cannot be done in isolation without understanding how risks relate Key activities of the Committee and core aspect of our business activities.
A robust assessment and impact upon each other.
At Derwent London, we consider the 2018 was another busy year for the Committee.
In addition to ofthe principal risks facing the Group is regularly performed by the interconnectivity between risks which allows us to prioritise areas routinely reviewing the Groups risk register, the Committees main Directors, which takes into account the risks that could threaten that require increased oversight and remedial action.
The mitigation areas of focus during 2018 were as follows: ourbusiness model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, plans in place for our principal risks are described in greater detail aswell as the Groups strategic objectives over the coming onpages 48 to 57. reviewed the tenant covenant review procedures and the work 12months.
ofthe credit committee see page 114 : Risk management structure undertook a site tour of the Charlotte Street construction site, In order to gain a more comprehensive understanding of the risks Although the Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring the including a presentation on the management of construction facing the business and the management thereof, the Committee Group has robust risk identification and management procedures Richard Dakin health and safety risks see page 112 : periodically receives presentations from senior managers and inplace, certain risk management activities are delegated to the Chair of the Risk Committee the Board is aware of the well-publicised issues experienced external advisers.
Following these reviews, the Committee has level that is most capable of overseeing and managing the risks.
byanumber of major contractors, including the insolvency confirmed to the Board that it is satisfied that theGroups risk Ourrisk management structure is illustrated below.
ofCarillion, which highlight the ongoing issues within the management procedures operated effectively throughout the period.
The Committee has been advised of the During the annual strategic review of the five-year plan, the Board Board FOCUS AREAS IN 2019 assesses the emerging risks being those that could impact on the actions being taken by management to monitor the Groups contractors and are satisfied with the sufficiency of these business in the medium to long-term.
Overall responsibility for risk management and internal control The ongoing review of the Groups principal risks Sets strategic objectives and risk appetite controls contractor default is a principal risk, see page 52 : Monitor health and safety across the Group Sets delegation of authority limits for senior management as part of our anti-bribery and corruption controls, the Risk management framework Review the emerging risks which could impact onthe Group Committee reviewed the Groups gifts and hospitality register How do we identify risks?
inthe medium to long-term see page 113 and the Groups conflict of interest register on Risks are identified through workshop debates between the Risk Committee Audit Committee Review the risk arising at our key developments: 80 Charlotte aquarterly basis: Executive Committee and members of senior management, Street W1, The Featherstone Building EC1 and Soho Place W1.
Monitors and reviews the Groups Monitors assurance and internal received an update on recent legal developments which are of analytical techniques, independent reviews and use of historical Monitor Brexit and the political environment to assess the risk register control arrangements particular relevance to the Risk Committee from the Groups data and lessons learnt.
At the Boards strategy review on 13 June potential impact on the Group Identifies and evaluates key risks Manages the external audit legaladvisers, Slaughter & May LLP: 2018, scenarios for the future were considered which assisted with and tolerance levels and ensures process and reviews the reviewed frequent updates on the GDPR project see page114 : the identification of principal or emerging risks and how they could they are appropriately managed Auditors reports received regular updates on our cyber security initiatives and impact on our strategy.
The continuous review of strategy and our received a presentation from Capgemini on the outcome of their environment ensures that we do not become complacent and that Executive Committee benchmarking review see page 115 : and we respond in a timely manner to any changes.
received an update on the full testing of the disaster recovery Maintains the Groups risk register procedures undertaken on 21 22 September 2018 see page115.
Manages the Groups risk management procedures Reviews the operation and effectiveness of key controls Following the identification of a potential principal risk, the Executive Provides guidance and advice to staff on risk identification Further engagement Committee undertakes a detailed assessment process to: andmitigationplans The forthcoming AGM is on 17 May 2019 and I will be in attendance gain sufficient understanding of the risk to allow an effective and toanswer any questions on the Committees activities that you may efficient mitigation strategy to be determined: have.
If you wish to contact me, I am available via our Company Senior management allow the root cause of the risk to be identified: Secretary, David Lawler telephone: 44 0 20 7659 3000 or estimate the probability of the risk occurring and the potential Engages with the Executive Committee to identify risks email:company.
com quantitative and qualitative impacts: and Allocated risk managers oversee and manage risks understand the Groups current exposure to the risk and the target Richard Dakin risk profile in accordance with the Boards risk appetite which will Chair of the Risk Committee be achieved following the completion of mitigation plans.
26 February 2019 Emerging risks are kept under review via the on watch register and reassessed during the annual strategy reviews.
112 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Governance 113 Anti-bribery and corruption Summary of the Supply Chain  RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED We are committed to the highest standards of ethical conduct All suppliers with whom we spend more than 20,000 per annum andintegrity in our business practices and adopt a zero-tolerance arerequired to comply with, and provide evidence of how, approach to bribery and corruption.
An overview of our policies theyareimplementing our Supply Chain Sustainability Standard Risk tolerance andprocedures in this area is contained in the table below.
theStandard, which includes a minimum requirement that any Like any business, we face a number of risks and uncertainties.
An overview of the Groups risk profile, including commentary on Brexit, formofcorruption, bribery or anti-competitive behaviour or actions Corporate Hospitality must be reasonable in value, isavailable on page 46 to 47.
The Groups risk tolerance is set by the Board and is the level of risk we are willing to accept to achieve our are not tolerated within our supply chain.
hospitality appropriate to the occasion and provided strategic objectives.
It must not A summary of the Standard is below.
Thecomplete Standard is compromise, nor appear to compromise, Our overall risk tolerance is low and is contained in our Risk Appetite Statement see the table below for an overview of this statement.
available todownload on our website.
theGroup nor the business judgement of Thistolerance, alongside our culture, informs how our staff respond to risk.
Due to our open and collaborative work style, any potential ourstaff.
problem, risk or issue is identified quickly so appropriate action can be taken.
During 2018, we requested evidence that our major suppliers were Business gifts Generally, gifts should not be accepted compliant with the Standard.
The Executive Committee reviewed unless valued less than 50, are not cash or Category Risk tolerance responses and agreed any follow-up actions required.
A further a cash equivalent e. g. gift certificate, are Operational Operational risks include health and safety risks, continuity of the Health and safety Zero auditof our suppliers is scheduled for 2020. appropriate to the circumstances and are ITsystem and retention of the senior management team.
IT continuity Low not given with the intention of compromising Aspect Standards expected from our suppliers Staff retention Medium or influencing the party to whom it is Anti-bribery and Operate an ethical business policy which sets beinggiven.
Financial Other than market-driven movements that are beyond the Groups REIT status Low corruption out how they govern their business and supply immediate control, the Group will not generally accept risks where Hospitality & All staff are required to complete quarterly Credit rating Low chains.
itisprobable that: GiftReturns Hospitality & Gift Returns which document Decrease in asset value 100m Medium We will not tolerate any form of corruption, all instances of third-party hospitality or gifts Asset values decline by more than 100m from the Groups annual bribery or anti-competitive behaviour in our Profits 5m Medium given or received over that three-month budget.
Cost overruns 5% Medium period if the value is in excess of 25 for EPRA profit before tax deviates by more than 5m from the Groups Employment Fair pay and working time practices which hospitality and 10for gifts.
Interest cover 20% Medium and labour ensure compliance with the National Minimum &Gift Returns are subject to review by the Cost overruns occur on capital projects of more than 5% of the practices Wage and the London Living Wage together Risk Committee.
The Groups interest cover ratio will fall to within 20% of the level Political donations The Company strictly prohibits any political No use of exclusive zero hours contracts.
setin the Groups borrowing covenants.
donations being made on its behalf.
No illegal, forced or child labour.
Charitable Charitable donations are handled by the It is recognised that inherent market risk may result in these financial Suppliers to have appropriate equality and donations Sponsorships and Donations Committee.
tolerances, in particular the assets limit, being exceeded.
The Board diversity polices to ensure the active promotion Know your client procedures are applied accepts this market risk but seeks to manage and mitigate its impact of employment diversity.
tocharitable organisations to ensure we where possible.
Health and Adequate health and safety policies and aredealing with a valid body acting in good Reputational The Group has a low tolerance for risk in connection with reputational Brand value Low safety management systems appropriate to the faith and with charitable objectives.
In particular, this level of risk tolerance relates toany action that nature and scale of their business and service could adversely affect the Derwent London brand.
Contractors Our zero-tolerance approach is provision.
andsuppliers communicated to all suppliers, contractors Regulatory The Groups tolerance for regulatory risk arising from statute Statutory Zero To comply with Derwent Londons health and and business partners.
Due diligence ortheUK Corporate Governance Code and from adherence to safety standards and procedures.
Governance Low procedures determine if a third party has bestpractice guides.
Community Support us in the successful delivery of our previous convictions under the Bribery Act.
Zero: The Board has a zero tolerance to risk-taking All contracts with suppliers or contractors Development contractors on our larger prohibit the payment of bribes or engaging Low: The Board is not willing to take any significant risks schemes have to achieve a minimum target in any corrupt practice.
The Company has score, currently 38 in the Considerate Medium: The Board is willing to take measured risks if they are identified, assessed and controlled the right to terminate agreements in the Constructors Scheme, and to undertake at High: The Board is willing to take significant risks event abribe is paid or other corrupt practice least one community day every year during the undertaken.
Supply Chain Contains the minimum standards we expect Offer full and fair opportunity for local suppliers Sustainability from our major suppliers further information to actively participate in our supply chains.
Health and safety The Committees meeting in August included a site tour of the Standard in the adjacent table.
Offer local employment and apprenticeship The Group is committed to providing a safe environment at all 80Charlotte Street development hosted by Executive Directors Payments All payments made must be warranted, opportunities.
ourproperties for the benefit of tenants, employees, contractors andthe site Project Manager.
The tour enabled the Committee to transparent and proper.
All payments must Environmental Suppliers are to have robust environmental andvisitors.
seefirst-hand the health and safety procedures in place to protect be accurately recorded through the normal management policies and procedures in place.
workers, visitors and the local community.
accounting and financial procedures without To comply with the Derwent London At each Committee meeting, a detailed update is provided on any deception or disguise as to the recipients Sustainability Framework for Developments healthand safety matters on both the managed portfolio and Further information on health and safety matters can be found identity or the purpose of the payment in and or Assets.
No one approves their own expense thedevelopment pipeline.
The Committee also meet with ORSA, onpage 80 of the Responsibility report.
Although the majority of We expect our main contractors to have a claim.
All expense claims must be approved whowere appointed as our corporate health and safety advisers activities covered under the Responsibility report are under the certified environmental management system by a Director or senior manager.
forall construction projects from January 2017.
ORSA outlined remitof the new Responsible Business Committee, health and EMS in place, accredited to ISO14001 or EMAS Eco-Management andAudit Scheme.
totheCommittee the key health and safety risks at the major safetyremains under the oversight of the Risk Committee.
Facilitation Facilitation payments are bribes and are payments strictly prohibited.
construction sites, including 80 Charlotte Street, the Brunel Building Payment Unless otherwise stated, we aim to pay our and Soho Place, and how these are being effectively managed.
Conflicts of interest All conflicts of interest or potential conflicts practices suppliers within 30 days or otherwise will do of interest must be notified to the Company soin accordance with specified contract Secretary and a register of such notifications conditions.
The Corporate governance We are signatories of the Prompt Payment statement on page 97 explains our process Code.
Suppliers are required to adopt similar for managing potential conflicts.
payment practices throughout their supply chains to ensure fair and prompt payment.
Training We provide our employees with guidance notes and regular training on anti-bribery, corruption, ethical standards and the prevention of the facilitation of tax evasion.
Whistleblowing A confidential helpline is available for procedures stafftoreport concerns anonymously.
114 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Governance 115 General Data Protection Regulations GDPR Business continuity and disaster recovery FULL BUSINESS CONTINUITY TEST RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The GDPR, which came into force on 25 May 2018, require Information and cyber security atougherapproach to the handling and using of personal data.
To safeguard the security and privacy of information entrusted to us, At 5pm on Friday 21 September, our disaster recovery procedures Derwent London holds relatively limited personal data, relating we have robust procedures in place.
The procedures ensure that we: were tested by staging a complete loss of power at our head office Tenant covenant review mainly tohuman resources, CCTV and private residential lettings.
Thetest required the evacuation of the Due to the uncertain economic environment, with a number of safeguard the security and privacy of our customers and building and the transfer of key systems and personnel to our largeretail businesses going into administration, the Committee The Companys project plan for GDPR commenced well in advance employees, to ensure that the business retains their trust disaster recovery suite.
conducted a review of how Derwent London assesses and monitors of25 May 2018 with the establishment of a GDPR Steering Group andconfidence: the financial strength of potential and existing tenants.
The chart which met weekly, dedicated Data Protection Champions from each protect the Groups intellectual property rights, financial The migration was overseen by independent verifiers, below illustrates that Derwent London has limited exposure to retail department and compulsory training for all staff.
The project to interests and competitive edge: IT Governance Limited, who assessed our procedures and or restaurants within our portfolio.
ensure our compliance continued throughout 2018 and included: maintain our reputation and brand value: and efficiency.
comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
GDPR Steering The GDPR Steering Group initially met weekly The Committee was pleased to note that the test was successful At its meeting in November, the Committee received a detailed Group for 18weeks and now meets fortnightly.
and well managed with no major issues identified and no overview from the Head of Asset & Property Management and the Our cyber security procedures have been strengthened considerably downtime reported.
A number of minor suggestions were raised Guidance and Ongoing training and support to staff, including Group Financial Controller on the workings of the credit committee in recent years in response to the increasing threat this poses training compulsory induction training.
The creation of by IT Governance Limited to further strengthen our robust and how it decides whether potential and existing tenants are tobusinesses, and it remains an area that we keep under a dedicated GDPR intranet page.
Short internal Business Continuity Plan BCP which included: financially sound to transact.
The Committee was satisfied with the continuousreview.
video explaining the employee privacy notice.
extensive due diligence process undertaken by the credit committee.
Contract Conducted risk assessments of all contracts using the disaster recovery tests as an exercise to raise During 2018, we requested that Capgemini conduct a benchmarking remediation followed by thorough contract remediation for theawareness, competence and capability of the CMT: review of our cyber security procedures.
In November, the Committee those processing personal data.
Portfolio income appoint an individual responsible for noting all actions reviewed the outcome of the audit and were pleased that Capgemini Policies, All policies, procedures, guidance notes, takenandlogging time-delayed actions: and had noted the improvements made since the prior audit.
The Percentage documentation contracts of employment, offer letters and monitor the UPS load as systems migrate to the disaster Committee agreed the responses and timeframes for implementing andprocedures consultancy agreements have been updated to Offices 87 recoverysuite.
Management will be required to provide be GDPR compliant.
New procedures created Retail 9 the Committee with a status update on the implementation of the for subject access requests and Data Protection Restaurant Leisure 3 The entire process from the loss of primary power, transfer to our recommendations at the Committees August 2019 meeting.
The removal of disaster recovery suite and roll back to Savile Row took 6 hours Other 1 historical data from our shared drives soft and 45minutes a 3 hour and 20-minute improvement on our The Committee reviews a dashboard of key risk indicators at each copies and the destruction of printed documents lastfull test completed in October 2016. hard copies is an ongoing exercise.
meeting which includes information security and cyber-risk-related KPIs.
During 2018, there were 474 attempted attacks on our systems, Since 25 May 2018, all new projects or changes to processes none of which resulted in a security breach and 99.9% of the involving data processing are subject to DPIA screening assessments attempts were stopped before they reached the intended targets Business continuity tests planned for 2019 2020 to determine the level of risk.
A total of 19 DPIAs havebeen this highlights the robustness of our cyber security posture.
Our IT Test Purpose Date completed during the year.
team tested the effectiveness of our ongoing security awareness Business The CMT meet to review and update programme by sending fake phishing emails to staff and monitoring Q1 2019 Continuity Plan the business continuity plan, review The Committee and Board have been routinely updated on the their response.
Any staff member who clicked on the links contained Analysis of the tenants at risk register review current threat levels and agree on projects progress and, to date, are satisfied that management in the test emails was provided with further training on the dangers.
haveundertaken all necessary steps to ensure the Groups ongoing Tenants IT Component A technical test of the individual Q1 2019 compliance with GDPR.
A gap analysis will be performed in 2019 All staff attend mandatory information security workshops each In administration test components required to carry out a toreview our progress and identify areas for further improvement.
yearwhich focus on our policies and procedures, cyber and personal or liquidation 1 failover of IT services to our disaster security.
Our Group intranet also includes a tips and tricks section In CVA 4 recovery suite.
for our staff with guidance on issues such as cyber security, CCTV Rent concessions 2 Desktop review A desktop exercise which uses a series Q2 2019 Our CCTV system is intended to provide an increased level of socialmedia and general security awareness.
Are on watch due to of scenarios to rehearse decision a poor payment record 5 securityfor the benefit of those who work in or visit Derwent London making and familiarise theCMT properties by acting as a deterrent against crime and protecting Disaster recovery procedures members with their roles.
ourbuildings and assets from damage, disruption and vandalism.
Derwent London has formal procedures for use in the event of an IT disaster A technical test to carry out a full Q3 2019 CCTV images are not released unless satisfactory evidence has emergency that disrupts our normal business operations which recovery test ITsystems failover from our offices beenobtained by us that the third party requesting the personal consist of: tothe disaster recovery suite.
datahasa legal and justifiable need.
Full business A full plan invocation exercise covering Q4 2020 Business Continuity Plan BCP : The BCP serves as the continuity test one disaster scenario and testing all 465 Since May 2018, we have received 14 access requests for CCTV centralised repository for the information, tasks and procedures contingency functions at the disaster footage.
Requests are authorised in accordance with our CCTV policy that would be necessary to facilitate Derwent Londons decisionrecovering suite.
Representatives Tenants of which only 12 from each department will confirm and CCTV disclosure procedures.
Prior to disclosing CCTV images, making process and its timely response to any disruption or are on the at risk register all business-critical functions are weredact any third-party personal data and images for example, prolonged interruption to our normal activities.
The aim of the stillavailable.
byblurring the images before saving the images to disc and placing BCP is to enable the recovery of prioritised business operations them in a sealed evidence bag.
Failure to prevent the facilitation of tax evasion Crisis Management Team CMT : The CMT is composed of key The Company will not tolerate any facilitation of tax evasion by staff, Privacy notice personnel deemed necessary to assist with the recovery of the subcontractors or any other of its associates.
To address these risks, Derwent London respects privacy and is committed to business.
The BCP empowers the CMT to make strategic and the Company has established procedures which are designed to protectingpersonal data.
Our privacy notice, which sets out effective decisions to support the recovery of the business until prevent its associated persons from deliberately and fraudulently howweuse personal data, is available on our website here: we are able to return to normal working.
com texts privacy-policy Off-site disaster recovery suite: An off-site disaster recovery suite is available in the event of an emergency, to provide IT and All staff have attended compulsory training sessions on our policies We also have tailored privacy notices for employees, recruitment data facilities to our staff who either work on site at the suite or and procedures.
The training was hosted by our Head of Tax, candidates and tenants, which are available upon request from via our agile working capabilities.
DavidWestgate, and included practical examples of how facilitation theCompany Secretary.
Testing and review: The strength of our business continuity of fraudulent tax evasion could occur and guidance on how these anddisaster recovery plans are regularly tested to ensure they should be addressed.
are continually refined and to reduce the potential for failure.
Anoverview of the disaster recovery tests due to take place during 2019 are provided in the adjacent table.
