92 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Governance 93 The Board, Executive Committee and members of the senior How do we engage with our shareholders?
Annual General Meeting AGM management team met on 13 June 2018 to review, discuss and Shareholders play a valuable role in safeguarding the Groups Our 2018 AGM was held on 18 May 2018 and we were delighted to challenge the strategy.
The meeting included: governance through, for example, the annual re-election of Directors, receive in excess of 90% votes in favour for all of our resolutions.
CORPORATE Intotal, 84.49% of our shareholders voting capital voted at the monitoring and rewarding their performance and engagement and presentations from external advisers with insights into the constructive dialogue with the Board.
2018AGM, which was an 8.95% increase from the prior years AGM.
political environment and how new technology may impact on Calendar of our main shareholder events in 2018 our business: The 2019 AGM is to be held on 17 May at The Westbury hotel, GOVERNANCE January Property conference London reviewing the five-year plan, various scenarios and sensitivity 37Conduit Street, London W1S 2YF and we encourage our February 2017 results presentation, Roadshow London tests and the key assumptions underlying the projections: and shareholders to attend.
The AGM provides an opportunity for discussions with senior management on occupier trends, our March Roadshows Netherlands and UK, Property privateshareholders, inparticular, to question the Directors and conferences London, Miami and New York, Fit for the Future initiative see page 78 and planning policy thechairs of each of the Board Committees.
salesforce presentations STATEMENT changes expected after local elections.
April Investor meetings Brussels As requested by a shareholder last year, we will be providing a short Information sharing presentation on our business at the forthcoming AGM, which May Annual General Meeting, 2018 Q1 Business Structure of the Governance section The Directors utilise an electronic Board paper system which update, Property conferences London and wehopewill prove to be a valuable addition to the meeting.
Amsterdam The Governance section has been reorganised to follow the structure provides immediate and secure access to papers.
The Chairman of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Although we ofthe Board and the chairs of the Committees set the agendas for In the event we receive 20% or more votes against a recommended June Property conference London are not required to report under the 2018 Code until the 2019 Annual upcoming meetings with support from the Company Secretary.
resolution at a General Meeting, we would announce the actions July Sustainability roadshow Netherlands Report due to be published in April 2020, we wished to transition weintend to take to engage with our shareholders to understand August 2018 H1 Results presentation, Roadshow UK ourreporting to demonstrate how we will meet the new requirements We aim to ensure that the information shared with our Board is of theresult, in accordance with the Code.
We would follow this September Roadshow Netherlands, Property conferences and to provide additional disclosure on our governance sufficient depth to facilitate debate and to fully understand the announcement with a further update within six months of the Berlin, London and New York arrangements.
content without becoming unwieldy and unproductive.
Papers are meeting, with an overview of our shareholders views on the October Property conference London required to be clear and concise with any background material resolutions and the remedial actions we have taken.
To date, November 2018 Q3 Business update, Investor presentation included as an appendix.
theBoard has not been required to follow these procedures and property tour, Property conference London duetothe high level of support received from shareholders.
December Property conference Cape Town BOARD LEADERSHIP AND COMPANY PURPOSE Stakeholder engagement We recognise the importance of clear communication and proactive Annual Report An effective Board engagement with all of our stakeholders.
A summary of our Shareholder consultation Our Annual Report is available to all shareholders.
Through our electronic communication initiatives, we aim to make our Annual Our Board is composed of highly skilled professionals who bring stakeholder engagement programmes is provided on pages 18 to 19.
In November 2018, our Senior Independent Director Simon Fraser arange of skills, perspectives and corporate experience to our consulted with 10 major shareholders representing 57.5% of our Report as accessible as possible.
Shareholders can opt to receive Boardroom biographies are on pages 88 to 89.
It is through this How do we generate value for our stakeholders?
issued share capital on the Boards succession plans in respect of ahard copy in the post or PDF copies via email or from our website.
diversity, its deep understanding of ourbusiness, culture and Through our core activities, illustrated in our business model, John Burns becoming Chairman for a two-year term.
The Board were Additionally, if a shareholder holds their Derwent London shares via stakeholders, that the Board generates sustainable long-term value.
weaddvalue to our unique portfolio and deliver long-term benefits pleased with the level of support received from the consultation anominee account and encounters difficulty receiving our Annual toour stakeholders more on our business model on pages 20 to 21. process further information can be found on page 100.
Report via their nominee provider, they are welcome to contact the Matters reserved for the Board Company Secretary to request a copy.
The Board maintains a formal schedule of matters which are Our shareholders have seen value through the total shareholder We will always seek to engage with shareholders when considering reserved solely for its approval.
These matters include decisions returns TSR achieved over the last 10 years 395% which has material changes to either our Board, strategy or remuneration Corporate website relating to the Groups strategy, capital structure, financing, any significantly outperformed the FTSE 350 Real Estate Super Sector policies.
In 2019, with the Remuneration Committee reassessing Our website, www.
com, has a dedicated investor major property acquisition or disposal, the risk appetite of the Group 114%.
We have a progressive dividend policy the compound theRemuneration Policy for Executive Directors, shareholders will section which includes our Annual Reports, results presentations and the authorisation of capital expenditure above the delegated growth of the ordinary dividend over the past ten years is 10.4%.
beconsulted on any proposed changes in advance of its submission which are made to analysts and investors at the time of the interim and full year results and our financial and dividend calendar for the authority limits.
for shareholder approval at the 2020 AGM.
Further information on value creation for our other key stakeholders upcoming year.
Board approval is required for: is on pages 18 to 19 of the Strategic report.
Investor meetings Major property acquisitions Valued above 20m During 2018, the Group held over 260 investor meetings with 200 We also create websites for specific developments which are used ordisposals How do we engage with our employees?
Of these, 78 were shareholders toexplain the Groups current projects in greater detail.
For example, Major capital expenditure Projected costs above 10m We have an experienced, diverse and dedicated workforce which atthe year-end and their ownership represented circa 60% of the you can find further information on the Brunel Building W2 and projects isrecognised as a key asset of our business.
The Board and its shares in issue.
80Charlotte Street W1 here: Material occupier leases Rental income greater than 7.5% Committees routinely invite members of the management team orcontracts of the Groups total rental income toattend meetings to present on the matters being discussed, Investor meetings are predominantly attended by our CEO, www.
com enabling their input into discussions.
In order to reach all employees, FinanceDirector and at least one other senior executive.
com Although the Board is formally required to authorise capital the Board utilises the following additional engagement methods: announcement on 23 November that Paul Williams would succeed expenditure above this limit, the open nature of our organisation John Burns as Chief Executive, Paul also attended most meetings.
Senior Independent Director means that the Board is aware of all active projects within our Cilla Snowball is the dedicated Non-Executive Director for If shareholders have any concerns, which the normal channels of portfolio.
The Board reviewed and approved the Schedule of matters gathering the views of the workforce and oversees our employee The meetings focused on the Groups portfolio, strategy, the London communication to the CEO, Finance Director or Chairman have failed reserved for the Board in February 2019. engagement methods as chair of the newly established office outlook and Board succession.
Where significant views were to resolve, or for which contact is inappropriate, then our Senior Responsible Business Committee: expressed, either during or following the meetings, these were Independent Director, Simon Fraser, is available to address them.
Annual strategy review During 2019, two employees will be nominated by the workforce recorded and circulated to all Directors.
On an annual basis, the Board conducts a detailed review of its to become members of the Responsible Business Committee: Other contacts strategy to ensure it remains relevant, flexible and capable of The Directors host regular informal lunches with small groups Investor presentations and property tours Contact details for our Investor Relations team, Company Secretary adapting to our changing environment.
ofemployees to share ideas, gather feedback and discuss the On 30 November 2018, we hosted an investor and analyst day.
and our Registrars are available on page 208. future of the Group: Webriefly presented on lettings, asset management and Through its review, the Board is able to assess and identify changing Our whistleblowing system includes an anonymous reporting line development to 31 investors and analysts, in addition to tours or emerging risks which could impact on the Group in the short and for employees to raise any concerns directly with the Board: and ofourPaddington and Fitzrovia buildings.
medium-term further information on our principal risks is on pages Town hall meetings are frequently hosted by our Chief Executive.
Our risk management procedures are discussed on page Employees can ask questions, anonymously if they wish, which Property conferences 111 to 112 of the Risk Committees report.
are then answered to the whole workforce.
In 2018, we attended 13 property conferences in Amsterdam, Berlin, Brussels, Cape Town, London, Miami and New York.
We are fortunate that more than 95% of our staff are based ata single location, 25 Savile Row, which enables effective and daily engagement.
94 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Governance 95 KEY ACTIVITIES OF THE BOARD DURING 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Overview The Board met seven times during the year including the Annual General Meeting.
One meeting every year is arranged specifically to Factoring our stakeholders into our decisions The stakeholder impact analysis identifies: considerthe Groups strategy and five-year plan.
Additional meetings are arranged if necessary for the Board to properly discharge its By thoroughly understanding our key stakeholder groups, duties.
An overview of our Boards key activities is provided below.
wecanfactor their needs and concerns into Boardroom discussions potential benefits and areas of concern for each stakeholder furtherinformation on our stakeholders is on pages 18 to 19. group: Property portfolio Corporate reporting and performance monitoring the procedures and plans being implemented to mitigate against Approved the Soho Place development Reviewed the Groups KPIs and agreed changes for 2018 The Boards procedures have been updated to require a stakeholder any areas of concern: and Approved The Featherstone Building development see page 40 impact analysis to be completed for all material decisions requiring who is responsible for ensuring the mitigation plans are being Approved the purchase of the leasehold interest in Reviewed the rolling forecast and approved the 2019 budget its approval that could impact on one or more of our stakeholder effectively implemented.
88-94 Tottenham Court W1 Received updates from the chair of the Remuneration groups.
Provided with regular updates on asset management, Committee on the key areas discussed We have detailed in the case study below an overview of the key leasingand investment from the senior management team Conducted a review of the Companys viability over the The stakeholder impact analysis assists the Directors in performing benefits and concerns which arose from the stakeholder impact Reviewed and approved the independent valuations of the nextfive-year period their duties under s172 of the Companies Act 2006 and provides the analysis for The Featherstone Building.
Groups property portfolio Approved the year end and interim results Board with assurance that the potential impacts on our stakeholders Received regular updates on the key construction projects: Approved the Q1 and Q3 business updates are being carefully considered by management when developing Brunel Building W2 Reviewed the 2018 Annual Report to check it is fair, plans for Board approval.
80 Charlotte Street W1 balancedand understandable White Chapel Building E1 Phase II Stakeholder engagement Reviewed quarterly project cost reports Met shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM THE FEATHERSTONE BUILDING EC1 Strategy and financing held on18 May 2018 Annual strategic review in June 2018 to approve the five-year Established the Responsible Business Committee to focus In June 2018, the Board approved the redevelopment of Monmouth plan which included receiving presentations from the Executive onsocial and environmental matters.
House 58-64 City Road and 19-23 Featherstone Street into a new Committee and updates from external advisers Received updates on our investor engagement programme development The Featherstone Building which will see the existing buildings demolished and the new development constructed on the Ongoing updates from the Executive Committee on the andregular investor relations reports existing site.
The Featherstone Building will provide 110,000 sq ft of implementation of strategy throughout the year Received an update on the actions taken since the last commercial office space, 2,000 sq ft of retail space on the ground Regularly considered the impact of Brexit on our business employee survey and the success of the Fit for the Future floor and 13,000 sq ft of small micro workspace on the ground and and strategy initiative lower floors.
Considered the emerging risks and scenarios which could Received updates on our sustainability initiatives impact on the Group over the long-term In addition to making a satisfactory return to our shareholders, our Regularly reviewed the Groups financial structure and position Governance stakeholder impact analysis identified the following additional key Approved the US private placement of 250m senior unsecured Approved the Nominations Committees succession plans benefits to our stakeholders: notes see page 32 see page 100 Reviewed the new requirements arising from the 2018 UK The Featherstone Building will assist with the regeneration of Risk management and internal control Corporate Governance Code and developed an action plan theOld Street Yard area through its design, additional retail and Regularly reviewed the Groups principal risks and considered Agreed diversity targets and focus areas to improve female office space and employment opportunities.
emerging risks which could impact on the five-year plan representation in senior management and on our Board To assist small local businesses and start-ups, the small micro Received updates from the Risk and Audit Committee Chairs seepages 102 to 103 workspace will be let at 75% of market rent and will be fully onthe key areas discussed Approved the schedule of matters reserved for the Board fittedout for immediate occupancy.
Approved the appointment of RSM as the Groups outsourced Evaluated the performance of the Board, itsCommittees Construction trainees will be employed through Skanska internal audit function andallDirectors theprojects principal contractor to provide employment Received regular reports on health and safety matters anddevelopment opportunities.
Where possible, we will use local procurement opportunities.
As part of our planning obligations, we are required to provide funding s106 contributions and Community Infrastructure Levy for local infrastructure, including affordable housing, carbon offsetting, employment, Crossrail and TfL cycle hire.
Our stakeholder impact analysis identified the following key concerns: increased traffic in the area during development: increased noise during the project: and general disruption to the surrounding area including localbusinesses.
To mitigate the impact on the local neighbourhood, we have produced neighbourhood liaison plans which set out the project phases, timetable and details of site representatives to contact if any issues arise during the project.
In addition, monthly newsletters will be sent throughout the project to local residents.
Although cycles routes and pedestrian routes will be redirected during construction, we will ensure they are safely maintained for the duration of the works.
Extensive consultation has been undertaken with Islington Council todevelop our construction management and logistic plans.
96 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Governance 97 Board independence Conflict of interests CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Chairman Directors are required to notify the Company as soon as they It was announced on 23 November that John Burns would succeed becomeaware of a situation that could give rise to a conflict or Robbie Rayne as Non-Executive Chairman for a two-year term from potential conflict of interest.
The register of potential conflicts 17 May 2019. ofinterest is regularly reviewed by the Board to ensure it remains DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES up-to-date.
TheBoard is satisfied that potential conflicts have As John is our current Chief Executive, he will not be considered beeneffectively managed throughout the year.
Board roles independent upon appointment which is in contradiction to a There is clear division between executive and non-executive responsibilities which ensure accountability and oversight.
The roles of provision of the Code.
The Nominations Committee report on As a Non-Executive Directors independence could be impacted Chairman and Chief Executive are separately held and their responsibilities are well defined, set out in writing and regularly reviewed page 100 sets out how we intend to mitigate any potential where a Director has a conflict of interest, the Board operates a bytheBoard.
governance risks this deviance from the Code could cause.
policy that restricts a Director from voting on any matter in which they might have a personal interest unless the Board unanimously Chairman Chief Executive The Nominations Committee has confirmed to shareholders that decides otherwise.
Prior to all major Board decisions, the Chairman Responsible for the effective running of the Board and ensuring Execute the Groups strategy and commercial objectives thesubsequent Non-Executive Chairman will be independent upon requires the Directors to confirm that they do not have a potential itis appropriately balanced to deliver the Groups strategic together with implementing the decisions of the Board appointment, in compliance with the Code.
personal conflict with the matter being discussed.
If a conflict does objectives and its Committees arise, the Director is excluded from discussions.
Promote a Boardroom culture that is rooted in the principles To keep the Chairman and Board appraised of important Non-Executive Directors ofgood governance and enables transparency, debate and andstrategic issues facing the Group The Non-Executive Directors play an important role in ensuring An example of this policy in effect, is in relation to Richard Dakin, challenge To ensure that the Groups business is conducted with the thatno individual or group dominates the Boards decision making.
whois the Managing Director of Capital Advisors Limited a whollyEnsure that the Board as a whole plays a full and constructive highest standards of integrity, in keeping with our culture Itis therefore of paramount importance that their independence owned subsidiary of CBRE who are the Groups external valuers.
part in the development of strategy and that there is sufficient Manage the Groups risk profile, including the maintenance ismaintained.
Tomitigate against a potential conflict of interest, Richard does not time for Boardroom discussion ofappropriate health, safety and environmental policies take part in any discussions on the valuation of the Groups property Effective engagement between the Board and its shareholders The Chairman held a number of meetings with the Non-Executive portfolio at either Board or Committee level.
In addition, he has no Finance Director and other Executive Directors Directors without executive management being present.
involvement inany decisions regarding the appointment of CBRE or Senior Independent Director Support the CEO in developing and implementing strategy Thesemeetings are useful to safeguard the independence of the fees paid to them.
During the annual performance evaluation of Provide a sounding board for the Chairman in matters of Oversee the day-to-day activities of the Group ourNon-Executive Directors by providing them with time to discuss the Board, itsCommittees and individual Directors, the impact of this governance or the performance of the Board Manage, motivate and develop staff their views in a more private environment.
role on Richards independence has been considered.
Available to shareholders if they have concerns which have not Develop business plans in collaboration with the Board been resolved through the normal channels of communication Ensure that the policies and practices set by the Board are Any Director who has concerns about the running of the Group or a The Board continue to conclude that Richard remains independent with the Company adopted at all levels of the Group proposed course of action is encouraged to express those concerns both in character and judgement.
To at least annually lead a meeting of the Non-Executive which are then minuted.
No such concerns were raised during 2018.
Directors without the Chairman present to appraise the Company Secretary performance of the Chairman Secretary to the Board and its Committees All Directors have confirmed as they are required to do annually COMPOSITION, SUCCESSION AND EVALUATION To act as an intermediary for Non-Executive Directors when Develop Board and Committee agendas and collate and thatthey have been able to allocate sufficient time to discharge their necessary distribute papers responsibilities effectively.
Training and development To act as an independent point of contact in the Groups Ensure compliance with Board procedures With the ever-changing environment in which Derwent London whistleblowing procedures Advise on regulatory compliance and corporate governance Facilitate induction programmes The Board considers that our Non-Executive Directors remain operates, it is important for our Executive and Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors NEDs Responsible for the organisation of the Annual General Meeting independent from executive management and free from any Directors to remain aware of recent, and upcoming, developments.
Provide constructive challenge to our executives, help to Available to support all Directors business or other relationship which could materially interfere with We require all Directors to keep their knowledge and skills up-to-date develop proposals on strategy and monitor performance the exercise of their judgement.
and include training discussions with the Chairman in their annual against our KPIs performance reviews.
Executive Committee Other external appointments Ensure that no individual or group dominates the Boards Delivering the Boards strategy is the collective responsibility of the Our Directors are required to notify the Chairman of any alterations As required, we invite professional advisers to provide in-depth decision making Executive Committee.
Following Jennifer Whybrows promotion to totheir external commitments that arise during the year with an updates.
Updates and training are not solely reserved for legislative Promote the highest standards of integrity and corporate the Committee in July 2018, it is composed of six Executive indication of the time commitment involved.
developments but aim to cover a range of issues including, but not governance throughout the Company and particularly at Directors and six senior managers see page 90. limited to, market trends, the economic and political environment, Boardlevel On 1 May 2018, Stephen Young became a Non-Executive Director of environmental, technological and social considerations.
Our Company Determine appropriate levels of remuneration for the senior To assist the Committee, a number of supporting committees have Mondi Limited and Mondi plc and on 1 November 2018, Claudia Arney Secretary provides regular updates to the Board and itsCommittees executives been established, to provide additional oversight of key business Review the integrity of financial reporting and that financial became a Non-Executive Director of Kingfisher plc.
Stephen and on regulatory and corporate governance matters.
activities and risks see page 87.
The Committee usually meets controls and systems of risk management are robust Claudia both notified our Chairman in advance of their appointments, monthly and can also meet on an ad hoc basis.
This, together with and the Board has confirmed that it does not believe that these During 2019, we have organised presentations for the Board and the close proximity within which we work, enables us to handle additional directorships will affect either Stephens or Claudias itsCommittees on the following topics: complex transactions and make quick decisions, with the overall commitment to, or involvement with, the Derwent London Board aim of creating value and driving income growth.
norwill it give rise to a potential conflict of interest.
climate change: responsibility reporting: Executive Directors cyber risk management: Executive Directors may accept a non-executive role at another regular Audit Committee training sessions which will include company with the approval of the Board.
Currently, none of our anupdate on accounting standards : and Executive Directors are directors of other listed companies.
executive remuneration trends and best practice.
However, several of our Executive Directors are Trustees of  or members of industry-related bodies.
All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretaryand any Director may instigate an agreed procedure whereby independent professional advice may be sought at the Companysexpense.
98 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Governance 99 Board composition as at 1 January 2019 Evaluation CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED On an annual basis, an evaluation process is undertaken which Tenure of the Non-Executive Directors considers the effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors.
This review identifies areas for improvement, Years Board composition of53.8% independent Non-Executive Directors excluding the informs training plans for our Directors and identifies areas of Under 3 2 At Derwent London, we ensure that appointments to our Board are Chairman as at 1 January 2019.
Following the Board succession knowledge, expertise or diversity which should be considered 3-6 3 made solely on merit with the overriding objective of ensuring that changes and the retirement of Robbie Rayne and Stephen Young, inoursuccession plans.
6-9 2 the Board maintains the correct balance of skills, length of service theBoard will be composed of 54.5% independent Non-Executive 9 0 and knowledge of the Group to successfully determine the Directors excluding the Chairman as at 31 December 2019.
The evaluation for the year ended 31 December 2018 was conducted Groupsstrategy.
in Q1 2019 and consisted of a questionnaire which focused on any As part of the Boards annual effectiveness review, described on areas raised for further improvement in the prior year evaluation Appointments are made based on the recommendation of the page 99, the Nominations Committee considers the composition andhow the Board handled particular topics in 2018, including: Nominations Committee with due consideration given to the benefits ofthe Board and its Committees in terms of its balance of skills of diversity in its widest sense, including gender, social and ethnic detailed in the table below, experience, length of service, Areas of focus for 2018 Progress backgrounds.
The charts on page 99 provide an overview of our knowledgeof the Group and wider diversity considerations.
People and talent Oversaw the introduction of Fit for Boardroom diversity.
management theFuture initiatives see page 78.
The Nominations Committee has confirmed that the membership Appointed Cilla Snowball to be the Directorresponsible for gathering the The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 recommends that at least ofthe Committees continues to be appropriate and in accordance Gender balance of the Board viewsof our workforce.
half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should be composed with best practice and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Gender pay Established targets and focus areas ofindependent Non-Executive Directors.
Our Board is composed Gender toimprove the representation of women insenior management see page 102.
Female 4 Monitored the gender balance of new Male 10 Directors skills and experiences recruits, leavers and interns see page 103.
An effective Board requires the right mix of skills and experience.
Our Board is a diverse and effective team focused on promoting the Succession planning Finalised Board succession plans for long-term success of the Group.
The table below provides an overview of the skills and experience of our Directors as at 1 January 2019. at Board level theNon-Executive Chairman and Following the appointment of Lucinda Bell as a Non-Executive Director, we have further increased our Boards financial, property and ChiefExecutive see page 100. corporate responsibility experience.
Received positive feedback from major shareholders representing 57.5% of our Number of issued share capital on the Boards Non-Executive 29% Directors Number of succession plans.
including the Executive Female Compliance matters Received regular updates on the Groups Skills and experience i Chairman Directors including GDPR project to ensure GDPR compliance Executive and strategic leadership from May 2018.
Senior executive and directorship experience 8 6 The policies and procedures to prevent the Independence of the Board Financial acumen facilitation of tax evasion see page 114. excluding the Chairman Senior executive experience in financial accounting, reporting or corporate finance 5 3 Status In addition, the questionnaire sought feedback on the following Property and real estate Independent 7 matters: Experience in property development, construction or real estate management 4 6 Executive 6 Governance and compliance composition of the Board and its Committees including diversity Prior experience as a Board member, industry or membership of governance bodies 8 4 considerations : Corporate responsibility and community relations knowledge, skills and experience of the Committees: Experience in corporate or social responsibility, charitable bodies or human resources 5 5 how the Directors work together and contribute to meetings: and the quantity, quality and timeliness of reports papers.
Health and safety, risk management Experience in health and safety, risk management or internal controls 5 2 54% The responses were collated and provided on an anonymous basis Investor relations and engagement Independent tothe Chairman of the Board and the Chairs of the Committees.
Experience in investor relations private or institutional and engagement 8 6 Capital projects Asaresult of this evaluation, the Board is satisfied that its structure, Experience working in an industry with projects involving large-scale capital outlays and 7 6 balance of skills and operation continues to be satisfactory and long-term investment horizons appropriate for the Group.
The Board has identified a number of Remuneration areas which it wishes to focus upon during 2019: Prior Remuneration Committee membership and or experience in relation to remuneration 5 1 including incentive programmes support the new Chief Executive and Non-Executive Chairman: Notes: establish the Responsible Business Committee and ensure it i Requires senior management or executive level responsibility relative to that skill operates effectively: ensure the Group is adequately prepared for Brexit: and monitor the progress of key development projects.
We conduct externally facilitated reviews at least every three years.
As the last external review was for the year ended 31 December 2016, we anticipate that our next externally facilitated review will be conducted in Q1 2020 for the year ending 31 December 2019.
