100 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Governance 101 Dear Shareholder, Committee composition Chief Executive I am pleased to present to you the report of the work of the Our Committee consists of three independent Non-Executive Russell Reynolds Associates, an independent search agency, Nominations Committee for 2018.
At the request of the Committee, members of the Executive wereretained to assist the Committee with the search for a new NOMINATIONS Chief Executive they perform no other work for the Group and Committee, senior management team and external advisers may be As previously identified in our 2017 Annual Report, Board succession invited to attend all or part of any meeting, asandwhen appropriate.
aresignatories to the voluntary code of conduct for executive has been a key priority during 2018.
We had been mindful for some searchfirms.
Russell Reynolds Associates carried out a detailed time that Robbie Rayne and John Burns might wish to retire from assessment of the available external candidates as well as the Number of COMMITTEE their current roles and had factored this possibility into our Independent meetings Attendance internal candidates.
Simon Fraser, Chair Yes 4 100% The importance of retaining the Groups strong culture and the Cilla Snowball Yes 4 100% A key factor in our succession plans has always been the importance extensive experience of the senior management team was of Richard Dakin Yes 4 100% REPORT of retaining the culture of the Group, which is a valuable core strength paramount importance.
It was after careful deliberation that of the business.
The appointment of John Burns as the next theCommittee unanimously recommended the appointment Non-Executive Chairman of the Company, for a two-year term, It has been agreed by the Board that all Non-Executive Directors would ofPaulWilliams as Chief Executive from 17 May 2019. wasanatural transitionary step to preserve our culture and ensure become members of the Nominations Committee to ensure they are an orderly succession.
involved in discussions relating to succession planning andtalent Non-Executive Directors management.
Therefore, with effect from 1 January 2019, Claudia At the beginning of the year, we began the search for a successor In advance of finalising our succession plans, I consulted with Arney, Lucinda Bell and Helen Gordon will become membersof the forStephen Young who intends to step down, after nine years on the 10major shareholders representing 57.5% of our issued share Nominations Committee.
The Committees role and responsibilities Board, in May 2019.
Stephen has brought considerable knowledge capital to explain the Committees rationale for Johns appointment.
are set out in the terms ofreference, which were last updated in and oversight as chair of the Audit Committee.
It was therefore During my discussions with shareholders and proxy voting agencies, August 2018 and are available on the Companys website at: akeycomponent of our specification that a new member of the Iprovided assurance that the Committee had factored the principles www.
com investors governance board-committees Boardbring a similar level of financial expertise and experience.
of good corporate governance into its planning, which included the Dueto itswide network of contacts, the Committee was able to following safeguards to ensure the separation of leadership Meetings of the Committee identify potential candidates without the use of an external search between the Chairman and Chief Executive: During the year under review, the Committee held four meetings consultancy or open advertising.
inMay, August, and two in November 2017: four meetings.
Johns appointment is for a finite period of two years and he will Inaddition to the scheduled meetings, the chair of the Committee We were delighted that Lucinda Bell joined our Board on 1 January be based at a separate office not 25 Savile Row : met with advisers and brokers for three meetings and held ad hoc 2019 and will succeed Stephen as chair of the Audit Committee.
Lucindas biography is available on page 89.
The responsibilities of Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly calls inrelation to Board succession.
defined and regularly reviewed: The next Non-Executive Chairman will be independent upon Board composition Executive Committee appointment: and As part of the Boards annual effectiveness review, described on The Committee also monitors the development of the executive team I remain available as an intermediary to shareholders and page 99, the Committee considers the composition of the Board and below the Board to ensure that there is a diverse supply of senior Directors to raise any questions and concerns.
its Committees in terms of its balance of skills, experience, length of executives and potential future Board members with appropriate service, knowledge of the Group and wider diversity considerations.
The Executive Committee considers the I was pleased with the overwhelming support received from our In addition, consideration was given to the Committee s which adequacy of the Groups succession plans below the Board as part of Simon Fraser shareholders who posed no objections to our proposals and support Lucinda Bell would join following her appointment.
The Committee the five-year strategy review and provides updates to the Committee.
Chair of the Nominations Committee John stepping into the role of Chairman until May 2021. consulted its succession plans and considered Lucindas skills and experience before recommending her memberships to the Board.
Appointment review In conjunction with our Chairman succession planning, we undertook The Committee performed a rigorous review of Claudia Arneys, a thorough recruitment process for the role of Chief Executive.
Following the annual effectiveness review, it was confirmed that CillaSnowballs and Simon Frasers appointments, as their current FOCUS AREAS IN 2019 term of office was due toexpire in 2018.
None of the Non-Executive Thecalibre of our internal senior team is outstanding, and the themembership of the Committees continues to be appropriate Committee commends them for their commitment and passion for andin accordance with best practice and the 2016 UK Corporate Directors were present when their term ofappointment was Continue to focus on succession planning and our talent the business.
It was after careful deliberation that the Committee Governance Code.
pipeline unanimously recommended the appointment of Paul Williams as Monitor the induction programme for Lucinda Bell Chief Executive from 17 May 2019.
Succession planning The Committee is pleased to report that it is satisfied with the Begin the search for our next Non-Executive Chairman As Directors we have a duty to ensure the long-term success of the ongoing performance and commitment of Claudia, Cilla and Simon If you wish to discuss any aspect of the Committees activities or Company, which includes ensuring that we have a steady supply of and has recommended that their appointments be extended for succession plans, I will be attending the forthcoming AGM on 17 May talent for executive positions and established succession plans for another three years.
2019 and would welcome your questions.
I am also available via our Board changes.
The Committee considers the Groups succession Company Secretary, David Lawler telephone: 44 0 20 7659 3000 planning on a regular basis to ensure that changes to the Board are oremail: company.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank our shareholders fortheir continuing support.
Non-Executive Directors NED terms of appointment The Committee monitors a schedule on the length of tenure of the Non-Executive Directors, and reviews potential departure dates assuming Simon Fraser the relevant Directors are not permitted to serve more than three three-year terms see the table below.
Chair of the Nominations Committee Term of Appointment 26 February 2019 Appointment 3 years 6 years 9 years i Stephen Young 2 August 2010 3 August 2013 4 August 2016 5 August 2019 Simon Fraser 1 September 2012 1 September 2015 1 September 2018 1 September 2021 Richard Dakin 6 August 2013 6 August 2016 6 August 2019 6 August 2022 Claudia Arney 18 May 2015 18 May 2018 18 May 2021 18 May 2024 Cilla Snowball 1 September 2015 1 September 2018 1 September 2021 1 September 2024 Helen Gordon 1 January 2018 1 January 2021 1 January 2024 1 January 2027 Lucinda Bell 1 January 2019 1 January 2022 1 January 2025 1 January 2028 Note: i Stephen Young will step down from the Board on 17 May 2019.
102 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Governance 103 Diversity focus areas NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The Board has established clear focus areas which aim to promote the importance of diversity at all stages from attracting diverse and talented employees through to retention and promotion.
Area Focus Actions Induction Board diversity Tackle unconscious bias Unconscious bias training to be provided to all staff The Company provides new Directors with a comprehensive and A diversified Board brings constructive challenge and fresh involved in recruitment or performance appraisals in Candidate shortlists to have gender balance tailored induction process which includes visiting a number of the perspectives to discussions.
We consider diversity, inits widest May 2019.
Groups properties with senior management, meetings with the sense and not limited to gender, during our Board composition All recruiters are signatories to the Standard Attracting diverse, highly skilled Executives and Heads of Departments will complete Groups audit partner and corporate lawyer together with meetings reviews and during the development of recruitment specifications.
Voluntary Code of Practice and talented employees tests to enhance awareness of own unconscious bias.
with members of the senior management team.
Our gender diversity policy ensures that, where possible, each time Recruit from a wide pool of talent Monitored the gender balance of new recruits and aDirector is recruited, at least oneofthe short list of candidates includingwomen returning to work leavers 67% of professional recruits since 1 January If considered appropriate, new Directors are provided with external isfemale.
training that addresses their role and duties as a Director of a quoted Focus on women returning to work Identified the perceived barriers to agile working which public company.
While we have identified areas where we could further improve our will be addressed during 2019.
Promote the importance of work life balance diversity balance, principally our ethnic and gender diversity, we do Retaining the best talent Introduction of parental transition coaching for men andwomen taking paternity maternity leave which Lucindas induction programme followed a similar structure to not positively discriminate during the recruitment process and are isprovided in advance, during and upon their return.
HelenGordons, which was described in detail on page 103 of the conscious that altering the diversity ofthe Board can only be done 2017 Annual Report.
Induction programmes are developed by the inconjunction with the underlying Board refreshment programme.
Gender balance within our internships and Four female Group employees took part in an Inspire Groups Company Secretarial department and approved by the work experience placements event which aimed to challenge industry stereotypes.
Gender diversity targets Aim to encourage more girls to be interested Two young women recruited through the Hackney 100 The Board are aiming to achieve the recommendations of the Promoting diversity in the construction and property industry and work experience scheme.
challenge harmful gender stereotyping Diversity and inclusion Hampton-Alexander Review and have 33% female representation 24% of our interns were female 2017: 29%.
Two of our Having a diverse, highly talented and skilled group of people at all onits Board, Executive Committee and senior management teams Heads of Department demonstrate that we interns were via the Fitzrovia Youth in Action charity.
are an inclusive employer levels at Derwent London is fundamental to our business success.
direct reports to the Executive Committee by 31 December 2020.
Diversity and inclusion bring new ideas and fresh perspectives which fuel innovation and creativity.
This is why we actively work to attract, Following the appointment of Lucinda Bell on 1 January 2019, our retain and develop employees to improve our talent pipeline.
gender balance at Board level has further improved to be 29% The Groups composition and diversity women 2017: 23%.
From 17 May 2019, the Boards succession We have an experienced, diverse and dedicated workforce.
The charts below provide a breakdown of our diversity as at 1 January 2019. plansbecome effective, which results in: We fully support, and are signatories to, the Property Week TheBoards composition as at 1 January 2019 is shown on page 99.
DiversityCharter and the RICS Inclusive Employer Quality Mark.
Length of service Gender diversity Weare founding supporters of Real Estate Balance and we are the gender balance of the Executive Committee being 18% alsomembers of the City Women Network CWN which provides women the combined gender balance of the Executive Years Number membership to all our senior female employees.
Committee and its direct reports is 29.2% women : and 69 Under 3 38 All Boardroom diversity improving to 33% women which achieves employees 55 3-5 17 During the year, we hosted a CWN event at 25 Savile Row on the the Hampton-Alexander targets well in advance of the 5-10 32 10 Changing workplace presented by Monica Parker HATCH Analytics.
the Chairman 4 10-15 17 Monica was an exceptional speaker who brought to the forefront 15-20 10 theimportance of change to facilitate diversity in a practical and The Board is confident it will achieve the gender balance target for 35 Executive Committee 20 10 and its direct reports thought-provoking manner.
We were delighted that a large number the direct reports to the Executive Committee, however the gender 14 ofour own staff attended the event.
balance of the Executive Committee is likely to remain achallenge.
Men Improving the diversity of the Executive Committee can only be Women achieved through either increasing the size of the Committee whichis not considered a practical or effective solution or through natural succession changes.
Although it is disappointing that this target might not be achieved within the deadline, the Committee is focusing on the talent pipeline to the Executive Committee and the Employees by age Ethnic origin Boards focus areas which aim to improve diversity throughout theGroup.
Years Number 20-29 10 Asian 11 Hampton-Alexander Review 30-39 39 Black 9 i Target Progress during 2018 1 January 2019 Note 40-49 34 Middle Eastern 1 Board 6% 29% 33% 50-59 27 Mixed 7 Achieve the recommendations of the ii 60 14 White British 83 Hampton-Alexander Review and have Executive Committee 8% 17% 18% 33%female representation iii White other 13 Direct reports to the Executive Committee 3% 32% n a Notes: i Diversity balance of the Board and Executive Committee following the implementation of the announced succession plans due to become effective from 17 May 2019. ii The combined diversity balance of the Executive Committee and its direct reports excluding administrative and support staff is 28.6% women as at 1 January 2019. iii Direct reports to the Executive Committee, excluding administrative and support staff, is 32.4% women.
Direct reports to the Executive Committee, including administrative andsupport staff, is 46.0% women.
