64 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report Letter from the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Company Secretary Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Board, we are pleased to present the corporate governance report for the year ended 30 June 2018.
The purpose of the report is to set out Diageos corporate governance structures and procedures, and to describe how the Board, its committees and the Executive Committee work.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the corporate governance of Diageo, being the way in which the company is directed and controlled.
The Boards responsibilities include: setting strategic aims and values: providing the leadership to put them into effect: supervising and constructively challenging management, who have responsibility for day to day operational running of the business: and reporting to shareholders on their stewardship.
We continue to believe that Diageos Board demonstrates suitable and appropriate behaviours and independence, and that its composition includes a diverse range of experience, skills and backgrounds, which as a whole enables the Board to discharge its duties.
There has been continued debate over the past twelve months on the need for effective corporate governance in the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Board strongly believes that the maintenance of strong corporate governance is critical in enabling sustainable long-term business performance as well as in enhancing the reputation and standing of Diageo.
The principal corporate governance rules applying to Diageo as a UK company listed on the London Stock Exchange LSE for the year ended 30 June 2018 are contained in The UK Corporate Governance Code as updated and published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in April 2016 the Code and the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA Listing Rules, which require us to describe, in our Annual Report, our corporate governance from two points of view: the first dealing generally with our application of the Codes main principles and the second dealing specifically with non-compliance with any of the Codes provisions.
The two descriptions together are designed to give shareholders a picture of governance arrangements in relation to the Code as a criterion of good practice.
Throughout the year, Diageo has complied with all relevant provisions set out in the Code, which is publicly available under the heading Corporate Governance at the website of the FRC, www.
Diageo must also comply with corporate governance rules contained in the FCA Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules as well as certain related provisions in the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
As well as being subject to UK legislation and practice, as a company listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, Diageo is subject to the listing requirements of the NYSE and the rules of the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, as they apply to foreign private issuers.
Compliance with the provisions of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 SOX, as it applies to foreign private issuers, is continually monitored.
As Diageo follows UK corporate governance practice, differences from the NYSE corporate governance standards are summarised in Diageos 20-F filing and on our website at www.
com en-row ourbusiness aboutus corporategovernance.
J Ferrn D Harlock Chairman Company Secretary
