68 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Report of the Audit Committee Report of the Audit Committee Letter from the Chairman of the Audit Committee Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present its report for the year ended 30 June 2018.
The purpose of this report is to describe how the Committee has carried out its responsibilities during the year.
In overview, the role of the Audit Committee is to monitor and review: the integrity of the companys financial statements: internal control and risk management: audit and risk programmes: business conduct and ethics: whistleblowing: and the appointment of the external auditor.
The work of the Committee during the year gave attention to all elements of its remit.
Over the year, the Committee continued to focus on particular topics within the companys risk management programme, including in particular detailed reviews of the changing global tax environment and emerging risks in relation to technology, including a review of the companys IT platforms and systems.
In discharging its duties, the Audit Committee seeks to balance independent oversight of the matters within its remit with providing support and guidance to management.
I am confident that the Committee, supported by members of senior management and the external auditors, has carried out its duties in the year under review effectively and to a high standard.
Alan Stewart Chairman of the Audit Committee Governance Report of the Audit Committee DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 69 Disclosure on taxation.
The committee agreed that the separate Report of the presentation of the tax risk appropriately addresses the significant change in the international tax environment and sufficient and transparent disclosures are provided for the ongoing tax AuditCommittee discussions see page 21 and note 7. Review of legal cases.
The committee agreed that adequate Role of the Audit Committee provision has been made for all material litigation and disputes, The formal role of the Audit Committee is set out in its terms of based on the currently most likely outcomes, including the reference, which are available at www.
com en-row litigation summarised in note 18. ourbusiness aboutus corporategovernance.
Key elements of the Assumptions used in respect of post employment plans.
Having role of the committee and work carried out during the year are set considered advice from external actuaries and assumptions used out as follows.
by companies with comparator plans, the committee agreed that Financial statements the assumptions used to calculate the income statement and During the year, the Audit Committee met four times and a balance sheet assets and liabilities for post employment plans sub-committee met twice and reviewed both the interim results were appropriate see note 13. announcement, which included the interim financial statements, Viability statement.
The committee noted that severe but and the annual reports and associated preliminary year end results plausible risk scenarios had been identified: a robust risk announcement, focusing on key areas of judgement and complexity, assessment had been carried out: and the groups viability critical accounting policies, provisioning and any changes required and going concern consideration proved with stress testing.
in these areas or policies.
Taking into account the companys balance sheet position, the The company has in place internal control and risk management committee expected the group to be able to meet its liabilities as systems in relation to the companys financial reporting process they fell due over the three-year period ending 30 June 2021.
The and the groups process for preparation of consolidated accounts.
risk that the group would become insolvent during this timeframe A review of the consolidated financial statements is completed by was considered remote.
The Committee recommended to the management through the work of its filings assurance committee Board that the Viability statement above be approved.
FAC to ensure that the financial position and results of the group are appropriately reflected therein.
The Audit Committee reviewed As part of its review of the Annual Report, the committee considered the work of the FAC and a report on the conclusions of the FAC whether the report is fair, balanced and understandable noting the process was provided to the Audit Committee by the Chief Codes reference to position as well as performance, business model Financial Officer.
On the basis of this work, the Audit Committee Significant issues and judgements that were considered in respect recommended to the Board that it could make the required of the 2018 financial statements were as follows.
These include the statement that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and matters relating to risks disclosed in the UK external auditors report.
Disclosure on the quality of the earnings and one off items Internal control and risk management: audit and risk programme: included in cash flow.
The committee agreed that sufficient business conduct and ethics including whistleblowing disclosure was made in the financial statements.
At each of its meetings, the Audit Committee reviewed detailed The committee determined that exceptional items are reports from the heads of the Global Risk & Compliance GRC and appropriately classified considering their size and nature, and Global Audit & Risk GAR teams including coverage of the areas sufficient disclosure is provided in the financial statements mentioned in the title of this section and had sight of the minutes see note 4. of meetings of the Executive Audit and Risk Committee.
The work Review of carrying value of assets in particular intangible assets.
and reporting to the Committee of both GRC and GAR during the The committee assessed the impairment charge recognised and year included focus on the impact of a challenging environment and agreed that at 30 June 2018 the fair value of the companys assets public policy change, cyber risk and information management.
The was in excess of their carrying value see notes 6 and 10.
Committee in turn were thus able to keep under review the operation of the controls and compliance framework in these and Adoption of new accounting standards IFRS 9 Financial other areas.
The Committee also received regular updates from the instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers group general counsel on significant litigation and from the head were adopted from the start of the year.
The committee of tax on the groups tax profile and key issues.
agreed that the adoption of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 did not require a The GRC reporting included a consideration of key risks and restatement of prior year figures and that the amount recorded in related mitigations, including those set out in the section of this other retained earnings in the year in respect of the adoption of Annual Report dealing with principal risks.
Based on this activity IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 was appropriate see note 1. during the year, the Audit Committee made a recommendation to Exchange rate used to translate operations in Venezuela.
The the Board covering the nature and extent of the risks it was willing committee determined an appropriate rate used for the year to take to achieve its strategic goals and its internal statement of risk ended 30 June 2018 for consolidation purposes, that represents appetite which was considered also by the Executive Audit and Risk the best estimation of the rate at which capital and dividend Committee.
The Board agreed this recommendation.
repatriations are expected to be realised see note 1.
70 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Report of the Audit Committee Financial expert, composition and other attendees Through the activities of the Audit Committee described in this report and its related recommendations to the Board, the Board For the purposes of the Code and the relevant rule under SOX, confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the companys section 407, the Board has determined that Alan Stewart is systems of internal control and risk management and that there independent and may be regarded as an Audit Committee financial expert, having recent and relevant financial experience, and that all were no material failings identified and no significant failings identified which require disclosure in this Annual Report.
members of the Audit Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors with relevant financial and sectoral competence.
External auditor The Chairman, the Chief Financial Officer, the group general During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the external audit counsel, the group financial controller, the head of GAR, the GRC strategy and the findings of the external auditor from its review of the director, the group chief accountant and the external auditor interim results and its audit of the consolidated financial statements.
regularly attend meetings of the committee.
The Audit Committee reviews annually the appointment of the The Audit Committee met privately with the external auditor auditor taking into account the auditors effectiveness and and with the head of GAR as appropriate.
independence and all appropriate guidelines and makes a recommendation to the Board accordingly.
Any decision to open Training and deep dives the external audit to tender is taken on the recommendation of the During the year, the Audit Committee had risk reviews and training Audit Committee.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict sessions, presented by senior executives, on indirect tax and restrictions on marketing and availability of alcoholic products, the companys current choice of external auditor.
Following the last tender process, PwC was appointed as auditor of the company in preparation for implementation of the GDPR, the companys current 2015 and the current audit partner is Ian Chambers.
and future technology infrastructure, and its cyber security risk The company has complied with the provisions of The Statutory management processes.
Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 CMA Order for the year ended 30 June 2018.
The Audit Committee assesses the ongoing effectiveness and quality of the external auditor and audit process on the basis of meetings and a questionnaire-based internal review with the finance team and other senior executives.
The group has a policy on auditor independence and on the use of the external auditor for non-audit services, which is reviewed annually, most recently in July 2018.
The review took into consideration the new regulations on non-audit services.
Under this policy, the provision of any non-audit service must be approved by the Audit Committee, unless the proposed service is both expected to cost less than 250,000 and also falls within one of a number of service categories which the Audit Committee has pre-approved.
Fees paid to the auditor for audit, audit related and other services are analysed in note 3 b to the consolidated financial statements.
The nature and level of all services provided by the external auditor is a factor taken into account by the Audit Committee when it reviews annually the independence of the external auditor.
