38 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE WITH A PROVEN STRATEGY AND THE SUPPORT OF AN EXPERIENCED GROUP OF MANAGERS ON THE EMC, THE BOARD IS CONFIDENT THAT IT REMAINS IN A STRONG POSITION TO MEET THE LIKELY CHALLENGES DURING THIS TRANSITION YEAR John Nicholas, Chairman Members of Board Attendance The Remuneration Committee has also spent considerable time on CEO succession matters relating to the recruitment of Richard Chairman Ingram and then after the year end in relation to the financial John Nicholas 10 10 settlement when he departed the Group.
Further details of this work are included in the Committee report on pages 56 and 57.
Independent nonExecutive Directors Andy Smith 10 10 2018 has been the first year for the new Group auditor, Charles Packshaw 10 10  PwC and the Audit Committee Anne Thorburn 9 10 has worked closely with both PwC and the Groups finance departments to ensure a smooth transition from Deloitte LLP Executive Directors and an effective audit.
Further details of this work are in the Nigel Lingwood 10 10 Committee report on pages 44 and 45.
Bruce Thompson retired on 8 May 2018 4 5 Richard Ingram 23 April 2018 to 28 August 2018 3 3 In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board held an externally facilitated evaluation towards the end of this year.
The review was facilitated by Clare Chalmers leading to a report on her DEAR SHAREHOLDER observations which in October was discussed by the Board.
I am The Board and its Committees have had a busy year in 2018.
At the pleased to report that this report confirmed that the Board and start of the year, the Nomination Committee was focused on the Committees were operating effectively, but I recognise there is recruitment of a new CEO to succeed Bruce Thompson.
That always scope for improvement.
I am working with the Company process concluded in January 2018 with the announcement that Secretary on the suggestions arising from the report and will report Richard Ingram would join the Group in the Spring.
I reported last on progress next year.
year that the Board recognised that the period of transition to a new CEO was likely to be challenging but I had not anticipated that John Nicholas these challenges would lead to Richard being asked to leave the 19 November 2018 Group at the end of August.
The Committee is again conducting a search for a suitable successor and is working with a different search firm with a revised specification.
In the interim, my colleagues have asked me to assume the role of interim Executive Chairman which I have agreed to do.
The Board also reviewed the appropriateness and future potential of the Groups strategy during the year.
The current strategy has proven to be resilient and successful over several years and the Board had no hesitation in confirming continued support.
Membership of the Executive Management Committee has recently been broadened to reflect the future requirements of the Group, further appointments, including that of an HR professional are planned for this year.
Details of the Committee are set out on pages 36 and 37.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 39 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 FRAMEWORK OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THE BOARD NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Diploma PLC Board is accountable to the Companys Chaired by John Nicholas shareholders for standards of Governance across the Groups Number of meetings in the year: four businesses.
Certain strategic decision-making powers and authorities of the Company are reserved as matters for the Board.
Role of the Committee The principal matters reserved for the Board are set out below.
The Nomination Committee regularly reviews the structure, size Day-to-day operational decisions are managed by the Chief and composition of the Board and its Committees.
It identifies and Executive Officer.
nominates suitable candidates to be appointed to the Board subject to Board approval and considers succession generally.
Setting the overall strategic direction and oversight of the management of Diploma PLC.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Recommending or declaring dividends.
Chaired by Andy Smith Approval of the Group and Company financial statements.
Number of meetings in the year: six Approval of new bank facilities, or significant changes to existing facilities.
Role of the Committee Assessment and approval of the principal risks facing the Group The Committee reviews and recommends to the Board, the and how they are being managed.
framework and policy for the remuneration of the Chairman and Approval of the Viability Statement.
The remuneration of the non-Executive Maintaining sound internal control and risk management systems.
Directors is determined by the Chairman and the Executive Approval of major corporate transactions and commitments.
The Committee takes into account the business strategy Succession planning and appointments to the Board.
of the Group and how remuneration policy should reflect and Review of the Groups overall corporate governance support that strategy.
arrangements and reviewing the performance of the Board and its Committees annually.
LEADERSHIP Approval of the delegation of authority between the Chairman Board composition and the Chief Executive Officer and the terms of reference of all The Board comprises a Chairman, one Executive Director and three Committees of the Board.
The non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms and the details of their respective Where appropriate, matters are delegated to a Committee, which appointments are set out in the Remuneration Committee Report will consider them in accordance with its terms of reference.
The biographical details of the Board members are set of each Committees terms of reference are available on the out on pages 36 and 37.
Diploma PLC website at www.
John Nicholas is Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Each of the three independent nonAUDIT COMMITTEE Executive Directors performs additional roles: Charles Packshaw Chaired by Anne Thorburn serves as Senior Independent Director, Andy Smith is Chairman of Number of meetings in the year: five the Remuneration Committee and Anne Thorburn is Chair of the Audit Committee.
Role of the Committee The Audit Committee has responsibility for overseeing and Activities of the Board monitoring the Companys financial statements, accounting The Companys governance framework is set out above together processes, audit internal and external, internal control systems with a summary of the formal terms of reference.
The core and risk management procedures and also monitors issues relating activities of the Board and its Committees are planned on an to fraud, anti-bribery and corruption, sanctions and whistleblowing.
annual basis and this framework forms the basic structure within which the Board operates.
The Boards terms of reference also set out the separate and distinct roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE Diploma PLC is required to state how it has applied the Main Committee has appointed an external search agency to assist the Principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, Board with the appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer.
On issued by the Financial Reporting Council in April 2016.
Set out on appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer, John Nicholas will relinquish his role as interim Executive Chairman and revert to his pages 40 to 42 is an explanation of how the Company has applied the Main Principles of the 2016 Code.
previous role as non-Executive Chairman.
The Board confirms that throughout the financial year, the The Companys auditor  LLP, is required Company applied all of the Principles set out in sections A to E of to review whether this statement reflects the Companys the Code for the period under review.
The Board also confirms compliance with the Provisions of the Code specified for their that it complies with all of the Provisions of the Code, with the review by the Listing Rules of the FCA and to report if it does not single exception of A.
2.1 as explained below: reflect such compliance.
The Code requires that the role of Chairman and Chief Executive In July 2018, the FRC issued a new Code which will be mandatory Officer should not be exercised by the same individual.
While this for the Company in respect of the year ending September 2020. is ordinarily the case for the Company, following the departure of The Board will assess its governance practices against the Richard Ingram, Chief Executive Officer, on 28 August 2018, the provisions of the new Code during 2019 and will report on its Board appointed John Nicholas as interim Executive Chairman implementation in next years Annual Report & Accounts.
until a new Chief Executive Officer is appointed.
The Nomination 40 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED EFFECTIVENESS The Chairman is responsible for the overall leadership and governance Independent nonExecutive Directors of the Board and ensures that the Directors have an understanding of The non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board to be the views of the Companys major shareholders.
The Chairman sets independent in character and judgement and there are no the Boards agenda and ensures that there is a healthy culture of relationships or circumstances that could affect, or appear to challenge and debate at Board and Committee meetings.
The Chairman, John Nicholas was considered independent by the Board both at the time of his The Board appoints the Chief Executive Officer and monitors their appointment as Director on 1 June 2013 and as Chairman on performance in leading the Company and providing operational 21 January 2015.
John Nicholas was appointed interim Executive and performance management in delivering the agreed strategy.
Chairman on 28 August 2018 following the departure of Richard The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for developing, for the Ingram, Chief Executive Officer, until a permanent Chief Executive Boards approval, appropriate values, culture and standards to Officer is appointed.
guide all activities undertaken by the Company and for maintaining good relationships and communications with investors.
All non-Executive Directors are advised of the likely time commitments at appointment.
The ability of individual The approval of acquisitions, for the most part, is a matter reserved Directors to allocate sufficient time to the discharge of their for the Board, save that it delegates to the Chief Executive Officer responsibilities is considered as part of the Directors annual the responsibility for such activities to a specified level of authority.
evaluation process, overseen by the Chairman.
Any issues Similarly, there are authority levels covering capital expenditure concerning the Chairmans time commitment are dealt with by the that can be exercised by the Chief Executive Officer.
Beyond these Nomination Committee, chaired for this purpose by the Senior levels of authority, projects are referred to the Board for approval.
Other matters reserved to the Board include treasury policies, Each non-Executive Director is required to inform the Board of any internal control and risk management.
changes to their other appointments.
To ensure that non-Executive Directors can constructively During the year, the Chairman has also held meetings with the challenge and support proposals on strategy, the Board has non-Executive Directors, without the Executive Directors present.
adopted a process of reviewing and approving the agreed strategy for the Company on a three-yearly basis.
The Board met in October The appointment of non-Executive Directors are subject to formal, 2018 and reviewed an update of the Companys strategy.
A more rigorous and transparent procedures which are described more structured and formal review will be undertaken by a new Chief fully in the Nomination Committee Report which is set out on Executive Officer, in the year following appointment.
Meetings of the Board Diversity The Board has seven scheduled meetings during the financial year The Board is committed to a culture of equal opportunity but will meet more frequently if required.
In 2018 the Board had an anddiversity to attract and retain talented people to deliver additional three meetings largely as a consequence of matters outstanding performance and further enhance the success of relating to the appointment and subsequent departure of the Chief theGroup.
In that culture, diversity across a wide range of criteria is valued, Each Director is expected to attend all meetings of the Board or including skills, knowledge and experience as well as gender, Committees of which they are a member.
In addition, senior ethnicity, religion and sexual orientation.
People are appointed on management from across the Group and advisors attend certain merit, in an equal opportunities environment and without any form meetings for the discussion of specific items in greater depth.
of positive or negative discrimination.
External consultants, when used, are made aware of this policy.
Bruce Thompson and Anne Thorburn were unable to attend the Board meeting on 11 December 2017 and 25 September 2018, The Nomination Committee reviews the structure, size, respectively.
Both meetings were called at short notice.
diversity, balance and composition of the Board and makes recommendations to the Board concerning the reappointment The Board ensures that at least one of the scheduled meetings is of any non-Executive Director at the conclusion of their specified held on site at one of the Groups facilities, where the Board has an term of office and in the identification and nomination of new opportunity to both receive presentations from local management Directors.
The principal objective of the Nomination Committee and meet employees of that business.
In August 2018, the Boards is to ensure that all candidates have appropriate knowledge, scheduled meeting was held at Cablecrafts facility in Houghton ability and experience for the role.
At this meeting the Board received presentations from senior management in Cablecraft and had an opportunity to view The Board supports the recommendations of the Hamptonthe facility and meet with employees to gain a better understanding Alexander review on gender diversity but believes that other types of the products and operations managed from this facility.
of diversity are equally important.
The Board is currently diverse across a range of criteria, but it is committed to strengthen that In October 2018, the Board approved a report on an update of diversity, including gender and ethnic diversity, when appropriate the Groups strategic objectives for the three years ending opportunities arise.
The Board will also take account of its objective 30 September 2021.
This report was prepared on a top down basis to meet the Hampton-Alexander review targets before the end of with substantial input from the Executive Management Committee the next Board rotation of non-Executive Directors.
Additional EMC and supported by a detailed financial model which was information on diversity can be found on page 34. used to assess different scenarios over the strategy period.
As part of this exercise members of the EMC met for two days in London in July 2018 to review their business strategy and the opportunities to develop their Sectors, including their acquisition strategy.
Based on the output from this meeting, a report was prepared by the interim Executive Chairman and Group Finance Director and was presented to and approved by the Board on 2 October 2018.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 41 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 Information and professional development A written report was provided to all Board members that An induction programme is agreed for all new Directors aimed concluded that the Board had a collegiate culture led by a at ensuring that they are able to develop an understanding and capable and experienced Chairman: it added that there were awareness of the Groups core processes, its people and sound governance and Board processes, with a successful and businesses.
The non-Executive Directors awareness of the well-supported remuneration policy and that there was good businesses is further developed through periodic visits to the and detailed financial reporting.
principal business locations and presentations to the Board by senior management of the businesses.
In 2018, the Board The report also set out 16 suggestions for the Board to consider received presentations from senior management of the relating to Board Dynamics and Culture, Board and Executive Skills Cablecraft business.
and Succession, Strategic Focus, Communication &Stakeholders, Risk, Committees and Information Quality andBoard Papers.
Following a new appointment to the Board, a managed induction programme is arranged that includes a visit by the Director to the The Board met in early October to discuss the report and Clare major business units in each of the Groups Sectors where they Chalmers was invited to the meeting to facilitate an in-depth have an opportunity to meet with senior management in these discussion of these sixteen suggestions.
Meetings are also held individually between each of the Chairman and the Group Company Secretary were tasked with the non-Executive Directors and the Executive Directors and with producing an action list and timetable for the Board to implement some of the principal advisors to the Company.
A managed and the salient recommendations, details and progress against which thorough induction programme was also arranged following the will be reported on in next years Annual Report & Accounts.
appointment of the Chief Executive Officer in May 2018.
This programme provided for one-to-one meetings with members of In those years when an external evaluation is not performed, the Board, members of the EMC and key advisors to the theBoard undertakes an internal evaluation of the Boards Company, together with substantive visits to the Groups effectiveness using specially designed evaluation forms under principal businesses.
This exercise encompasses an evaluation of the performance of the Board as a whole, as well as The Chairman, with the assistance of the Chief Executive Officer of each of the Committees and individuals.
Feedback on Board and the Group Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that performance is presented by the Chairman to the Board and Directors are supplied with information in a timely manner that is in actions and objectives are agreed for the following year.
a form and of a quality appropriate to enable them to discharge their duties.
In the normal course of business, the Chief Executive The Senior Independent Director, together with the non-Executive Officer gives an oral report to the Board at each meeting and Directors also carries out each year and has done so in 2018, information is provided and reported through formal Board reports aperformance evaluation of the Chairman, having taken account that include information on operational matters and strategic ofthe views of all of the Directors.
There are also reports on the performance of the Groups businesses, financial performance relative to the budget, Reelection risk management, business development and investor relations.
All Directors of the Board are subject to election by the shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment by The training needs of the Directors are periodically discussed at theBoard and in accordance with the Code, all Directors will Board meetings and where appropriate, briefings as necessary are alsostand for re-election annually at the AGM.
provided on various elements of corporate governance and other regulatory issues.
Liability insurance In line with market practice, each Director is covered by The Chairman has reviewed and agreed the training and appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance D&O, development needs of individual Directors and encourages them at the Companys expense.
The D&O insurance covers the Directors and Officers against the costs of defending to continually update their skills, together with knowledge and familiarity with the Company to fulfil their role on the Board and themselves in legal proceedings taken against them in that Board Committees.
capacity and in respect of any damages resulting from those proceedings.
The Company also indemnifies its Directors and Officers to the extent permitted by law.
Neither the The Group Company Secretary acts as an advisor to the Board on matters concerning governance and regulatory issues and ensures insurance nor the indemnity provides cover where the compliance with Board procedures.
All Directors have access to Director or Officer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The appointment and removal of the Group Company Professional advice Secretary and his remuneration are matters for the Board as awhole.
A policy is in place pursuant to which each Director may obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense in Board evaluation furtherance of their duties as a Director of Diploma PLC.
No formal requests were made during the year, but post-year end, advice was The Board undertakes an externally led evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board every three years, in accordance with sought in relation to Board succession.
In addition, each of the the Code.
This exercise encompasses an evaluation of the Board Committees are authorised, through their Terms of Reference, to asa whole, the Board Committees and of individual Directors seek advice at the Companys expense.
During the year substantial advice was sought by the Chairman of the Remuneration ofthe Company.
Committee in relation to the appointment and subsequent The most recent evaluation was carried out in August 2018 and financial settlement in connection with the departure of the Chief was externally led by Clare Chalmers, who had no other connection Executive Officer.
The external facilitator interviewed all Directors who had served during the year, with the exception of Richard Ingram who had stepped down from his role as Chief Executive Officer and as a Director of the Company, together with the Group Company Secretary.
The evaluation also included a review of the Annual Report & Accounts, with particular focus on the section on corporate governance.
There was also a review of the Board and Committee meeting papers, including minutes of each meeting.
42 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Conflicts of interest The Groups website contains up-to-date information for Directors are subject to a statutory duty under the Companies shareholders, which includes the Annual Report & Accounts of the Act2006 the Act to avoid a situation where they have, or could past ten years, current and historic share price information, news have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly could releases and presentations to analysts and key shareholders.
conflict, with the Companys interests.
The Act allows directors Thewebsite also contains factual data on the Groups businesses, ofpublic companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts products and services.
where appropriate, where the Articles of Association the Articles contain a provision to this effect.
The Act also allows The non-Executive Directors are given regular updates as to the theArticles to contain other provisions for dealing with Directors views of institutional shareholders and independent insight is conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
sought through research carried out twice a year by the Companys advisors, focused on both investors and analysts.
Procedures adopted to deal with conflicts of interest continue to operate effectively and the Boards authorisation powers are being Through these processes, the Board is kept abreast of key issues exercised properly in accordance with the Companys Articles.
and the opportunity is available on request for shareholders to meet the Chairman or Senior Independent Director, separately ACCOUNTABILITY from the Executive Directors.
The Board is responsible for ensuring that the Annual Report &Accounts taken as a whole present a fair, balanced and Electronic communications to shareholders include the Notice of understandable assessment of the Group and provides the theAGM, which is sent at least 20 working days prior to the meeting.
information necessary to shareholders to assess the Groups The Company proposes a separate resolution on each separate position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Board issue and for each resolution, proxy appointment forms provide receives a detailed Report from the Group Finance Director which shareholders with the option to vote in advance of the AGM.
sets out the key matters that impact, or could impact the Groups financial statements and Annual Report and highlights areas of the All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the financial statements where it has been necessary to rely upon a Companys AGM, when the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer significant level of subjectivity.
The Board also has access to all give a statement on the Groups performance during the year, relevant information and reviews other periodic management together with a statement on current trading conditions.
The information and RNS announcements.
The draft Annual Report & Chairman of the Board and of the Remuneration and Audit Accounts are circulated to each member of the Board in sufficient Committees are available to answer questions at the meeting.
time to allow challenge of the disclosures where necessary.
The Directors responsibilities statement is set out on page 65.
The Board has resolved, in line with best practice, to conduct a poll on each resolution proposed at the AGM.
The results of the AGM The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent resolutions, including details of votes cast, are published on the ofthe principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic Companys website.
objectives and for maintaining sound risk management and internal control systems.
The Board is also responsible for With regard to shareholder meetings, other than AGMs, the Board monitoring the Groups risk management and internal control will continue, in ordinary circumstances, to provide as much notice systems and it reviews the effectiveness of these systems as possible and certainly no less than 14 working days.
However, throughthe work of the Audit Committee.
the Board considers that it should still retain the flexibility to reduce the timescale to 14 clear days in the case of non-routine business The principal risks which the Board has identified this year are set and where it is merited by the business of the meeting.
For this out in the section on Internal Control and Risk Management on reason, the Board has again proposed a resolution at the AGM to pages 30 to 33 of the Strategic Report.
reduce the notice period for General Meetings from 21 to no less than 14 clear days.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Company has a well-developed investor relations programme managed by the Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director, with the support of the Companys brokers.
Through this programme, the Company maintains regular contact with major shareholders to communicate clearly the Groups objectives and monitors movements in significant shareholdings.
In addition, Investor Roadshows are now held each year in the US and Canada as well as in the UK and formal investor presentations are made twice a year to groups of private client fund managers.
The Company also engages with existing and potential new investors through a formal Capital Markets Day at which attendees have an opportunity to meet with senior management in the Group to gain a better understanding of the businesses product portfolios.
The last Capital Markets Day was held in February 2017 in London.
Most shareholder contact is with the Chief Executive Officer andGroup Finance Director through presentations made twice ayear on the operating and financial performance of the Group andits longer term strategy.
The Chief Executive Officer and GroupFinance Director generally deal with questions from individual shareholders.
