CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Corporate Governance report This report explains the Boards role and activities, and how corporate governance operates throughout the Group.
Further details of how the Company applied the Codes The UK Corporate Governance Code principles and complied with its provisions can be found The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code onthefollowing pages of this report and the Directors applied to the financial year ended 31 December 2018. remuneration report: Direct Line Insurance Group plc the Company complied Leadership page 66 withall of the principles and, except as explained below, allprovisions of the Code throughout the financial year up Effectiveness page 70 tothe date of this report.
The Company has applied the UK Accountability page 74 Corporate Governance Code 2018 since 1 January 2019, Remuneration page 75 and will report against this new Code next year.
Relations with shareholders page 75 The only exception is the recommendation contained in Provision E. 1.1 of the Code that the SID should attend sufficient For more information about the Code, visit the FRCs website at meetings with the major shareholders to listen to their views.
Throughout 2018, the Board received regular updates from the Companys corporate brokers on the views of its institutional Leadership shareholders and, in addition, the Investor Relations team The Board provided regular updates to the Board.
The Chairman, CEO The Board understands the views of the Companys and CFO met with key shareholders following announcements shareholders and has regard to a range of other key of results and reported shareholders views back to the Board.
stakeholders and their interests and other relevant matters in On this basis the Board is satisfied that it understands the views Board discussions and decision-making.
The example below of shareholders and major shareholders have been invited to demonstrates how the Board recognises that stakeholders meet with the SID should they wish to do so.
interests are integral to the promotion of the Companys It is open to all shareholders to raise any issues they wish long-term success.
withthe Chairman, the SID and the Chair of the Remuneration The Boards specific duties are set out in the Schedule of Committee.
The Board has therefore concluded that it has Matters Reserved for the Board, which contains items reserved complied with the main and supporting principles under for the Board to consider and approve, relating to strategy sectionE.
1 of the Code regarding dialogue with shareholders.
andmanagement, material contracts, financial reporting Stakeholder interests: the strategic plan In discussing and approving its strategic and financial plan, ourcommunities, an appropriate approach to the theBoard carefully considers the potential impact on all of the environment, our partnership with Brake on road safety Groups stakeholders, and other relevant matters, whilst seeking andour emphasis on mental health: and to ensure that the plan promotes the success of the Company the importance of maintaining the strong and positive for the benefit of its members as a whole.
Specific matters reputation of our brands and the significant investment discussed by the Board include: beingmade to improve customer journeys, through which the Group demonstrates its high standards of business conduct.
investments in capability to be made during the plan period to make insurance easier and better value for our customers, supporting the longer-term success of the Group and enabling it to respond to long-term trends in the markets inwhich it operates: engaging with our people to improve our diversity, inclusion, wellbeing and development, providing them with a more productive work environment and the support they need through our flexible working and wellbeing strategies: the Groups Code of Business Conduct which supports theBoards commitment to the highest possible standards ofintegrity in business relationships with our suppliers andpartners: the Groups ESG philosophy that long-term sustainability isgood for all our stakeholders, as part of which our Our Chairman, Mike Biggs, and NED, Danuta Gray.
Responsibility strategy supports positive relations with 66 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS andcontrols, internal controls and risk management, Board Biographical details of the Directors of the Company as at the membership and succession planning, corporate governance, date of this report are set out on pages 62 to 64. structure and capital, and delegation of authority.
Meetings In addition to the Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board, The Board and Board Committees held a number of scheduled each Board Committee has written terms of reference defining meetings in 2018 at which senior executives, external advisers its role and responsibilities.
Further details regarding the role and independent advisers were invited to attend and present and activities of the Board and Board Committees can be on business developments and governance matters.
Company Secretary attended all Board meetings and he, or hisnominated deputy, attended all Board Committee meetings.
Board composition The table below sets out attendance at the scheduled meetings As at the date of this report, the Board comprised the 1 in 2018.
Additional Board and Committee meetings were Chairman, who was independent when appointed to the convened during the year to discuss ad hoc business Board: three Executive Directors: and eight independent NEDs, development, governance and regulatory matters.
The current Directors served throughout all of2018, exceptfor Mark Gregory and Gregor Stewart who were appointed on 1 March 2018 and Fiona McBain who was appointed on 1September 2018: Andrew Palmer and John Reizenstein also served during the year, retiring from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM on 10May 2018.
Meetings attendance Audit Board Risk CSR Investment Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Chairman Mike Biggs 9 of 9 3 of 3 4 of 4 Senior Independent Director Richard Ward 9 of 9 5 of 5 3 of 3 Non-Executive Directors Danuta Gray 9 of 9 3 of 3 4 of 4 Mark Gregory 7 of 7 3 of 3 2 of 2 Jane Hanson 9 of 9 5 of 5 5 of 5 3 of 3 4 of 4 Sebastian James 9 of 9 3 of 3 4 of 4 Fiona McBain 3 of 3 2 Andrew Palmer 4 of 4 2 of 2 2 of 2 2 of 2 2 of 2 1 of 2 2 Gregor Stewart 6 of 7 3 of 3 3 of 3 Clare Thompson 9 of 9 5 of 5 4 of 4 Executive Directors Paul Geddes 9 of 9 3 of 3 Penny James 9 of 9 2 of 2 Mike Holliday-Williams 9 of 9 John Reizenstein 4 of 4 2 of 2 Executive Committee Member Simon Linares 3 of 3 Notes: 1.
Attendance is expressed as the number of scheduled meetings attended out of the number of such meetings possible or applicable for the Director to attend.
Due to other prior commitments, Andrew Palmer was unable to attend the February 2018 Remuneration Committee meeting and Gregor Stewart was unable to attend the April 2018 Board meeting.
Papers were circulated to all Directors before the meetings and those unable to attend could raise issues and give comments to the Chairman in advance of the meetings.
CO. UK 67 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Structure of the Board, Board Committees and executive management The diagrams on pages 68 and 69 summarise the role of the Board, its Committees and the responsibilities of the Chairman, theSID, the NEDs, the CEO and the Executive Committee.
The Board and Board Committees have unrestricted access to management and external advisers to help discharge their responsibilities.
The Board and Board Committees are satisfied that, in2018, sufficient, reliable and timely information was received to perform their responsibilities effectively.
Each Committee playsa vital role in helping the Board to operate efficiently and consider matters appropriately.
Board Board Committees Leadership The Audit Committee: The Board has clear divisions of responsibility Monitors the integrity of the Groups financial statements and seeks the long-term success of the Group.
Oversees and challenges the effectiveness of the Groups systems of financial and other controls Shareholder benefit Monitors the work and effectiveness of the Groups internal The Board organises and directs the Groups and external auditors and actuaries affairs in a way that it believes will help the Group succeed for the benefit of its members The Board Risk Committee: as a whole, whilst having regard to its Provides oversight and advice to the Board in relation to stakeholders generally.
current and potential future risk exposures of the Group More information on how the Board has andthe future risk strategy, including determination of regard for the Groups wider stakeholders riskappetite and tolerance can be found on page 66.
Responsible for reviewing and approving various formal reporting requirements and promoting a risk awareness Operations culture within the Group The Board supervises the Groups operations, with a view to ensuring they are effectively The Remuneration Committee: managed, that effective controls are in Sets and oversees how the Group implements its place, and that risks are assessed and remuneration policy managed appropriately.
Oversees the level and structure of remuneration arrangements for senior executives, approves share incentive Financial performance plans, and recommends them to the Board and shareholders The Board sets the financial plans, annual budgets and key performance indicators and The Nomination Committee: monitors the Groups results against them.
Reviews the Boards structure, size, composition, and balance of skills, experience, independence, and knowledge Strategy of the Company The Board oversees the development Leads the process for Board appointments and makes of the Groups strategy, and monitors recommendations to the Board managements performance and progress against the strategic aims and objectives.
Provides guidance to management on executive successionplanning Culture The CSR Committee: The Board develops and promotes the Provides oversight and advice on how the Group conducts collective vision of the Groups purpose, its business responsibly, including matters relating to culture, values and behaviours.
environmental, employee engagement and wellbeing, Information & support community involvement, ethics and diversity The Board accesses assistance and advice The Investment Committee: from the Company Secretary.
The Board may Provides oversight of the Groups investment strategy seek external independent professional advice at the Companys expense, if Oversees the management and performance of the Groups required, to discharge its duties.
investment portfolio 68 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Board and executive management roles Each Director brings different skills, experience and knowledge to the Company, with the NEDs contributing additional independent thought and judgement.
Depending on business needs, the NEDs and the Chairman commit at least three daysa month and three days a week respectively to discharging their duties effectively in accordance with their letters ofappointment.
The Chairman: The SID: The NEDs: Guides, develops and leads Acts as a sounding board Challenge management in theBoard forthe Chairman and an anobjective and constructive intermediary for the other manner Plans and manages the Directors when necessary Boardsbusiness Use their wider business Is available to shareholders experience to help develop Ensures the Directors ifthey have any concerns theGroups strategy receiveaccurate, timely theycannot resolve through andclear information normal channels Has an individual role profile Leads the Chairmans agreed by the Board, as does performance evaluation annually the CEO.
These profiles clearly define their respective roles and responsibilities and ensure that no one person has unlimited powers of decision-making The CEO As authorised by the Board, the CEO manages the Groups day-to-day operations and delivers its strategy.
The CEO delegates certain elements of his authority to Executive Committee members to help ensure that senior executives are accountable and responsible for managing their businesses and functions.
The Executive Committee The Executive Committee is the principal management committee that helps the CEO manage the Groups operations.
It helps the CEO: Set performance targets Implement Group strategy Monitor key objectives and commercial plans to help achieve the Groups targets Evaluate new business initiatives and opportunities Managing Managing Chief Chief Risk Chief General Group Director Director Operating Officer Financial Counsel Human Commercial Personal Officer Officer Resources Lines Director Biographical details of the Executive Directors and Executive Committee members are shown on pages 62 to 65.
CO. UK 69 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Effectiveness Board meetings & activity in 2018 BU BU I T T T T BU S B B B B B I Jan Feb March April May June July August September October November December The NEDs meet with key management outside the Board and Board meetings Committee fora to obtain a wider view of the Groups activities The activities undertaken by the Board in 2018 were intended and attend meetings of the Groups ERB to engage with staff and to help promote the long-term success of the Company.
report their views back to the Board.
Scheduled Board meetings set out on the timeline above focused on four main themes in 2018: Strategy day Strategy & execution, including: approving and overseeing The Board sets aside time each year outside the annual theGroups key strategic targets and monitoring the Groups Boardcalendar to hold a strategy day giving the Directors the performance against those targets: reviewing customer opportunity to focus solely on strategic matters.
In June 2018, experience and trends and monitoring the Groups the Board held a session offsite to set and monitor progress performance against external brand metrics: reviewing and against the Groups strategy and to discuss the strategic approving key projects aimed at developing the business or challenges and opportunities the Group faces in the future, rationalising costs: considering growth opportunities: and including advances in motor and connected home technology.
reviewing the individual strategy of key business lines.
Financial performance and investor relations, including: Board training settingfinancial plans, annual budgets and key performance The Board is committed to the training and development of indicators, and monitoring the Groups results against them: Directors to improve their knowledge about the business and considering the Groups reserving position: approving the theregulatory environment in which it operates.
The Company solvency II narrative reports: approving financial results for Secretary is responsible for helping the Chairman identify publication: approving main reinsurance arrangements and andorganise training for the Directors which is tailored to motor reinsurance renewal: and reviewing broker reports on individualneeds.
theGroup, alongside feedback from investor meetings.
The Company Secretary maintained the training agenda for Risk management, regulatory and other related governance, theBoard and its Committees during the year.
Training topics including: considering the impact of the Ogden discount during the year included anti-bribery and corruption, growth rate:reviewing and agreeing the Groups Policies: setting risk initiative strategy updates, cyber training, competition law, the appetites: approving the ORSA: approving major changes to forthcoming changes in accounting rules, the IT transformation the Groups partial internal model and seeking to ensure that programme, Green Flag and Capital Model training.
the Group complies with its regulatory requirements: reviewing In addition, a series of deep dives into the Groups business the Groups solvency position and forecast: and agreeing the areas took place during the year to deepen each Directors Groups ESG approach.
knowledge of the business and provide oversight at Board Board & Board Committee governance, including: andCommittee level.
receivingreports from the Boards Committees: updating termsof reference for the Committees: implementing an Board inductions annualreview of the Boards and Board Committees All new Directors appointed to the Board undertake an effectiveness: and conducting an annual review of the induction programme aimed at ensuring they develop an Groupsgovernance framework.
understanding and awareness of our businesses, people and The co-ordination of the Board meeting content is processes, and of their roles and responsibilities as Directors managed by the Chairman, and supported by the CEO ofthe Company.
The programmes are tailored to suit each and Company Secretary.
Director and include: In addition to routine business, the Board considers and provision of relevant current and historical information about discusses key issues that impact on the business as they arise.
the Company and the Group: The CEO and CFO spend a considerable amount of time with visits to operations around the Group: the different business areas ensuring that the Boards aims are induction briefings from Group functions: and being correctly disseminated throughout the Group, and that ourpeoples views and opinions are reported back to the Board.
one-to-one meetings with Board members, senior management and the Companys advisers.
70 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Key for Board meetings & activity in 2018 B I Board meetings Induction S BU Strategy day Business unit visits by Board members T Board training BU BU BU T T I T T B B B B Jan Feb March April May June July August September October November December Penny James, who joined the Board as CFO-designate in strategy, the quality of the information received by the Board November 2017, completed her induction programme before tomonitor the progress of the Groups major technology succeeding John Reizenstein as CFO on 1 March 2018. transformation programmes and the Groups culture.
Mark Gregory, Gregor Stewart and Fiona McBain, who The Committee questionnaire focused on the clarity of each wereappointed as NEDs during the year, each had bespoke Committees role and scope, its composition, the resources induction programmes which included sessions on the Groups available to it, the balance between challenging and strategy, operational businesses, financial performance, capital supporting management and the quality and timeliness management, risk management, regulatory landscape and ofinformation supplied to each Committee.
Outcome of the effectiveness Business unit visits review During 2018, NED visits to operational business units in The Chairman discussed the outcome of the effectiveness Bromley, London, Bristol, Leeds, Doncaster and Farnham were review with the NEDs and the CEO, providing them with arranged to meet the management teams and better understand feedback on their individual performance and contributions.
In September, the Board visited the The Board and each of its Committees received and debated Groups Bristol site to interact with our people in the HR, Legal their own reports resulting from this exercise.
Feedback on the Services, Customer Operations and Experience, Business Chairmans performance was provided by the SID, with input Solutions and Direct Line for Business teams.
Based on the responses to the questionnaire and resulting Board and Committee reports, the Directors are satisfied that the Board and each effectiveness review ofits Committees operated effectively in 2018.
The Directors In accordance with the principles and provisions of the Code, are also satisfied that they made significant progress in areas the Boards practice is to conduct a thorough review of the identified for potential improvement in 2017. effectiveness of the performance of the Directors, the Board Whilst the findings of the 2018 effectiveness review were asa whole and its Committees on an annual basis, with the positive, the Board and each of its Committees will focus input of an external facilitator at least once every three years.
during 2019 on opportunities for fine-tuning with the In2018, the Board chose to conduct its effectiveness review objectiveof further improving effectiveness.
in-house as an independent Board effectiveness review had taken place in 2016.
The Company Secretary designed and co-ordinated the process.
This involved agreeing a structured questionnaire with the Chairman, SID and the Chairs of the Boards Committees, distributing it to and interviewing the Directors and relevant executives and advisers and preparing reports.
The Board andeach of its Committees reviewed and discussed the relevant reports.
Respondents were asked whether matters identified asparticular strengths in previous years, including the Boardsleadership and culture, the openness of debate, theproductiveness of proceedings, the quality of information flowto the Board and the relationship between the Board andmanagement, remained positive.
Interviews also covered the extent to which the Boards 2018 strategy day had helped the Board to debate and establish the Groups medium-term WWW.
CO. UK 71 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED High Level Control and System of Governance Governance framework Frameworkdocument: and structure Risk appetite statements, which are described on page 44: The Board oversees the system of governance in operation Enterprise Risk Management Strategy and Framework, which throughout the Group.
This includes a robust system of internal is described on page 45: controls and a sound risk management framework.
The Board Group policies, which address specific risk areas and inform has established a risk management model that separates the the business how it needs to conduct its activities to remain Groups risk management responsibilities into three lines of within risk appetite: and defence.
An explanation of these responsibilities can be foundon page 44.
Minimum Standards, which interpret the Group policies into a set of operational requirements that can be implemented The Groups governance framework is detailed in the Groups throughout the Group.
High Level Control and System of Governance Framework document.
This document details how the Group meets solvency II and PRA requirements to identify Key Functions andto have and maintain a Responsibilities Map in respect of the PRA and FCA Senior Managers and Certification Regime requirements.
The Board reviews these documents annually.
The core elements of the governance framework are the: Matters Reserved to the Board and the Board Committees Terms of Reference: The diagram below summarises the split of responsibilities for the different parts of the Groups governance framework.
The Board approves Matters Reserved High Level Control and System the High Level Control and to the Board of Governance Framework Document SystemofGovernance Framework, and Board overarchingrisk appetite statements Committees andGroup policies following review Terms of Overarching risk appetite by the Board Risk Committee.
Reference statements Group policies The Board Risk Committee Enterprise Risk Policy risk appetite approves Management Strategy statements the risk management framework and the & Framework policy risk appetite statements, following review by the Risk Management Committee a committee comprised of executives.
Policy owner approves Minimum standards subject to non-objection Minimum Standards from the Risk Management Committee.
72 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Further information regarding the Groups approach to Conflicts of interest diversityincluding the process for Board appointments and The Companys Articles of Association allow the Board to reappointments can be found on pages 83 and 84 of the authorise matters where there is, or may be, a conflict between Nomination Committee report.
the Groups interests and the direct or indirect interests of a Director, or between a Directors duties to the Group and another Senior management person.
This is in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. genderdiversity Each Director has a duty to avoid conflicts of interest.
They The Board remains committed to ensuring that high-performing mustdeclare any conflict of interest that could interfere with women from within the business and from a variety of their ability to act in the Groups best interests.
backgrounds, who have the requisite skills, are given the The Board has authorised certain potential conflicts of interest in opportunity to progress their career internally.
However, the Board still deals with any actual conflict The Group is a signatory to the Women in Finance Charter of interest or duty that might arise.
This usually would involve which aspires to see gender balance at all levels across making sure a Director does not participate in a relevant financial services firms.
The Group is committed to seeking Boardor Committee discussion or decision.
toincrease female representation at senior management level To do this, the Company Secretary maintains a register of to 30% by the end of 2019.
As at 31 December 2018, conflicts and any conflicts that the Board has authorised.
women represented 28% of the Groups senior management The Board reviews this register at each scheduled Board meeting.
The charts on pages 58 and 59 provide a clearerpicture of the diversity of the Board, senior Approach to diversity managersand employees.
The Board and executive management are committed to The Board continues to support Group-wide diversity initiatives, ensuring that diversity is promoted across all areas of the including succession planning programmes, to broaden and Group and that everyone is treated fairly, irrespective of strengthen female talent at middle management level.
Other theirracial or ethnic origin, gender, age, disability, belief key 2018 gender diversity initiatives included: the promotion of orsexual orientation, religion, or educational or professional flexible working: a partnership with the EveryWoman network background.
There is a Board approved diversity policy which helps organisations enhance the potential of female andprogress has been made in embedding principles talent: and mentoring schemes and associated development andpractices to promote diversity across the Group and to programmes for high-potential female candidates.
champion the benefits of a diverse and inclusive workforce.
Additional 2018 The principles and practices set by the Board and the progress made in broadening the diversity of the Board include: diversityinitiatives The Board acknowledges that diversity includes but is not limited 1.
Maintaining at least 30% female representation to gender and aims to increase demographic and philosophical on the Board differences at Board level and throughout the Group.
The Board aims to maintain female representation of at least 30% and remains committed to seeking to improve further its position The Board advocates the importance of cultural and ethnic ondiversity when appropriate opportunities arise.
The Board will diversity and aims to increase the ethnic diversity across the continue to appoint the most appropriate candidates based Group including at Board and senior management level.
The onknowledge, skills, experience and, where necessary, Board and senior management continue to support the DNA independence.
As at the date of this report, female representation network which champions diversity and inclusion within our on the Board was 42% which exceeds the target set in Lord organisation through strands relating to generational divide, Davies Women on Boards Review Five Year Summary to be unconscious bias, belief, Black, Asian and minority ethnics, achieved by 2020 and remains on target with the Hamptongender, sexual orientation, disability, working families Alexander Reviews recommendations for a minimum of 33% andneuro-diversity.
ofwomens representation on boards by 2020.
The Board has oversight of diversity initiatives carried out through the remit of the CSR Committee, which received regular 2.
Only engaging executive search firms who have signed updates on the build an inclusive culture strand of our CSR up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search strategy during 2018.
Further details on diversity initiatives Firms on gender diversity and best practice canbe found in the People and culture report on page 58 In its search for candidates, the Board aims to only engage andinthe CSR Committee report on page 85. with executive search firms who are signatories to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms as recommended by Lord Davies.
During the year, the Nomination Committee worked closely with Egon Zehnder which culminated in the appointment of Fiona McBain, Mark Gregory and Gregor Stewart.
Egon Zehnder is a signatory to the Voluntary Code and has no other connection to the Company.
The search process for the replacement CEO, which began in2018 and culminated in the appointment of Penny James with effect from 9 May 2019, involved engaging MWM Consulting, which is also a signatory to the Voluntary Codeand has no other connection to the Company.
CO. UK 73 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED management drafted the Annual Report & Accounts to ensure Nomination Committee consistency across sections, and a steering group comprising On behalf of the Board, the Nomination Committee assesses a team of cross-functional senior management provided the NEDs independence, skills, knowledge and experience overall governance and co-ordination: annually.
The Board concluded that every current NED a verification process, to ensure the content was wasindependent, continued to contribute effectively, and factuallyaccurate: demonstrated they were committed to the role.
The Board members of the Executive Committee reviewed drafts of isalso satisfied that the Chairmans external appointment as theAnnual Report & Accounts: Chairman of Close Brothers Group plc set out on page 62 does not restrict him from carrying out his duties effectively.
the Companys Disclosure Committee reviewed an advanced draft of the Annual Report & Accounts: and Jane Hanson and Mike Biggs have served on the Board since December 2011 and April 2012 respectively.
At the Boards the Audit Committee reviewed the substantially final draft request, they have agreed to continue serving as NEDs and ofthe Annual Report & Accounts, before consideration by resolutions for their re-election as Directors will be proposed theBoard.
The Board is satisfied that Jane and Mike remain independent in judgement and character, continue to Risk management and internal make a significant contribution to the proceedings of the control systems Boardand its Committees and that the extension of their The Board oversees the Groups risk management and internal termsof appointment will provide valuable continuity as control systems.
It has complied with the Code by establishing workon refreshing the Board progresses.
a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing You can find out more about these activities and the Nomination the principal risks the Group faces.
Committees work during the year on pages 83 to 84.
The Board has established a management structure with defined lines of responsibility and clear delegation of authority.
Accountability This control framework cascades through the divisions and An explanation of how the Board complies with the Code central functions, detailing clear responsibilities to ensure the inrelation to accountability is set out below, except for the Groups operations have appropriate controls.
This includes following matters, which are covered elsewhere in the Annual controls relating to the financial reporting process.
Report & Accounts: The frameworks for risk management and internal control how the Company seeks to generate value over the long werein place for the financial year under review and up to term is explained in the business model on pages 22 and thedate of this report.
They are regularly reviewed by the 23, and the strategy for delivering Company objectives is Board and comply with the Financial Reporting Councils onpages 19 to 21: and updated guidance on Risk Management, Internal Controls how the Board has assessed the Groups longer-term viability andRelated Financial and Business Reporting.
and the adoption of the going concern basis in the financial The Group operates a Three Lines of Defence model.
You statements is on pages 49 and 121. canfind out more about this in the Risk management section The Board has delegated responsibility to the Audit onpage 44.
Committeeto oversee the management of the relationship The Board, with the assistance of the Board Risk Committee withthe Companys External Auditor.
You can find details of and the Audit Committee as appropriate, monitored the the Audit Committees role, activities and relationship with the Companys risk management and internal control systems External Auditor in the Committee report on pages 78 to 79. thathave been in place throughout the year under review, andreviewed their effectiveness.
The monitoring and review Responsibility for preparing covered all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls.
The Board and its Committees are theAnnual Report & Accounts overseeing the programme of activity to upgrade and better The Boards objective is to give shareholders a fair, balanced integrate the major IT systems within the Groups technology and understandable assessment of the Companys position infrastructure, including focusing on developing future capability andprospects and business model and strategy.
The Board for both customers and our people and monitoring risks isalso responsible for maintaining adequate accounting relatingto IT systems stability, cyber security and the records and seeks to ensure compliance with statutory internalcontrol environment.
The Board was also supported in its review of the annual You can find an explanation from the Directors about their Control Environment Certification process.
As part of this, responsibility for preparing the financial statements in the eachdirectorate self-assessed its risks and whether its key Statement of Directors responsibilities on page 121.
The controls were appropriate and effective.
The Risk and Group Companys External Auditor explains its responsibilities Audit functions reviewed and challenged these findings.
Group then combined the overall findings into a Group-level The Directors confirm that they consider that the Annual assessment, which the CEO approved.
The process included Report& Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced reporting on the nature and effectiveness of the controls, and andunderstandable and provide the information that other management processes that manage these risks.
shareholders need to assess the Groups position and The Board Risk Committee regularly reviews significant risks performance, business model and strategy.
In arriving andhow they might affect the Groups financial position: atthisconclusion, the Board was supported by a number comparisons to agreed risk appetites: and what the ofprocesses, including the following: Groupdoes to manage risks outside its appetite.
74 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Group Audit function supports the Board by providing an It is open to all shareholders to raise any issues they wish independent and objective assurance of the adequacy and withthe Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
As part of the effectiveness of the Groups controls.
It brings a systematic development of the revised remuneration policy for Executive anddisciplined approach to evaluating and improving the Directors which was approved by shareholders at the Groups effectiveness of its risk management, control and governance 2017 AGM, the Chair of the Remuneration Committee led a frameworks, and processes.
wide-ranging consultation through engagement with proxy advisers, regulators and shareholders on corporate governance The Directors acknowledge that any internal control system can matters including executive remuneration.
manage, but not eliminate, the risk of not achieving business objectives.
It can only provide reasonable, not absolute, During 2018, the CEO and the CFO met with key shareholders assurance against material misstatement or financial loss.
following announcements of results and reported shareholders views back to the Board.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee regularly reviewsthe effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems.
The Investor Relations team helps the Directors to communicate Its monitoring covers all material controls.
Principally, it reviews with investors.
The Directors, in conjunction with senior and challenges reports from management, the Group Audit management and the Investor Relations team, participated function and the External Auditor.
This enables it to consider how invaried forms of engagement, including investor meetings, to manage or mitigate risk in line with the Groups risk strategy.
seminars and conferences throughout the year.
Management hosted analysts at its Bristol offices in October 2018 to bring tolife the Groups various customer-centric and agile ways Assessing principal risks ofworking.
The Board determines the nature and extent of the risks that it is willing to take to achieve its strategic objectives.
The Directors The CEO and CFO hosted conference calls for the Groups robustly assessed the principal risks facing the Company, quarterly results and presentations for its 2017 full year results including risks that would threaten its business model, future in February 2018 and its 2018 half year results in August performance, solvency or liquidity.
In addition, the CEO and CFO provided a short video of these risks, and their management or mitigation, on pages summarising the key messages of the Groups 2017 full year 46 and 47. results which is available on the Companys website.
This confirmation is based on the Board Risk Committees We communicate with our debt investors through regular twice-yearly review and challenge of the Groups Material announcements and the debt investor section of our website RiskAssessment and the Boards review and approval of which contains bond information, credit ratings and materials theGroups risk appetite statements.
The Risk Assessment relating to the Groups year-end reports, and information about identifiesrisks quantified as having a residual risk impact of our long-term debt maturity profile so investors can see the 40 million or more based on a 1-in-200 years likelihood.
related future refinancing needs of the Group.
Thequantifications are produced through stress and scenario The Directors, in conjunction with senior management and the analysis, and the capital model.
Each directorates bottom-up Investor Relations team, met with debt investors in the course risk identification and assessment supplements the Risk ofthe Groups normal investor conferences and roadshows Assessment.
The Risk Assessment also plays a key role in throughout 2018.
In addition to this, the CFO hosted a developing the ORSA and assessing the Groups strategic plan.
meeting with debt investors in September 2018.
Remuneration Annual General Meeting The Board has delegated responsibility to the Remuneration The Board sees the Companys AGM as a good Committee for the remuneration arrangements of the Groups opportunityfor private shareholders to talk directly with the Executive Directors and Chairman.
It recommends and monitors Board.
All shareholders can attend the AGM if they wish.
the remuneration level and structure for senior executives.
You AllDirectors attended the AGM in 2018. can find out more about this in the Directors remuneration At the AGM, the CEO presents the Groups financial results.
The Chairman then invites shareholders to ask questions about the meetings business, before proposing the AGMs formal Relations with shareholders business.
All Directors who wish to continue to serve will be put The Board believes that engaging regularly with the forward for election or re-election at the AGM.
The Chairman, Companys shareholders is vital to the Groups success.
the Committee Chairs and the remaining Directors and Communicating and engaging with investors means the Board members of the Executive Committee are also available can express clearly its strategy and performance and receive to talk with shareholders at the end of the meeting.
It also gives the Company The Articles of Association of the Company and the letters theopportunity to respond to questions and suggestions.
ofappointment of the NEDs and the Chairman are available During 2018, the Board received regular updates from for inspection at the Companys registered office and AGM.
theExecutive Directors, the Investor Relations team and the The outcome of the resolutions put to the AGM, including poll Companys corporate brokers on the views of its shareholders results detailing votes for, against and withheld, are published and other investors.
on the London Stock Exchanges and the Companys websites The Chairman, SID and NEDs are available to attend meetings once the AGM has concluded.
with major shareholders at their request.
In 2018, the Chairman met some of the Companys major shareholders and discussed corporate governance topics including executive remuneration.
