STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 43 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT THE GROUP CONTINUES TO MAINTAIN A CULTURE OF ROBUST AND EFFECTIVE SYSTEMS OF INTERNAL CONTROL, OVERSEEN BY STRONG AND EXPERIENCED FINANCE DEPARTMENTS Anne Thorburn, Chairman of the Audit Committee Members of Committee Attendance The Committee was pleased to welcome during the year the appointment of an experienced tax professional as Head of Group Anne Thorburn Chairman 5 5 Tax & Treasury.
The tax environment and tax demands on business Charles Packshaw 5 5 have become increasingly more complex in recent years, Andy Smith 5 5 particularly where the Group has significant operations based outside the UK.
This appointment will ensure that the Group businesses both maintain compliance with local tax legislation and DEAR SHAREHOLDER focus on good tax governance.
The Committee welcomed Christopher Burns of PwC to the Company as the new auditor this year, following the formal I also look forward to Neil Yazdani joining the Group in January 2019 appointment at the AGM of PwC as auditor to the Company after a as Group Financial Controller.
Neil will replace Stuart Bell who has competitive tender process last year.
After attending last years now moved to International Seals to support Darin Clause as audit close meeting, alongside the retiring auditor, they worked Finance Director of those businesses.
diligently during the first half of the year to complete their audit transition process.
At the close of this process PwC met with the As Chairman of the Committee, I continue to meet regularly with Committee to confirm that they had completed their handover members of the Internal Audit team to discuss their reports, with the retiring auditor, had met with senior finance staff across prepared following each of their visits to the businesses.
This the business and they had no significant concerns to bring to the provides me with greater insight of the culture of the internal Committees attention.
control environment in the Group and provides assurance that controls are both in place and are tested, which is particularly In March this year, the Committee received a report from the Group important given the Groups decentralised operating model.
finance team that set out a detailed evaluation of the potential impact that the new IFRS15 standard on Revenue may have on the I am pleased to report that again there have been no significant Groups financial statements.
The report was based on detailed control deficiencies or accounting irregularities reported to the discussions that the Group finance team had with each of the Committee this year.
The Group continues to maintain individual businesses.
As expected, given the nature of the Groups a culture of robust and effective systems of internal control, business, this work confirmed that the impact on the financial overseen by strong and experienced finance departments.
statements from adopting IFRS15 was negligible.
A similar exercise will be carried out in 2019 to assess the potential impact of I look forward to meeting shareholders at the AGM on 16 January adopting IFRS16 on Leases, and it is likely that the impact on the 2019 and will be happy to respond to any questions relating to the financial statements may be significant, as explained further on activities of the Audit Committee.
page 93 in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Anne Thorburn 19 November 2018 44 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED KEY DUTIES AND FOCUS IN 2018 The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that the Reviewed a report from the Group finance department setting Company maintains a strong control environment.
It provides out the impact of new IFRSs on the Groups financial effective governance over the Groups financial reporting, statements, including in particular IFRS15 revenue from including oversight and review of the systems of internal control contracts with customers.
and risk management, the performance of internal and external Reviewed and approved the classification and presentation of audit functions, as well as the behaviours expected of Diploma the costs incurred on the CEO transition.
PLCs employees through the whistleblowing policy and similar codes of conduct.
The Committees role and responsibilities are Reviewed the Trading Updates at meetings held in January, set out in its Terms of Reference, which are reviewed every two March and August.
years and are approved by the Board.
Reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management procedures and, where appropriate, made The Terms of Reference are available at www.
com recommendations to the Board on areas for improvement.
The Committees key responsibilities and focus during the year have been: Invited the Director of Internal Audit to attend meetings to review the results of the Internal Audit work for the current Reviewed and agreed the scope of audit work to be year and to agree the scope and focus of Internal Audit work to undertaken by the external auditor and agreed the terms of be carried out in the following year.
engagement and fees to be paid for the external audit.
Reviewed the transition to PwC following their appointment as Reviewed the Annual Report & Accounts and received reports the Groups external auditor.
from the Group Finance Director and the external auditor on the key accounting issues and areas of significant judgement.
Approved the Committee work programme for 2018.
Reviewed the report on compliance with the UK corporate Reviewed the scope of new sanctions issued by the European governance Code and reports on the provision of information Union and the US and the procedures being followed by the to the auditor.
Groups businesses to monitor compliance.
Reviewed the report from the Group Finance Director on the Reviewed the whistleblowing arrangements and the use of a controls in place to mitigate fraud risk.
dedicated external independent and confidential telephone hotline service for all employees to raise concerns.
Reviewed the Half Year Announcement and received reports from the Group Finance Director and the external auditor on the key accounting issues and areas of significant judgement.
AUDIT COMMITTEE AUDIT TRANSITION The Committee is chaired by Anne Thorburn and comprises three The Audit Committee completed an audit tender process in 2017 independent non-Executive Directors.
The Chair of the Committee as described more fully in the Annual Report & Accounts 2017 and is a qualified accountant, who has recent and relevant financial recommended to the Board the appointment of Christopher Burns, experience.
The Board accepted and endorsed this recommendation, which was The Audit Committee is satisfied that as a whole, the Committee approved by shareholders at the AGM held on 17 January 2018. has sufficient knowledge and competence of the business model and Sectors in which the Group operates in order to provide The Audit Committee agreed an audit transition plan with PwC appropriate challenge to management.
which identified key milestones, beginning with PwC shadowing Deloitte LLP Deloitte, the retiring auditor, at the 2017 Group audit The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the close meeting with management and the Audit Committee meeting Committee.
The Executive Directors also attend Committee held on 14 November 2017.
During the first half of this year, PwC met meetings and the Internal Audit Director also attended Committee with both members of the Group finance department and senior meetings to present the Internal Audit plan for the following year finance personnel of the larger businesses in the Group.
At these and to report on progress against that plan.
The Committee met meetings, work was carried out by PwC to plan their audit approach with the external auditor during the year, without the Executive and prepare their audit strategy for the 2018 audit.
In May, PwC Directors being present.
reported to the Audit Committee that they had completed their audit transition plan and that there were no substantive matters to The Audit Committee confirms that the Company has complied report to the Committee.
with the provisions of the Competition & Markets Authority Order throughout its financial year ended 30 September 2018 and up to the date of this report.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 45 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 ENGAGEMENT OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR The Group auditor is retained to carry out assurance services to the The external auditor is engaged to express an opinion on the Committee in connection with agreed upon procedures on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company.
The audit Groups Half Year consolidated financial statements.
With the includes the review and testing of the systems of internal financial exception of this work, PwC has not provided any non-audit control and the data contained in the financial statements, to the services to the Company or its subsidiaries and has confirmed their extent necessary for expressing an audit opinion on the truth and independence to the Audit Committee.
The fees for carrying out fairness of the financial statements.
this work comprises the total non-audit fees of 15,000 set out in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements.
As explained above, the Companys Annual Report & Accounts this year has been audited by PwC.
In their first year as auditor, PwC The Committee assures itself of the auditors independence by has met with the Audit Chair and has agreed its audit strategy and receiving regular reports from the external auditor which provide audit fees with the Audit Committee.
As part of its audit, PwC will details of any assignments and related fees carried out by the continue to provide the Committee with relevant reports, reviews auditor in addition to their normal audit work and these are and advice throughout the coming year.
reviewed against the above guidelines.
PwC has reconfirmed its independence for the current financial year.
In accordance with UK regulations, PwC also assured the Committee that it adheres to a rotation policy based on best FINANCIAL REPORTING AND SIGNIFICANT practice and the Group engagement partner will serve a period of FINANCIALJUDGEMENTS no longer than five years.
As part of its monitoring of the integrity of the financial statements, the Committee reviews whether suitable accounting policies have During the year, the Committee carried out an assessment of the been adopted and whether management has made appropriate effectiveness of the external audit process for the previous year estimates and judgements and seeks support from the external ended 30 September 2017, which was carried out by Deloitte.
The auditor to assess them.
assessment was led by the Chair of the Committee, assisted by the Group Finance Director and focused on certain criteria which the The Committee considered the matters set out below as being Committee considered to be important factors in demonstrating significant in the context of the consolidated financial statements an effective audit process.
These factors included the quality of for the year ended 30 September 2018.
These were discussed and audit staff, the planning and execution of the audit and the role of reviewed with management and the external auditor and the management in the audit process.
Following this assessment, the Committee challenged judgements and sought clarification where Committee concluded that the external audit process remained necessary.
The Committee received a report from the external effective and that it provides an appropriate independent challenge auditor on the work they had performed to arrive at their of the Groups senior management.
conclusions and discussed in detail all material findings contained within the report.
The Committee was satisfied that the Deloitte audit of the Company and Group had provided a robust and effective audit and Provisions for excess and slow moving inventory supported the work of the Committee through clear and objective The Committee reviewed the Report of the Group Finance Director communication on developments in financial reporting and that set out the gross balances by business, together with any governance.
related provision against the carrying value.
The Committee reviewed the bases used to value and confirm existence of NON-AUDIT SERVICES inventory held across the Group: they also considered the The Committee has reviewed the Companys internal guidelines appropriateness of provisions held against the carrying value of covering the type of non-audit work that can be carried out by the inventory, having regard to the age and volumes of inventory, external auditor of the Company, in light of the regulation set out in relative to expected usage.
Following their review, which also the EU Audit Directive and Audit Regulation 2014 the Regulations.
included consideration of the external audit findings, the Committee concluded that the provision for excess and slow The Regulations substantially curtail those non-audit services that moving inventory is appropriate.
can be provided by the auditor to the Company and in particular, prohibits all tax related services, including compliance services as Impairment of goodwill well as general advice and all consultancy and advisory services.
The Committee considered the carrying value of goodwill and the The Regulations require that Board approval is required if eligible assumptions underlying the impairment review.
The judgements in non-audit services, such as due diligence and similar assurance relation to goodwill impairment largely relate to the assumptions services exceed 30% of the prior year Group audit fee and the underlying the calculations of the value in use of the Cash Company may not allow eligible non-audit services to exceed 70% Generating Unit CGU being tested for impairment.
These of the Group audit fee, calculated on a rolling three-year basis.
judgements are primarily the calculation of the discount rate, the achievability of managements forecasts in the medium term and The Group Finance Director does not have delegated authority to the use of the long term growth rate.
Following their review which engage the auditor to carry out any non-audit work, but must seek also included consideration of the external audit findings, the approval from the Chair of the Audit Committee.
Committee concurred with the conclusion that no impairment of goodwill is required.
Taxation services are not provided by the Groups current audit firm: a separate firm is retained to provide tax advice and any assistance with tax compliance matters generally.
In addition, due diligence exercises on acquisitions and similar transactions are not provided by the auditor, but are placed with other firms.
46 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED In addition to the above the Committee also seeks confirmation The Board has established a clear organisational structure with from the auditor that the Groups businesses follow appropriate defined authority levels.
The day-to-day running of the Groups policies to recognise material streams of revenue and their audit business is delegated to the Executive Directors of the Company work carried out more generally has assessed any instances where who are supported by members of the Executive Management management may be able to override key internal controls Committee EMC comprising of the heads of each business designed to guard against fraud or material misstatement.
The Sector and functional heads of Group FP&IS and Group Finance.
auditor also reported to the Committee on other less material The EMC and Executive Directors visit each operating unit on a matters in relation to the recoverability of trade receivables, regular basis and meet with both operational and finance acquisition accounting, the valuation of the Groups defined management and staff.
benefitschemes and the classification and presentation of theCEOtransition costs.
Key financial and operational measures relating to revenue, cash and receivables are reported on a weekly basis.
Detailed CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING STANDARDS management accounts and KPIs are prepared monthly using a The Audit Committee reviewed the likely impact of adopting robust proprietary reporting system to collect and analyse financial IFRS15 revenue from contracts with customers ahead of the data in a consistent format.
Monthly results are measured against implementation across the Group, which will be applicable for the both budget and half year reforecasts which have been approved year ending 30 September 2019.
A report prepared by the Group and reviewed by the Board.
All capital expenditure above Finance department on the potential impact of this standard on the predefined amounts must be supported by a paper prepared by Groups consolidated financial statements was submitted to the management.
This report was based on a detailed review carried out in conjunction with the Heads of Finance of the All financial data is taken directly from the trial balance of each major businesses.
This report identified that the new standard may business held in their local ERP systems and reanalysed and affect some contracts for bundled goods and services in relation to formatted in a separate Group management reporting system, reagent rental agreements in Diploma Healthcare Group, as well as operated by the Group finance department.
There is no rekeying of preventive maintenance service and CEMS revenues in a1-CBISS.
The financial data and very limited use is made of spreadsheets by the amounts relating to these revenue streams were in aggregate less Group businesses to report monthly financial results.
The Group than 1% of total Group revenues.
The bases applied to revenue finance department continues to develop the functionality of this recognition across the Group will continue to be monitored to management reporting system to provide greater insights into the ensure compliance with IFRS15.
activities of the Groups businesses, both financial and operational.
The Groups Internal Auditor regularly audits the base data at each The Audit Committee also noted initial project work being carried business to ensure it is properly reported through to the Group out by the Group Finance department on the impact of IFRS16 management reporting system.
leases on the Groups consolidated financial statements, which will be applicable for the year ending 30 September 2020.
This As part of the year end close process each business is required to standard will affect Diploma in that all material operating leases complete a self-assessment that evaluates their financial control including properties will be capitalised on the Balance Sheet and environment in their business, which is designed to identify depreciated.
The Group Finance department will again report weaknesses in controls.
These assessments are critically reviewed formally in 2019 to the Committee on the potential implications on by the Groups Director of Internal Audit and a summary for each the consolidated financial statements from adopting this standard.
business is prepared for the Audit Committee.
In addition, senior management of each business are required to confirm their Further information on the impact of IFRS15 and IFRS16 is set out adherence with Group accounting policies, processes and systems on pages 92 and 93. of internal control by means of a representation letter addressed to the Audit Committee.
TAX STRATEGY The Committee noted that during the year, the Group tax strategy, The Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk including detailed tax policies, had been updated by the Head of management and internal control systems for the period from Tax and Treasury and has been reviewed and approved by the 1 October 2017 to the date of this Report.
Taking into account the Board.
matters set out on pages 30 to 33 relating to principal risks and uncertainties and the reports from the Director of Internal Audit, RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL the Board, with the advice of the Committee, is satisfied that the The principal risks and uncertainties that are currently judged to have Group has in place effective risk management and internal control the most significant impact on the Groups long term performance systems.
are set out in a separate section of the Strategic Report on Internal Control and Risk Management on pages 30 to 33.
INTERNAL AUDIT The Group maintains a small Internal Audit department which The Committee is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the reports directly to both the Group Finance Director and Chair of the Groups system of internal control.
The system of internal control is Audit Committee.
The department comprises a Group Director of designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to Internal Audit, based at one of the Groups businesses in achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and Minneapolis, US and a Group Senior Internal Auditor based at the not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Groups offices in London.
Group has the necessary procedures in place to ensure that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the A full programme of Internal Audit visits has been completed principal risks to the Group.
These procedures are in line with the during the year.
The scope of work carried out by Internal Audit Financial Reporting Councils guidance.
generally focuses on the internal financial controls and risk management procedures operating within each business, but was expanded this year to include regulatory & compliance reviews and business process improvement.
In January, the STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 47 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION Group Director of Internal Audit presented his audit plan for Diploma PLC maintains a Group-wide policy on anti-bribery the year to the Committee for their approval.
Formal written corruption that addresses the requirements of the Bribery Act reports are prepared on the results of each Internal Audit visit 2010.
The Committee periodically reviews this policy and the that set out internal control weaknesses risks identified during procedures to ensure continued and effective compliance in its their work, together with recommendations to improve the businesses around the world.
During the year, the Group rolled internal control environment and mitigate these weaknesses outa refresher using an E-learning training programme to all its risks.
These reports are discussed with management of business.
This training has been undertaken by all senior the business visited and are reviewed by the appropriate management and employees in customer or supplier facing member of the Executive Management Committee.
rolesand in particular by management and employees from companies that have recently joined the Group.
At the end of the financial year, the Group Director of Internal Audit formally reports to the Committee on the results of the Internal WHISTLEBLOWING Audit work carried out by his department during the year.
The The Committee also monitors the Groups whistleblowing policy, Committee reviews managements responses to matters raised, which provides the framework to encourage and give employees including the time taken to resolve such matters.
The Audit Chair confidence to blow the whistle and report irregularities.
The also meets separately with the Group Director of Internal Audit at policy, together with hotline posters are placed on site least twice a year to review some of the departments reports and noticeboards across the Group.
Employees are encouraged to raise discuss their findings.
concerns via the confidential multilingual hotline, which is managed by an independent external company and is available 24 7, 365 There were no significant or high risk matters identified in the days a year.
Reports to the hotline are investigated and reported to internal audits undertaken during the current financial year.
Several the Committee, together with details of corrective action taken.
recommendations were made to the businesses in regards to The Group received three such whistleblowing reports during the implementing adequate and effective internal controls and year, which on further investigation were found to be personal procedures within the key processes related to their general IT and grievance matters.
On further review and investigation, the cybersecurity framework.
The Group Director of Internal Audit also Committee concluded that two of these reports related to reported that good progress has been made with addressing those grievance issues in the workplace and the third report comprised recommendations made in 2017 in connection with establishing concerns that on investigation were not substantiated.
All three and maintaining adequate segregation of duties within key process cases reported to the Committee were satisfactorily resolved.
areas and more detailed employee expense reporting.
It was also identified that further work is still required at some businesses to formalise and improve their inventory cycle count procedures.
The work of the Internal Audit department was also extended this year to review and report on progress made by Group businesses in ensuring that their internal control environment was sufficiently robust to resist cyber-attacks and that businesses have obtained or are seeking to obtain the Cyber-Essentials Basic certification.
This work identified a number of instances where systems need to be upgraded and strengthened and these results were reported to themember of the EMC who has been given responsibility for managing and reporting to the Board on theGroups cybersecuritystatus.
The Internal Audit department also continues to monitor the businesses compliance with Group policies on anti-bribery corruption and sanctions.
The Committee conducted the annual review of the effectiveness of the Internal Audit department, including its terms of reference, audit plan, general performance and relationship with the external auditors.
Based on its review the Committee was satisfied with theeffectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function, specifically the Committee is satisfied that the Internal Audit department is sufficiently independent of Executive management and has sufficient resources and scope that is appropriate for the size andnature of Diploma PLC.
SANCTIONS The Audit Committee continued to work with senior management of the Company, in conjunction with local management of Kenteks Russian operations, to ensure ongoing compliance with EU and US led sanctions.
The Committee has received reports on compliance with these sanctions and will continue to monitor developments until the sanctions are suspended or revoked.
