48 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Members of Committee Attendance SUCCESSION PLANNING The Committee formally reviews succession planning for the John Nicholas Chairman 4 4 Executive Board at least once each year, taking into account the Charles Packshaw 4 4 challenges and opportunities facing the Group and the background Andy Smith 4 4 skills and expertise that will be required by the Board in the future.
Anne Thorburn 4 4 As part of this exercise, development plans are also discussed and agreed to identify potential successors considered for appointment The Nomination Committee is chaired by John Nicholas, Chairman to the Board from within senior management within the Group.
The Committee is chaired by the Senior Independent Director on any matters concerning the Chairman In January each year, the Committee also reviews succession of the Company.
The Committee comprises the non-Executive planning risks and opportunities in relation to the Companys Directors and meets as necessary to discharge its responsibilities.
senior executives, which comprise a cadre of ca.
100 senior managers across the Groups businesses.
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee regularly reviews the succession planning for RETIREMENT AND APPOINTMENT OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE non-Executive Directors.
The Committee is committed to a OFFICER CEO programme of reviewing and refreshing the non-Executive The Committee has focused this year on the appointment of a new Directors on the Board to ensure there is sufficient balance CEO, following the announcement on 26 September 2017 that between the introduction of fresh perspectives and maintaining Bruce Thompson intended to retire as CEO of Diploma PLC during continuity and stability.
The Committee intends to pursue a 2018 and leave the Company on 30 September 2018.
The phased transition of non-Executives in order to avoid wholesale recruitment process to appoint a new CEO commenced in the changes to the make-up of the Board over the next few years.
second half of 2017 and was described in last years Committee report.
In summary, a thorough process was undertaken with the As part of the review of the composition of the Board and the assistance of Ridgeway Partners Ridgeway, a search consultancy succession planning process set out above, both the Board and the which did not have any other connections with the Company.
Committee recognise the importance of pursuing opportunities for both gender and ethnic diversity throughout the Group.
The In particular: Boards commitment to gender and ethnic diversity is set out on page 40. a detailed specification for the role was prepared against which potential candidates were considered: Non-Executive tenure as at 30 September 2018 Ridgeway provided a long list of potential candidates to the Committee in October 2017: a shortlist of candidates was then selected based on both their Charles Packshaw desire to be considered for the role and on the Committees Andy Smith assessment of their career background and experience: after an initial interview with the Chairman, three preferred Anne Thorburn candidates were selected by the Committee to go forward for formal interview: Years 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 the interview process was led by the Chairman and Senior Independent Director: the candidates were also interviewed by the other non-Executive Directors and by the outgoing CEO and COMMITTEE EVALUATION the Group Finance Director.
Character references and As explained on page 41, an external evaluation of the psychometric tests were also undertaken on each candidate: performance of the Committee and its members was a preferred candidate recommendation was made by the undertaken during the year.
The Chairman and Company Committee in December 2017: and Secretary were asked to prepare an action list and timetable a sub-Committee met with the preferred candidate, to negotiate for the Committee to implement key recommendations a remuneration package within the Directors Remuneration arising from this exercise, although the evaluation Policy and the range recommended by the Remuneration confirmed that the Committee was operating effectively.
The Committee subsequently made a recommendation to the Board to appoint Richard Ingram, which the Board approved.
Richard Ingram joined the Board as Chief KEY DUTIES AND FOCUS IN 2018 Executive Officer designate on 23 April 2018 and became Chief The Committee reviews the composition of the Board Executive Officer on 8 May 2018. andprincipal Committees, considering skills, knowledge, experience and diversity requirements before making Richard Ingram stepped down as CEO and Executive Director on appropriate recommendations to the Board as to any changes.
28 August 2018 and left the Company.
John Nicholas was It also manages succession planning for Directors and other appointed by the Board as interim Executive Chairman and will Senior Executives and is responsible for reviewing the Groups remain in this role until a new CEO is appointed.
Following Richard Ingrams departure, the Nomination Committee The Committees role and responsibilities are set out in its commenced a new process to find a permanent replacement CEO.
Terms of Reference, which are reviewed every two years and Korn Ferry, a search consultancy, was appointed to assist with the approved by the Board.
The Terms of Reference are available at process.
Korn Ferry does not provide any other services to and has www.
no other connection with the Company.
The Committee will follow a similar appointment process as adopted in 2017, amended to reflect The Committees key focus areas during the year have been shareholder feedback and Committee review.
As at the date of this the CEO succession, leadership development and executive report, the process remains ongoing and the Board will make an succession planning.
announcement when an appointment decision has been finalised.
