Dominos Pizza Group plc 52 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Corporate governance continued COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK Within our delegation framework, the Decide on the longer-term aims CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE Board retains certain key decision-making Agree the Companys business model.
responsibilities: Dominos Pizza Group plc the Agree an appetite for risk.
Company is incorporated and has a setting and approving overall Set values and standards for premium listing in the UK.
As a result, it Group strategy: the Company.
is required to report on its compliance setting a risk appetite, within which Provide entrepreneurial leadership.
with the Code or explain why it has management is required to operate: chosen not to comply.
For the year Appoint the Executive Directors.
reviewing and approving business ended 30 December 2018, it was subject Decide on the short-term goals plans and budgets: to the edition of the Code published Review and approve strategy, by the Financial Reporting Council in reviewing and approving major providing constructive challenge April 2016, which is available from business decisions: as necessary.
The Company reviewing major risks and the complied with the Code in full Ensure the necessary financial and implementation of mitigation throughout the year.
human resources are in place.
strategies: Agree business plans and budgets.
The Code contains 18 main principles, reviewing the functioning of the which are expanded on in supporting internal control environment: Review the risk management process principles and detailed provisions.
monitoring operational and Together, these set out the key trading results against previously Monitor and manage performance components of effective Board practice, approved plans: Monitor managements performance in and we explain in this report how we reviewing and approving significant delivering the strategy, and challenge have applied these during the year.
contractual and other commitments, or support as necessary.
Where appropriate, some explanations including capital expenditure: are contained in the Nomination Approve major expenditure and reviewing corporate governance Committee report, the Audit Committee other commitments.
arrangements: report, the Directors remuneration Monitor the risk environment in which report and the Directors report.
reviewing succession plans for the the Company operates and review Board and Executive Directors: and internal controls.
exercising its control by an annual Determine the remuneration of review of matters reserved for the Executive Directors and senior Boards decision.
As noted above, the Board is responsible Oversee the governance of the for determining the nature and extent of Company and Group to ensure the principal risks it is willing to take in shareholders interests are protected.
It also Report to, and engage with, retains oversight of the risk management shareholders and internal control systems with the Monitor the integrity of financial aim that these are sound and protect information and the reporting of shareholders interests.
LEADERSHIP OUR Report to shareholders on GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK business performance.
The Company is led by the Board, whose Ensure other external obligations members are collectively responsible for are met, including reporting to the long-term success of the Company.
Day-to-day management of the business Understand shareholders views is delegated to management, led by the and act as necessary.
The role of the Board can be summarised as follows: Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 53 Board composition There is a common purpose of promoting Independence the overall success of the Group with a The Boards preferred structure is to The Board reviews the independence unified vision of the definition of success, be led by a non-executive Chairman, to of its non-executive Directors annually.
the core strategic principles, and the have high calibre Executive Directors to In assessing the independence of each understanding, alignment and mitigation drive the performance of the business Director, the Board considers whether of risk.
under the leadership of a Chief Executive each is independent in character and Officer, and to have a number of nonjudgement and whether there are Non-executive Directors are appointed executive Directors drawn from a range relationships or circumstances which are for three-year terms subject to annual of backgrounds, whose role is to provide likely to affect, or could appear to affect, re-election by shareholders and the constructive challenge.
Our aim is that the Directors judgement.
offer of any further term of appointment the independent non-executive Directors after year six would be weighed carefully always constitute at least half of the by the Nomination Committee, which Board.
This structure and the integrity keeps the need for progressive refreshing of the individual Directors should of the Board particularly to maintain ensure that no single individual or group an appropriate balance of skills and dominates the decision-making process.
experience and orderly succession to key appointments under continual review.
The Board is supported in its work by three Committees: Terms of reference for these Committees, which are regularly THE BOARD reviewed by the Board, are available on the Companys investor relations website https: investors.
co. uk as is the formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision.
AUDIT NOMINATION REMUNERATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Audit Committee Nomination Remuneration Report Committee Report Committee Report Audit Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee The Audit Committee assists The Nomination Committee The Remuneration Committee the Board in discharging oversees the recruitment of determines the terms and its responsibilities for the the Directors and advises on conditions of employment, integrity of the financial matters relating to the Boards remuneration and rewards of statements, reviewing the membership and Committee the Executive Directors, the internal control environment appointments, including Chairman and the leadership and risk management systems, reviewing succession plans.
The Remuneration managing the relationship The Nomination Committee Committee aims to offer an with the external auditor and also regularly reviews and appropriate balance of fixed monitoring the effectiveness monitors the overall skills and and performance-related, and objectivity of the experience of the Board.
immediate and deferred external auditors.
remuneration, but without overpaying or creating the risk See more online at of rewards for failure.
co. uk Dominos Pizza Group plc 54 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Corporate governance continued Board roles and responsibilities Board composition There is a clear separation between the roles of the Chairman and the Chief The eight continuing members of the Board on 30 December 2018 were Executive Officer, which is recorded in drawn from a range of backgrounds and gained their experience in a document approved by the Board in a range of relevant industry sectors: September 2015 and summarised below.
In essence, the Chairman manages the Board and the Chief Executive Officer 8 8 88:12 manages the business.
Importantly, no one individual has unfettered powers PROFESSIONAL PRIMARY GENDER of decision.
SKILLS EXPERIENCE BALANCE The Chairman meets with the Chief Executive Officer regularly, including visits to pizza stores, and they are in contact between these occasions as required.
The Chairman also has separate discussions with the non-executive Directors.
Chairman Accounting 3 Consumer retail 3 Male 7 The role of the Chairman is: Retail management 4 Food retail 3 Female 1 Marketing 1 Professional services 2 providing leadership to and ensuring the effectiveness of the Board: ensuring that agendas emphasise strategic, rather than routine, issues and that the Directors receive accurate Chief Executive Officer Senior Independent Director SID and clear information well ahead of the The role of the Chief Executive Officer is: The SID focuses on: time when a decision is required: promoting a culture of openness and leading the development of meeting regularly with the constructive debate, and facilitating the Groups strategic direction independent non-executive Directors: an effective contribution by the nonand objectives: providing a sounding board for executive Directors: identifying and executing acquisitions the Chairman and acting as an arranging informal meetings of the and disposals and leading geographic intermediary for other Directors: Directors, including meetings of the diversification initiatives: being available to shareholders if non-executive Directors: reviewing the Groups organisational they have concerns which contact ensuring effective communication by structure and recommending changes through the normal channels of the Group with its shareholders: as appropriate: Chairman or Chief Executive Officer has failed to address or would be arranging for the Chairs of the identifying and executing new inappropriate: and Committees to be available to answer business opportunities: questions at the AGM and for all holding annual meetings with nonoverseeing risk management and Directors to attend: and executive Directors without the internal control: Chairman present.
taking the lead in providing a properly managing the Groups risk profile, constructed, full, formal and tailored including the health and safety induction programme and ongoing performance of the Group: development for new Directors.
implementing the decisions of the Board and its Committees: building and maintaining an effective Group leadership team: and ensuring the Chairman and the Board are alerted to forthcoming complex, contentious or sensitive issues affecting the Group.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 55 Board composition Board skills matrix The eight continuing members of the Board on 30 December 2018 were drawn from a range of backgrounds and gained their experience in a range of relevant industry sectors: Retail 6 Franchising 4 Finance 3 Food 6 International 3 Listed Company 6 The Board of Directors is comprised of 8 individuals with a wide range of skills, knowledge, background and experience.
Details of the Directors experience and history with Dominos can be found in the Directors biographies, which are available on pages 48 to 49.
Non-executive Director LEADERSHIP IN ACTION CURRENT YEAR OF NONThe role of a non-executive Director is: This section of the corporate governance EXECUTIVE TENURE, report explains how the Board has providing creative contribution to the AT 30 DECEMBER 2018 fulfilled its duties and obligations during Board by way of constructive criticism: the year under review.
11 bringing independence, impartiality, 9 Board membership experience, specialist knowledge and 7 a different perspective to the Board: The Board currently comprises the 5 5 4 non-executive Chairman, the Chief providing guidance on matters of Executive Officer, the Chief Financial concern and strategy: Officer, a non-executive Vice-Chairman Colin Stephen Helen Ebbe Kevin Steve overseeing risk management and 2 1 Halpern Hemsley Keays Jacobsen Higgins Barber and four independent non-executive internal control: Directors, one of whom acts as the protecting shareholder and Senior Independent Director.
The names 1 S tephen Hemsley was appointed as non-executive stakeholder interests: Chairman in March 2010.
However, he was and biographical details of the serving first appointed to an Executive Director role constructively challenging the Directors, and the offices held by them, in 1998 and as a Director of the Company on Executive Directors and monitoring can be found on pages 48 and 49. incorporation in 1999.
Full details of Stephens Executive performance: history with the Company can be found in the We believe that the Board is of sufficient Directors biographies on page 48. supporting the Executive team in size that the requirements of the business 2 C olin Halpern acquired the Dominos Pizza Master shaping and delivering the strategic and good governance can be met and Franchise for the UK and Ireland in 1993 and has goals of the business: held a variety of senior Executive roles within normal succession challenges managed, the Group.
He became a non-executive Director optimising shareholder return and but is not so large as to be unwieldy.
Full details of Colins history protection of shareholder assets: and with the Company can be found in the Directors The current non-executive Directors biographies on page 48. ensuring the Board is able to work tenure reflects our approach of together effectively and make progressively refreshing the Board.
Diversity The Boards policy on diversity is explained in the Nomination Committee report on pages 60 to 61.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 56 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Corporate governance continued Each non-executive Director has Board Committees committed to the Company that they Membership of the three Board Committees during the year ended 30 December are able to allocate sufficient time 2018 was as follows: to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Any additional Audit Nomination Remuneration appointments they are contemplating Committee Committee Committee taking on are discussed with the Chairman in advance, including the likely Stephen Hemsley Chairman time commitment and whether these Steve Barber Chairman Member Member could in any way constitute a conflict Kevin Higgins Member Member Chairman of interest.
These matters are formally reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
Ebbe Jacobsen Member Meetings of non-executive Directors Helen Keays Member Member Member The non-executive Directors, led by the Chairman, meet without the Executive Directors being present.
In addition, the Attendance at Board and Committee meetings independent non-executive Directors, The Board is scheduled to meet seven times in each year.
Additional meetings are led by the SID, meet during the year arranged as necessary which do not necessarily require the full participation of all as needed, including to review the Directors.
Committees meet as necessary to discharge their duties.
Attendance of performance of the Chairman.
individual Directors at meetings of the Board including additional meetings and Independence its Committees during the year ended 30 December 2018 was as follows: The Board has considered the independence of the current nonAudit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee executive Directors, other than the Chairman.
It does not believe that Colin Stephen Hemsley 13 of 13 6 of 6 Halpern is independent in view of his long 1 Colin Halpern 11 of 13 service with the Company including his former Executive responsibilities.
David Wild 13 of 13 3 David Bauernfeind 2 of 2 Board balance 3 The Board composition creates a majority Rachel Osborne 5 of 5 of independent non-executive Directors Steve Barber 13 of 13 5 of 5 4 of 4 6 of 6 excluding the Chairman, with the current Kevin Higgins 13 of 13 5 of 5 4 of 4 6 of 6 position being: Ebbe Jacobsen 13 of 13 6 of 6 BOARD BALANCE 1,2 Helen Keays 11 of 13 4 of 5 5 of 6 5 of 6 1 A ll Directors attended the scheduled Board meetings apart from Helen Keays and Colin Halpern, who were both unable to attend one scheduled meeting due to a prior commitment.
There were six unscheduled Board meetings held during the year and some of the Directors were not available for these unscheduled meetings due to other diary commitments.
2 H elen Keays did not attend one Audit Committee meeting, one Nomination Committee meeting and one Remuneration Committee meeting due to a prior commitment.
3 D avid Bauernfeind joined the Board on 9 October 2018 and Rachel Osborne ceased to be a Director on 11 June 2018.
Non-independent 37.5% Directors 3 Chairman 1 12.5% Independent non- 50% executive Directors 4 See our Board Effectiveness table on page 58 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 57 Committee evaluation considers the BOARD EFFECTIVENESS to discharge their responsibilities as balance of skills, experience including Directors or as members of Board We believe that there are five key steps in familiarity with the Company and its Committees.
If Directors have concerns creating an effective Board: business and independence of the Group which cannot be resolved about the 1.
Recruit the right people taken as a whole, and also the diversity, running of the Company or a proposed including gender, of the Directors.
The We have a formal, rigorous and action, they can require that their process also examines how the Directors transparent procedure for the concerns are recorded in the Board work together as a unit, and explores appointment of new Directors to the minutes, or provide a written statement to other factors relevant to effectiveness.
Board, overseen by the Nomination the Chairman, for circulation to the Board.
The Chairman acts on the results of the Committee.
For each appointment, we The Board is supplied with information performance evaluations as necessary develop an objective brief summarising the in a form and of a quality appropriate including, where appropriate, proposing role and the skills and experience required to enable it to discharge its duties new members be appointed to the Board and use an appropriate head-hunting effectively.
This is provided in good time or seeking the resignation of Directors.
firm with proven expertise in the relevant ahead of all meetings and decisions, and field.
As noted above, we take care to non-executive Directors are encouraged Individual evaluation aims to determine ensure that we recruit on merit, from the to seek clarification from management whether each Director continues to widest possible range of backgrounds, whenever they feel appropriate.
contribute effectively and to recognising the benefits of diversity, and demonstrate commitment to the role the search firms we use are signatories to 3.
Identify and manage any conflicts including commitment of time for the Code of Conduct for executive search of interest Board and Committee meetings and firms.
Before confirming an appointment, Directors have a statutory duty to avoid any other duties.
we check whether the preferred individual actual or potential conflicts of interest.
can commit to the time expected In 2018 the Board evaluation process was However, the Companys Articles of including, in the case of an appointment to undertaken in-house and facilitated by Association allow the Board to authorise the chairmanship, the need to be available the Company Secretary in conjunction conflicts, where felt appropriate.
Any in the event of a crisis.
The evaluation Director who becomes aware that he was conducted by use of an online or she is in a situation which does or 2.
M ake sure Directors have the questionnaire and a report compiled for could create a conflict of interest, or has right tools discussion by the Board.
As in previous an interest in an existing or proposed All Directors go through a tailored, formal years, the evaluation methodology all transaction in which the Company also induction process on joining the Board, followed particular themes focusing on: has an interest, is required to notify the including the opportunity to meet major Board in writing as soon as possible.
The Board composition, succession and shareholders.
The aim of this is to ensure interests of new Directors are reviewed talent management: that they understand the Company and its during the recruitment process and business model, our strategy, the drivers Board dynamics and development: authorised if appropriate by the Board of value in the business and the key meeting management and at the time of their appointment.
risks we face, and that they understand Board agenda: the legal and regulatory environment in Executive Directors are permitted, and strategic development: and which we operate and their own personal where felt appropriate even encouraged, internal control and risk.
Directors are expected to hold non-executive directorships to update and refresh their skills and outside the Group.
However, the Board Following Board discussion, the agreed knowledge on an ongoing basis, and to would not agree to a full-time Executive areas of focus in 2019 will be: continue to build their familiarity with the Director taking on more than one Development of agreed succession Company and its business throughout non-executive directorship in, nor the plans for the Chairman, CEO and their tenure.
The Company will provide chairmanship of, a FTSE 100 company.
Senior Independent Director: the necessary resources for developing 4.
Formally check on effectiveness and updating its Directors knowledge A re-evaluation of the Boards The Board undertakes a formal and and capabilities, including access to our skill-set matrix: rigorous annual evaluation of its own operations, staff and franchisees.
Enhancing the quality of Board papers performance in each year.
It also to ensure consistency and relevance.
All Directors have access to the services reviews the performance of the Board of the Company Secretary, and the Committees and the Nomination opportunity to seek independent Committee reviews the performance professional advice at the Companys of individual Directors.
Board and expense where they judge it necessary Dominos Pizza Group plc 58 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Corporate governance continued The following is a summary of progress made against the agreed areas of focus for the Board in 2018 2018 area of focus Progress made Further progress on the Groups The Nomination Committee receives regular updates on succession planning throughout succession planning systems for the the Group and on colleague diversity.
In recognition of the wider responsibilities placed Board and management on Nomination Committees generally arising from provisions in the new UK Corporate Governance Code, the composition of the Nomination Committee has been altered and now comprises all independent non-executive Directors plus the Chairman.
The Nomination Committee is considering Board succession issues.
More commentary can be found in the Nomination Committee report on pages 60 and 61.
Increased focus on corporate culture Continued progress has been made on embedding our values and the behaviours expected of our leaders and other colleagues.
Details of colleague engagement and development can be found on page 44.
Ensuring that the recent progress KPMG were engaged to provide critical commentary on the effectiveness of the Groups in improving risk management and internal control and to assist in developing a structured improvement plan.
More internal control is maintained commentary can be found in the Audit Committee report on page 64.
BOARD EFFECTIVENESS To ensure the Board provides effective leadership to the Group, we have a three-year evaluation cycle, using a mixture of internal and external evaluations.
YEAR 3 YEAR 1 An internal review An external Board using questionnaires effectiveness review and interviews with produces an action the Chair of the plan for the areas Board of focus identified by the review YEAR 2 A follow-up questionnaire enables us to monitor our progress with the focus areas Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 59 In January 2019 we hosted a Capital 5.
Ask shareholders to confirm and CFO routinely engage with analysts, Markets event, focused on the UK appointments institutional and retail shareholders business and taking investors back to and potential investors, through results Ultimately, the Directors main basics to understand the investment presentations, roadshows and one-off responsibility is to promote the longproposition.
The Chairman and Senior term success of the Company, acting in Independent Director are available for shareholders best interests.
All of our We have successfully attracted a meetings with shareholders on request.
Directors submit themselves for renumber of UK based institutions with a election at each AGM and we provide long term investment horizon onto our In years in which there is a significant shareholders with sufficient information share register.
change to the Executive remuneration in the meeting papers for them to policy or there is a binding vote Key discussion topics in 2018 decide whether their commitment and on remuneration at the AGM, the The key topics discussed with performance warrant a further year in Chairman, the Chair of the Remuneration shareholders during 2018 included: office.
At the 2018 AGM, each serving Committee and the Company Secretary Director was re-elected, with votes in the competitive environment in the meet with major shareholders to discuss favour exceeding 94% of those cast in United Kingdom, including the role of remuneration and any other all cases.
franchisee profitability, franchisee ACCOUNTABILITY TO SHAREHOLDERS Our aim is to ensure we build and relations and the outlook for new store The Board has established formal and maintain strong relationships, and that openings: transparent arrangements for considering we communicate our strategy and inflationary pressures, particularly with how they apply the principles of sound performance against it in a clear and regard to labour: corporate reporting, risk management and consistent way.
In turn, we seek to internal control and how the Company and understand the views of our investors the broader UK consumer environment Board maintain an appropriate relationship through regular dialogue, and feedback and the value perception of Dominos with the Companys auditor.
These is provided to the Board as a whole to Pizzas customers: responsibilities are overseen by the Audit give an additional context for strategic our investments in our own stores and Committee and are explained in its report decision making and capital allocation.
in supply chain capacity: from pages 62 to 65.
The regular CFO report to the Board management change and culture: includes a detailed update on all investor The Board considers that the 2018 Annual international growth prospects and relations matters, including movements in Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, challenges: and the share register, recent meetings with is fair, balanced and understandable and our target leverage ratio and the investors, summaries of analysts reports provides the information necessary for potential for returns of excess capital and key discussion topics.
In addition, shareholders to assess the Companys to shareholders.
our brokers are invited to provide an position and performance, business The Annual General Meeting AGM independent view on matters of strategic model and strategy.
Details of how we importance such as potential acquisitions do this are also explained in the Audit The AGM is treated as an opportunity to and share buybacks.
communicate with all of our shareholders, and their participation is encouraged.
REMUNERATION 2018 IR activity The Chairs of all Board Committees There are formal and transparent In 2018 we built on our higher profile IR attend the AGM and are available to procedures for developing policy on activities as follows: answer questions.
An explanatory circular Executive remuneration and for fixing We moved to a reporting programme containing the notice of meeting is sent the remuneration packages of individual of five financial announcements a to shareholders at least 20 working days Directors, which are overseen by the year, to keep investors informed and beforehand, with separate votes being Remuneration Committee and are updated, and to bring us in line with offered on each substantive issue.
All explained in its report from pages 66 sector best practice.
proxy votes received are counted with to 87.
This report explains how Executive the balance for and against and any votes We reviewed our corporate broking Directors remuneration is designed withheld announced at the meeting and advisory relationships, and appointed to promote the long-term success published on the Companys investor Goldman Sachs in place of Credit Suisse.
of the Company and shows how the relations website after the meeting.
This Goldman Sachs, working with Numis, performance-related elements are website, https: investors.
co. uk, have provided capital markets advice.
transparent, stretching and also contains a host of up-to-date We continued to engage actively rigorously applied.
with institutional investors, through RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS roadshows in the UK and North America, conferences and numerous We maintain an active dialogue with our one-off meetings and calls.
shareholders and potential investors, which we intend to be based on a mutual understanding of objectives.
