Dominos Pizza Group plc 60 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Nomination Committee report COMMITTEE MEMBERS Steve Barber Kevin Higgins The Committees main focus for 2018 was Helen Keays Ebbe Jacobsen talent management and succession planning.
Stephen Hemsley Non-executive Chairman Chairmans overview Chief Executive Officer and Group increased emphasis the Code places HR Director are expected to attend on succession planning and diversity The principal purpose of the whenever necessary.
Nomination Committee is to ensure that the Company has the right leadership, The majority of members of While the Chairman of the Board chairs both on the Board and amongst senior the Nomination Committee are the Nomination Committee in normal management.
This is a combination of independent non-executive Directors.
circumstances, he would abstain in continual review and monitoring of, and During the year the composition of the matters relating to the appointment also responding to, specific situations Committee was altered so that all of the of a successor to the chairmanship.
independent non-executive Directors The number of meetings held in the are members of the Committee.
The Company Secretary attends year and attendance at those meetings This change was made in advance meetings in his capacity as Secretary is shown on page 56. of the introduction of the 2018 UK of the Nomination Committee and the Corporate Governance Code and the ACTIVITIES IN 2018 the recruitment of a new CFO.
The PURPOSE Committee conducted a search for During the year the Committee met to The Nomination Committee has four a CFO and the executive search consider the following key matters: principal duties: for candidates was conducted by the review of the performance of all to ensure that plans are in place for Buchanan Harvey & Co. Buchanan the non-executive Directors seeking orderly succession for appointments to Harvey & Co does not have any other re-election at the 2018 AGM: the Board and to senior management, connection with the Company.
The so as to maintain an appropriate to consider and make a Committee recommended David balance of skills and experience recommendation to the Board Bauernfeinds appointment to the within the Company and on the on amendments to the diversity Board which was effective from Board and to ensure progressive policy applicable to Board-level 9 October 2018: refreshing of the Board: appointments: agreeing the role specification for the to lead the process for Board and receiving reports from management Chair of the Audit Committee and Committee appointments and make on talent management and appointing Buchanan Harvey & Co to recommendations to the Board: succession planning: conduct the search process: and where external recruitment is considering the requirements of to agree the search agency to required, to evaluate the balance of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance be appointed to conduct a search skills, experience, independence and Code and making changes to the for a new independent nonknowledge on the Board and, in light of Committees composition and workexecutive Director.
this evaluation, prepare a description plan as a result: of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
The Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 61 The search for a new independent nonNomination Committee would then An important factor in achieving this executive to chair the Audit Committee oversee the selection process with the effectiveness is drawing members from is progressing well and we expect to aim of ensuring that this results in an a range of backgrounds, which has been announce an appointment shortly.
The appointment made on merit, against shown to help avoid group think.
We Committee is currently considering objective criteria and with due regard are proud of the diversity in our business succession planning for my role as for the benefits of diversity on the and we recruit and develop people Chairman, succession for David Wild as Board, including gender and ethnicity: regardless of their gender, race or any CEO and for Helen Keays who acts as and other characteristic.
We are of the view our Senior Independent non-executive that it is in the interests of the Company to to undertake formal performance Director and will have served nine years recruit and develop the very best people, evaluation of non-executive Directors on the Board by 2020.
We note that the drawn from the widest pool of talent.
We who are standing for re-election and provisions of the most recent version of are continually improving our recruitment to ascertain whether the individuals the Corporate Governance Code state that process and have provided awareness performance continues to be effective the Chair of the Board should not remain training to our Directors and senior and they demonstrate sufficient in post for more than nine years.
Whilst managers on managing unconcious bias.
we acknowledge the Codes provisions, The policy of the Board on recruitment The terms of reference of the Nomination the timing and sequencing of these Board is always to seek to appoint the best Committee were updated in February changes must be appropriate for the candidate to each role.
Our diversity 2017 and reviewed by the Committee business, and the Committee is currently policy for the Board has been amended during the year.
These terms of reference formulating its plans.
The Committee, led to incorporate the targets set out in the are available on the Companys investor by Helen Keays, has considered the term Hampton-Alexander review on gender relations website.
of my appointment and agreed to extend diversity and Parker review on ethnicity.
the term by a further 12 months to facilitate POLICY ON DIVERSITY A copy of the Boards Diversity orderly succession planning.
The Board Policy Statement is available on the The Board recognises the importance will provide an update on planned Board Companys investor relations website of having Directors with the appropriate changes in due course.
balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Details of the Group-wide diversity data Company to enable them to discharge Stephen Hemsley are shown on page 44. their respective duties and responsibilities Chairman of the effectively.
They play a key governance BOARD SUCCESSION Nomination Committee role in protecting shareholders Steve Barber will retire from the 11 March 2019 interests by ensuring that the Board Board at the conclusion of the AGM and management are challenged, on 18 April 2019.
I should like to thank constructively and effectively, and it is Steve for his contribution to the Board important that they do so from a range during his tenure on the Board.
