Dominos Pizza Group plc 62 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Audit Committee report I am pleased to introduce COMMITTEE MEMBERS the report of the Audit Kevin Higgins Helen Keays Committee for 2018.
Steve Barber Non-executive Chairman I have notified the Board that I intend Voogd, for their robust but constructive Officer.
I believe that the Groups to step down as a Director of the challenges and advice throughout finances are in good hands under Company at the Annual General my tenure.
David and that he will do a great job.
Meeting in April and I would like to take 2018 saw the departure of our Chief Dominos has a fantastic business this opportunity to thank our outgoing Financial Officer Rachel Osborne but model and I wish the Group every auditors, Ernst & Young LLP EY, and I am delighted that David Bauernfeind success for the future.
in particular their audit partner Chris has become our new Chief Financial Committee membership, Meetings of the Audit Committee during the previous year end process attendees and access have been attended by the Chairman and b to address this years audit and of the Board, the Chief Executive accounting issues at an earlier stage.
Steve Barber is a chartered accountant Officer, the Chief Financial Officers, with considerable financial experience The Audit Committee has direct the external auditor, the Company and the Board has determined that access to members of management Secretary as Secretary to the Audit he has recent and relevant financial and the external auditor.
It is able to Committee and other Directors and experience which qualifies him to seek further professional advice at the members of management by invitation.
Both Companys cost if deemed necessary.
The number of meetings held in the Kevin Higgins and Helen Keays have year and attendance at those meetings A search has commenced to find a new considerable business experience is shown on page 56.
The additional chairman of the Audit Committee.
which enables them to make a positive meeting was held at the request of the contribution to the Audit Committee.
Audit Committee in order a to address The Board is satisfied that, as a whole, control issues that were identified the Committee has competence relevant to the sector in which it operates.
FOCUS OF THE COMMITTEE The appropriateness, amount and Accordingly, provisions were made for disclosure of significant non-underlying the closure of these facilities, including The focus of the Committee during the year items redundancies, write downs of the value of has been primarily devoted to significant the land and buildings to their estimated accounting issues and the overall financial Disclosed underlying earnings exclude recoverable amount and write-offs of the control environment.
These are discussed some 40.9m of costs treated as related plant and equipment.
It is possible in more detail below.
non-underlying and 11.1m of gains that some of the plant and equipment may treated as non-underlying.
The principal In addition, members of the Committee be capable of being utilised in some of items are discussed below.
visited the Groups operations in Iceland, the Groups international operations.
No Switzerland and Norway as well as the a Provisions against the carrying value account has been taken of this on the basis new Supply Chain Centre of the Penrith and Kingston Supply that there are currently no plans for such in Warrington.
usage and the fair value of the equipment 7.6 million net of decommissioning and disposal costs SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ISSUES As a consequence of the completion is immaterial.
The Audit Committees reviews of the half of the new Supply Chain Centre in and full year financial statements focused b Start-up costs in Warrington.
Warrington, the Board decided to close on the following areas of significance: 1.9 million the older and smaller facility in Penrith.
In The start-up costs for the Warrington addition, the back-up facility in Kingston facility have been treated separately was mothballed.
from the operating costs of the facility Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 63 metrics supporting the impairment respect of put options to purchase the in normal production.
The facility is now reviews of goodwill and other intangible minority interests in these businesses.
fully operational and no further start-up assets and concurred with managements costs are anticipated.
The calculation of the amounts payable conclusion that impairments should c Accelerated amortisation of the for these Nordic put options was be recorded for Norway, Sweden and mobile and web ordering platform.
previously based on the profit projections Switzerland, as noted below.
However, based on The Committee was satisfied that no the Groups revised projections which The Board decided during the year to make impairments were necessary in relation to has resulted in the impairment noted a strategic investment in commissioning a Iceland and the UK corporate stores.
No in d above, we now expect the option new mobile and web ordering platform.
provision was made for impairment of Sell value based on profit performance In accordance with the Standard More Pizza Limited SMP on the basis to be lower than the value based on Franchise Agreements, amortisation that current sales support the carrying sales performance.
Under the sale and of the platforms has previously been value.
In the event that SMPs sales fail to purchase agreement, the sales based recharged to the eCommerce fund.
hit their targets, it is possible that some assessment is a collar on the put option At the half year, it was explained that impairments will be required.
Accordingly, an increase in the the accelerated amortisation of the put option liabilities of 3.7m has been Norway impairment 10.2 million existing platform, arising as a result recorded at 30 December 2018. of the decision to replace it, would be As a result of the impairment review, an g Revaluation of the Market accounted for over the two years as a impairment of 10.2m has been recorded Access Fee.
1.2 million non-underlying item of approximately in non-underlying against Norway.
The total non-underlying As in the prior year, the Market Access Switzerland and Sweden impairments amortisation charge recognised in 2018 Fee payable to the Group has been 3.9 million is 2.9m, leaving a balance of revalued to reflect the performance of 3.0m recorded in intangible our German associate.
As a result of the impairment review, net assets at 30 December 2018. impairments of 1.2m have been recorded This downward revaluation has been in non-underlying over the goodwill of the In January 2019, the Group announced based on a valuation prepared by a third business in Switzerland, and 2.7m over the 10m franchisee support programme party valuer and is consistently treated the goodwill of the business in Sweden.
which includes, in addition to the 5.9m as non-underlying.
noted above, an additional 4.1m to e Integration and restructuring costs h Gain on the disposal of the DP support the eCommerce fund during the in Norway.
8.2 million development and build out of the new As part of the rationale for the acquisition The Group disposed of its joint venture platform.
In 2019, the Group will continue of Dolly Dimples in Norway, the existing interest in DP Shayban for 11.4m.
its discussions with franchisees with a Dolly Dimples stores were to be converted view to agreeing the framework for this to Dominos stores.
At the December 2018 5.7m of the consideration for the contribution.
In the event that the Group year end, 12 Dolly Dimples stores have still disposal is in deferred consideration successfully concludes its discussions to be converted or closed and the cost of loan notes but the full gain on disposal with franchisees such that it enters into doing so will be in excess of the amounts of 8.2m has been recognised in these a binding commitment with franchisees, originally anticipated.
accounts on the basis of the loan notes it will recognise the balance of 7.1m as being recoverable and the security held In addition, as part of the purchase a non-underlying technology expense by the Group.
contract, the vendor agreed to supply during 2019 due to its materiality and certain back office functions for a limited The Committee received and reviewed nature, thus completing the one-time period.
At the end of that period these presentations from management on the 10m franchisee support programme.
functions were assumed by the Group treatment of these non-underlying items, No provision has been made in the 2018 but a number of accounting and other discussed them at length with local and accounts because there was no binding functions were not adequately resourced Group management as well as with EY commitment at the end of 2018. with the result that their integration was and agreed the appropriateness of their d Impairment of international delayed and inefficient.
classification as non-underlying with full businesses.
14.1 million disclosure of each item in order to present Accordingly, they have been shown For Switzerland, given its historic a comparable and continuing basis of as non-underlying in this years accounts.
underperformance and for Norway and measurement of underlying earnings see It is not anticipated that such costs Sweden given their weaknesses since also note 7 to the financial statements.
acquisition, the Committee has taken Other accounting and audit issues a prudent view in its consideration f Valuation of the Nordic put options.
a Potential tax liability in respect of of the carrying value of goodwill and 3.7 million employee share schemes other intangible assets relating to these At the time of the original acquisition of the As further explained in note 2, a provision businesses.
The Committee received businesses in Iceland, Norway and Sweden, of 11m was made last year in respect of reports from management covering the provision was made for the estimated cost employee share schemes.
key judgements, forecasts, and valuation of meeting the Groups commitments in Dominos Pizza Group plc 64 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Audit Committee report continued transaction costs of the acquisition have These items were discussed at length The Committee members met as necessary been treated as non-underlying.
with management and the external during the year to consider the advice being auditor and their separate disclosure provided by the Companys legal advisors.
Impact of new accounting standards in the Groups financial statements There has been no significant change to the a As previously reported, both IFRS 9 was agreed.
matters disclosed in last years accounts and IFRS 15 have been implemented in and repeated in note 2 and it is likely that PRESENTATIONS FROM the year without the requirement for any it will be some years before the matter is MANAGEMENT AND adjustments to prior year numbers.
PROFESSIONAL ADVISORS b Work has been ongoing to assess b Distributable reserves The Audit Committee received a number the impact of the requirements of the Subsequent to the payment of dividends of presentations from management and new standard IFRS 16 Leasing which is and share buybacks in prior years without professional advisers, including: effective for periods commencing on or sufficient distributable reserves in the after 1 January 2019.
IT and cyber security parent company, procedures were put The Groups system sales and operations in place to ensure that the parent The Groups 2019 financial year commences are highly dependent on its eCommerce company reserves were sufficient to on 31 December 2018 and accordingly, the IT systems.
There can be no guarantee as meet such payments.
Group will not be adopting IFRS 16 until the to the resilience of the Groups systems financial period commencing 30 December These procedures have been followed to outside attack and the Committee 2019.
This arises because of the timing during the year and the amount of such commissioned a report on cyber security of the Groups year-end is aligned to a distributable reserves is disclosed in note from Deloitte in the prior year which 52 week period based on a Monday to 13 of the parent companys accounts.
identified a number of areas requiring Sunday trading week.
These continue to c Accounting for the NAF and Management continue to work on the be addressed and the Committee eCommerce fund practical implementation of the standard.
receives regular updates from The UK business collects a percentage of This work has proved more complex than management on progress and issues.
system sales to be used for advertising and originally anticipated, in particular in marketing purposes in the NAF.
In addition, During the year, the Group encountered collecting and analysing the necessary data the Group receives a fee for the provision of increased levels of chargebacks from for all of the Groups more than 1,100 leases.
its eCommerce platform which goes to the credit card companies and, as a result, eCommerce fund and is designed to fund In parallel, the Group is implementing the Easypay function in the mobile the cost of the eCommerce platform and new property management software platform was terminated.
which will be able to calculate and record Risks and financial controls leases under IFRS 16.
It has been long established practice that As reported in previous years, the Groups these two funds have been netted against It is anticipated that, because the majority internal control environment has been each other and therefore the balance of leases are in effect back to back from informal and often undocumented.
on the funds has been presented in the the landlord to the Group and then from Group balance sheet on a net basis.
the Group to franchisees and as a result In addition, the Group implemented a of the commitments in the Standard new ERP system in 2016 which has still The net receivable at December 2018 of Franchise Agreements, the lessee and to deliver the anticipated efficiencies 6.2m 2017: 3.9m is treated as an asset lessor obligations will generally be netted and improvements in financial control.
on the basis that such amount is legally in the balance sheet.
However, the work to recoverable from franchisees as detailed Accordingly, KPMG were appointed date indicates that not all leases under the in note 16. during the year to perform a high level back to back arrangements will net to zero review of the Groups back office d Investment in Ireland because of, for example, lease incentives processes and financial controls in or timing differences between head lease During the year the Group invested the UK.
The Committee received and sub lease, and therefore it is expected 10.8m for a 15% interest in its largest presentations from KPMG to explain their that there will be a balance sheet impact franchisee in Eire alongside a third-party findings on the control environment, for the residual amounts.
in addition to reports from management currently quantifying the impact.
The equity investment has been The treatment of the Groups 124 designated as fair value through profit KPMGs recommendations, which include corporate stores will give rise to gross and loss.
The fair value at 30 December a number of significant issues concerning amounts in the consolidated balance 2018 is deemed to be the cost of capability, policies and processes, have sheet comprising a lease liability and investment, given it was acquired been accepted by the executive and a right of use asset in line with IFRS 16. close to the year end.
remediation plan has been formulated.
The Group is therefore not in a position The Group received a 0.7m change of In addition, the Group has looked to to provide further information on the hands fee for this transaction which, strengthen the resources and control impact of the new standard but would in accordance with the Groups policy, environment in our Norway business anticipate doing so at the 2019 half year has been treated as underlying.
The local auditors have results announcement.
with the Groups accounting policy, Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 65 commented that the books and records in dividends, the Audit Committee has As in the prior year, the market survey Norway in relation to the 2017 statutory concluded that it could recommend to was performed by an affiliate of EY.
This audit were inadequate but that the the Board that it should be able to make affiliate of EY had performed market investment in finance resource in 2018 the relevant statements.
The principal surveys on the Groups behalf prior to has improved the situation.
We anticipate sensitivity would be a significant fall it becoming an affiliate of EY and was a much improved process for the 2018 in underlying profitability which could deemed by the Group to be best placed to local statutory audit in Norway.
impact on the debt covenants.
perform the assignment cost effectively by building on the work undertaken during As also mentioned in prior years, the Group EXTERNAL AUDITORS the previous assignments.
does not have a formalised internal audit The Audit Committee has reviewed function other than the team that monitors The Audit Committee believes that the independence, objectivity and the performance of operational stores.
the non-audit fees were appropriate in effectiveness of the external auditor, EY, the circumstances and in view of the and has concluded that EY continues to The Group intends to introduce an forthcoming change of external auditor.
possess the skills and experience to fulfil internal audit function to take effect its duties effectively and efficiently.
As explained in some detail last year, the Group held a competitive tender for the The Audit Committees review of the Taxation external audit commencing with the audit effectiveness of EY as the external auditor The Committee received reports from the to December 2019 which was awarded is based on the interaction of the Audit Groups tax advisors, FTI, on the status of to  LLP PwC.
Committee with EY, discussions with the the Groups tax affairs.
Accordingly, a resolution will be put to senior finance team, the robustness of the this years Annual General Meeting to The Committee also focused on the audit, the quality of reporting to the Audit approve the appointment of PwC.
appropriateness of the recognition of Committee and the audit quality reports deferred tax assets in respect of the published by the FRC.
FAIR BALANCED, UNDERSTANDABLE international businesses, some of which AND COMPREHENSIVE REPORTING EY has confirmed that in its professional have been written off see note 7 to the opinion it is independent within the The Audit Committee has provided advice Financial Statements.
meaning of regulatory and professional to the Board on whether the Annual requirements and the objectivity of the Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, In January 2019 the Group appointed an audit engagement partner and audit staff is fair, balanced and understandable experienced accountant to lead a new tax are not impaired.
and provides the information necessary and treasury function, reporting to the CFO.
for shareholders to assess the Groups BREXIT The Audit Committee held meetings financial position and performance, with the external auditor but without The impact of Brexit has been reviewed business model and strategy.
management following each Audit again during the year and managements Committee meeting and the Audit Each Director was also asked to provide conclusions are generally unchanged Committee chairman has a regular and this confirmation.
When doing so, both except that the impact of delays at frequent dialogue with the audit partner.
the Audit Committee and the individual ports may be greater than originally Directors were provided by management anticipated.
Measures are therefore The Audit Committee agreed the fees for with a formal assessment of the key being taken to protect the business from the external auditor and has strict policies messages included in the Annual Report shortages of raw materials.
regarding the provision of non-audit and Accounts.
This assessment was services by the external auditor which GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY designed to test the quality of reporting can be found on the Companys website.
and to enable the Directors to satisfy On behalf of the Board, the Audit These include specific pre-approvals for themselves that the levels of disclosure Committee reviewed the Groups proposed work and fees, a prohibition were appropriate.
projected cash flows, facilities and on certain services and a restriction on covenants as well as reviewing the total non-audit fees as a percentage of TERMS OF REFERENCE assumptions underlying the viability the total audit and audit related services, The terms of reference for the Audit statement see page 39. except in exceptional circumstances.
Committee were revised in February 2017 As planned, net debt has increased During the year, the level of fees payable and further reviewed by the Committee substantially since last year to stand at to EY for 2018 are as set out below: during the year.
The Committees terms of 203.3m at the end of December, primarily reference are available on the Companys 000 as a result of acquisitions, share buybacks investor relations website.
Throughout the year, Total audit and audit-related fees 593 the Group has maintained comfortable Non-audit fees: headroom within its facility and Steve Barber comfortably met covenant compliance.
Market survey 130 Chairman of the Audit Committee Having reviewed these projections, Total audit and non-audit 11 March 2019 services 723 including sensitised projections, and the ability of the Group to stop discretionary payments such as share buybacks and
