NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE The Committees principal responsibilities are to: keep under review the Boards structure, size and composition including requisite skills, diversity, knowledge and experience : We continue our work conduct the search and selection process for new directors, taking advice from independent search consultants as to ensure that the appropriate: and right leadership is in ensure a rigorous succession planning process for the directors place to steer the and other senior managers, including the identification of candidates from both within and outside the Group.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES IN 2018 Philip Cox CBE Appointed Vanessa Simms as a non-executive director Chair Appointed Andy Skelton as Group Chief Financial Officer Considered the effectiveness and performance of the Board COMMITTEE MEMBERS and its committees Tim Cobbold Reviewed management development and succession planning Nicola Hodson appointed 12 January 2018 David Lindsell I am pleased to present the Nomination Committee Report for the David Nussbaum year ended 31 December 2018.
Vanessa Simms appointed 19 June 2018 Tony Thorne When considering the appointment of new directors the Committee adopts a formal process which considers the skills, ATTENDING BY INVITATION knowledge, diversity and experience that support the Company Group Chief Executive Officer in delivering its strategic goals.
This includes providing the Board Group People Director with an appropriate balance and mix of skills required for both now and in the future.
NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD IN 2018: THREE As Chair of the Committee, I am responsible for overseeing the The Group Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
progress made towards improving diversity in appointments to the Board and supporting an effective succession plan for senior management in a way that is consistent with the long-term ATTENDANCE IN 2018 strategy of the Group.
The Committee will continue to monitor Maximum No.
of % of the balance of the Board to ensure sufficient breadth and depth Committee Date appointed a possible meetings meetings member member meetings attended attended of expertise is available from the existing members, and will recommend further appointments to the Board as appropriate.
Tim Cobbold 27 September 2010 3 3 100% The Committee also takes an active interest in the quality Philip Cox 22 April 2015 3 3 100% and development of talent and capabilities below Board level, Nicola Hodson 12 January 2018 3 2 67% ensuring that appropriate opportunities are in place to develop David Lindsell 1 December 2008 3 3 100% high-performing individuals and to build diversity in senior roles David Nussbaum 1 August 2017 3 3 100% across the business.
Vanessa Simms 19 June 2018 1 1 100% Tony Thorne 29 June 2010 3 3 100% Nicola Hodson was unable to attend one meeting due to a pre-existing commitment.
However, she received the meeting papers and provided comments in advance of the meeting in order for her views to be considered.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE ALLOCATION OF TIME Corporate Governance 30% Board and committee composition 20% Succession planning and talent 30% Board effectiveness 10% Other 10% TERMS OF REFERENCE The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually by the Committee and then by the Board.
The terms of reference are available on the Groups website at www.
64 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information DIRECTORATE CHANGES In considering the selection of candidates for these two new As detailed in last years annual report, Will Gardiner was appointed non-executive appointments, the Committee reflected on the as Group CEO in January 2018 and Den Jones was appointed on attributes, skills and experience necessary for suitable successors an interim basis as CFO.
to the roles of Audit and Remuneration Committee Chairs.
Finally, Tim Cobbold will step down in September 2019, as by that date he In conducting our search for a CFO, a thorough and rigorous will have completed nine years on the Board.
recruitment process was initiated and overseen by the Committee.
Heidrick & Struggles JCA Group was appointed to NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS assist with the search and ensure a comprehensive search of the It is the Boards policy that each non-executive director will be external market.
Heidrick & Struggles JCA Group has signed up appointed for a term of three years which, subject to the Board to the Hampton Alexander voluntary code of conduct on gender being satisfied with the directors performance and commitment, diversity and, aside from assisting with recruitment, has no and a resolution to re-elect at the appropriate AGM, may be connection with the Group.
Due to the complex and technical renewed by mutual agreement.
The Board will not normally nature of the Drax business the search was specifically looking for extend the aggregate period of service of any independent a CFO who would be able to quickly get up to speed and credibly non-executive director beyond nine years, and any proposal made engage with the wide variety of operational activities across to extend a non-executive directors aggregate period of office the Group as well as play a key role in shaping its future.
When beyond six years is subject to rigorous review.
assessing the relative importance of different skills, it was felt that core skills of control, reporting, cost management and On page 58 we explain the rationale for David Lindsell remaining process understanding were particularly important.
on the Board until the 2019 AGM, notwithstanding that his term as Non-executive director exceeds nine years.
The candidate selection process focused on both technical expertise and experience as well as the behavioural traits I would like to thank David Lindsell, Tony Thorne and Tim Cobbold important for success at Drax.
In particular, the ability to look for for their very considerable contributions to the Board during the right solution, innovate for a better future, embrace change a period of significant changes for the business.
Psychometric tests were used to further enhance and refine the selection decision.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE EVALUATION The Board recognises that it continually needs to monitor and As we announced in October 2018, Andy Skelton joined the Board improve its performance.
This is achieved through the annual as Group CFO in January 2019. performance evaluation, full induction of new Board members and ongoing Board development activities.
Andy Skelton was chosen for this role due to his experience in building and leading finance teams, and also understanding and For 2018 it was determined that an internal Board performance optimising processes, both within finance and across businesses.
evaluation would be most beneficial to the Company.
The Chair He has strong core financial control and accounting expertise and the Group Company Secretary coordinated the evaluation and very good experience of driving business transformation.
ensuring that areas of focus arising from last year in particular were subject to review.
Two new non-executive directors also joined the Board in 2018.
Firstly, Nicola Hodson, whose appointment was reported in The form of questionnaire was approved by the Chair, our Annual report and accounts last year, joined in January and was subsequently completed by all directors.
Following bringing her experience in technology, business transformation completion of the questionnaires, the Chair holds a series and energy.
Nicola will succeed Tony Thorne as Chair of the of one-to-one meetings with each of the directors to allow Remuneration Committee from the 2019 AGM.
Secondly, him to fully evaluate the performance of the Board, each of Vanessa Simms who joined in June, has more than 20 years its Committees and individual Board members.
experience in senior finance roles, bringing a particular focus on implementing strategic change.
Vanessa will succeed David Lindsell as Chair of the Audit Committee, when he steps down on the conclusion of this years AGM.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 65 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued BOARD AND COMMITTEE EVALUATION POINTS FROM 2017 WHAT WE DID Improving diversity, as it was recognised that Board diversity has been improved with the appointment additional focus is needed to further widen the of two female NEDs composition of the Board Updated Board diversity policy to reflect the increased focus Several initiatives have been put in place to improve diversity across the Group and remain focused on the Hampton Alexander targets Further examination of new technologies in the Full strategy review with the executive team energy sector and their impact on the business Discussed the development of battery storage and the implications of widespread use of electric vehicles Cyber security risk IT strategy paper considered by the Board in May and technology strategy discussion at October Board strategy away days Risk appetite increased discussion on risk and the Cyber security reviewed annually and considered at Board Boards appetite for risk meetings following the development of new cyber security plans Approved the Group security policy Focus on GDPR and associated improvements on privacy processes across business Increased focus on assessing non-financial The Boards overall risk appetite was considered at the January qualitative and quantitative measures when Board meeting and is considered on individual projects as they assessing company performance are brought to the Board Approved new risk management policy How can executives use non-executive Non-financial measures considered further in terms of the directors more corporate scorecard Implementation of the new employee performance This is moving forward with good examples of wider and appraisal process to drive forward talent Non-executive director engagement such as the senior development management leadership event The Board reviewed capability development during its two-day strategy meeting and the Remuneration Committee reviewed the new career development framework and approach to performance management in November POINTS FROM 2018 WHAT WE PLAN TO DO IN 2019 Diversity recent appointments have helped to There will be continued focus on diversity in its widest sense improve gender diversity but more needs to be done in considering new appointments to the Board and at senior in terms of social and ethnic diversity management level.
Build on recent initiatives to improve diversity in the senior leadership pipeline.
People leadership and succession planning this The Board will closely monitor the implementation of initiatives was improving as a result of recent initiatives but to improve people leadership, talent development and there is still work to be done succession planning Strategy a well planned and developed Enhance strategy review by wider thinking on skills required strategy review for the future Cyber security risk remains a key focus The Board to continue with its high level of focus on cyber security risk with periodic independent reviews of cyber security Safety improved reporting on process safety The Board to continue its increased focus on safety and to which needs to continue and develop monitor the development of a new approach to safety reporting for process safety Stakeholders wider stakeholder engagement The Board will focus on the issue of stakeholders especially an area to work on in light of the acquisition of the ScottishPower assets All major projects to be reviewed for impact on all stakeholders 66 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SUCCESSION PLANNING AND DIVERSITY The Board recognises that effective succession planning is key to the Companys ability to achieve its strategic objectives.
It is also integral to maintaining an effective Board.
Selecting and supporting the right individuals is an essential role of the Committee.
In November, the Group People Director provided an update to the Committee on the talent succession and development programme with a strong focus on the leadership pipeline.
By the end of 2020, the aim is to have 40% of senior leadership roles held by women.
The Board embraces diversity in its broadest sense, believing that a wide range of experience, background, perspective, skills and Skills and knowledge knowledge is the foundation of a high performing and effective team.
As part of our commitment to this, the Boards Diversity of the board Policy was reviewed and updated by the Committee.
The review Each bar shows the number of members on the Board with included aspects of new and emerging best practice and strong or very strong skills or experience in this area regulatory developments in the area of senior management and Board diversity.
The policy now covers race, gender, educational and professional background.
Finance Capital Markets Banking 89% As well as bringing important skills and experience from their respective backgrounds, the addition of Nicola Hodson and Vanessa Simms to the Board has improved the Boards gender Operational experience 78% diversity.
This will continue to be a key consideration during 2019 when we seek to recruit a new non-executive director to the board.
Governance Regulatory 44% SKILLS AND KNOWLEDGE OF THE BOARD Sustainability A key responsibility of the Committee is to ensure that the Board maintains a balance of skills, knowledge and experience appropriate to the long-term operation of the business and Sitting Executive 44% delivery of the strategy.
As in past years, the Nomination Committee has reviewed the composition of the Board and as part of this review the Committee considered whether the: Energy sector experience 78% Board contains the right mix of skills, experience and diversity: Board has an appropriate balance of executive directors and non-executive directors: and non-executive directors are able to commit sufficient Digital 33% time to the Company in order to discharge their Technology responsibilities effectively.
Following the review, the Committee was satisfied that the Board continues to have an appropriate mix of skills and experience, Board of Directors page 52 both for now and for the future, to operate effectively.
All the directors have many years of experience, gained from a broad range of businesses and they collectively bring a range of expertise and knowledge of different business sectors to Board deliberations, which encourages constructive, challenging and innovative discussions.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 67 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued BOARD INDUCTION All directors Executive Non-executive Operational review Visits to key sites Meetings with shareholders as appropriate Financial review Build relationship with Chair and Executive Committee Board members Meetings with external advisers Strategic overview and the Senior Leadership Team as appropriate Directors duties and responsibilities Meetings with shareholders Additional specific training with internal Governance structure specialists as appropriate to the individual non-executive directors Review of previous minutes and meeting papers experience and training requirements Other key documents including strategy and business plan Meetings with other Board members INDUCTION OF NEW DIRECTORS The executive directors service contracts and non-executive All new directors receive a comprehensive, tailored, induction.
directors letters of appointment are available for inspection During the year, Nicola Hodson and Vanessa Simms were by prior arrangement during normal business hours at the appointed as non-executive directors.
It was anticipated that Companys registered office.
They will also be available for Nicola would be appointed as Remuneration Committee Chair inspection at the venue of the AGM, prior to that meeting, and that Vanessa would be appointed as Audit Committee details of which are contained in the Notice of Meeting.
Chair and as such their induction programmes were tailored accordingly.
More details can be found in the table above.
During the year, I held 8 meetings with the non-executive directors in the absence of the executive directors, and, RENEWAL AND RE-ELECTION separately, the Senior Independent Director held a meeting If the Board appoints a director, that director must retire at the with the non-executive directors without me being present, first AGM following their appointment.
That director may, if they as required by provision A.
so wish, put themselves forward for election.
Vanessa Simms and Andy Skelton were appointed by the Board subsequent to This report was reviewed and approved by the the 2018 AGM and therefore they will retire and offer themselves Nomination Committee.
for election by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
Philip Cox CBE The Articles provide that one-third of directors shall retire by Chair of the Nomination Committee rotation each year and are eligible for re-election by shareholders 25 February 2019 at the AGM.
In accordance with the Code, the Company will continue its practice to propose all directors for annual reelection.
Accordingly, each of Tim Cobbold, Philip Cox, Will Gardiner, Nicola Hodson Andy Koss, David Nussbaum and Tony Thorne will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves up for re-election.
David Lindsell will be standing down on the conclusion of the AGM.
Following the evaluation and review of the Board described above, I concluded that the directors offering themselves for election and re-election continue to demonstrate commitment, management and business expertise in their particular role and continue to perform effectively.
The election and re-election respectively of each director is recommended by the Board.
Further information of the service contracts for the executive directors and letters of appointment for the non-executive directors are set out in a table on page 97.
68 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018
