Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE The Committees role is unchanged.
It assists the Board to fulfil its oversight responsibilities by undertaking the following: The Committee monitoring the integrity of the financial statements and other focused on internal information provided to shareholders: reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements controls, risk contained in the financial statements: management and the advising the Board on whether the Committee believes the acquisition of the new annual report and accounts are fair, balanced and understandable: generation assets.
maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Groups external auditor and review the effectiveness and objectivity David Lindsell of the external audit process: Chair reviewing the systems of internal control and risk management: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit COMMITTEE MEMBERS function: and Tim Cobbold David Nussbaum making recommendations to the Board to put to shareholders Tony Thorne Nicola Hodson for approval regarding that appointment of the external auditor.
Vanessa Simms appointed 20 June 2018 AUDIT COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES IN 2018 The Audit Committee follows a programme of work designed to The Board is satisfied that the Committees membership ensure that the Group has sound risk management processes, has the recent and relevant financial experience required a robust system of internal control and delivers fair and balanced by the Code.
ATTENDING BY INVITATION During the year, the Committee undertook its duties in Chair of the Board, Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial accordance with an annual work plan, which is agreed in Officer, Group Financial Controller, Group Finance Manager, November for the following calendar year.
A rolling 12-month plan Head of Group Risk and Internal Audit, External auditor, is also reviewed at each meeting, to enable the consideration Deloitte LLP.
of any emerging issues to be scheduled.
NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD IN 2017 The main areas of work undertaken by the Committee at each Five four scheduled meetings and one additional meeting of its routinely scheduled meetings during 2018 are set out on to review the acquisition of assets from ScottishPower page 70.
In addition, the Committee met in November 2018 to review the contents of the shareholder circular in relation to The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the the acquisition of power generation assets from ScottishPower Committee.
and recommend that the Board approve the circular.
of % of Committee Date appointed possible meetings meetings member a member meetings attended attended Tim Cobbold 27 September 2010 5 5 100 David Nussbaum 1 August 2017 5 5 100 David Lindsell 1 December 2008 5 5 100 Tony Thorne 29 June 2010 5 5 100 Nicola Hodson 12 January 2018 5 4 80 Vanessa Simms 20 June 2018 3 3 100 Nicola Hodson was unable to attend one meeting as a result of pre-existing commitments, however received papers and provided comments in advance of the meeting.
The Chair of the Committee reports the Committees deliberations to the following Board meeting.
The minutes of each Committee meeting are circulated to all members of the Board.
TERMS OF REFERENCE The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually In undertaking its duties, the Committee has access to by the Committee and then by the Board.
The terms of the services of the Chief Financial Officer and the Group reference are available on the Groups website at Company Secretary and their resources, as well as access www.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 69 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued Meeting February April July November Item under Year-end review of Management update on Accounting issues and Accounting issues and review accounting issues and accounting issues and judgements affecting the judgements, new accounting judgements 2017 judgements 2018 interim financial standards and key regulatory Final report from Deloitte Operation of the statements focus areas affecting the LLP Deloitte on their whistleblowing policy and Consideration of the 2018 financial statements, audit findings update to policy half-yearly financial including changes in the Consideration of the 2017 The operation and report and results presentation of gains and annual report, financial effectiveness of the Ethics announcement losses on derivative statements and and Business Conduct Report from Deloitte contracts in the income preliminary results Committee on their interim statement consequent upon announcement Update on the internal review findings the implementation of IFRS 9 Update on effectiveness control environment Update on the internal Approval of the external of risk management and Key risks and controls in the control environment auditors terms internal control systems B2B Energy Supply business Progress of internal audit of engagement and of fraud prevention The external auditors plan, recent reports and Deloitte planning report on and detection procedures management letter for the outstanding actions the 2018 audit and proposed Progress of internal audit 2017 audit Independent assurance audit fees plan, outstanding actions Engagement letter for the report on the The composition and and recent reports auditors review of the sustainability of all qualifications of the Groups 2018 internal audit interim financial statements biomass burned in finance teams strategy and risk mapping Principal IT risks and 2017 2018 The key risks and controls in The effectiveness of the controls, focusing on The Audit Committees Power Generation and Pellet external audit process required improvements in terms of reference Production and of internal audit the operation of day-to-day Review of the effectiveness The Audit Committees cyber security technology of the Groups internal effectiveness processes and controls controls and risk Progress of the internal management systems and of audit plan, outstanding its procedures for detecting actions and recent reports fraud and preventing bribery Senior Accounting Officer Drax Group tax strategy reporting to HMRC document for publication Progress of internal audit plan, outstanding actions and recent reports The internal audit plan for 2018 19 The Committee receives annual updates on financial risks and REVIEWING THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE SYSTEM controls from each of the Groups primary business units.
The OF RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS Pellet Production, Power Generation and B2B Energy Supply The Committee received updates on the Groups internal control businesses each attended a Committee meeting to discuss the environment and feedback on internal audit reports at each risk management and internal control systems in their businesses.
Risk mitigations and progress with previously agreed actions were monitored and progress discussed.
During the year the Committee met the external auditor twice, and the Head of Group Risk and Internal Audit once in the During 2018 two areas of control weakness were identified: absence of management.
No matters of concern were drawn cyber security operational controls and payroll at Opus Energy.
to the Committees attention at any of these meetings.
The Committees understanding with both the external and Whilst no serious cyber security breaches have occurred and internal auditor is that, if they should at any time become Drax has continued to invest in a range of cyber security aware of any matters giving them significant concern, they solutions, an internal audit review of cyber security controls will immediately draw it to the Committees attention via the in Power Generation and Drax Corporate identified some Chair of the Committee.
weaknesses in the definition and consistency of operation of operational controls.
A comprehensive programme designed to address these weaknesses, including the establishment of a technology governance function, was immediately initiated.
The majority of the required improvements had been made by 31 December 2018 and the remaining actions will be completed in 2019.
70 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information No serious issues have arisen with the operation of the Opus REVIEWING THE 2018 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS Energy payroll, but weaknesses in processes and controls were Between the year-end date and the date of the approval of the identified.
These had resulted in a small number of errors in annual report and accounts, the Committee met in February 2019 payments to staff.
Management responded by preparing a plan principally to review the draft 2018 Annual report and accounts to improve the internal processes which support the payroll, and the external auditors findings.
The Committee reviewed including deploying new staff, and also proposed bringing the papers prepared by management on accounting issues and entire payroll in-house.
This will be implemented during 2019. judgements affecting the accounts and a report from Deloitte setting out their audit findings.
The Committee also reviews the outcome of whistleblowing reports and conducts an annual review on behalf of the Board.
The Committee also reviewed the underlying process, internal The Board has access to these reviews and also receives updates controls, forecasts and relevant assumptions made in preparing when issues arise.
No issues arose during the year which required the Viability Statement, disclosed on page 42.
Having challenged further investigation by the Committee or the Board.
the assumptions made in this process and considered the appropriateness of the three-year period of assessment, the At the November meeting the Committee considered in detail Committee concluded that the process supporting the Viability the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk Statement was robust and that the Statement was fair.
management systems and also its procedures for detection of fraud, based principally on its reviews during the year of key risks Explanations of the critical accounting judgements, estimates and internal controls in the Groups three businesses and its and assumptions are set out in detail throughout the notes to the corporate functions, the quarterly updates by management on consolidated financial statements, with a summary on pages 114 the control environment, internal audit findings and discussions to 116.
The Committee reviewed these aspects of the financial with the external auditor.
statements, paying particular attention to those issues that involve the most subjective and complex judgements, namely the valuation of commodity and foreign exchange contracts, the new presentation of certain re-measurements and exceptional items in the consolidated income statement, the measurement of unbilled and deferred revenue in the B2B Energy Supply business.
and the accounting for the acquisition of the portfolio of assets from ScottishPower.
Matter Issue and key judgements Factors considered and conclusions reached Valuation of The Group makes extensive use of derivative financial The Committee reviewed the Groups derivative position derivative instruments in order to manage key risks facing the in February, July and November 2018, having regard in financial business and its balance sheet includes significant particular to the critical judgemental areas described instruments assets and liabilities arising from derivatives which in note 7.2 to the consolidated financial statements.
The are stated at their fair value.
Committee considered the position as at 31 December 2018 at its meeting in February 2019, when it also The fair values for derivative financial instruments are reviewed the change in presentation of the consolidated determined using forward price curves and, where income statement triggered by the implementation an instrument incorporates an element of optionality, of the new accounting standard IFRS 9, as discussed an option pricing model.
in Presentation of certain re-measurements and The inputs to these calculations include assumptions exceptional items below.
regarding future transactions and market movements, At each meeting, management explained the trends as well as credit risk, and are therefore subjective.
in market prices that underpinned changes in the The fair value of open derivative contracts, which is fair value of the derivative portfolio and highlighted in essence the difference between the contract price any new types of derivative instrument for the and the price that could be achieved in the market at Committees consideration.
31 December 2018, was 511 million in the case of The Committee concluded that the fair value contracts for which the market value was greater calculations had been performed in a reasonable and than the contract price, and 151 million in the case consistent manner based on quoted market prices as of contracts for which the market value was less than explained in note 7.2 to the consolidated financial the contract price.
statements and that the system of controls in place was fit for purpose.
Accordingly, it was concluded that the amounts included in the financial statements were appropriate.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 71 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued Matter Issue and key judgements Factors considered and conclusions reached Presentation of In order to present more clearly what the Group For each of the material exceptional items, the certain considers to be its underlying business performance, Committee considered managements justification remeasurements the Group has this year introduced a columnar for classifying the item as exceptional and concluded and exceptional presentation of its income statement.
As well as that separate disclosure of these items in the income items a column that presents all items of income and statement was appropriate.
expense in accordance with International Financial The Committee discussed with management the Reporting Standards IFRS, Adjusted results that controls applied to ensure that all maturing derivative exclude exceptional items and reflect certain contracts that qualify for re-measurement are identified re-measurements of derivative financial instruments and that the cumulative gains and losses on such are reported separately in a different column, with contracts are correctly calculated, and discussed with a middle column bridging the other two columns.
the external auditors the work they had carried out to This is consistent with the practice followed by satisfy themselves that the total net IFRS accounting other major UK power generation companies.
loss reported on such contracts was fairly stated.
The decisions on classification of exceptional items involve judgement as to whether an item is truly exceptional by virtue of its nature, size and or incidence.
The Groups policy is to fix exposures to commodity price movements and changes in foreign exchange rates using derivative contracts see notes 7.1 and 7.2 to the consolidated financial statements.
Where such contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting, unrealised gains and losses on the contracts are credited or charged to income under IFRS.
It is the Groups view that such unrealised gains and losses do not reflect the underlying performance of the business because they are economically related to contracted future purchases and sales of commodities.
Accordingly, such gains and losses are excluded from Adjusted results until the related contract is recognised as a physical sale or purchase, at which point Adjusted results reflect the commodity sale or purchase and any associated foreign exchange contract at the contracted price s. Unbilled B2B The Groups revenue for energy supply includes an The Committee reviewed with management the process Energy Supply estimate of energy supplied between the date of for and the key assumptions applied in determining revenue the last meter reading and 31 December 2018.
The the calculation of unbilled receivables, noting that method of estimating such revenues is complex and historically, final settlements had been closely in line judgemental.
They are estimated through the billing with the amounts accrued in the consolidated financial systems on a customer-by-customer basis, using statements.
historical consumption patterns and taking account The Committee also noted the work done in this of current factors such as weather patterns.
Further area by the external auditors and in particular their information regarding unbilled revenue is given observation that more than 90% of the unbilled debt in note 2.2 to the consolidated financial statements.
as at 31 December 2018 had been billed by the end The method of estimating unbilled revenue is of January 2019.
The Committee concluded that inherently complex and involves judgement.
The value the process and assumptions applied were appropriate of unbilled revenue in the B2B Energy Supply business and reasonable.
72 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Matter Issue and key judgements Factors considered and conclusions reached Accounting for On 31 December 2018 the Group acquired The Committee reviewed managements report on the the acquisition ScottishPower Generation Limited since re-named fair value exercise, noting that the exercise had been of the portfolio Drax Generation Enterprise Limited for an initial net carried out for the Group by a major accounting firm, of assets from consideration of 687 million.
Business combination focusing on the key judgements and estimates including ScottishPower accounting requires a fair value exercise to be the basis for the purchased goodwill arising, and undertaken to allocate the purchase price to the obtaining explanations from management for any identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed, significant variances from the asset valuations prepared with any excess of the consideration over the net of for and used by the Board in arriving at the amount of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities the purchase consideration to be offered to the vendor.
assumed being recognised as purchased goodwill.
The Committee concluded that the assets acquired and Particularly in the case of a capital intensive business liabilities assumed were fairy stated in the consolidated such as power generation, fair value assessments balance sheet on the basis of the fair value exercise and require subjective judgements based on a wide range approved the disclosures in note 5.1 to the consolidated of complex variables.
financial statements, while noting that the initial accounting for the acquisition was incomplete and the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements for the business combination thus had been determined only provisionally.
FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE EXTERNAL AUDITOR EFFECTIVENESS As a result of its review of the Annual report and accounts, The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the external underpinned by its discussions with operating and finance auditor, Deloitte, who have performed the role continuously management regarding the Strategic report, and with the Group since the Companys listing in 2005 and were reappointed in 2017 finance team regarding the financial statements, the Audit following a tender process.
The Committees assessment was Committee advised the Board that, in the Committees view, the based on inputs obtained in the course of monitoring the integrity Annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced of the financial statements and the significant financial reporting and understandable and provides the information necessary for issues and judgements underlying the financial statements, and shareholders to assess the companys position and performance, on its direct interactions with the external auditors.
The Committees principal interactions with the auditors were REVIEW OF AUDIT COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS BY MEMBERS its discussions of the audit work performed on areas of higher In line with the FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees, the audit risk and the basis for the auditors conclusions on those Committee reviewed its own effectiveness.
These interactions were supplemented by others that completed using the Board performance evaluation enabled them, for example, to gauge the depth of the auditors questionnaire referred to on page 65. understanding of the companys business.
The Committees review focused on the level of experience and expertise of the The questionnaire included questions on the effectiveness of audit team, their objectivity and professional scepticism, and the Audit Committee in monitoring the integrity of the Groups their preparedness to challenge management in a knowledgeable, financial statements, the Groups internal controls and risk informed and constructive manner.
The Committees review management systems, its arrangements and processes to ensure also took account of feedback from management on the compliance with its ethical standards, and the effectiveness of effectiveness of the audit process.
the internal audit activities and the external audit process.
The questionnaire also asked whether the Committee has sufficient INDEPENDENCE OF THE EXTERNAL AUDIT expertise, time and access to key staff and information to enable The Group has an Auditor Independence Policy, the provisions it to discharge its monitoring and oversight role effectively.
of which include: seeking confirmation that the auditor is, in its professional The questionnaire results were discussed by the Committee at the judgement, independent of the Group, and obtaining from it February 2018 meeting, which concluded that the composition of an account of all relationships which may affect the firms its membership, the manner in which it operates and the reviews independence and the objectivity of the audit partner and staff: that it undertakes throughout the year all contribute to the a requirement to rotate the lead audit partner every five years: continued effective functioning of the Committee.
Members a policy governing the engagement of the auditor to conduct were satisfied that the Committee remained effective.
non-audit work, under which: the auditor may not be engaged to provide certain categories of work, including those where they may be required to audit their own work or make management decisions, or where the auditor would act in an advocacy role for the Group: Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 73 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued there is a clear approval process for engaging the auditor INTERNAL AUDIT to conduct other categories of non-audit work, subject to The Group operates a co-sourced model for its internal audit financial limits.
Permitted non-audit services for which the function.
Under this model, the internal team conducts core fee exceeds 50,000 are required to be approved in advance financial controls reviews.
Reviews of specialist technical areas by the Audit Committee: are outsourced to firms with appropriate experience and all engagements of the auditor to conduct non-audit work qualifications.
are reported to the next meeting of the Committee: and the balance between the fees paid to the external auditor The Committee reviews and approves the internal audit plan for for audit and non-audit work is monitored by the Committee.
Its review is designed to ensure that priority is given to the areas of highest risk for the Group and that the audit work The Policy can be found on the Companys website at focuses on key controls, so as to optimise the level of assurance www.
provided to the Committee and to management The Committee also receives reports from the external The Committee receives reports at each meeting regarding auditor on its own processes and procedures, to ensure its the internal audit programme and reviews undertaken.
independence and objectivity and to ensure compliance with Recommendations are made to management for control the relevant standards.
Topics dealt with by internal audit reports reviewed by the Committee during 2018 included: The current lead audit partner, James Leigh, has completed the maximum permitted term of five years.
The Committee has Property, plant and equipment recognition, existence and controls agreed that he will be replaced by Anthony Matthews, who has Revenue recognition previously acted as the audit partner for the Groups B2B Energy Business plan modelling, governance and monitoring Supply Business.
ROC and CfD claims Corporate crime risk management and compliance framework Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor during the Cyber security year for audit and other services are set out in note 2.3 to the GDPR readiness consolidated financial statements on page 128.
Deloitte were Derivatives valuation and accounting treatment appointed as reporting accountant for the circular to Off-site biomass stocks controls shareholders in relation to the acquisition of generation assets Commodity hedging in B2B Energy Supply from ScottishPower, which required them to report on historical Market regulation compliance financial information relating to Drax and the generation assets Opus payroll concerned.
They also performed financial due diligence for the IT project management directors and for JP Morgan Cazenove as sponsor in relation to Health and Safety the transaction.
The services concerned are in the nature of Pellet Production financial controls and procurement assurance services and not advisory services but are required by the EU Audit Regulation to be classified as non-audit services.
In addition, at each of its scheduled meetings the Committee However, audit firms are permitted to carry out such investment received reports detailing progress with implementing circular reporting engagements for audit clients and this is recommendations previously raised by internal audit and is common practice in the UK as the auditor is able to bring to satisfied that management has taken appropriate steps to bear their knowledge of the business and its financial reporting implement the recommendations raised.
processes, which enables them to perform the work required in a more efficient, and possibly more effective, manner than a firm The Chair of the Committee, independent of management, that does not have such knowledge.
Nevertheless, in order to maintains regular and direct contact with both the internal and minimise any threat to the integrity, objectivity and independence external auditor, allowing open dialogue and feedback.
of the audit team, the financial due diligence work was carried out by a separate team from Deloitte.
The Committee has considered the effectiveness of internal audit, based on the quality of its plan and the information No contractual obligations exist that restrict the Groups choice provided in it its reporting, and is satisfied that the co-sourcing of external auditor.
model described above remains appropriate for the Group and that on this basis the quality, experience and expertise of the AUDITOR REAPPOINTMENT function is appropriate for the business.
Having considered the effectiveness and independence of the external auditor as described above, the Audit Committee This report was reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee.
agreed to recommend to the Board that a resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as the companys external auditor should be put David Lindsell to shareholders at the AGM in April 2019.
Chair of the Audit Committee 25 February 2019 The Group has complied with the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
74 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018
