STAKEHOLDER RELATIONS We recognise that to enable a zero carbon, lower cost energy future we need to work with a diverse range of partners.
That is why we spend time talking with and listening to our stakeholders.
Here we highlight how our external engagement in 2018 has informed the way we operate our business.
COMMUNITIES AND LOCAL AUTHORITIES Over the course of the year we engaged regularly with the communities around our COMMUNITIES businesses through quarterly community AND LOCAL meetings, supporting local initiatives and TRADE AND AUTHORITIES formal drop-in sessions focused on our INDUSTRY CUSTOMERS planning projects.
ASSOCIATIONS OUTCOMES IN 2018 We amended the design of our Repower THINK TANKS planning application in response to EMPLOYEES AND ACADEMICS feedback from local residents.
CUSTOMERS In B2B Energy Supply, we engaged with our customers through channels including SUPPLIERS AND GOVERNMENT social media, our website, telephone lines CONTRACTORS AND REGULATORS and our complaints procedure.
Our energy services teams offered accelerator workshops that develop tailored energy solutions delivering value to our customers NONthrough self-generation, onsite storage SHAREHOLDERS GOVERNMENTAL AND INVESTORS and advanced sustainability initiatives.
ORGANISATIONS OUTCOMES IN 2018 REGULATOR SCHOOLS AND NETWORK We introduced online quote and join, so BUSINESSES small businesses can come on supply via our website.
We have turned our Ipswich office into a showcase for our energy services solutions with solar panels, electric vehicle charging points, an electric pool car, and installing energy efficient LED lighting.
Additional information on stakeholder relations is available at www.
com sustainability 32 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information EMPLOYEES REGULATOR AND NETWORK SUPPLIERS AND CONTRACTORS We maintain a regular dialogue with BUSINESSES We implemented a supplier our employees about our strategy, plans We have engaged with Ofgem and engagement programme with our and performance and the role they play National Grid on the need to deliver a sustainable biomass supply chain.
Through our Voice forums, secure and reliable network at least cost Our engagement included following up briefings, townhalls, Q&A opportunities to the consumer.
This is in addition to on claims raised by media monitoring and our annual employee survey, promoting efficient investment decisions and sharing latest academic reports colleagues can raise issues that are and market behaviours via the system and best practice.
important to them and provide feedback operator incentive scheme, industry on our progress towards creating a great licence code and charging arrangements.
OUTCOMES IN 2018 place to work.
We created a guide for landowners in OUTCOMES IN 2018 the Southern United States to achieve OUTCOMES IN 2018 We agreed to engage with National Grids their sustainable management goals.
We committed to implement Group and Price Control RIIO-2 work.
business action plans, to address key themes raised by our employee survey.
THINK TANKS AND ACADEMICS SCHOOLS Over the course of 2018 Drax sponsored We engage with schools local to our several PhDs at British universities GOVERNMENT AND REGULATORS businesses on Science, Technology, focusing on topics relating to a low We frequently engage with regulators and Engineering and Mathematics STEM, carbon energy future including electric policymakers in the UK, Europe and US skills and employability.
At Drax Power vehicles, battery storage and biomass to ensure our business understands and Station, our tours are focused on learning sustainability.
In collaboration with contributes to the evolving regulatory outcomes and tailored for visitors of Imperial College London and E4tech, we agenda.
Over the course of 2018, we all ages.
published a series of research reports engaged with these audiences on a looking at the future of the energy broad range of topics, including biomass OUTCOMES IN 2018 sector in the UK and globally, including sustainability: carbon pricing: carbon Our outreach to local schools included: Electric Insights, Energising Britain and capture and storage policy: industrial Opus Energy delivering interactive Energy Revolution: A Global Outlook.
strategy: and innovation, training and skills.
renewable energy lessons and Haven Power employees running a Learning OUTCOMES IN 2018 OUTCOMES IN 2018 About Work Day, where students We started working with Forest We signed joint letters with other utilities practiced interview skills and received Research to revise our woody biomass and NGOs to promote strong carbon feedback on applications and CVs.
sourcing policy, building on analysis pricing in the UK and across Europe.
they produced for the European We joined the Powering Past Coal Commission.
Alliance, to support the UK Government SHAREHOLDERS AND INVESTORS in promoting reduced coal use globally.
Sharing timely and accurate communication with our shareholders TRADE AND INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS and capital markets is central to our We are actively engaged with trade NON-GOVERNMENTAL relationship with shareholders, investors bodies focusing on energy and ORGANISATIONS NGOS and other financial stakeholders.
These include We are in regular dialogue with a variety shared this information through a wide the Sustainable Biomass Program, of domestic and international NGOs range of channels, including our Annual Bioenergy Europe, the UK Carbon on energy, climate and forestry issues.
General Meeting and our full-year and Capture and Storage Association, They challenge our thinking and help half-year results, as part of an ongoing Energy UK, Eurelectric and the US us continue to refine and enhance our investor relations programme.
In 2018, our outreach included also members of organisations participating in a series of roundtables We also aim to build strong relationships promoting sustainable business focusing on our biomass sourcing.
with all our financial stakeholders.
practices, including the Confederation of British Industry, POWERful Women OUTCOMES IN 2018 OUTCOMES IN 2018 and Women in Science and Industry.
We published an online tool, ForestScope, In 2018, we communicated with that enables members of the public to our major shareholders on changes OUTCOMES IN 2018 track wood fibre consignments across to our Remuneration Policy.
We participated in several Sustainable our supply chain in the Southern Biomass Program working groups, United States.
including work on greenhouse gas calculation requirements and streamlining the data transfer system.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 33
