CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT A sound governance framework promotes the delivery of our strategy DRAX GROUP PLC BOARD Responsible for overseeing the Groups strategy and risk appetite, monitoring performance and ensuring that the necessary controls and resources are in place to deliver the Groups plans AUDIT COMMITTEE NOMINATION REMUNERATION EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Oversees financial COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Focuses on the Groups reporting, internal controls Makes recommendations Oversees the Groups strategy, financial structure, and risk management on the size, diversity and approach to remuneration planning and performance, systems, whistleblowing composition of the Board and sets key performance succession planning and and fraud, internal and succession planning measures for the organisational development and external audit for the directors and executive directors below Board level effectiveness senior executives and members of the Executive Committee Page 69 Page 64 Page 75 ROLE OF THE BOARD HOW THE BOARD FUNCTIONS The Board determines: the Groups strategy: the Groups Prior to each Board meeting the Chair and the Non-executive appetite for risk: the risk management policies: the annual plan directors meet without management being present.
At each and key performance indicators: acquisitions and disposals, meeting the Board receives a report from the Group Chief and other transactions outside delegated limits: material Executive Officer in relation to key business and operational changes to accounting policies or practices: significant financial matters and from the Group Chief Financial Officer in relation to decisions: capital structure and dividend policy: shareholder the financial performance of the Group.
It also receives regular communications: prosecution, defence or settlement of material reports on performance against the Business Plan, safety, litigation: Group remuneration policy: the terms of reference operational and financial performance, and periodic business of Board committees: and the Board structure, composition reports from senior management across the Group.
receives regular industry, regulatory and topical updates from internal specialists and from external experts and advisers.
TERMS OF REFERENCE Papers are distributed in advance of Board and committee The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its decisions meetings, to brief directors.
and formal terms of reference for its committees.
These are reviewed regularly and are available to view on the Groups The core activities of the Board and its committees are website at www.
documented and planned on a forward agenda, with a list of matters arising from each meeting maintained and followed Matters which are not specifically reserved to the Board and its up at subsequent meetings.
committees under their terms of reference, or to shareholders in General Meeting, are delegated to the Executive Committee The Group Company Secretary advises the Board on all or otherwise delegated in accordance with a schedule of governance matters, ensuring good information flows within delegated authorities approved by the Board.
the Board, its committees, the Executive Committee and senior management.
The Group Company Secretary ensures that Board processes are complied with and is also responsible for compliance with the Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, the Corporate Governance Code and the Companies Act.
There is also good governance collaboration with other parties across all Group functions.
56 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information All Board committees are authorised to obtain legal or other NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD professional advice as necessary, to secure the attendance The Board and its committees have regular scheduled of external advisers at their meetings and to seek information meetings and hold additional meetings as required.
Directors are required from any employee of the Group in order to perform expected, where possible, to attend all Board meetings, relevant their duties.
committee meetings, the Annual General Meeting AGM and any General Meetings.
The Companys Articles of Association the Articles, give the directors power to authorise conflicts of interest.
The Board has The Board has eight scheduled meetings each year.
an effective procedure to identify potential conflicts of interest, In 2018, additional meetings were held by telephone consider them for authorisation and record them.
The Articles to address matters requiring formal decisions.
also allow the Board to exercise voting rights in Group companies A shareholder General Meeting was held in December 2018 without restriction for example to appoint a director to a Group in order to approve the acquisition of ScottishPower company.
The Articles are available on the Groups website at generation assets.
The Board meets at least annually to consider strategy.
The Company has appropriate insurance cover in place in respect BOARD ROLES of legal action against directors of the Company and its The key responsibilities of members of the Board are as follows: subsidiaries.
Position Role BOARD DIVERSITY Chair Responsible for leading and managing the The table below shows the gender diversity split in the Board Board, its effectiveness, and governance.
and in different sectors of the workforce at 31 December 2018.
Ensures Board members are aware of and understand the views and objectives Male Female Total of major shareholders and other key Gender No.
Helps to set the tone from 1 the top in terms of the purpose, goal, vision Board Members 7 78 2 22 9 100 and values for the whole organisation.
2 Senior Managers 20 67 10 33 30 100 Group Chief Responsible for the day-to-day 3 All employees 1,776 66 910 34 2,686 100 Executive Officer management of the business, developing Notes: the Groups strategic direction for 1 Excluding Andy Skelton who was appointed in January 2019 consideration and approval by the Board 2 Direct reports of the Board Executive Committee and their direct reports 3 Excluding Board Members and Senior Managers and implementing the agreed strategy.
Group Chief Supports the Chief Executive in Financial Officer developing and implementing strategy, in relation to the financial and operational performance of the Group.
Chief Executive, Responsible for leading and developing Drax Power the operation of the Power Generation business.
Independent NonResponsible for bringing sound judgement executive directors and objectivity to the Boards deliberations and decision-making process.
Constructively challenge and support the executive directors.
Monitor the delivery of the strategy within the risk and control framework set by the Board.
Senior Independent Acts as a sounding board for the Chair Non-executive and a trusted intermediary for other director directors.
Available to discuss any concerns with shareholders that cannot be resolved through the normal channels of communication with the Chair or the executive directors.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE DIRECTORS INTERESTS, INDEMNITY ARRANGEMENTS It is the Boards view that throughout the period commencing AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS on 1 January 2018, the Company has complied in full with the Other than a service contract between the executive directors principles of the Code issued in April 2016.
The Code can be found and a Group company, or as noted in the Remuneration on the Financial Reporting Council website at www.
Committee report, no director had a material interest at any time during the year in any significant contract with the Company With the exception of Nicola Hodson, who was appointed as a or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
director on 12 January 2018, Vanessa Simms who was appointed as a director on 19 June 2018, and Andy Skelton who was There are no agreements between the Group and its directors appointed as a director on 2 January 2019, all of the directors providing for compensation for loss of office or employment listed on pages 5253 served throughout the year.
Each of because of a takeover bid.
those listed remained directors as at the date of the approval of this report.
Biographical details of the directors appear on The Board has reviewed the independence of each non-executive pages 5253. director.
None of the non-executive directors who served during the year had any material business or other relationship with the TIME COMMITMENT Group, and there were no other matters that were likely to affect Directors other commitments are kept under review to ensure their independence of character and judgement.
The Board that they have sufficient time to dedicate to our business.
Under recognises that in view of the characteristics of independence the terms of their letter of appointment, the Chair is expected to set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, length of service commit between 50 and 70 full days a year to this role.
Under the is an important factor when considering the independence of non-executive directors letters of appointment, each is expected non-executive directors and that directors having served for to commit 12 to 15 full days a year.
That includes attendance at longer than nine years may not be considered independent.
Board meetings, the AGM, one annual Board strategy away day and at least one site visit per year.
In November 2017, David Lindsell was re-appointed for a fourth time until the 2019 AGM.
David is the Chair of the Audit In addition, they are expected to devote appropriate preparation Committee and the Senior Independent Director.
The Board time ahead of each meeting.
The time commitment expected considered that David Lindsells experienced oversight in ensuring in respect of their membership of the Audit, Nomination and careful financial stewardship as Chair of the Audit Committee was Remuneration Committees is an additional three to four full days crucial during a period of change in the implementation of the a year in each case.
However, in practice considerably more time new strategy, the development of the new Group CEO into that is devoted, particularly by the Chairs of the Board committees.
role, and the selection and appointment of a new Group CFO.
To have David continuing in post during this period of transition, Non-executive directors also spend time with management, and assisting in the recruitment and induction of a new to maintain their knowledge of the developing business and Audit Committee Chair in 2018, was considered to be an integral to understand the operational challenges being faced.
part of ongoing good financial governance.
When David steps down after the 2019 AGM he will have served on the Board for In January 2019 Phil Cox took on the role of Executive Chair at over ten years.
The Board is satisfied that Davids judgement Kier Group plc on an interim basis during the search for a new CEO has remained wholly independent and that he has consistently at Kier.
The Board considered and approved his taking on of this displayed all of the behaviours expected of our independent additional interim commitment, and was confident that he would non-executive directors.
be able to continue to devote the appropriate time to his role as Chair of the Group.
The Board considers all of the non-executive directors to be independent.
58 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information CASE STUDY The Boards role in the acquisition of ScottishPower generation assets During 2018, the Board considered the potential acquisition of a portfolio of flexible low carbon and renewable generation assets.
Early discussions included a consideration of, among other matters: Rationale for the transaction Alignment with strategy Integration plan Key risks Key financial considerations Further preliminary work took place over the following months so that the Board was able to consider the opportunities and risks in greater detail.
The Board received advice from internal teams including legal, treasury and finance functions and external advisers including legal, corporate brokers and the corporate sponsor.
Detailed papers to help the Board consider various aspects of the acquisition opportunity were considered including: Risk analysis Financial projections Funding Integration Effect on the Groups legal requirements Terms of the transaction The effect on the Groups key stakeholders including shareholders, the workforce, customers, the community, external industry and environmental stakeholders was also considered.
A number of Board meetings were held to review the progress of negotiations and approve next steps.
Day-to-day consideration of the transaction was delegated to a committee of the Board.
In between formal Board meetings, the Chair, CEO and other members of senior management updated the Board on significant developments.
Procedures were put in place to deal with any potential leak of market-sensitive information.
On 21 December 2018, shareholders in a General Meeting approved the transaction, which was completed on 31 December 2018.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Highlights of the Boards activities in 2018 POWER GENERATION HEALTH AND SAFETY Considered the forthcoming Capacity Market and OCGT Received regular updates from the CEO bids and approved the level of exit price Considered the review of the fire at the rail unloading Considered proposals in respect of the repowering facility and monitored the resulting programme of works programme Considered the health and safety and wellbeing update Considered the proposed new operating model Considered the process safety review Reviewed initial tenders for construction of OCGT plants SHAREHOLDERS, STAKEHOLDERS PELLET PRODUCTION AND GOVERNANCE Received updates on the biomass optimisation strategy Confirmed support for the Group Communications Strategy Considered the engineering update on biomass handling Considered the Sustainability update facilities Modern Slavery Act update considered and revised Modern Slavery Act statement approved Considered a review of cyber security Considered an update on the progress of the IT strategy FINANCE AND STRATEGY Considered and approved the Group GDPR Privacy Policy Considered an update to gender pay gap reporting Discussion on the final dividend Considered a framework for the employee voice Approved the 2019 Business Plan and the Strategic Plan to 2022 Confirmed support of a return of capital to shareholders in the form of a share buy-back Approved the 2017 annual report and accounts ACQUISITION OF Approved, in principle, a proposed refinancing SCOTTISHPOWER GENERATION ASSETS Reviewed the dividend policy Considered the Finance and risk update Initial consideration of proposal including the strategic Approved the half-year report and accounts and the and financial rationale interim dividend Considered reports on management, due diligence Monitored business performance against the business plan and the risks associated with the transaction and potential mitigation Approved detailed terms Considered preliminary integration plan ENERGY SUPPLY Considered update to integration plan Approved the circular issued to shareholders on Considered the provision of market access to third parties 5 December 2018 Reviewed the projects to develop a new supply platform Approved updated terms in light of the Capacity Reviewed the integration of Opus Energy into the Group Market ruling Considered the brand review Approved the acquisition financing both bridge financing and refinancing plan 60 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information BOARD ATTENDANCE 2018 The table below shows the number of meetings held and the directors attendance during 2018.
of % of Date appointed as a director Scheduled meetings meetings 1 Director and member of the Board meetings attended attended Tim Cobbold 27 September 2010 8 8 100% Philip Cox 1 January 2015 8 8 100% Will Gardiner 16 November 2015 8 8 100% 2 Nicola Hodson 12 January 2018 8 6 75% Andy Koss 1 January 2016 8 8 100% David Lindsell 1 December 2008 8 8 100% David Nussbaum 1 August 2017 8 8 100% Vanessa Simms 19 June 2018 5 5 100% Tony Thorne 29 June 2010 8 8 100% Notes: 1 T he scheduled meetings that each individual was entitled to, and had the opportunity to attend.
Additional meetings were held by telephone to address matters requiring formal decisions.
2 N icola Hodson was unable to attend two meetings as a result of pre-existing commitments.
However, she received the meeting papers and provided comments in advance of the meeting in order for her views to be considered.
SUCCESSION PLANNING DIRECTORS DEVELOPMENT AND INDUCTION Good succession planning contributes to the delivery of the To assist the Board in undertaking its responsibilities, a Groups strategy by ensuring the desired mix of skills and programme of training and development is available to all experience of Board members now and in the future.
Training needs are assessed as part of the Board three of our longest serving non-executive directors will be evaluation procedure.
The Board programme includes regular stepping down following the end of their tenure.
In line with presentations from management and informal meetings to existing succession plans, arrangements are already in place to build understanding of the business and sector.
ensure, where appropriate, the smooth and effective transition into positions made vacant by these changes.
During the year, Board meetings took place in London, Selby and Northampton and included site tours, informal walkabouts David Lindsell will step down after the 2019 AGM and will and presentations from local management to give directors be succeeded as Audit Committee Chair by Vanessa Simms.
deeper understanding of, and insight into, particular issues faced David has been mentoring Vanessa as part of a structured by the business.
induction programme to help with a smooth transition into the role.
Tony Thorne will step down in June 2019 and will During the year directors had access to the advice and services be succeeded as Chair of the Remuneration Committee by of the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Directors Nicola Hodson from the 2019 AGM.
Nicola, who was appointed may take independent advice at the Companys expense when to the Remuneration Committee on her appointment to the it is judged necessary in order to discharge their responsibilities Board in January 2018, has been mentored by Tony Thorne effectively.
No such independent advice was sought in 2018. and will have served on the Committee for 15 months when she becomes the Remuneration Committee Chair.
Finally, All new directors receive a comprehensive and tailored induction Tim Cobbolds tenure will come to an end in September 2019, programme, including meetings with key managers, sites visits, having by then completed nine years.
and briefings on key operational matters, Board procedures and governance matters.
Both Nicola Hodson and Vanessa Simms David Nussbaum will be appointed as the Senior Independent participated in such inductions during 2018.
This included Director from the 2019 AGM to succeed David Lindsell.
specific elements for assuming the roles respectively of Chair of the Remuneration Committee and Chair of the Audit Committee.
In addition to the recent appointment of Nicola Hodson and Vanessa Simms, the search for another new non-executive STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT director is underway.
The feedback from our stakeholder engagement activities is available to the Board through the Executive Committee.
This The Board is also committed to recognising and nurturing talent ensures that the interests of all stakeholders are considered, within executive and management levels across the Group to when relevant, in our decision making and is supportive of the ensure that opportunities are created to develop current and Boards duty to promote the success of the Company as set out future leaders.
Through 2017 we developed a new people in Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006.
For further detail and strategy which focuses on driving performance and developing information on stakeholder engagement and communication talent to deliver the Groups objectives.
During 2018 Group-wide please refer to pages 32 and 33. practices have been established, including a career development and behaviour framework, focusing on performance and personal development.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 61 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Understanding the needs of our various stakeholders is essential to our long-term success OUTCOMES The AGM provides all shareholders with a forum to put questions to the Board of directors, and to vote on important issues.
Shareholder meetings Through the year the management team are available to meet shareholders and, in addition, following the full and half year results, a structured programme of meetings is arranged to allow management to meet with institutional shareholders and prospective investors.
Engaging with our shareholders Communication with shareholders is given a high priority.
The The Board receives reports of meetings which have taken place Chair is keen to ensure that he maintains an open relationship with institutional shareholders, together with regular market with the Companys major shareholders, communicates updates, which give the directors a clear understanding of their directly with them and offers them the opportunity to meet views and concerns.
The Chair and Senior Independent Director any other directors.
This enables the Board to understand are also available to meet with shareholders, independently their views on the Group and its governance.
of the executive directors, as required.
Through the course of the year, the Group Chief Executive During 2018 the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, Officer, Group Chief Financial Officer and Head of Investor Tony Thorne, consulted with shareholders on the proposed Relations meet with institutional shareholders and sell-side changes to the Remuneration Policy.
These meetings allow us to discuss OUTCOMES the Companys business model, strategy and marketplace, This allows the owners of the business to have access as well as provide an update on performance.
Meetings are to management, for a two-way conversation, to better arranged proactively and on request and often include site understand the business, its operation and strategy.
visits, which provide shareholders with valuable insight into the Groups operations.
Sell-side analyst engagement The Group engages Makinson Cowell, part of the KPMG Group, Executive directors engage with sell-side analysts at the full to advise and assist with communications with shareholders and half year results presentations, and the Head of Investor and regularly discusses matters with its brokers, Royal Bank Relations is in regular dialogue with analysts.
Financial results are communicated to the market twice a year, HOW DO WE ENGAGE?
at the preliminary and interim results, where a presentation is The Annual General Meeting given to sell-side analysts, which is made available to the public through a webcast on the Groups website.
The AGM is attended by the full Board of directors.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend, ask questions OUTCOMES and join the directors for informal discussions over coffee.
Allows analysts and investors to have up-to-date and accurate information on the business and its strategy so that they can Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the 2019 AGM come to an informed view on the Companys performance can be found in the Notice of AGM at www.
A printed copy of the notice can also be obtained from our registrars, Equiniti, or the Group Company Secretary.
Details for both can be found on page 191.
62 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Beyond Coal Executive director, Andy Koss, led ongoing engagement with employees in the Power Generation business on the largest transformation in the history of the power station.
OUTCOMES Gave employees the opportunity to learn more about future plans and progress being made.
The Board attended a Beyond Coal Exhibition to meet employees.
Engaging with our employees Employee engagement We recognise how important engaged and motivated The Board receives regular updates on employee matters, employees are to the continued success of the business.
including engagement scores, wellbeing initiatives, That is why we communicate with our employees through gender pay gap reporting and safety.
OUTCOMES HOW DO WE ENGAGE?
Provides a foundation to support richer conversations with employees as the employee voice framework develops.
Ask Will Each week the CEO takes questions from across the Group on a wide range of topics.
His responses are shared with the whole workforce.
OUTCOMES Allows the CEO to hear the employee voice directly, and allows employees to receive direct feedback on their questions.
Employee voice The Executive Committee and the Board have discussed the best and most effective means of engaging with employees.
More direct interface by Board members with employee forums will commence in 2019 and be regularly reviewed to ensure it is effective and meaningful.
OUTCOMES Allows the Board to gain greater insight into matters that are most important to employees, engaging directly with employee representatives, and being able to share the Boards views on employee matters and, more broadly, the future of the business.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 63
