Governance Audit and Risk Committee Report SUMMARY OF PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES z Reviews of the following: z Annual review of the business controls framework and committee terms of reference completed Tax strategy z Internal Audit Compliance Annual financial statements for FY17 and interim results for FY18 Further progress made in plan to develop a more formal internal audit function, including Internal controls and the process for the appointment of a Group Assurance Manager identification and mitigation of principal risks The plan to address the requirement to report Internal Audit reviews of payment controls, on Payment Practices and to address the new supplier compliance with stock routines, corporate offence of facilitating tax evasion offshore consolidation warehouses, colleague discounts, and processes in place with our major z External Auditor supplier of made-to-measure blinds Annual reviews of policy on use of auditors for Further improvements made to provide non audit work assurance in respect of risk controls and Policy on rotation of external auditor revised mitigations, and to align to internal audit activity Review of findings from the FRC Audit Quality Oversight of plan to secure compliance with the Review teams review of the FY17 audit which General Data Protection Regulation GDPR required limited improvements in three areas Since the year end, approval of the full year annual financial statements for FY18, and approval of the new statutory audit partner for the FY19 audit onwards This report provides details of the role of the Audit and Risk z Monitor the effectiveness of financial controls and the Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year process for identifying and managing risk throughout and at its meeting in September 2018 when this annual the group report and financial statements were approved.
z Monitor the financial reporting process and submit recommendations Principal duties z Monitor the statutory audit of the annual report and The principal duties of the Committee are to: financial statements z Oversee the integrity of the groups financial statements z Review and monitor the external auditors independence and public announcements relating to financial and the provision of additional services performance The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found z Hold the relationship with the external auditor and on the Groups website, www.
These terms oversee the external audit process were last reviewed by the Committee in June 2018. z Establish formal and transparent arrangements for considering how they should apply the The Committee has approved a policy which allows corporate reporting, risk management and internal employees to raise legitimate concerns in confidence control principles without fear of discrimination, including access to an independent whistleblowing helpline.
A copy of our policy z Oversee the internal audit process is available on our corporate website https: corporate.
During the year, the Committee received reports detailing the calls made to the helpline.
DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 63 Audit and Risk Committee Report CONTINUED z Receipt of internal audit reports see below Committee membership z Approval of the annual Audit and Risk Committee report The following Directors served on the Committee during the year: z Review of whether the FY17 and FY18 annual reports are fair, balanced and understandable NAME FROM: TO: z Annual review of business control framework and Liz Doherty Chair 1 May 2013 To date committee terms of reference William Reeve 1 July 2015 To date z Formal review of auditor performance Peter Ruis 10 Sept 2015 To date z Formal review of Committee effectiveness Rachel Osborne 1 April 2018 28 August 2018 Specific topics Simon Emeny 25 June 2007 21 Nov 2017 z Approval of Tax Strategy z Consideration of the plans to address the requirements The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
of the General Data Protection Regulation and the duty to report on Payment Practices The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the z Internal audit reviews of payment controls risk, supplier Chairman of the Board usually attend meetings by invitation, along with a representative from the external auditor.
Other compliance with stock routines, offshore consolidation warehouses, colleague discounts, and processes in place Directors attend by invitation as required.
with our major supplier of made-to-measure blinds The Board considers that I have recent and relevant financial experience to chair the Committee, by virtue of my Committee effectiveness professional qualification and my previous executive roles, At its meeting in June 2018, the Committee carried out a including as Chief Financial Officer of Reckitt Benckiser Group review of its own effectiveness, using a checklist prepared by plc.
Members of the Committee can also demonstrate a one of the major accounting firms.
The conclusion was that breadth of experience across the retail and consumer goods the Committee is functioning well, broadly in accordance with sector through their current and previous roles please see regulatory and best practice requirements, and provides the Directors biographies on pages 46 to 48 for full details.
appropriate assurance to the Board.
Committee activities in 2017 18 Significant areas of judgement Four meetings were held in the year and members Within its terms of reference, the Committee monitors the attendance was as shown in the table below.
integrity of the annual and interim reports, including a review of the significant financial reporting issues and judgements NAME MEETINGS ATTENDED contained in them.
Liz Doherty 4 4 At its meetings in September 2017 and 2018, the Committee Simon Emeny 2 2 reviewed a comprehensive paper prepared by the Chief William Reeve 4 4 Financial Officer, which analysed the Groups results for the financial year: highlighted matters arising in the preparation Peter Ruis 4 4 of the Group financial statements: and provided information Rachel Osborne 1 1 to support the Directors viability and going concern statements.
The Committee also considered a paper prepared by the external auditor, which included significant reporting The Committee also met in September 2018. and accounting matters.
The activities of the Committee included: The major accounting issues discussed by the Committee in Routine items September 2018 in relation to the FY18 Annual Report and z Approval of the full year results issued in September 2017 Accounts were as follows: and the half year results issued in February 2018 z Review of the process for identifying and managing risk and a full review of the principal risks and how they are managed in September 2017, and a mid year review in February 2018 z Verification of the independence of the auditor and approval of the scope of the audit plan and the audit fee z Review of fraud and Bribery Act controls and cyber security, which are standing agenda items for each meeting corporate.
com Stock code: DNLM 64 Governance Provisions for inventory Audit effectiveness The Committee considered the approach taken by It is the responsibility of the Audit and Risk Committee to management and assessed available evidence.
Particular assess the effectiveness of the external audit process.
attention was given to reviewing the provision for obsolete, The Chief Financial Officer and his team presented their slow-moving or discontinued inventories including the review of the FY17 audit in February 2018.
This covered a utilisation of provisions reported in prior periods.
The number of aspects including: Committee concluded that the values recorded in the z The quality of reports provided to the Committee and the financial statements are appropriate.
Board and the quality of advice given Exceptional items z The level of understanding demonstrated by the audit The Committee considered the requirement to identify, team of the Groups businesses and the retail sector measure and disclose exceptional items, and concluded that z The objectivity of the external auditors views on the approach taken and the values reported in the financial the controls around the Group and the robustness statements are appropriate.
of challenge and findings on areas which required Fair, balanced and understandable management judgement At the request of the Board, the Committee also considered z The findings from the FRCs annual inspection of auditors whether the annual report and financial statements as a whole published in May 2017 are fair, balanced and understandable.
Factors taken into The conclusion was that the audit had been effective and that account included: no significant issues had been highlighted: this was endorsed z Does the narrative of the Business Review and Financial by the Committee.
Review fairly reflect the performance of the Group over the The FY17 audit was also reviewed by the Financial Reporting period reported on?
Councils Audit Quality Review team as part of their routine z Are the narrative sections consistent with each other, and sampling activity.
Their assessment was that limited with the financial statements?
improvements were required in three specific areas.
A z Is the connection between strategy and remuneration summary of their recommendations and the actions that clearly described?
 have agreed to take as a result were z Can readers easily identify key events that happened discussed by the Committee in June, and we agreed that during the year?
none of the findings were significant.
z Committee members received the draft annual report in Auditor appointment for FY18 advance and had the opportunity to make comments in It is the Committees responsibility to make recommendations advance of the formal meeting at which the report was to the Board in relation to the appointment, reappointment tabled for approval and removal of the external auditor, and to agree the audit fee.
Following its review, the Committee confirmed to the Board In February 2018, the external auditor presented their that in its view the FY18 annual report was fair, balanced and strategy for the 2017 18 audit to the Committee.
Committee reviewed and agreed with the external auditors assessment of risk.
The Committee also reviewed and External auditor agreed the audit approach and the approach to assessing The report and financial statements were audited by materiality for the Group.
 LLP, following that firms appointment as statutory auditor in January 2014.
Mark Smith The fee proposed by  LLP for has been the audit partner since the firms appointment.
The the statutory audit of the Group and Company financial audit partner for the FY19 audit onwards will be statements and the audit of Group subsidiaries pursuant to Mark Skedgel.
 LLP attended the Committee Taking into account the review of the FY17 audit and meetings in September and October 2017, February, June the proposed plan and fee, the Committee agreed that and September 2018.
The Committee also met privately with  LLP be reappointed as auditor for them during the September meetings, and as Chair of the the FY18 audit for the fee proposed.
Resolutions to reappoint Committee I had dialogue with the audit partner on a number  LLP as auditor and to authorise of occasions.
the Directors to agree their remuneration will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 65 Audit and Risk Committee Report CONTINUED Use of auditors for non-audit work Risk management The Committee is aware that the use of audit firms for nonThe Committee is responsible for assessing the scope and audit work is a sensitive issue for investors and corporate effectiveness of the systems established by management to governance analysts, as it could potentially give rise to a identify, assess, manage and monitor financial and nonconflict of interest.
financial risks, and to consider the level of assurance.
Following the issue of the EU Audit Directive in June 2016, we The Committee carried out a formal risk review in September reviewed our policy on the use of auditors for non-audit work 2017 and February 2018.
During the year, at the Committees in September 2016.
The full policy is available on our website, request, further work has been conducted by management to www.
com, but in summary from FY17: assign KPIs to all of the principal risks, to measure the impact of each risk, so as to better understand the mitigating actions z Fees for non-audit services provided by the statutory necessary and how effective they are, and to align the Internal auditor in any year may not exceed 70% of the Audit programme more closely with the Risk Register.
Further average fees for the Group statutory audit in the three work on this is planned in FY19.
previous years z The auditor is prohibited from providing certain non-audit The Committee also asked for the register to include details of services, including: almost all tax work: internal audit: the assurance activities which assess the strength of mitigating corporate finance: involvement in management activities, factors in respect of principal risks.
including working capital and cash management and the Internal control framework provision of financial information In 2015 the Committee adopted a formal internal control z The external auditor may not be engaged to provide any framework, covering the following areas: business ethics non-audit services without the agreement of the Audit and including anti-bribery controls: accountabilities: people Risk Committee Chair management, including succession planning: development During the period we paid  LLP and alignment of incentives: risk management processes: 135,000, of which 15,000 was for their review of the interim internal financial control: crisis management: monitoring financial statements considered to be a non-audit service.
Details of internal and external assurance No other non-audit services were provided by the external are included.
The framework and the controls in place are auditor.
Fees paid to  LLP for audit reviewed annually, the last review was in June 2018: no work were 120,000. significant control weaknesses have been identified.
Auditor rotation Viability statement and risk management In June 2018 we updated our Auditor Rotation policy to bring In September 2018, the Committee reviewed the viability it into line with the current EU Audit Directive.
This means that statement given by the Board in this report and the process in we will tender the audit at least every 10 years previously 5 : place to support the assurance given and confirmed that it is we will change auditor at least every 20 years no change : appropriate and in compliance with regulatory requirements.
and we will invite at least one firm outside the Big Four to This review took into account the principal risks facing the participate no change.
The latest date for the next tender will Group and the process by which they are managed by the therefore be for the 23 24 audit.
A competitive tender is in the Board and management.
In accordance with relevant ethical standards, the  LLP audit partner Mark Smith will rotate after the FY18 audit, and the new partner Mark Skedgel will be responsible for the FY19 audit onwards.
I can confirm that the Company has complied with The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 during the financial year.
com Stock code: DNLM 66 Governance Internal audit external assurance Cyber security and data The Committee initiated a formalised programme in 2013 protection GDPR with activities conducted either by an internal team that is Information security remains one of the most important risk independent of the area under review, or by an external areas and it is a standing Committee agenda item, as well party, decided on a case-by-case basis.
In either case, the as being one of the Boards principal risks, as outlined in the review is conducted on behalf of the Committee and reports Risks and Uncertainties section of this annual report.
coming into force of the General Data Protection Regulation in May 2018 has raised the profile and importance of In June 2017 the Committee adopted a plan to develop a managing personal data safely and lawfully, and has increased more formal internal audit function by the end of the 2019 the severity of the consequences of a personal data breach.
financial year, reflecting the increased complexity of the The Committee had oversight of the plan in place to secure business.
Following a review of the internal audit functions compliance, and data protection is now considered alongside quality and expertise, at the beginning of the financial year cyber security in general at every meeting.
a Group Assurance Manager with a financial accounting background was appointed.
Her role is to conduct internal The Committee noted that continued progress has been assurance activity which would previously have been made over the year to strengthen controls over cyber outsourced, and to bring a more strategic approach to the and data security.
A number of practices and systems departments activity.
considered high risk have been closed as part of the GDPR implementation plan, and training has been rolled out across At the Committees suggestion, the Executive Board was the business to increase awareness.
A risk treatment plan involved in making recommendations for future topics to be is in place to make further improvements during FY19.
In addressed, in conjunction with the risk review process.
addition, legacy Worldstores systems will be fully integrated Reviews completed in the year are set out below: during the coming financial year, which will further enhance security and integrity.
Reviewed by Approved by the Board on 12 September 2018.
Payment controls Internal Audit Supplier compliance with stock routines Internal Audit Liz Doherty Offshore consolidation warehouses Internal Audit Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee Colleague discounts Internal Audit Blinds supplier compliance Internal Audit Reports were discussed by the Committee and the Board and a remediation plan agreed by management to improve controls.
In addition, the Committee monitored progress against actions agreed following the reports received in the 201617 financial year from internal audit external assurance providers and noted that these had been completed.
DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 67
