Governance Nominations Committee Report There were seven Committee meetings held in the year and Summary of principal activities members attendance was as shown in the table below.
The z Appointment of Nick Wilkinson as Chief Executive Officer Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
in February 2018 No Director attended that part of a meeting during which his z Appointment of Rachel Osborne as a Non-Executive or her own position was discussed.
Director in April 2018 z Appointment of Laura Carr as Chief Financial Officer, MEETINGS MEMBER ATTENDED: to start in November 2018 z Board now 37% female 44% including the Company Andy Harrison Chair 7 7 Secretary Will Adderley 7 7 This report provides details of the role of the Nominations Liz Doherty 7 7 Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
William Reeve 7 7 Principal duties Peter Ruis 7 7 The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board by keeping the composition of the Board under review and Rachel Osborne 1 1 conducting a rigorous and transparent process against Marion Sears 7 7 objective criteria, and with due regard for the benefits of Simon Emeny 3 3 diversity of the Board, when new appointments to the Board are made.
The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found on the Companys website, www.
Committee Activities in 2017-18 While all Board appointment processes and succession Board changes in 201718 discussions are led by the Nominations Committee, these are We have had a number of significant Board changes during viewed as important whole-Board topics and no appointment the year, and the Nominations Committee has led the process has been or will be made to the Board without agreement of throughout.
We started a search process for a new Chief Executive Officer in August 2017, after John Browett stepped down Committee Membership from the Board, and we were pleased to announce the The following Directors served on the Committee during appointment of Nick Wilkinson in December.
Nick has the year: extensive retail experience across a number of consumer MEMBER PERIOD FROM: TO: brands, most recently as Chief Executive of Evans Cycles, the UKs leading cycling specialist.
Previous roles included Andy Harrison Chief Executive of Maxeda DIY, a Belgian and Dutch home Chair 1 September 2014 To date improvement retailer: and MD of Currys, part of Dixons Will Adderley 17 February 2011 To date Retail.
Importantly, Nick is also a good cultural fit with the Board and shares the Dunelm values.
We were pleased that Liz Doherty 1 May 2013 To date Nick was able to start with us in February.
William Reeve 1 July 2015 To date Shortly after Nicks appointment, our Chief Financial Officer, Peter Ruis 10 September 2015 To date Keith Down, advised the Board that he wished to step down Marion Sears 18 January 2005 To date in the summer for personal reasons, to take up a role closer to Rachel Osborne 1 April 2018 28 August 2018 his family home.
In May, we announced the appointment of Laura Carr, who joins us in November from Compass Group, Simon Emeny 25 June 2007 21 November 2017 the FTSE 30 multinational contract food, hospitality and support services company, where she was Group Financial Controller.
Roles prior to this include CFO of Indigo Books & Music, Canadian listed company, and senior finance roles with Japan Tobacco International and  We are confident that Laura will work well with the Board and management team.
DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 97 Nominations Committee Report CONTINUED Finally, we appointed Rachel Osborne as a Non-Executive Board evaluation Director, to replace Simon Emeny, who retired in November The Board held a scheduled external evaluation in 2016, and 2017 as planned.
Whilst we were able to finalise Rachels a follow up by the same provider in 2017.
In 2018 I led an appointment in November, she was unable to join us until internal evaluation, based on a discussion with each Board April 2018 due to her other commitments.
Rachel was until member focused on a number of relevant topics, followed by recently Chief Financial Officer of Dominos Pizza Group plc, a Board discussion of the output from this.
and is an experienced finance and strategy specialist.
She is The results of the evaluation are described in the Corporate a chartered accountant, and has held a number of finance director and strategic planning roles with large consumer Governance report.
and retail businesses, including Vodafone, John Lewis, Culture and values Sodexo, Kingfisher and Pepsi Co. Rachel resigned from the Dunelm was founded by the Adderley family, and Will Board on 28 August 2018, to take up an executive role with Adderley, our Deputy Chairman, has a particular interest a competitor.
and accountability for ensuring that the Dunelm culture is We adopted a similar search process for all three directors: preserved.
Will formulated the Business Principles which the Nominations Committee drew up a detailed role and describe the Dunelm culture, these form part of induction, person specification.
An independent external search appraisal and colleague communications.
A key theme consultant MWM Consulting was appointed to conduct running through our principles is to do the right thing, the process, and as is usual, we asked for an equal number whether this relates to our decisions, or how we deal with of male and female candidates to feature on the long list.
customers, colleagues, suppliers, the community, investors, Candidates met initially with the Chairman and at least one and regulators.
Our approach is also reflected in our Code of other Board member, and finalists met with other Board Business Conduct, our Anti-bribery policy, our Ethical Policy members.
Extensive references were taken, and both Nick and and our Tax Strategy.
Whilst the process was In April, the Board reviewed how it sets and monitors our led by the Committee, who made the final recommendation, business culture.
Following the guidance issued by the any Board appointment is regarded as a whole Board issue, Financial Reporting Council in 2016, we looked at how we no appointment is made without unanimous Board support.
have defined the Groups purpose, vision and values, and the Board Succession Planning business principles referred to above.
We then considered what culture indicator KPIs are available to give assurance For a number of years we have had a formal, long range plan that the systems that management have in place to embed for how Board membership should develop.
As usual, we these are working effectively.
The Board has oversight aim to balance continuity with regular refreshment of skill through regular agenda items, such as our risk management and experience and the corporate governance guidance on procedures, regular presentations from the People Director, Chairman and Non-Executive Director tenure.
and meetings with senior management and visits to stores As part of our Board evaluation process, we review the and other company operations.
We also review a number balance of skills on the Board as a whole, taking account of culture KPIs regularly customer satisfaction, employee of the future needs of the business, and the knowledge, engagement, regulatory breaches for example.
To provide experience, length of service and performance of the a more specific focus, we decided to draw up a culture Directors.
In accordance with our policy, we also had regard scorecard bringing all of our culture KPIs together, which is to the requirement to achieve a diversity of characters, reviewed alongside our risk register twice a year.
backgrounds and experiences amongst Board members.
We also have a short term contingency plan, which we have put into operation during the year.
During the five months between the resignation of our former Chief Executive Officer and our new Chief Executive Officer joining us, I provided interim leadership, supported by Will Adderley, the Deputy Chairman, and Keith Down, the CFO.
We also have an experienced and capable Executive Board, who were able to continue to run the business in the absence of a permanent CEO.
During the period between Keith Down stepping down as CFO and Laura Carr joining us, members of the CFOs management team were able to ensure that the Finance function continued to operate effectively.
We were also fortunate that David Stead, our former CFO, was able to provide interim support on a part time basis.
com Stock code: DNLM 98 Governance Details of the gender balance within the Group are set out Diversity and gender pay in the Sustainability report on page 37.
The Committee is In 2011 we set out the Boards policy on diversity which pleased that there is a good level of gender diversity at Board, we believe remains appropriate for Dunelm.
It can be Executive Board and senior management level 37%, 50% and summarised as follows: 33% respectively.
z Our overriding concern is to ensure the Board comprises In the financial year we made our first gender pay disclosures, outstanding individuals who can lead the Group, and these are described more fully in the Remuneration Report.
we believe the Groups best interests are served by This year we will also be collecting data about ethnic diversity ensuring that these individuals represent a range of skills, within our business and considering whether there is more experiences, backgrounds and perspectives, including action needed in this area.
Naturally it is our policy is that the Board should always be of mixed gender The Board as a whole understands the importance of engaging our colleagues in order to deliver our strategy.
z We support the objective of promoting diversity on our The Board has oversight of all matters relating to our People, Board and throughout the Group.
Quotas are a blunt including diversity and the gender pay gap, and we receive instrument but they do bring focus, as well as the risk of presentations from our People Director twice a year.
In compromised decisions on Board membership, quality addition, Marion Sears is our Designated NED for colleague and size, particularly with a small and collegiate Board matters, and in November the Board will receive its first z We shall continue to ensure that specific effort is made to presentation from the National Colleague Council.
bring forward female candidates for Board appointments z We will monitor the Groups approach to people development to ensure that it continues to enable talented individuals, regardless of gender and background, to enjoy career progression within Dunelm Tenure and Re-election of Directors The tenure of the Non-Executive Directors is set out below.
Current term Appointment years Next renewal Additional Board role Andy Harrison September 2014 4 September 2020 Chairman Marion Sears July 2004 14 July 2019 Liz Doherty May 2013 5 May 2019 SID, Audit and Risk William Reeve July 2015 3 July 2021 Remuneration Peter Ruis September 2015 3 September 2021 Marion Sears has served 14 years on the Board.
Marion is now Director meets a member of the Executive Board on a considered by the Board to be non-independent in view of less formal basis.
The Board receives an annual Talent her tenure.
Management presentation from the People Director which provides an assessment of performance of the Executive In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Board and other members of the Leadership Team, together Directors, will seek re-election at the 2018 AGM, and as now with succession planning.
required by the Listing Rules, the Non-Executives will be subject to an additional vote by shareholders independent of Although these activities are not formally conducted as part the Adderley family.
of the work of the Nominations Committee, we see this as a useful way of preserving our culture and an important aspect Executives below Board of our oversight of the Executive team development and The Committee has for some years had both formal and succession process.
informal oversight of the Executive team below Board.
Approved by the Board on 12 September 2018.
Dunelm Board members have regular contact with these Executives, both through formal Board presentations, attendance of the Executive Board at the annual Strategy Andy Harrison Days, and in regular store visits, where a Non-Executive Chair of the Nominations Committee 12 September 2018 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 99
