Letter from the Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee The Committee has continued its As required by the regulatory guidance Dear Shareholder oversight of the controls in place to we formally reviewed the 2017 Since I last wrote to you Keith Down, our address cyber risks which continue audit and found it to be satisfactory.
Chief Financial Officer, stepped down to pose a risk to all businesses, and Separately, the Financial Reporting in May.
Dunelms former CFO, David noted that further progress has been Councils Audit Quality Review team Stead, stepped in on an interim basis made in this area.
The proper use and also completed a review of the with immediate effect and will remain safeguarding of personal data has FY17 audit as part of their routine until Keiths successor, Laura Carr, starts been a high profile topic this year, sampling activity and concluded later in the year.
The rest of the Finance and we have received regular reports that only limited improvements were team has been in place throughout of the plan in place to implement the required.
The Committee discussed the financial year and the Committee requirements of the General Data the FRCs recommendations with is therefore comfortable that the CFO Protection Regulation GDPR.
Whilst we  and transition has not adversely impacted were GDPR compliant by 25 May, and a concluded that the actions they the year end process.
number of steps were taken to improve have agreed to take as a result were Apart from the executive change, our personal data management, there reasonable and appropriate given that the most significant activity from a remain a number of points for which none of the findings were significant.
controls and risk perspective was plans are in place where further work is We have reviewed our policy on the continued integration of the required.
This will be a continued area rotation of the statutory auditor and Worldstores group, which has added of focus and we will receive an update updated it, to bring it in line with significant operational complexity to on this at each meeting.
At the end of the financial In January 2018, Dunelm published tender the external audit at least every year this has largely been completed.
our first payment practices report.
We ten years, and change the audit firm at The most significant financial controls also put in place processes to address least every 20 years.
This means that and risk management procedures are the offence of facilitating corporate whilst there will be a change of audit in place across the whole business, and tax evasion which came into force in partner for the FY19 audit: the latest financial accounting systems are due September 2017.
Both of these were time at which our policy requires us to to be fully integrated during the next reviewed by the Committee.
We have tender the audit will be for the FY24 financial year.
The Committee has once also reviewed progress being made financial year.
again closely reviewed the specific towards the implementation of IFRS 16 items in the Group financial statements Looking forward, there are which will impact Dunelm in the next relating to the acquisition.
developments in corporate reporting financial year.
Further detail is given in coming into effect within the next two Our programme of internal audit the financial statements on page 122. years, including the new Corporate activity, supported where appropriate We paid our auditors Governance Code, and IFRS 16, which by external assurance providers and  LLP non-audit we will review as required.
our newly appointed Group Assurance fees of 15,000 in the financial year in Manager, continued throughout the I look forward to meeting shareholders respect of the half year results review year.
As well as following up the actions at the AGM, when I will be happy to a service now classified as non-audit.
from the report on customs and duty, take questions on any of this report.
This compares to the audit fee of reviews were completed of payment 120,000.
Yours sincerely, controls, supplier compliance with stock routines, offshore consolidation warehouses, colleague discounts and Liz Doherty processes in place with our major Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee supplier of made-to-measure blinds.
12 September 2018 We also progressed our plan to develop a full internal audit function.
Our internal audit team has worked with the Company Secretary to further align our internal audit programme to the risk register, and to develop more robust KPIs to help the Board assess the effectiveness of our controls and risk mitigations.
