Corporate Governance Report Code compliance This report explains how we have applied the principles of good governance and code of best practice set out in the Corporate Governance Code published in April 2016 the Corporate Governance Code, which is available from the website of the Financial Reporting Council, www.
The Board considers that it has fully complied with the Corporate Governance Code during the financial year covered by this annual report.
In making its determination, consideration was given to the independence of Simon Emeny, who had served ten years on the Board in June 2017, and retired as planned at the AGM in November.
Further details are given in the section below headed Independence of Non-Executive Directors.
After the year end, one of our independent Non-Executive Directors, Rachel Osborne, resigned as a result of her appointment to an executive role with a competitor.
We have started the search for a replacement, to ensure that once our new Chief Financial Officer, Laura Carr, joins us in November, we have an equal number of executives non-independent Directors and Non-Executive Directors as required by the Corporate Governance Code.
We share the Governments view that good governance helps z We support corporate governance guidelines and apply companies to take better decisions, for their own long term them in a way that is meaningful to our business and benefit and that of the UK economy overall.
Our approach, consistent with our culture and values which has not changed since the flotation of the Company in z If we decide that the interests of the Company and its 2006, is summarised below: shareholders can be better served by doing things in a different way, we will explain the reasons why z We believe that good governance leads to stronger value creation and lower risks for shareholders For more information please see the copies of the presentations that we made to our major institutional investors z It is the Boards responsibility to instil and maintain a and shareholder representatives, available in the Reports and culture of openness, integrity and transparency throughout Presentations section of our website, www.
the business, through our policies, communications and by the way in which we act Board role and composition STRATEGY GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE z Instil and maintain a culture of z Review progress towards strategic z Set the strategy to secure the openness, integrity and transparency and operational goals and the continued growth of the Group performance of management z Ensure that financial and other over the long term in the interests controls and processes for risk z Ensure that Board balance and of our shareholders, taking account management are in place and committee membership are of our responsibilities to colleagues, working effectively appropriate and effective, and fully customers, the communities in which compliant with the requirements of we operate and the interests of our z Set an effective remuneration policy the Corporate Governance Code other stakeholders z Maintain good relationships z Ensure that resources are in place to with shareholders and all of deliver the strategy our stakeholders The Board structure at the date of this report is shown below: CHAIRMAN Andy Harrison Executives Non-Independents Independent Non-Executives Will Adderley Deputy Chairman Liz Doherty Senior Independent Director Nick Wilkinson Chief Executive Officer William Reeve Non-Executive Director Marion Sears Non-Executive Director Peter Ruis Non-Executive Director Note: Laura Carr will join the Board on 29 November 2018 to succeed Keith Down who resigned and stepped down from the Board on 24 May 2018.
David Stead, Dunelms former Chief Financial Officer has provided interim support since April 2018 although has not been appointed to the Board over this short period.
We have started the search process for an additional independent Non-Executive Director, to replace Rachel Osborne who stepped down from the Board on 29 August 2018. corporate.
com Stock code: DNLM 50 Governance Board responsibilities The Board has adopted written statements setting out the respective responsibilities of the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer: these are available on the Groups website or from the Company Secretary.
A summary of the names and responsibilities of the Directors is set out below: CHAIRMAN Andy Harrison is responsible for: z The leadership, effectiveness and governance of the Board z Ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information z Setting the agenda, style and tone of Board discussions with a particular focus on strategic matters z Chairing the Nominations Committee z Ensuring each Non-Executive Director makes an effective contribution to the Board DEPUTY CHAIRMAN Will Adderley is responsible for: z Maintaining a close dialogue with the Chairman and z Assisting the CEO in strategic and operational activities the CEO as requested z Contributing to the development of the Groups culture and z Supporting and deputising for the Chairman as required values by promoting and visibly demonstrating the Companys z Member of the Nominations Committee long established business principles SENIOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Liz Doherty is responsible for: z Acting as a sounding board for the Chairman and an z Making herself available to shareholders, particularly if they intermediary for the other Directors have concerns that the normal channels have failed to resolve, or for which such contact would be inappropriate z Leading the Non-Executive Directors in their annual assessment of the Chairmans performance z Chairing the Audit and Risk Committee CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Nick Wilkinson is responsible for: z Proposing the strategic objectives of the Group for approval by z Leading the Executive Board and senior management in the Board, and delivering the strategic and financial objectives managing the operational requirements of the business in line with the agreed strategy z Providing clear and visible leadership in business conduct z Effective and ongoing communication with shareholders NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Liz Doherty, William Reeve, Peter Ruis, and Marion Sears are responsible for: z Constructive contribution and challenge to the z Oversight of financial and other controls and processes for development of strategy risk management z Monitoring operational and financial performance and scrutiny z William Reeve chairs the Remuneration Committee of management performance in the delivery of strategic z With the exception of Andy Harrison and Marion Sears, all Nonobjectives Executive Directors chair or sit on all Board Committees CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER The Chief Financial Officer Laura Carr from November 2018 is responsible for: z Working with the CEO to develop and implement the Groups z Ensuring proper financial controls and risk management of the strategic objectives Group and compliance with associated regulation z The financial delivery and performance of the Group z Investor relations activities, and communications with investors z Ensuring that the Group remains appropriately funded to pursue the strategic objectives COMPANY SECRETARY Dawn Durrant is responsible for: z Supporting the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors z Facilitating individual induction programmes for Directors and with their responsibilities assisting with their development as required z Advising on regulatory compliance and corporate governance z Communications with shareholders and organisation of the AGM z Overseeing the Sustainability activities of the Group DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 51 Corporate Governance Report CONTINUED Independence of Board attendance The Board held 11 meetings in the course of the year, one Non-Executive Directors of which was dedicated to a formal review of strategy.
As required by the Corporate Governance Code and the Attendance at meetings was as follows: Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority, the Board considers annually whether all independent NonMEETINGS DIRECTOR Executive Directors continue to exhibit independence of ATTENDED character and judgement prior to putting them forward Will Adderley 11 11 for reappointment at the AGM.
This was last considered in September 2018 and we confirmed that Andy Harrison was John Browett 1 1 independent on appointment and that Liz Doherty, William Liz Doherty 10 11 Reeve and Peter Ruis and are independent.
Keith Down 9 10 The Board has treated Marion Sears as a non-independent Simon Emeny 3 3 Director since September 2015 in view of her tenure of more than nine years on the Board, and her subsequent Andy Harrison 11 11 appointment as a director of WA Capital Limited in March Rachel Osborne 3 3 2016.
WA Capital Limited is a private limited company Peter Ruis 11 11 established by Will Adderley the Deputy Chairman, and a major shareholder to act as a long term holding company William Reeve 11 11 for his beneficial interest in the Company and various other Marion Sears 11 11 investments.
The Dunelm Board has determined that this appointment does not affect her judgement as a Director Nick Wilkinson 6 6 of Dunelm, and that any potential conflict of interest has Liz Doherty was unable to attend one Board meeting in the year, however, been cleared on the basis that WA Capital Limited and Will she received papers and communicated her views in advance to Andy Adderley are parties to a Relationship Agreement referred Harrison, Chairman.
Keith Down did not attend the last Board meeting to below in the section headed Conflicts of Interest which before he stepped down from the Board.
Board meetings Marion will put herself forward for reappointment at the AGM There is a schedule of matters reserved to the Board for by shareholders independent of the Adderley family as well decision or approval, which is available on the Groups as a full shareholder vote.
website or from the Company Secretary.
Examples of such As noted in the report of the Nominations Committee, Board matters include Group strategy and budget, Group capital refreshment is a continued area of focus and we consider structure, approval of financial results and Annual Report the tenure of all Directors as part of our succession planning.
and financial statements, significant capital or contractual Our policy on Board diversity is explained in the Nominations commitments, maintaining internal control and risk Committee report.
management and approval of significant Group-wide policies.
At each meeting, the Chief Executive Officer reports on Change of Non-Executive operational performance including health and safety and Director responsibilities the Chief Financial Officer reports on financial performance.
Following the planned retirement of Simon Emeny at the There is a rolling agenda of other operational, strategic and AGM on 21 November 2017, Liz Doherty was appointed risk topics which is regularly refreshed to reflect the most Senior Independent Director, and William Reeve took the up-to-date strategy and live issues in the business.
The Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
principal areas of focus discussed by the Board in 2017 18 are set out below.
com Stock code: DNLM 52 Governance Areas of focus STRATEGY z Group strategy, including our vision, goals z Digital strategy and business plans z Furniture strategy z Budget z Marketing strategy z Impact of Brexit z Tax strategy z Competitor landscape GOVERNANCE z Board succession z Gender pay statement AND RISK z Board independence, composition z Culture and diversity z Health and safety z Investor feedback via advisers z Ethical sourcing and modern slavery z AGM voting and feedback z Cyber security z Corporate governance reform z The General Data Protection Regulation z Stakeholder engagement z Risk reviews OPERATIONAL z Customer insight z People strategy, colleague engagement and succession planning z Store operating model z Supply chain strategy z Format development z Integration of the Worldstores business z Stock management We measure the time spent on strategy, governance and Board committees operational performance at each meeting.
Over the year, the The Board has three committees, an Audit and Risk biggest part of our time was spent on strategy, followed by Committee, a Nominations Committee and a Remuneration governance and operational performance, which the Board Committee.
The terms of reference of each of these considers to be appropriate.
committees can be found on the Groups website and are available from the Company Secretary.
Minutes of all Board and Committee meetings are taken by the Company Secretary and circulated for approval.
Details of the membership of the committees and of their Any unresolved concerns raised by a Director are recorded activities during the past financial year can be found in the in the minutes.
reports from the Chair of each of the committees.
Non-Executive Director meetings Training and induction There is scheduled Non-Executive Only time at the end Upon joining the Board, any new Director is offered a of each Board meeting, attended by the Chairman and the comprehensive and tailored induction programme with Non-Executive Directors.
This is a useful way of exchanging visits to key sites and meetings with senior managers and views and dealing with any concerns or questions.
addition to this, the Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors regularly have informal, individual, meetings with Nick Wilkinson joined the Board as Chief Executive Officer in February 2018.
Prior to this he met with all members of the Executive Directors and other senior managers in the business, usually at a store location.
the Board and the Executive Board, and received a briefing from the Company Secretary on the duties of a public company director.
He also had access to past Board papers and other relevant documentation.
On joining the Group, he completed a comprehensive induction programme, visiting a large number of stores, all non-store sites, and meeting all of the senior management.
He shadowed a number of colleagues in store and operational roles.
He also participated in the interim results presentation and roadshows, and held separate meetings with advisors.
DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 53 Corporate Governance Report CONTINUED Rachel Osborne joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director As part of the annual Board evaluation, any additional training in April 2018.
Her induction involved meetings with the or development needs are addressed by the Chairman with Chairman, the Deputy Chairman and other Directors and each Director.
Please see the Directors biographies on pages the Company Secretary, as well as other members of the 46 to 48 for details of the specific skills and experience of Executive team.
She also visited a number of stores and our each Director.
She was also given access to past Evaluation Board papers and the external audit partner.
Each of the Directors receives a formal evaluation of their We have an open culture and Non-Executive Directors are performance during the year.
The Senior Independent free to make direct contact with senior management and store Director appraises the Chairman, and the Chairman teams.
Throughout the year all Directors have visited stores appraises all of the other Directors individually.
In addition, both informally and together with members of the senior the performance of the Board and committees are formally management team.
The Company Secretary reports to the Board at each meeting 2017 External Board evaluation on new legal, regulatory and governance developments The recommendations arising from the 2017 review that affect the Group and actions are agreed where needed.
conducted by Lorna Parker, an independent Board Evaluation Directors attend seminars provided by independent specialist, and actions implemented in response are set out organisations which cover a wide range of governance topics.
below: RECOMMENDATION ACTION TAKEN Review the structure of Board meetings and the rolling Rolling agenda reviewed, people reviews scheduled twice agenda again to ensure that the Board is allowing enough a year.
time for discussion of the external environment, and other Culture paper considered in April and culture KPIs agreed softer matters such as people and culture.
Agenda time allocated to a general discussion of trends and share experiences concerns.
Improve meeting dynamics, in particular to promote more Chairman took action to facilitate this, for example by open discussion and focused debate.
ensuring that the purpose of each agenda item was clear, and summarising the outcome at the end of the discussion.
Review Board papers to ensure that they reflect the Regular customer report and KPI pack refocused and rearticulated, customer-centric strategy and objectives, and finance elements of the pack slimmed down.
contain only relevant detail and KPIs.
Consider whether an additional Non-Executive Director Rachel Osborne appointed to replace Simon Emeny, who should be appointed, to strengthen the overall skill base retired in the year.
Rachels financial expertise filled an amongst the Non-Executive Directors.
The search for a replacement for Rachel has started.
com Stock code: DNLM 54 Governance 2018 Board evaluation s172 Companies Act 2006 The Board held a scheduled external evaluation in 2016, As a Board we have always taken decisions for the long and a follow up by the same provider in 2017.
In 2018 the term, and collectively and individually our aim is always to Chairman led an internal evaluation, based on a discussion uphold the highest standards of conduct.
We expect all of with each Board member focused on the following topics: our colleagues, at every level of the business, to do the same.
Similarly, we understand that our business can only grow and z Review of the Boards activities over the past year prosper over the long term if we understand and respect z Consideration of whether the Board has the correct the views and needs of our customers, colleagues and the balance of skills and diversity to deliver the strategic communities in which we operate, as well as our suppliers objectives in future years and the shareholders to whom we are accountable.
This is z Board and committee effectiveness.
reflected in our Business Principles, and our Sustainability report sets out more detail on how we manage our The Chairman collated views and these were discussed by the relationships with them.
The following actions were agreed: The Company Secretary sets out the text of s172 Companies z Nominations Committee and Board to review the Board Act 2006 on every Board agenda, and as we receive succession plan in the light of recent Board changes, likely presentations and make decisions, we ensure that the impact NED rotations and the ongoing strategic plans for the on any of these groups is considered.
At our meeting in business April, we spent time examining how we engage with them.
A z Further review of Board packs to give greater focus and summary of this is set out below.
We will formally review this remove unnecessary detail at least once a year to consider whether there are ways that z People Director to be requested to provide more visibility the Boards engagement can be improved to help us operate of diversity throughout the business to enable the Board to more effectively.
consider how to measure and promote this.
These actions will be progressed during the year and we will report back on them in next years report.
How the Board engages with its stakeholders STAKEHOLDER ISSUES RELEVANT TO HOW THE BOARD ENGAGES WHY WE ENGAGE GROUP THIS GROUP CUSTOMERS Customer insight report in We want to be the customers Product range, price Management and Board packs, chosen partner for creating a and quality.
which includes customer home they love the Home of Convenience and satisfaction scores.
Customer KPIs reported in We welcome all customers, Customer service.
whatever their age, taste or budget, and offer them the widest Fair marketing.
CEO Deputy Chairman reply range of products for their homes, personally to a number of high Product safety.
whenever and however they want level customer contacts.
Responsible use of Management and Directors visit personal data.
DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 55 Corporate Governance Report CONTINUED STAKEHOLDER ISSUES RELEVANT TO HOW THE BOARD ENGAGES WHY WE ENGAGE GROUP THIS GROUP COLLEAGUES Designated Non-Executive We believe that a to be a great Fair employment.
director has Board responsibility place to shop, Dunelm also needs Fair pay and benefits.
for championing the interests of to be a great place to work we colleagues.
can only deliver great products Diversity and inclusion.
and services to our customers Regional and National Colleague Training, development and through the hard work and Councils in place, feedback goes career opportunities.
to the Executive Board and is Health and safety.
Responsible use of Designated NED attends two personal data.
National Colleague Council meetings a year.
Annual Board discussion with Colleague Council representatives.
Always on engagement mechanism, and full engagement survey twice a year.
Colleague KPIs in Management and Board packs.
Annual conference for Store managers and senior support colleagues, attended by Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary.
Exec Board and Directors visit stores and other sites regularly.
Weekly and monthly huddles held, and Gazette magazine published quarterly.
com Stock code: DNLM 56 Governance STAKEHOLDER ISSUES RELEVANT TO HOW THE BOARD ENGAGES WHY WE ENGAGE GROUP THIS GROUP SUPPLIERS Annual supplier conference held, We do not manufacture the Fair trading terms.
attended by the Chairman and vast majority of the products Anti-bribery.
that we sell: therefore we need to maintain relationships with Ethics and slavery.
Supplier presentation to the suppliers and manufacturers Group Board.
worldwide who can meet our high standards.
Key suppliers attend the annual colleague conference.
Suppliers must demonstrate that they operate in accordance with Chief Executive Officer and recognised standards that uphold Deputy Chairman meet regularly human rights and safety, prohibit with key suppliers.
modern slavery and promote Annual Board presentation on sustainable sourcing.
Supplier payment terms reported to the Board and published.
We are committed to Energy usage.
ENVIRONMENT Company Secretary chairs the Sustainability Committee, which minimising the impact of our Recycling.
considers matters relating to the business operations on the environment, community and environment.
It is also important Waste management.
to our colleagues, customers and Packaging materials e. g. shareholders.
Annual report to the Exec Board.
COMMUNITY Charity Committee in place We aspire to be responsible Charitable donations.
to spearhead charitable and members of our community as Employment opportunities.
community activity, reports to the it reflects our principle to do the Exec Board and the Board.
It is also important to Volunteering.
our colleagues, customers and A representative of the companyEnvironmental impact.
sponsored charity attends the annual company conference.
Charitable activity reported in the Gazette.
DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 57 Corporate Governance Report CONTINUED STAKEHOLDER ISSUES RELEVANT TO HOW THE BOARD ENGAGES WHY WE ENGAGE GROUP THIS GROUP SHAREHOLDERS Annual report and accounts Continued access to capital Long term value creation.
AND POTENTIAL is important for our business.
SHAREHOLDERS We work to ensure that our shareholders and their AGM.
representatives have a good Results announcements and Transparency.
understanding of our strategy presentation.
business model, opportunity and Ethics and corporate culture.
meetings with management, followed up by feedback from brokers and financial PR consultants.
Engagement via the Company Secretary.
Engaging with our colleagues Investor relations and understanding Dunelm is a very open business and our colleagues are shareholder views seldom reluctant to share their views with us!
Members of The table above summarises how we communicate with the Board and our leadership team are expected to spend our shareholders.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief time in store and at other Group locations, and actively seek Financial Officer report back to the Board after the investor their opinions on how we can improve.
We have an always roadshows.
The Groups brokers and financial PR advisers on colleague feedback system, and management review also provide a written feedback report after the full and this and respond.
We also have a twice yearly engagement half year results announcements and investor roadshows to survey, the results of which are fed back to managers, the inform the Board about investor views, and in addition NonExecutive Board, and the People Director covers this as Executive Directors attend a selection of investor meetings.
part of her regular presentations to the Board.
We have In January 2018, we held one of our regular Corporate Regional and National Colleague Councils, and this year we Governance meetings, attended by Will Adderley, the Nonhave designated Marion Sears as our Designated NonExecutive Directors, the Company Secretary and myself, Executive Director for colleague purposes.
Marion attended to which our major institutional shareholders were invited.
the National Colleague Council meetings in April and This gives the corporate governance representatives of September and fed back to the Board afterwards.
National our shareholders an opportunity to discuss with us a range Colleague Council members will be meeting with the Board of governance topics.
Matters discussed included Board in November.
composition, the work of the Audit and Risk Committee, remuneration, risk, cyber security, human rights and the environment.
We are planning to hold another meeting in January 2019.
Our corporate website contains useful shareholder information, copies of presentations and policies in relation to governance and sustainability.
All Directors will be available at the Annual General Meeting to meet with shareholders and answer their questions.
com Stock code: DNLM 58 Governance Culture and the Board Significant shareholders Dunelm has an open and straightforward culture, with a The Groups significant shareholders are listed in the strong moral compass, reflecting the values instilled by the Directors Report on page 102 and voting rights are stated Adderley family.
The Board has always been cognisant of on page 100. the need to retain this culture as the business grows and Conflicts of interest becomes more complex.
Culture is one of our principal The Companies Act 2006 allows the Board of a public risks, which are monitored formally by the Executive Board company to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts and the Board twice a year.
The Board has defined the of interest of individual Directors where the Articles of Groups purpose, namely to help everyone create a home Association contain a provision to that effect.
The Companys they love the Home of Homes.
This is supported by five Articles of Association give the Board this authority subject business goals, underpinned by our business principles, to the following safeguards.
which define how we will act towards others.
Further details of this are set out in the Strategic Report.
Members of the z Directors who have an interest in matters under Board and the leadership team are expected to act as role discussion at a Board meeting must declare that interest models for our business principles, and all colleagues are and abstain from voting appraised against them.
z Only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to approve a conflict of interest Board members monitor adherence to the culture in a and, in taking that decision, the Directors must act in a number of ways, including by visiting Group locations and way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to interacting with colleagues and advisors to the Group as promote the success of the Company part of their Board duties.
The Board also reviews a number of culture indicators, such as colleague and customer z The Directors are able to impose limits or conditions satisfaction scores, accident statistics, internal audit reports, when giving authorisation if they feel this is appropriate whistleblowing data, and regulatory enforcement.
During All Directors are required to disclose any actual or potential the year, a culture scorecard has been developed, bringing conflicts to the Board and the following existing matters this data together, and was formally reviewed by the Board have been considered and approved: in September.
This will be repeated at least once a year going forward.
z Will Adderley is a major shareholder and connected to other major shareholders.
Authorised on the basis that Share buyback and Rule 9 waiver Will continues to abide by the terms of the Relationship In April 2016, Will Adderley, our Deputy Chairman and a Agreement entered into between himself, other major major shareholder, disposed of part of his shareholding.
shareholders and the Company on flotation of the As his shareholding is now below 30%, and the combined Company in 2006 Adderley shareholding is above 50%, we are no longer z Marion Sears is a director of WA Capital Limited, a private required to seek a Rule 9 waiver at the AGM to support our limited company established by Will Adderley to act as a policy to buy back shares to satisfy employee share option long term holding company for his beneficial interest in entitlements, so long as this situation remains the case the Company and various other investments.
Authorised after the Company share purchase.
The Rule 9 waiver vote on the basis that WA Capital Limited is party to the caused a policy difficulty for a number of our institutional Relationship Agreement referred to above shareholders, which can now be avoided.
Any actual or potential conflicts are considered by the Board The Board has reviewed whether our policy to purchase and any authorisations given are recorded in the Board shares in the market to satisfy share option entitlements as minutes and reviewed annually by the Board.
opposed to issuing shares is still appropriate: we believe Conflicts that have been disclosed are reviewed annually by that it is in the interests of our shareholder base as a whole the Board.
as it avoids dilution of shareholdings, and it is supported by the majority of our institutional shareholders.
I would The Board considers that its procedures to approve like to reassure shareholders again that shares bought back conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest are by the Company will be held in treasury and used only to operating effectively.
satisfy share option entitlements, and not cancelled.
The Company did not purchase any of its own shares during the financial year.
DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 59 Corporate Governance Report CONTINUED Appointment and removal Advice and insurance All Directors have access to the advice and services of the of Directors Company Secretary.
In addition, Directors may seek legal The Articles of Association of the Company provide that a advice at the Groups expense if they consider it necessary in Director may be appointed by ordinary resolution of the connection with their duties.
Companys shareholders in general meeting, or by the Board so long as the Director stands down and offers him The Group purchases Directors and Officers liability or herself for election at the next Annual General Meeting of insurance cover for its Directors.
The Articles also provide that each Director must stand down and offer him or herself for re-election by Articles of Association shareholders at the Annual General Meeting at least every The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended three years.
The Board has decided to adopt the requirement by a special resolution of shareholders.
of the Corporate Governance Code, that all Directors should stand down and offer themselves for re-election at each Governance and risk Annual General Meeting.
Details of the Groups risk management framework, systems and controls and internal control framework are set out in the Directors may be removed by a special resolution of Strategic report on pages 28 to 34. shareholders, or by an ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given in accordance with the Companies Act This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 2006.
The Articles also provide that the office of a Director 12 September 2018. shall be vacated if they are prohibited by law from being a Director, or is bankrupt: and that the Board may resolve that Andy Harrison his or her office be vacated if he or she is of unsound mind or Chairman is absent from Board meetings without consent for six months or more.
A Director may also resign from the Board.
The Nominations Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment and removal of Directors.
In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will retire from the Board and offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
NonExecutive Directors will also be subject to a separate vote by shareholders independent of the Adderley family as required by the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority.
Powers of Directors The business of the Company is managed by the Board, which may exercise all of the powers of the Company, subject to the requirements of the Companies Act, the Articles of Association of the Company and any special resolution of the Company.
As stated above, the Board has adopted internal delegations of authority in accordance with the Code and these set out matters which are reserved to the Board or committees and the powers and duties of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer respectively.
At the Annual General Meetings of the Company from 2007 onwards, the Board has sought and been given authority to issue shares and to buy back and reissue shares.
Similar resolutions are being tabled at the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
Any shares bought back would be held in treasury for reissue to employees who exercise options under one of the Groups share incentive schemes.
For further details see the Notice of Annual General Meeting which accompanies this report.
com Stock code: DNLM 60 Governance Dunelm has an open and straightforward culture, with a strong moral compass.
The Board is cognisant of the need to retain this culture as the business grows DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 61
