Governance Relations with stakeholders Our key stakeholders: who they are and how we engage Honest and regular engagement with our shareholders and wider stakeholders is a vital ingredient of building the sustainable business we are so proud to be a part of.
As a company, we recognise that our responsibilities go far beyond delivering excellent returns to our shareholders.
For us it is as much about satisfaction and doing the right thing as it is about healthy People Suppliers profits.
Our reputation as a Group is founded on always meeting the highest ethical standards.
This is evident in the way we engage with our customers, employees, shareholders, suppliers and other stakeholders.
The DS Smith Code of Conduct has been created to clarify our ethical position on key topics and enshrines our core values to be caring, challenging, trusted, responsive and tenacious.
Customers Local communities You can read our Code of Conduct in full at http: www.
com people culture code-of-conduct Investors Stakeholder type Link to our core values Priority for DS Smith Stakeholder type Link to our core values Priority for DS Smith Our people High Our customers High How we engage: How we engage: 1.
Packaging strategists The safety of our people is our number one priority.
We Our packaging and display strategists, with their cross-industry take great pride in our safety record and are pleased with experience, work in partnership with our customers to deliver the progress made in reducing our accident frequency rate.
We do this by helping them increase Nonetheless, we remain focused on continuing our long-term sales, lower cost and manage risks.
goal towards a zero accident workplace.
The challenge is to continue to deliver consistent quality and Vision Zero is our step up in terms of health and safety our service, but with the opportunity to improve profitability for vision for a future of zero harm for anyone who comes to work our customers through our ability to deliver in six distinct areas: at, or visits, our sites, offices, warehouses or any of our facilities.
Superior customer experience We want them to go home safe and healthy every single day.
Authenticity In order to continue our journey towards zero harm, we need Brand building to focus on developing our culture and peoples behaviour and Sustainability mind-set so that working safely and healthily becomes the End-to-end solutions norm in our businesses and is integral to the way we do things.
Management standards Achievements over the last 12 months: Following feedback from our last employee survey, new Six new PackRight centres opened in 2017 18 bringing the ambitions for our business require a shift in how we lead and total to 42 PackRight and Impact Centres throughout Europe.
The Management Standards, which were Strong organic volume growth in box volumes.
introduced at the beginning of 2018, have been dened to We have reduced our defect rate measured in ensure that the organisation can deliver on its Corporate Plan  by 28 per cent.
by setting baseline performance expectations for all managers.
Development of Made2Fit, an innovation to tackle the The nine Management Standards list the key expectations of a e-commerce challenge of an average of 45 per cent void space.
common, core and consistent view of what good management looks like for DS Smith, which in turn will empower and engage employees to contribute to a high performing organisation.
Achievements over the last 12 months 6.7% 2016 17: 19% reduction in Accident Frequency Rate.
239 2016 17: 207 sites with zero lost time accidents.
All nine competencies comprising the Management Standards have been rolled out across the Group.
Read more about engagement with employees in the People section on page 22.
com 59 Relations with stakeholders Our key stakeholders: who they are and how we engage continued Stakeholder type Link to our core values Priority for DS Smith Stakeholder type Link to our core values Priority for DS Smith Our investors High Local communities Medium How we engage: How we engage: 1.
Trading updates and investor meetings 1.
Opportunities for young people The Board maintains and values regular dialogue with We seek to support future generations through our strategic shareholders throughout the year.
Formal trading updates are alliances to reduce youth unemployment.
From our apprentice given to the market four times a year.
Following the quarterly programmes, our work with the Alliance for Youth initiative, our update, in Q1 and Q3, a conference call is held with shareholders links with local schools and funding of scholarships we aim to and analysts and after the full-year and interim results a help educate young people into work.
presentation is made to shareholders and analysts.
Charitable foundation pre-close trading updates are typically given at around the DS Smith seeks to make a positive contribution to our communities time of the close of the half and full-year periods.
and build a reputation as a good neighbour and employer.
We Throughout the year, meetings and conference calls are encourage our people to feel fullled through charity, community organised in the UK, Europe and the US, at which the Group and volunteering work.
We are proud to support our people, our Chief Executive and Group Finance Director meet with communities and our customers in their goals to give something investors, either individually or in groups, to discuss Group back through the DS Smith Charitable Foundation.
strategy and performance and respond to any questions Achievements over the last 12 months: raised.
These are structured both around the reporting events Inaugural partnership with the EY Foundation on the Smart such as the full-year and half-year results, as part of investor Futures programme.
The Chairman also meets with investors.
For the past four years we have been supporting Keep Britain 2.
Annual General Meeting AGM Tidys Green Flag Award scheme.
This recognises and rewards In September 2017 we welcomed shareholders to our AGM.
well managed parks and green spaces, setting the benchmark It is an annual opportunity for our Board to directly engage with standard for the management of recreational outdoor spaces shareholders.
Our Group Chief Executive gives a presentation across the United Kingdom and around the world.
on the performance of the business and our Chairman hosts an 190,000 donated in the last year to local charities who are insightful Q&A session, encouraging challenging questions and engaged in improving or conserving the environment or who constructive dialogue.
provide training and educational opportunities.
At the AGM in September 2018 we will be seeking to amend our Stakeholder type Link to our core values Priority for DS Smith Articles of Association to allow for hybrid AGMs in the future.
Our Suppliers Medium These are meetings where virtual technology allows those shareholders who cannot attend in person to participate How we engage: using an app.
Making the most of advances in technology 1.
Global supplier standards like this allows us to engage with more shareholders.
DS Smith spends approximately 3 billion annually on suppliers Achievements over the last 12 months: and we expect our suppliers to support us in providing the world June 2017 full-year results presentation, the announcement of class quality and service we deliver to our customers on a the acquisition of Interstate Resources, with an accompanying daily basis.
equity issue, followed by investor meetings.
As a business, we are committed to the highest ethical December 2017 half-year results presentation and standards in the way we engage with suppliers.
Supplier Standards GSS state the minimum requirements Nine investor conferences attended.
and standards imposed on our suppliers in the areas of ethical Four quarterly trading updates given to the markets.
business practices, code of conduct and social and environmental Investor roadshows to London, Edinburgh, Paris, Frankfurt, management.
In addition to the general requirements and New York, Boston, Toronto, Atlanta, Chicago and Los Angeles.
expectations, the GSS also lay down various product safety and quality assurance requirements and standards.
We have conducted a thorough review of our supply chain and identied high-risk suppliers who have signed up to our GSS based on the Ethical Trading Initiative with references to the UK Modern Slavery Act.
GSS have become the cornerstone of our supplier on-boarding programme.
Achievements over the last 12 months: 65 per cent of our supplier base, representing 1.4 billion spend, have committed to observe our Global Supplier Standards.
