Letter from the Chair of the Nominations Committee Simon Emeny retired from the Board Preservation of our culture has always Dear Shareholder at the AGM as planned.
I would like been a priority, as we seek to retain This has been a year of change for the to thank Simon for his ever-relevant the values instilled by the Adderley Board, and a particularly busy one for challenge and useful input over a family who founded the business as we the Committee, as we have recruited momentous decade for both retailing continue to grow.
This year the Board three new Directors.
As we are a small generally and Dunelm specifically.
formally looked at how we monitor and collegiate Board, we always take culture in the governance sense of great care with the appointment of any We appointed Rachel Osborne as a how the business treats its colleagues, new colleague, and so this is a very Non-Executive Director, to replace customers and others, and we thorough and time-consuming process.
Simon, and also strengthen the financial have agreed a set of KPIs to help us expertise on our Board and Audit and When I wrote to you last year, we had monitor this.
Shortly after joining just started to look for a new Chief us, Rachel changed her executive In the last two years we had an Executive Officer.
We were pleased role which created a competitive externally facilitated Board review.
This to welcome Nick Wilkinson to the conflict, and as a result decided to year I conducted an internal review Board at the start of February this step down from the Dunelm Board.
I based on a number of questions aimed year.
Nick brings an excellent retail thank Rachel for her contribution over at improving the Boards effectiveness skill-set with multi-channel experience her short tenure.
We have started the as we move forward.
We agreed a across a number of consumer sectors process to appoint a successor.
We number of actions around succession and geographies, and is an excellent may also consider the appointment of planning, diversity and meeting cultural fit.
The Board is confident that an additional Non-Executive Director effectiveness.
Further details are set out Nicks proven business leadership and this coming year should a suitable in the corporate governance report.
track record will help us to deliver our candidate become available.
ambitious plans for growth in market I look forward to meeting shareholders share and creation of substantial value Whilst we have welcomed new at the AGM.
Nick has instigated a Directors to the Board this year, we have Yours sincerely, review of our purpose and the goals continued to benefit from the advice that we have in place to achieve this, and counsel offered by my other Board the results of which are reflected in colleagues, all of whom have now Andy Harrison this report.
served at last three years on the Board.
Chair of the Nominations Committee Two of them have taken on additional In May, Keith Down, the Chief Financial 12 September 2018 responsibilities following Simon Officer, stepped down from the Board Emenys retirement: Liz Doherty was for personal reasons, to take up a role appointed Senior Independent Director, closer to his family home.
Keith was and William Reeve assumed the chair of CFO for two and half years and I would the Remuneration Committee.
like to thank him and wish him well in his next role.
The Committee has continued to monitor external developments, We have appointed Laura Carr as including the increasing emphasis on our new CFO.
Laura will join us in diversity and culture.
She brings a breadth of us in the Autumn, 37% of our Board business and finance experience, will be female 44% if you include the which will really help us to achieve our Company Secretary.
The Executive ambitious business plans to become Board will be 50% female.
Whilst we the leading multi-channel retailer in our are proud of this, our gender pay gap space.
She will also work well with Nick has shown us that there is more to do to and the rest of the Executive team, and enable more of our female colleagues will be a welcome addition to our Board.
We know that we also have David Stead, Dunelms former CFO, has more work to do to promote diversity in been our interim CFO since April, and the wider sense.
I am grateful to him for stepping out of retirement and providing us with the diligent and astute support which we valued so much in the past.
