Letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee Since I became Chair, we have made John Browett and Keith Down both Dear Shareholder two Executive Director appointments: stepped down from the Board in This is my first letter to you since CEO Nick Wilkinson in February 2018, the year.
John was paid salary and taking over from Simon Emeny as and Laura Carr who starts in November.
benefits to date of termination and Remuneration Committee Chair of for his six month notice period, plus Dunelm after the AGM in November The remuneration packages for both bonus entitlement in respect of the 2017.
I would like to thank Simon Nick and Laura are in line with our 2017 financial year during which he for his sound stewardship of the 2017 Policy, and with that of their was employed.
Keith worked part of Committee over the past three years, predecessors.
We have however taken his notice period and was paid salary and for overseeing the adoption of the the opportunity to reduce pension and benefits to the date of termination 2017 Remuneration Policy at the AGM, entitlement for both to 10% of salary, only.
No other amounts were paid, with a vote of 99% in favour.
to align this more closely to that of and all other bonus and share option our senior management.
We believe At the moment, I have four objectives entitlements have lapsed.
that it is important for our Executive as Chair of the Remuneration Directors to live close to our Syston Our 2017 Remuneration Policy Committee.
Firstly, I want the Support Centre, and so both have been requires Executive Directors to make Committee to help the Board ensure offered relocation assistance, and for an investment in Dunelm shares on a strong Policy framework for securing Nick Wilkinson a travel allowance and joining, and then to invest two-thirds of the best talent for Dunelm.
performance pay earned after payment we should ensure that remuneration of tax and national insurance in Dunelm for senior appointments follows the In order to ensure that Laura does not shares.
Executives also have to build a principles set out in our Policy or, incur a significant penalty by joining personal shareholding equivalent to where we need to consider exceptions, Dunelm, we also had to agree to 1 salary after three years and 2 salary that there is appropriate challenge compensate her partially.
We are never after five years.
Nick Wilkinson invested and rationale.
Thirdly, I want to happy about having to make payments 250,000 in Dunelm shares shortly after help the Board keep abreast of our of this nature, but having considered his arrival, and a further 250,000 in July shareholders and wider stakeholders the matter carefully and taken expert 2018.
Laura Carr has agreed to invest views.
Finally, I want us to follow best advice, the Committee decided that, a significant sum in Dunelm shares on practices, taking professional advice if together with a requirement to invest joining the Group.
Nick has qualified for necessary, but in a Dunelm way that fits in Dunelm shares upon appointment, bonus during FY18 and his purchase of our strong and positive culture.
the arrangements are acceptable and shares in July includes an investment of in the best interests of the Company.
two thirds of this after tax.
More details are set out in the report.
com Stock code: DNLM 68 Governance We have published our Gender Finally, we have reviewed proposed Pay report during the year.
We are governance changes, including the committed to paying men and women new Corporate Governance Code equally for roles of the same size and and supporting guidance.
We are proud that 67% of our these changes and have already taken colleagues are female.
However, in steps to implement them as follows: common with many other retailers, 80% z We have strengthened the ability of our colleagues are employed in our of the Committee to recover bonus retail operations, and these roles tend and LTIP awards through malus and to be lower paid.
As a result, we have clawback to cover a wider range of a significant gap in the pay between events of corporate or individual genders our mean gap is 17.4% and failure our median gap is 4.8%, very much z We have changed the Committees in line with our peers in the UK retail terms of reference to give the sector.
We have made progress over Committee formal approval of the twelve months to improve, and we remuneration of the Executive Board have more activity planned, including and the Company Secretary the launch of an Empowering Female z We are taking steps to ensure that Leaders programme, widening our Board and the Committee engage internal mentoring programme, and more directly with our colleagues looking at how we can reduce friction on executive pay and other matters, for women returning to work after and to reinforce the Board oversight maternity leave.
We are leading by of all matters relating to our People, example: 33% of our senior leadership including diversity and the gender roles are held by women, and following pay gap Laura Carrs appointment to the Board, at least before Rachel Osborne had to I look forward to meeting shareholders step down for competitive reasons, four at the AGM.
of our nine Board members, and half of Yours sincerely our Executive Board were female.
William Reeve Chair of the Remuneration Committee 12 September 2018 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 69
