CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Governance framework SHAREHOLDERS CHAIRMAN Responsible for the leadership of the Board and for ensuringthatit operates effectively through productivedebateand challenge.
PLC BOARD THE BOARD The Board is responsible for providing leadership tothe airline.
It does this by setting strategic priorities and overseeing their delivery in a way that enables sustainable long-term growth, whilst maintaining a balanced approach to riskwithin a framework of effective controls and taking into account the interests of a diverse range of stakeholders.
1 BOARD COMMITTEES The terms of reference of each Committee are documented and agreed by the Board.
The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually and are available in the Governance section of easyJets corporate website: http: corporate.
Their key responsibilities are set out below.
SAFETY NOMINATIONS AUDIT FINANCE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE To examine specific To keep under review To monitor the To review and To set remuneration safety issues the composition, integrity of the monitor the for all Executive asrequested by the structure and size of, Groups accounts, Groupstreasury Directors, the Board or anymember andsuccession to, and the adequacy policies, treasury Chairman and the of the Committee.
the Board and its and effectiveness operations and AMB, including Committees.
ofthesystemsof funding activities, pension rights To receive, examine internal control along with the andany and monitor reports To provide including associated risks.
compensation on actions taken succession planning whistleblowing payments.
and the Board, To oversee To review and leading the To monitor the remuneration and monitor the process for all effectiveness and workforce policies implementation Boardappointments.
independence and practices and ofeasyJets oftheinternal and take these into annualsafety plan.
To evaluate the external auditors.
account when balance of skills, settingthe policy knowledge, forDirectors experience and remuneration.
Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Report Report Report Report Report on pages 76 to 77 on pages 78 to 79 on pages 80 to 84 on page 85 on page 86 CHIEF EXECUTIVE Responsible for the day-to-day running of the Groupsbusiness and performance, and the development .
AIRLINE MANAGEMENT BOARD AMB Led by the Chief Executive, AMB members are  for driving the performance of the airline against strategic KPIs and managing the allocationof central funds and capital.
1 The IT Governance and Oversight Committee, which provided independent oversight over the governance and controls relating to the IT business area, was disbanded during the year with its responsibilities reverting to the Audit Committee and ultimately the Board.
com GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board ACTIVITY IN 2018 TOPIC KEY ACTIVITIES Safety Received and discussed regular safety performance reports and updates, presented by the Director of Safety, Security and Compliance Safety is our number one Received a presentation on cyber security, covering the threat environment, the regulations and standards applied to aircraft design, and the operation and security of easyJet aircraft priority: read more about how we are ensuring this on pages 50 and 76 to 77 Approved the Groups five-year plan and strategic initiatives Strategy, operations Approved the acquisition of part of Air Berlins operations at Berlin Tegel Airport Received presentations from management in relation to business strategy and performance and funding The strategic Approved the annual budget, business plan and KPIs Reviewed and approved the Groups full year 2017 and half year 2018 results including the final 2017 andfinancial review explains dividend, as well as its quarterly results and the 2018 pre-close statement Approved the Groups 2017 Annual Report including its fair, balanced and understandable status and this in more detail on pages 2 to 58 2018 AGMNotice Reviewed the Groups debt, capital and funding arrangements and approved an update to the Euro Medium Term Note programme and a new revolving credit facility Approved changes to the delegated authority policy Approved changes to the treasury policy as recommended by the Finance Committee Received regular status updates on the Operational Resilience programme including visibility of costs andactivities Considered and approved entering into various key operational agreements including a predictive maintenance service with Airbus Approved a change in approach to technology development based on utilising existing systems on a modular basis rather than a full replacement of a core commercial platform Internal control Reviewed the Groups Risk Management Framework and principal risks and uncertainties and risk Reviewed and confirmed the Groups Viability Statement and going concern status management Reviewed and validated the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls and risk management Our Risk Management Framework and principal risks are set out on pages 38 to 48 Leadership Continued to focus on the composition, balance and effectiveness of the Board Reviewed Board composition, discussed and acted upon the recommendations of the Nominations and people You can read Committee, including the approval of a Non-Executive Director appointment and AMB appointments Reviewed the key operational roles and identified gaps in experience needed to deliver the Groups strategy more about this on pages 69 and Considered the outcomes and approved the actions arising from the external Board evaluation process further detailed information can be found on page 73 78 to 79 Reviewed the Groups culture, vision and values Reviewed and approved the proposals for the Chairmans and Non-Executive Directors fees Held separate Non-Executive Director sessions with the Chairman after every Board meeting to discuss leadership and other Board matters Governance Received and reviewed regular briefings on corporate governance developments and legal and regulatory issues, including a presentation from our corporate legal advisers and legal To see how we Approved the new Articles of Association as detailed in the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, and recommended to shareholders their adoption at the 2018AGM comply with the UK Corporate Approved the Groups second Modern Slavery Statement for publication on the Groups website Received reports on engagement with institutional shareholders, investors and other stakeholders Governance Code please throughout the year Monitored and received regular updates on the economic and legislative landscape, including the turnto page 69 potential impact of Brexit on both easyJet and the aviation sector as a whole Considered the Groups proposed approach in preparing for compliance with the Gender Pay Gap Reporting Regulations and the General Data Protection Regulation Received regular reports from the Chairs of the Safety, Nominations, Audit, Finance and  68 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE BOARD IN ACTION: The Group has, throughout the year, complied with the BASE VISIT, BERLIN TEGEL provisions of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code theCode, which is the version of the code that applied forthe period under review.
The section below details how theCompany has complied with the Code, the full text of which is available atwww.
LEADERSHIP Role of the Board The Board is responsible for providing effective leadership tothe airline.
It does this by setting strategic priorities and overseeing their delivery in a way that enables sustainable long-term growth, while maintaining a balanced approach torisk within a framework of effective controls.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for Our visit to Tegel brought itsdecision which is available in the Governance section of easyJets corporate website: http: corporate.
alive how easyJets culture Day-to-day management responsibility rests with the AMB, themembers of which are listed on pages 64 to 66. and values are being Division of responsibilities integrated at the local level The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, setout in writing, clearly defined, and approved by the Board.
They are available on easyJets corporate website: http: corporate.
To update the Directors skills, knowledge and familiarity withthe Group, visits to easyJets bases are periodically The Chairman organised for the Board.
The Chairman, John Barton, sets the Boards agenda andensures that adequate time is available for discussion An understanding of, and connection with, easyJets of all agenda items, including strategic issues.
On his business are fundamental for our Non-Executive appointment in May 2013, the Board considered John Barton Directors if they are to maximise their contribution to to be independent in character and judgement in accordance effective Board debate.
With this in mind, we aim to take with the Code.
the Board out of the boardroom to visit one of our bases at least once a year.
These visits increase the visibility of Senior Independent Director the Board and provide our Non-Executive Directors with Charles Gurassa is Senior Independent Director and Deputy a valuable opportunity to engage with local management Chairman.
In this role, Charles provides advice and additional and crew.
In June 2018, the Board was invited to visit the support and experience to the Chairman as required, and new Tegel base.
isavailable to act as an intermediary for the other Directors ifnecessary.
Charles is also available to address shareholders The Board toured the base and received presentations concerns that have not been resolved through the normal from the local management on the bases development, channels of communication with the Chairman, Chief the country strategy and the key challenges faced Executiveor other Executive Directors.
He also leads andovercome as part of easyJets fastest operational theappraisal oftheChairmans performance annually in integration.
The Board also lunched in the crew room consultation withtheother Non-Executive Directors in a and spent time with staff, gaining valuable feedback on meeting without the Chairman being present.
easyJets culture and values and how these are interpreted at the local level in the newly integrated business.
Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors provide an external perspective, In particular, the visit enabled the Board to see how best sound judgement and objectivity to the Boards deliberations practice in key areas, such as safety, is translated and and decision making.
With their diverse range of skills and applied to new operations.
expertise, they both support and constructively challenge All members of the Board attended the visit which theExecutive Directors and monitor and scrutinise the alsoincluded a dinner with the head of Visit Berlin, Groupsperformance against agreed goals and objectives.
whoprovided an overview of Berlins economy and TheNon-Executive Directors, together with the Chairman, tourism trends.
alsomeet regularly without any Executive Directors being present.
During the year, there were no unresolved concerns regarding the running of the Group.
com GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board meetings and attendance The Board meets regularly, with 10 scheduled meetings having been held during the year.
The Directors attendance records atthose meetings and Board Committee meetings held during the year are shown in the table below.
In addition to those scheduled meetings, four ad hoc Board calls were also arranged during the 2018 financial year to deal with matters arising between scheduled meetings as appropriate.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to communicate directly with each other and senior management between Board meetings.
ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS DURING THE 2018 FINANCIAL YEAR The core activities of the Board and its Committees are covered in scheduled meetings held during the year.
Additional adhoc meetings are also held to consider and decide matters outside of scheduled meetings.
All Directors holding office at the time attended the Annual General Meeting held on 8 February 2018.
If a Director is unable to attend a meeting because of exceptional circumstances, he she still receives the papers in advance of the meeting and has the opportunity to discuss with the relevant Chair or the Company Secretary & Group General Counsel any matters on the agenda which they wish to raise.
Feedback is provided to the absent Director on the decisions taken at the meeting.
For further information regarding when Board members joined or stepped down from Committees during and after the 2018 financial year, please refer to the Committee changes sections in the relevant Committee reports pages 76 to 86.
Board Audit Finance Nominations Remuneration Safety No of Meetings 14 5 4 6 7 4 Executive Directors 1 Johan Lundgren 11 11 2 Carolyn McCall DBE 2 3 3 Andrew Findlay 13 14 Non-Executive Directors John Barton 14 14 6 6 4 Charles Gurassa 14 14 4 4 4 4 6 6 7 7 5 Adle Anderson 13 14 5 5 7 7 4 4 6 Dr Andreas Bierwirth 13 14 4 4 4 4 7 Keith Hamill OBE 4 4 1 1 1 1 1 1 8 Moya Greene DBE 14 14 4 4 7 7 4 4 9 Andy Martin 12 14 5 5 4 4 5 6 6 7 10 Julie Southern 2 2 N A N A N A Notes: 1 Johan Lundgren joined the Board as Chief Executive on 1 December 2017 2 Carolyn McCall DBE stepped down as Chief Executive on 30 November 2017 and was not invited to attend one Non-Executive Director only Board meeting 3 Andrew Findlay was not invited to attend one Non-Executive Director only Board meeting 4 Charles Gurassa was appointed to the Audit Committee on 17 November 2017 on a temporary basis and attended all Committee meetings following hisappointment 5 Adle Anderson missed one Board meeting due to a significant family commitment 6 Andreas Bierwirth missed one ad hoc Board meeting due to an employer commitment 7 Keith Hamill OBE stepped down from the Board on 31 December 2017 8 Moya Greene DBE was appointed to the Nominations Committee on 19 March 2018 9 Andy Martin missed one set of ad hoc Board, Remuneration and Nominations Committee meetings arranged at short notice as a result of hisbeing on annual leave.
He also missed the September Board meeting due to ill health 10 Julie Southern joined the Board, Audit, Remuneration and Safety Committees on 1 August 2018 Insurance cover The Group has purchased and maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of Directors and Officers liabilities.
The Group has also entered into qualifying third-party indemnity arrangements for the benefit of all its Directors, in a form and scope which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
70 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Contracts and letters of appointment with Directors ACCOUNTABILITY aremadeavailable at the Annual General Meeting or Financial and business reporting uponrequest.
The standard terms and conditions of the Please refer to: appointment of Non-Executive Directors are also available page 110 for the Boards statement on the Annual Report inthe Governance section of easyJets corporate website: and Accounts being fair, balanced and understandable: http: corporate.
page 36 for the statement on the status of the Company Executive Directors and the AMB are permitted to take and the Group as a going concern and the Viability upnon-executive positions on the board of a listed company Statement: and solong as this is not deemed to interfere with the business the strategic report on pages 7 to 9 for an explanation of oftheGroup.
Andrew Findlay has acted as Non-Executive the Groups business model and the strategy for delivering Director at Rightmove plc since June 2017, with his time the objectives of the Group.
commitment for this role being six days per year.
Executive Directors appointments to such positions are subject to the Risk management and internal control approval of the Board which considers, amongst other things, The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the the time commitment required.
principalrisks facing the Group and how those risks affect theprospects of the Group.
Please refer to pages 38 to 48 Development forfurther information on the Groups principal risks and On joining the Board, new members receive a tailored uncertainties andpage 36 for their impact on the longer-term induction organised by the Company Secretary & Group viability and prospects of the Group.
General Counsel which covers, amongst other things, the business of the Group, their legal and regulatory responsibilities The overall responsibility for easyJets systems of internal as Directors, briefings and presentations from relevant controland for reviewing their effectiveness rests with the executives and opportunities to visit and experience easyJets Board.
The Board has conducted an annual review of the business operations.
For further information on Board effectiveness of the systems of internal control during the induction, please refer to page 75. yearunder the auspices of the Audit Committee.
Further information on the Groups risk management processes is To update the Directors skills, knowledge and familiarity givenon page 38 and onits internal control systems on withthe Group, visits to bases are organised for the Board page82.
periodically, to assist Directors understanding of the operational issues that the business faces.
In June, the Board Audit Committee and auditors visited our new base at Berlin Tegel Airport, where Directors For further information on the Groups compliance with the attended apresentation from the local management and took Code and provisions relating to the Audit Committee and the opportunity to meet crew members.
For further auditors, please refer to the Audit Committee report on information onthe base visit, please refer to page 69. pages80 to 84.
Regular briefing papers are provided to Board members to EFFECTIVENESS update them on relevant developments in law, regulation and Composition of the Board best practice, usually two to four times per year.
Directors are As at 30 September 2018, the Board comprised seven encouraged to highlight specific areas where they feel their Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman and two skills or knowledge would benefit from further development as Executive Directors.
part of the annual Board evaluation process.
Independence Information and support The Board considers Adle Anderson, Dr Andreas Bierwirth, All members of the Board are supplied with appropriate, clear Charles Gurassa, Andy Martin, Moya Greene DBE and Julie and accurate information in a timely manner covering matters Southern to be Non-Executive Directors who are independent which are to be considered at forthcoming Board or in character and judgement.
John Barton was considered Committee meetings.
tobeindependent prior to his appointment as Chairman.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Should Directors judge it necessary to seek independent legal Companys share option or bonus schemes.
The Board reviews advice about the performance of their duties with the Group, its Committee membership each year to ensure that undue they are entitled to do so at the Groups expense.
Directors reliance is not placed on individuals.
also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary & Group General Counsel, who is responsible for Appointments to the Board advising the Board on all governance matters and ensuring The Nominations Committee leads the process for Board that Board procedures are complied with.
appointments and makes recommendations to the Board.
Forinformation on the work of the Nominations Committee The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary & and a description of the Boards policy on diversity and Group General Counsel is a matter requiring Board approval.
inclusion, please refer to the Nominations Committee report Re-election onpages 78 and 79.
The Companys Articles of Association require the Directors Time commitment tosubmit themselves for re-election by shareholders at least Following the Board evaluation process, detailed further below, once every three years.
However, the Board has decided that the Board is satisfied that each of the Directors is able to all Directors will stand for re-election or election at each allocate sufficient time to the Group to discharge his or her Annual General Meeting in accordance with the Code.
com GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED BOARD EVALUATION 2017 BOARD AND COMMITTEE INTERNAL EVALUATION: ACTION AND PROGRESS During 2017, an internal evaluation was undertaken by the Company Secretary & Group General Counsel.
The review extended toall aspects of Board and Committee performance including composition and dynamics, the Chairmans leadership, agenda and focus, time management, strategic oversight, overview of risk, succession planning and priorities for change.
The areas identified for development, together with the actions undertaken to address them during 2018, are set out below.
AREAS IDENTIFIED IN 2017 WHAT WE HAVE DONE DURING 2018 Succession planning The Nominations Committee reviewed both the Boards and the Groups leadership and succession plans.
During 2018, the Nominations Committee initiated a process for the identification and recruitment of additional independent Non-Executive Directors over a two-year period.
Further details are set out on page 78.
During 2018, a comprehensive review of our talent and succession coverage across all business functions and at executive and senior leadership level was commenced: this will continue to evolve over the course of 2019.
Agenda planning and focus When setting Board agendas, appropriate time has been allocated to improve the balance of time spent on commercial matters and more strategic discussion, including industry consolidation, the competitive environment and the impact of Brexit on the business.
Enhanced operational There is a tailored induction programme in place for newly appointed Directors, understanding for the Board and the annual base visit provides an opportunity for the Board to better understand operational issues first hand through engagement with local staff.
Key industry topics impacting the aviation sector have also been covered by external bodies at Board meetings during 2018.
Greater focus will be placed in 2019 on encouraging Directors to highlight specific areas where they feel they would benefit from further development.
2018 BOARD AND COMMITTEE EXTERNAL EVALUATION: THE PREPARATION For the 2018 external Board evaluation, the Board engaged Dr Sabine Dembkowski of Better Boards Limited Better Boards toconduct an independent external evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees and the Chairman, following theprocess and steps outlined below and on the following page.
Neither Sabine nor Better Boards has any other connection with the Group.
The purpose of Sabines approach was to gain insights into the hallmarks of effective boards, together with how Directors view themselves versus how they are perceived by their fellow Directors and other key stakeholders.
The overall outcome was an understanding of the levers that individual Directors can personally pull to increase their impact in the boardroom in order to make the Board more effective.
The end result was a collective action plan that allows the Board to focus on the right and most crucial issues.
72 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 2018 BOARD AND COMMITTEE EXTERNAL 2018 BOARD AND COMMITTEE EXTERNAL EVALUATION: THE OUTCOME EVALUATION: THE STAGES Key insights STAGE 1: PROGRAMME DESIGN The Board evaluation process found that: Meetings held between Better Boards and the Company Secretary & Group General Counsel to discuss and agree the Board has distinctive strengths: openness and respectfor each other, a collaborative working style, the programmes objectives, areas of particular focus, design and action plan.
gooddiversity of experience and a healthy balance.
Suchstrengths can be built on to create an upward trajectory in performance: and STAGE 2: BOARD INTRODUCTION the Board has a strong collective memory of a series Better Boards presented the programmes objectives at ofsuccesses and achievements, such as the acquisition the July Board meeting and explained the various steps ofpart of Air Berlins operations at Berlin Tegel Airport.
in the process and the time commitment required from Board members.
The key areas identified by this years external evaluation forincreased focus and development during the 2019 STAGE 3: INDIVIDUAL FACE-TO-FACE MEETING financialyear are set out below.
Progress against these areas Better Boards held one-to-one meetings with individual willbereviewed as part of the 2019 internal evaluation and Board and certain AMB members to gain personal reported on next year: insights into the Boards effectiveness, including any continued focus on succession planning at Board, AMB challenges and issues.
and executive leadership team level: enhancements to be made to agenda planning working STAGE 4: QUESTIONNAIRE practices to improve the effectiveness and organisation of Each Board member completed a confidential online Board meetings: and questionnaire.
integration of a broader set of stakeholders interests within Board decision making processes.
STAGE 5: DATA ANALYSIS BY BETTER BOARDS Data from the online questionnaire and one-to-one Review of the Chairmans performance meetings was combined to generate individual reports Charles Gurassa, as Senior Independent Director, with input and an aggregated report for the collective Board.
and data provided by Dr Sabine Dembkowski, led a review ofthe Chairmans performance and held a private meeting ofthe Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman being STAGE 6: INDIVIDUAL FEEDBACK present to discuss this.
It was concluded that John Bartons CONVERSATION performance and contribution remain strong and that he Better Boards held confidential feedback sessions with demonstrates effective leadership.
The Executive Directors each Board member to discuss the findings from their and the Non-Executive Directors also reviewed, and were individual reports.
Each session concluded with a satisfied with the Chairmans time commitment to the Board personal action plan.
STAGE 7: FEEDBACK MEETING Better Boards held meetings with the Chairman and Company Secretary & Group General Counsel to discuss the aggregated Board results and agree an action plan.
STAGE 8: BOARD ACTION PLAN This included a Board strength matrix, key competencies, priorities, culture and measures for aligning Board vision.
com GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL For further information on the Groups compliance with the The Board has overall responsibility for easyJets risk Code provisions relating to remuneration, please refer to: management and systems of internal control.
the Directors remuneration report on pages 87 to 105 Risk management forthe level and components of remuneration: and easyJet has an established risk management process to ensure that significant risks are identified and mitigated page 86 the Remuneration Committee report for wherepossible.
For further details of the risk management procedures relating to remuneration.
process, the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Group and the associated mitigating actions, please refer Dialogue with shareholders topages 38 to 48.
The Group actively engages with investors and seeks their To ensure that risks are managed effectively, a number of feedback.
The Chairman and Deputy Chairman met with activities are undertaken: shareholders during the year to help maintain a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns.
They also An AMB member is allocated as the risk owner for each attended a senior investor dinner in January and met with principal risk, with responsibility for the day-to-day anumber of the Groups top institutional investors.
The management of that risk.
Chairman has updated the Board on the opinions of investors.
Ongoing risk management and assurance is provided The views of shareholders and market perceptions are also through the various monitoring reviews and reporting communicated to the Board via presentations by the Head mechanisms that are embedded in the business operations.
ofInvestor Relations at least every quarter.
The results of these reviews are reported to the Audit Committee and the Board, which consider whether these easyJet has an Investor Relations function which runs an high-level risks are being effectively controlled.
activeprogramme of engagement with actual and potential investors based around the financial reporting calendar.
This Regular operational including safety, commercial, year the programme has included one-to-one meetings with financialand IT functional meetings are held to review institutional investors, roadshows and conferences.
easyJet performance and to consider key risks and issues please hasparticularly targeted and engaged with European investors refer to page 76 for details of the Safety Committee.
during the year as part of an enhanced programme related The AMB meets regularly to consider significant risks, the topotential future ownership changes.
There is also regular status of risk mitigations and overall business performance: communication with institutional investors on key this ensures key issues are escalated through the businessissues.
management team and, as appropriate, ultimately to theBoard.
During the year, the Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive met with representatives of easyGroup Holdings The Directors review the effectiveness of internal controls, Limited, the Companys largest shareholder, to discuss including operating, financial and compliance controls.
The Chief Financial Officer and Company The Audit Committee undertakes an annual review of the Secretary & Group General Counsel have also met separately appropriateness of the risk management processes to ensure with representatives of easyGroup Limited an affiliate of that they are sufficiently robust to meet the needs of the easyGroup Holdings Limited to discuss matters relating to the Group please refer to pages 80 to 84 for details of the Audit management and protection of the easyJet and easy brands.
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting Internal control The Annual General Meeting AGM gives all shareholders The Groups internal control systems are designed to manage, theopportunity to communicate directly with the Board rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business andencourages their participation.
By their nature, they can only provide reasonable, theopportunity to raise issues formally at the AGM or not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
informally with Directors after the meeting.
All Directors attendthe AGM and the Chairs of the Committees are The internal financial control monitoring programme, available to answer questions.
administered by Internal Audit, has continued to enhance the review process.
The internal control regime is supported by the operation of a whistleblower reporting function.
The system is operated by a specialist external third-party service provider and allows employees to report concerns anonymously and in confidence.
The Audit Committee has approved the processes and reporting structure for the function, and receives regular reports on its operation.
74 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Head of Risk and Assurance reports directly to the Chief Internal audit The Internal Audit functions key objectives are to provide Financial Officer and continues to have direct access to the Chief Executive and the Chair of the Audit Committee.
The independent and objective assurance on risks and controls tothe Board, Audit Committee and senior management, and Head of Risk and Assurance is invited to, and attends, Audit Committee meetings throughout the year and reports regularly to assist the Board in meeting its corporate governance and regulatory responsibilities.
The internal audit plan is approved on Internal Audit activity to the AMB.
by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board, and updated During the year, the effectiveness of the Internal Audit on a rolling basis.
functionwas assessed by the Audit Committee.
The role The Internal Audit team reviews the extent to which systems ofthe Internal Audit function and the scope of its work both of internalcontrol: continue to evolve to take account of recommendations from the external effectiveness review, changes within the business, are designed and operating effectively: and emerging best practice.
A formal audit charter is in place.
are adequate to manage easyJets key risks: and safeguard the Groups assets.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR INDUCTION PROGRAMME The outcome was an insightful understanding of easyJets business, culture, people and key relationships Julie Southern, appointed Non-Executive Director on The Board and senior management 1August 2018, followed a tailored induction programme Met with the Chairman and Senior Independent Director covering a range of key areas of the business, aflavour Met with key members of the senior management team ofwhich is given below.
These included matters pertinent to including the Group Director of Strategy and Network, her roles on the Audit, Remuneration and Safety Committees.
the Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer Safety Received a Board induction pack to assist with building Attended a half-day session hosted by the Director an understanding of the nature of the Group, ofSafety, Security and Compliance which included itsbusiness, markets and people, and to provide briefings onthe regulatory framework, compliance anunderstanding of the Groups main relationships.
monitoring, health and human rights performance and Thepack also included information to help facilitate a safety operations and security thorough understanding of the role ofDirector and the framework within which the Board operates.
Met employees throughout the business and in key safety roles to discuss safety matters Business and functions Met with the Chair of the Safety Committee Attended a London Luton Airport site visit, hosted by asenior Ground Operations manager and the Head Governance and remuneration ofAirport and Central Procurement, to understand Met key employees in our Reward team, including theissues of one of our largest bases theGroup People Director, to understand our Met with the Head of Investor Relations rewardstrategy, remuneration policy and current market practice Met with a key broker to understand easyJet from amarket and brokers perspective Met with the Chair of the Remuneration Committee Received a briefing from McKinsey which focused on Finance and audit key issues facing easyJet, and the dynamics of the Attended face-to-face briefing sessions on key risks, low-cost airline market costs and revenue, balance sheet and financial metrics with the Chief Financial Officer, Head of Risk and Assurance, Director of Treasury and Tax, and the Finance Director Met with the Chair of the Audit Committee 75 www.
com GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board committees SAFETY COMMITTEE REPORT COMMITTEE CHANGES Keith Hamill OBE stepped down from the Board and theCommittee on 31 December 2017 Julie Southern was appointed to the Board and as a member of the Committee on 1 August 2018 KEY ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR Supported executive leadership with the appointment of key management in the Safety, Security and Compliance team Continued to monitor the progress of the 2018 DR ANDREAS BIERWIRTH Safety Plan Chair of the Safety Committee Reviewed and approved the insourcing of PRIMARY ROLE maintenance operations at Gatwick Airport To oversee the quality and effectiveness of easyJets safety Received regular updates on any actions in relation strategies, standards, policies and initiatives, together with to aircraft cyber security updates risk exposures, targets and performance, in order to ensure Oversight and assurance of the wet lease operations that safety receives the highest level of Board attention.
at Berlin Tegel Airport The Committees terms of reference, reviewed and Monitored and reviewed the operation and approved annually, are available on the Companys website integration of the new A321neo aircraft at http: corporate.
Reviewed and approved a consortium project KEY RESPONSIBILITIES tocontinue the work already done on wildlife To assess the Groups oversight of safety including management at airports, in particular relating to security systems, processes, operations and resources birdstrikes To monitor and review notable incidents and actions To review and receive updates on the progress of the In line with easyJets position that safety is our number one Safety Plan priority, the Safety Committee continues to ensure that To monitor and review specific deep-dive safety, safetyreceives the highest level of Board attention.
The security and compliance issues as requested by the Director of Safety, Security and Compliance reports to the Board and Committee Chief Executive and also has the right of direct access to Dr Andreas Bierwirth as Committee Chair and to the Board To review the resourcing and operation of the Safety, Chairman, whichreinforces the independence of safety Security and Compliance team through regular reports oversight.
AsCommittee Chair, Andreasreports to the Board from the Director of Safety, Security and Compliance with his own assessment of safety management within the MEMBERSHIP, MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE airline throughout the year.
Dr Andreas Bierwirth Chair The Committee has welcomed the ongoing continuous Adle Anderson improvement being made by the business with regard Moya Greene DBE tosafety investigations.
easyJet continues to train new Julie Southern investigators from across the business with monthly coursesand now has over 300 lead investigators on its All members of the Committee are independent Nonstaff.
Inaddition a revised version of the safety investigation Executive Directors.
Member biographies can be found manualwas reviewed and approved by the Committee.
onpages 61 to 63. easyJet continues to deliver high standards of safety The Director of Safety, Security and Compliance has acrossthe aviation sector in Europe.
Following the UKs attended all Safety Committee meetings during the votetoleave the EU, a new AOC in Austria hasbeenadded year.
Other key invitees including the Chief Executive, tohelpmanage the airlines risks associated with Brexit.
This theChiefOperating Officer, the Head of Safety, Security hasbroadened the scope of the Safety Plan to incorporate and Compliance and nominated persons for Flight theAustrian regulator, Austro Control, and theassociated Operations, Engineering and other functions have easyJet Europe nominated person structure.
continuesto grow, making it imperative that we retain ourfocus on current and emergent risks.
Meeting attendance can be found in the table on page70.
76 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Committee received updates on progress towards anintegrated management system with the major focus THE COMMITTEE IN ACTION beingthe development of management system governance processes to ensure that our three AOCs can discharge their In July 2018, Committee members Moya Greene DBE regulatory responsibilities effectively and efficiently.
and Julie Southern, both Non-Executive Directors SECURITY spenthalf a day with the Safety, Security and The Security team continued to support the business in line Compliance team.
with the team strategy for 2018 which included: Moya and Julie had the opportunity to meet with key dealing with nearly 300 investigations: members of the management team and received presentations on topics such as: supporting crew following disruptive passenger incidents: visiting over half of crew bases to offer support, training the regulatory framework: and provide threat briefings: the easyJet Safety and Management System: working with the Department of Transport and other risk management: relevant authorities to provide additional security measures: change management: supporting law enforcement agencies with data protection compliance monitoring and standards assurance: requests including assisting with their people trafficking occupational health and safety: investigations: fatigue risk management: and working to achieve compliance with relevant elementsofthe SeMS Security Management System security.
requirements:and monitoring events during the World Cup and their potential impact on the easyJet operation.
We could see first-hand This summer easyJet employed additional police at the gates how the business manages in Newcastle, Liverpool and Stansted to support routes where trends of disruptive passengers had been identified.
The its processes, structures Committee is committed to ensuring that disruptive and relationships so that passengers are a key focus of the Safety, Security and Compliance team.
safety remains the number COMPLIANCE The Groups internal compliance monitoring programme one priority enables easyJet to monitor the organisations compliance with the applicable aviation regulations.
The programme activities include audits, inspections, reviews and assessments so as tomeasure the effectiveness of the procedures designed bytheorganisation to ensure safe activities.
The findings resulting from the monitoring activities are regularly reported to, and reviewed by, the Committee in order to maintain and improvecompliance.
HEALTH AND WELLBEING The Committee endorses the integrated approach to health, wellbeing and safety being taken by easyJet to support our people and enhance the resilience of the operation.
As one example, the Pilot Peer Support Programme was launched in the UK bases in December 2017.
This has been received very positively by the European Works Council and pilot unions across the network, and we are now progressively launching the programme.
Key policies are currently under development in collaboration with the People team which will cover areas such as just culture, mental health, and drugs and alcohol testing.
We aim to provide a further update in next years Committee report.
LOOKING FORWARD Over the next year, the Committee will continue to monitor and review the structure, content and operation of the Groups safety, security and compliance activities.
More generally, wewill continue to provide support to management on embedding a productive culture to ensure high standards ofsafety continue to be delivered.
com GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT KEY ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR Evaluated the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge on the Board Prepared specifications of the roles and capabilities required for the recruitment of new independent Non-Executive Directors Oversaw the appointment process and interviewed shortlisted candidates for new Non-Executive Director roles, and recommended Julie Southern to the Board Reviewed and approved the Board Diversity and Inclusion Policy JOHN BARTON Oversaw the induction programmes for Moya Greene Chair of the Nominations Committee DBE and Julie Southern Under the direction of the Chairman, led the external PRIMARY ROLE Board evaluation process To ensure there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to theBoard.
SUCCESSION PLANNING The Board continues to be satisfied that plans are in place The Committees terms of reference, reviewed and fororderly succession for appointments to the Board so approved annually, are available on the Companys thatthe right balance of appropriate skills and experience websiteat http: corporate.
During the year, the Committee agreed KEY RESPONSIBILITIES that, where appropriate, development plans be put in To review the structure, size and composition placeforsenior management as part of the Chief Executive includingtheskills, knowledge, independence, succession planning process which commenced following experience and diversity of the Board and make theappointment of Johan Lundgren as Chief Executive in anyrecommendations to the Board December 2017.
To satisfy itself that plans are in place for orderly COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD succession for appointment to the Board and With the support of an external provider, Calibroconsult seniormanagement Limited, the Committee looked in detail at the skills that To identify and nominate candidates to fill Board eachDirector brings to the Board and those that would vacancies, for the approval of the Board berequired from new joiners to help easyJet achieve its To lead on the Board annual evaluation process strategicobjectives and deliver sustainable shareholder value.
The outcome of this detailed review, which took MEMBERSHIP, MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE intoaccount the opinions expressed by all Board members, John Barton Chair resulted in atwo-year implementation plan for an orderly Moya Greene DBE refresh process for external appointments to the Board.
Against the background of the remaining tenure of the Charles Gurassa currentNon-Executive Directors, the need was identified to Andy Martin recruit additional Non-Executive Directors with specific skills and experience such as finance, heavily data-driven businesses, All members of the Committee are independent Nonthe aviation sector, European businesses, and EU political and Executive Directors.
Member biographies can be found regulatory regimes.
Other key invitees including the Chief Executive, the Group People Director and external advisers attended asrelevant.
COMMITTEE CHANGES Keith Hamill OBE stepped down from the Board and the Committee on 31 December 2017 78 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NON-EXECUTIVE APPOINTMENTS DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION ACROSS With the need for an additional Non-Executive Director THE BUSINESS withstrong financial expertise having been identified for The Nominations Committee oversees the development of recruitment during the first half of 2018, Russell Reynolds adiverse pipeline for future succession to Board and senior Associates Russell Reynolds were engaged, after a selection management appointments, including the gender balance process, to act as easyJets search consultants for this role.
ofsenior management and its direct reports.
Where there The Committee considered a list of potential candidates, isaknown requirement to improve the diversity at a certain provided by Russell Reynolds, and took into account the levelor in a certain function in the organisation, the recruiting balance of skills, knowledge, independence, diversity and teamwill ask to see a higher proportion of candidates fitting experience of the Board together with an assessment of the diversity criteria.
However, the final selection will always be thetime commitment expected.
The preferred candidate on merit.
wasinterviewed individually by all members of the Nominations easyJets People team monitors the Groups diversity on at Committee and by other members of the Board.
Following least an annual basis and highlights any areas of concern to thisprocess, the Committee recommended to the Board that the AMB.
The corporate responsibility section of the Annual Julie Southern be appointed as a Non-Executive Director with Report on page 54 reports in further detail on the approach effect from 1 August 2018.
Julies other commitments were being taken to diversity and inclusion, and the implementation disclosed to the Board before her appointment and are of the policy across the Group.
EXTERNAL BOARD EVALUATION PROCESS The search for additional Non-Executive Directors commenced Under the direction of the Chairman, an independent Board during the year, with the Committee having engaged Russell evaluation review was conducted during the year, which was Reynolds to conduct the process which, as at the date of this externally facilitated by Better Boards Limited.
Further details report, is ongoing.
on the process taken and the outcome are given on pages DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION AT BOARD LEVEL 72to 73.
We recognise the importance of a diverse Board, bringing RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS together an appropriate mix of skills and experience to The effectiveness and commitment of each of the Nonensurethe future success of our business.
We understand Executive Directors is reviewed annually.
The Committee therichness a diverse Board brings in providing the range hassatisfied itself as to the individual skills, relevant ofperspectives, insight and challenge needed to support experience, contributions and time commitment of all the gooddecision making and create a positive culture in Non-Executive Directors, taking into account their other theorganisation.
New appointments to the Board continue to be made on merit Prior to the appointment of Julie Southern to the Board in in the context of the requirements of the Board at that time.
August, the Board reviewed Julies other offices and was The Committee identifies suitable candidates against objective satisfied by her approach to managing her time commitment.
criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, including cognitive and personal strengths as well as The Board is recommending the formal election to office of diversity of gender and social and ethnic backgrounds.
Where Julie Southern and the re-election to office of all the other there is a known requirement to improve the diversity of the Directors at this years AGM.
Details of the service agreements Board, the Nominations Committee will ask to see a higher for the Executive Directors and letters of appointment for the proportion of candidates fitting the diversity criteria.
However, Non-Executive Directors, and their availability for inspection, the final selection will, as stated, always be on merit.
are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 87to 105.
Following the annual review of the Board, the Nominations Committee will discuss the makeup of the Board and agree ADVISERS annual objectives on diversity for proposal to the Board, During the year, the Committee worked with external takinginto account the recommendations set out in the consultant Calibroconsult Limited to undertake a full analysis Hampton-Alexander Review which recommends that 33% ofthe capability and size of the current Board against future ofBoard andexecutive committee members should be needs.
Search consultants Russell Reynolds were also engaged female, the McGregor-Smith Review and the Parker Review to identify candidates for additional Non-Executive Director which recommends at least one director of colour by 2021. roles.
For the 2018 external Board evaluation, the Committee To formalise this approach to diversity and inclusion, the worked with Better Boards Limited.
None of Calibroconsult, Committee reviewed and approved a Board Diversity and Russell Reynolds or Better Boards has any other connection Inclusion Policy at its September meeting.
As at 30 September 2018, the Company had three femaleDirectors at Board level, equating to 33% female Boardrepresentation.
The Committee will report annually in the corporate governance section of the Annual Report on the progress made in this area by the Board, in particular on the specific approach to any Board appointments made in the year.
com GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT COMMITTEE CHANGES Charles Gurassa was appointed as a member of the Committee on 17 November 2017 on a temporary basis.
Keith Hamill OBE stepped down from the Board and the Committee on 31 December 2017.
Julie Southern was appointed as a member of the Committee on 1 August 2018 and will become Audit Committee Chair from 1 January 2019.
Adle Anderson will step down from the Committee with effect from 1 January 2019.
The Board is satisfied that the Audit Committee, as a whole, possesses experience relevant to the sector in which the ADLE ANDERSON Chair of the Audit Committee Group operates.
The majority of Committee members have asignificant amount of sector experience as Non-Executive PRIMARY ROLE Directors of easyJet, and both Andy Martin and Julie Southern To assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities have executive sector experience in their previous roles at First by reviewing and monitoring the integrity of the financial Choice Holidays plc and Virgin Atlantic respectively.
In addition, information provided to shareholders, the Groups system three of the four current Committee members are qualified ofinternal controls and risk management, the internal and accountants.
The Board is also satisfied that Adle Anderson, external audit process and the process for compliance with in particular, as Audit Committee Chair, possesses the recent laws, regulations and ethical codes of practice.
and relevant experience required by the Code.
The Committees terms of reference, reviewed and The Audit Committee met five times during the year.
approved annually, are available on the Companys website Ineachcase, appropriate papers were distributed to the at http: corporate.
Committee members and other invited attendees, including representatives of the external audit firm and the internal KEY RESPONSIBILITIES Riskand Assurance function.
In addition, as Committee Chair, To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of Adle holds regular private sessions with senior members of the Company and the Group the Finance team, the Head of Risk and Assurance and the To review the content of the Annual Report and external audit team to ensure that open and informal lines of Accounts and advise the Board on whether, taken as communication exist should they wish to raise any concerns awhole, they are fair, balanced and understandable outside of formal meetings.
To keep under review the adequacy and effectiveness FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE of the Groups internal financial control systems The Committee assessed and recommended to the Board To review and monitor the independence and objectivity that, taken as a whole, the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts of the external auditor which the Board subsequently approved are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the necessary information for MEMBERSHIP, MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE shareholders to assess the Group and Companys position and Adle Anderson Chair performance, business model and strategy.
More information Charles Gurassa on the process undertaken to reach this assessment can be Andy Martin found on page 82.
Julie Southern FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS REPORTING Through its activities, the Committee focuses on maintaining All members of the Committee are independent Nonthe integrity and quality of our financial reporting, considering Executive Directors.
Member biographies can be found on the significant accounting judgements made by management pages61 to 63. and the findings of the external auditor.
The Committee Other key invitees, including the Chief Financial Officer, the assesses whether suitable accounting policies have been Group Finance Director, the Head of Risk and Assurance, adopted and whether management has made appropriate the Director of Treasury and Tax and the external auditor, estimates and judgements.
The Committee reviewed attended as relevant.
accounting papers prepared by management which provided details of significant financial reporting judgements.
The Meeting attendance can be found in the table on page70.
Committee also reviewed the reports by the external auditor on the half year and full year 2018 results, which highlighted any issues with respect to the work undertaken on the audit.
80 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Committees process included the comprehensive review of The Committee was satisfied that all issues had been fully financial issues through the challenge of management, consideration addressed, that the judgements made by management of the findings of the external auditor and comparison with other werereasonable and appropriate and had been reviewed organisations.
The number of such issues currently considered anddebated with the external auditor who concurred with significant is limited, reflective of easyJets relatively simple theapproach taken by management and that the accounting business model and group structure which are unencumbered and disclosure requirements had been included in the Annual by legacy issues.
The significant issues considered in relation to Report and Accounts.
the financial statements are detailed below.
FINANCIAL REPORTING COUNCIL REVIEW LETTER In May 2018, easyJet received a letter from the Corporate SIGNIFICANT JUDGEMENTS Reporting Review Team CRRT of the Financial Reporting The Committee considered whether the carrying value of Council FRC in relation to its regular review and assessment goodwill and landing rights held by easyJet, including those of the quality of corporate reporting in the UK.
The letter acquired as part of the Air Berlin transaction, should be focused on the balance of the strategic report, the impaired.
The judgement in relation to impairment largely disclosuresof critical accounting judgements and estimates relates to the assumptions underlying the calculation of the and the disclosures of other provisions.
The CRRT raised value in use of the business being tested for impairment: certain questions regarding the presentation of the IFRS primarily whether the forecasted cash flows are achievable performance measures within the strategic report and and whether the overall macroeconomic assumptions compliance surrounding the usage of non-GAAP alternative whichunderlie the valuation process are reasonable.
performance measures APMs within the European Securities TheCommittee addressed these matters using and Markets Authority ESMA guidelines.
easyJet responded reportsreceived from management outlining the basis to the CRRTs questions providing clarifying information forassumptions used.
The forecasted cash flows used in andproposing specific enhancements to its 2018 Annual the calculation were presented to the Board.
In addition Report and Accounts that would address the questions and theAudit Committee considered whether the carrying comments raised.
These enhancements included ensuring value of significant IT projects was supported, taking IFRSperformance measures are disclosed alongside APMs intoconsideration the Boards view on the direction of where appropriate, providing comparatives for all performance the projects and the anticipated benefits to be obtained measures within the strategic report and within the critical from each project.
accounting estimates disclosure, and clarifying which The Committee reviewed the maintenance provision at estimatesarenot major sources of estimation uncertainty.
the year end, which had increased significantly as a result Therecommendations from the review have been of the leases acquired as part of the Air Berlin transaction.
incorporated into the 2018 financial statements.
A number of judgements are used in the calculation of the RISK AND ASSURANCE provision, primarily pricing, utilisation of aircraft and timing The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the work of maintenance checks.
The Committee addressed these ofthe Internal Audit function.
It reviews and approves the matters using reports received from management which scope of the Internal Audit annual plan and assesses the set out the basis of assumptions used.
The Committee quality ofInternal Audit reports, along with managements also discussed with the external auditor its review of the actions relating to findings and the closure of recommended assumptions underlying the estimates used.
The Audit Committee also considers stakeholder The Committee reviewed the level and calculations of feedback on the quality of Internal Audits work.
key accruals and provisions which are judgemental in During 2018, a carefully targeted internal audit plan was nature, specifically customer claims in respect of flight agreedand undertaken across easyJets operations, systems delays and cancellations.
and support functions with subsequent reports, including The Committee considered the presentation of performance management responses, recommended action plans and measures and the income statement resulting from the follow-up reviews being considered by the Audit Committee separate reporting of non-headline items, being non-recurring ateach of its five meetings held during the year.
material items of income and expense that are significant In order to safeguard the independence of the Internal Audit ineither nature or amount, or items which are not considered function, the Head of Risk and Assurance who heads up the to be reflective of the trading performance of the business, Internal Audit function is given the opportunity to meet separately within its income statement in the Annual Report privately with the Audit Committee without any other and Accounts.
Additionally the Committee considered the members of management being present.
separate presentation of performance measures in the strategic report excluding Tegel performance.
The Committee believes that this presentation provides readers with a better understanding of easyJets underlying performance.
The Committee considered the transition methods andongoing accounting policy under new accounting standards IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, IFRS 16 Leases and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, including the judgements, assumptions andestimates made by management and the financial impact these will have both uponadoption on 1 October 2018 and in the first year of adoption.
com GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL The Board as a whole, including the Audit Committee FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE members, considers the nature and extent of easyJets At the request of the Board, the Committee considered riskmanagement framework and the risk profile that whether the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, isacceptable in order to achieve the Groups strategic balanced and understandable and whether they provide objectives.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the work the necessary information for shareholders to assess undertaken by management, the Committee itself and theGroups position and performance, business model theBoard on the assessment of the Groups principal risks, and strategy.
The Committee is satisfied that, taken including their impacton the prospects of the Group.
As a asawhole, the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, result, it is considered that the Board has fulfilled its obligations balanced and understandable.
In reaching this conclusion, under theCode in relation to risk management and internal the Committee considered the overall review and controls.
Further details on the Groups principal risks and confirmation process around the Annual Report and uncertainties and their impact on the prospects of the Group Accounts, including: are set out on pages 38 to 48. the input of subject matter experts, the AMB and easyJets system of internal controls, along with its design other senior management and, where applicable, the andoperating effectiveness, which includes the Groups Board and its Committees: financial reporting process, is subject to review by the Audit the processes and controls which underpin the Committee, through reports received from management, overall review and confirmation process, including the along with those from both internal and external auditors.
preparation, control process, verification of content, Anycontrol deficiencies identified are followed up, with and consistency of information being carried out by actionplans tracked by the AMB and the Committee.
an internal financial controls specialist independent Furtherdetails of risk management and internal control are of the Finance function : setout on page74.
Internal Audit providing assurance over the audit trail ANTI-BRIBERY AND WHISTLEBLOWING for material data points relating to the non-financial The Code includes a provision requiring the Audit Committee statement aspects of the Annual Report and to review arrangements by which staff of the Company may, Accounts, and external audit providing assurance inconfidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties over the financial statements: and inmatters of financial reporting or other matters.
The Audit a full-day session to review the Annual Report and Committees objective is to ensure that arrangements are in Accounts held by senior management and other place for the proportionate and independent investigation of subject matter experts to focus solely on the such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
reporting being fair, balanced and understandable.
The Group is committed to the highest standards of quality, The Committee was provided with, and commented honesty, openness and accountability.
The Group and all on, a draft copy of the Annual Report and Accounts.
operating companies have whistleblowing policies in place.
Italso received a specific paper from management to Employees are encouraged to raise genuine concerns under assist in its challenge and testing of a fair, balanced and the policy and any concerns raised are investigated carefully understandable assessment.
This paper contained an and thoroughly to assess what action, if any, should be agreed list of key positive and negative narratives for taken.
Any matters of significance are reported to the Audit thebusiness in the 2018 financial year and asked the Committee, along with a comprehensive full year report.
Committee to confirm whether it feels each narrative TheBoard supports the objectives of the Bribery Act 2010 was given due prominence in the report and treated in andprocedures have been established to ensure that afair, balanced and understandable manner.
These set out what is expected from In carrying out the above processes, key considerations our colleagues and stakeholders to ensure that they protect included ensuring that there was consistency between themselves as well as the Groups reputation and assets.
the financial statements and the narrative provided Training has been provided to the Board, senior management inthefront half of the Annual Report, and that there and all employees and is refreshed on a regular basis.
wasan appropriate balance between the reporting Anybreach of the Bribery Act will be regarded as serious ofweaknesses, difficulties and challenges, as well misconduct, potentially justifying immediate dismissal.
assuccesses, in an open and balanced manner includinglinkage between key messages throughout thedocument.
82 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 AUDIT COMMITTEE ACTIVITY IN THE 2018 FINANCIAL YEAR The main areas of Committee activity during the 2018 INTERNAL AUDIT EFFECTIVENESS financial year included the planning, monitoring, reviewing AND REVIEW OF ACTIVITIES and approval of the following: An assessment of the effectiveness and independence of the Internal Audit function, including consideration of: INTEGRITY OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS key Internal Audit reports: The integrity of the 2017 full year and 2018 half yearfinancial statements relating to the financial stakeholder feedback on the quality of Internal performance and governance of the Group Auditactivity: The material areas in which significant judgements Internal Audits compliance with prevailing wereapplied based on reports from both the Groups professional standards: and management and the external auditor.
Further the implementation of Internal Audit information is provided in the significant judgements recommendations.
section on page 81 RELATIONSHIP WITH EXTERNAL AUDITOR The information, underlying assumptions and stress-test The scope of and findings from the external audit plan analysis presented in support of the Viability Statement undertaken by  LLP PwC and going concern status asthe external auditor The consistency and appropriateness of the financial The effectiveness of the external audit process control and reporting environment The assessment of the performance, continued The potential impact of new accounting standards objectivity and independence of PwC IFRS9 Financial Instruments, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 16 Leases The level of fees paid to PwC for permitted nonauditservices The availability of distributable reserves to fund the The reappointment of PwC as external auditor dividend policy and make dividend payments The fair, balanced and understandable assessment of SYSTEMS AND CONTROLS FOR PREVENTION the Annual Report and Accounts for the 2017 financial OF BRIBERY, DETECTION OF FRAUD AND year and the 2018 half year statement FACILITATION OF WHISTLEBLOWING The five-year plan for the business Whistleblower reports, reports on anti-bribery and corruption procedures, reports on procedures for fraud A progress update on the development of the and loss prevention and reports on credit card fraud, impairmentmodel together with monitoring and investigations INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS AND OTHER SPECIFIC ITEMS CONSIDERED AS PART RISK MANAGEMENT OF MAIN ACTIVITIES The adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups ongoing Responses to the FRCs Corporate Reporting Review risk management systems and control processes, Teams information request on the 2017 Annual Report through an evaluation of: and Accounts the risk and assurance plans: The controls that the Group would seek to implement Internal Audit review reports: to safeguard against any liability relating to the Criminal risk assessments: Finances Act 2017 information and cyber security threats and The Groups exposure to fraud within the business and businesscontinuity: associated mitigating controls and action GDPR readiness: and Regular updates including key milestones in regard to control themes.
the payroll accuracy project The Groups risk environment, including its significant The Groups tax strategy and emerging risks register The Committees effectiveness and terms of reference The Groups fraud detection, bribery prevention and Compliance with the Code and the Groups regulatory whistleblowing measures and legislative requirements The updated delegated authority policy Regular updates and assurance in relation to IT strategy, including external assurance in relation to the progress of our commercial IT platform development The financial controls relating to jet fuel supplier contracts 83 www.
com GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED EXTERNAL AUDITOR EXTERNAL AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE AND  LLP PwC, as the external auditor, NON-AUDIT FEES isengaged to conduct a statutory audit and express an To preserve objectivity and independence, the external opinion on the financial statements.
Its audit includes the auditordoes not provide consulting services unless this is review and testing of the systems of internal financial control incompliance with the Groups non-audit services policy and data which are used to produce the information contained whichreflects the EU audit reform regulations and the in the financial statements.
PwC was reappointed as auditor of FRCsRevised Ethical Standard 2016.
This policy is available the Group at the 2018 Annual General Meeting following a inthe governance section of easyJets corporate website, tender process undertaken in 2015. http: corporate.
The current external audit engagement partner is Andrew In the 2018 financial year, PwC undertook work to provide Kemp, Senior Statutory Auditor, who has held this role since acomfort letter in relation to the Company updating its 2016.
The external audit plan andthe 0.4 million fee proposal EuroMedium Term Note Programme for which the fees were for the financial year under review 2017: 0.4 million was 32,000, and a non-statutory audit engagement for which the prepared by PwC in consultation with management and fees were 13,500.
The Committee approved this work under presented to the Committee for consideration andapproval.
Therefore, in the 2018 financial year the Company incurred non-audit service fees of 45,500 EXTERNAL AUDITOR EFFECTIVENESS 2017: non-audit service fees of32,000, which represent 10% Senior management monitors the external auditors of the total audit fees payable to PwC for the year.
performance, behaviour and effectiveness during the exercise of their duties, which informs the Audit Committees decision EXTERNAL AUDIT TENDERING on whether to recommend reappointment on an annual basis.
PwC were first appointed to audittheAnnual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30September 2006, and The Audit Committee also assesses the effectiveness, havetherefore served a 12-year term.
Under EU audit independence and objectivity of the external auditor by, reformlegislation, companies are required to have a amongst other things: mandatory rotation of auditors after 10 years, or 20 years ifthere is a compulsory re-tender at 10 years.
During the considering all key external auditor plans and reports: 2015financial year, the Committee led a tender process for inparticular those summarising audit work performed external audit services, following which the Audit Committee onsignificant risks and critical judgements identified, agreed to recommend that the Board reappoint PwC as, anddetailed audit testing thereon: onbalance, they performed best against the Committees having regular engagement with the external auditor pre-agreed selection and assessment criteria.
Having duringCommittee meetings and ad hoc meetings undertaken such a process, the Company confirms that whenrequired, including meetings without any ithascomplied with the provisions of the Statutory Audit memberof management being present: Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory the Committee Chair having discussions with the Senior Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Statutory Auditor ahead of each Committee meeting: and Responsibilities Order 2014. following the end of the financial year, each LOOKING FORWARD Committeemember completing an auditor effectiveness The Committee will continue to consider the financial reporting review questionnaire.
of the Group and review the Groups accounting policies and The Committee this year asked PwC to reiterate the annual statements.
In particular, any major accounting issues stepstaken to ensure the quality of its listed audits.
of a subjective nature will be discussed by the Committee.
PwCconfirmed that the Audit Partner and audit team The Committee will also continue to review internal and arenotthesubject of any PwC, Institute, FRC or other external audit activity and the effectiveness of the risk regulatory investigation.
The Committee was satisfied that the external audit had provided appropriate focus to those areas identified as the keyrisk areas to be considered by the Audit Committee.
It had also continued to address the areas of significant accounting estimates.
On this basis, and considering the views of senior management, the Committee concurred that the external audit had been effective.
EXTERNAL AUDIT TENDERING TIMELINE 2006 2015 2020 2024 2025 2026 PwC appointed Full competitive Mandatory Competitive PwC cannot be tender to take tender, PwC appointment of reappointed in 2026 reappointed newexternal audit place unless and a competitive required earlier lead partner after tender will take place fiveyears if not already effected prior to thisdate 84 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT KEY ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR Reviewed and approved a new 250 million revolving credit facility RCF Approved the annual update of the Euro Medium Term Note EMTN Programme Reviewed and approved the revised treasury policy Reviewed a number of policies, including the carbon emissions hedging policy and foreign exchange hedging policy Reviewed and approved the sale and leaseback of 10A319 aircraft to manage residual value risk Reviewed ad hoc issues including the cash investment ANDY MARTIN Chair of the Finance Committee strategy and business interruption insurance PRIMARY ROLE The Finance Committee continues to provide effective To review and monitor the Groups treasury policies, oversight of the Groups treasury and funding policies and treasury operations and funding activities, along with the activities, ensuring that treasury activities undertaken do not associated risks.
subject theGroup to undesired levels of risk, and that these The Committees terms of reference, reviewed and activities are appropriately aligned with the Groups strategy approved annually, are available on the Companys website and financial performance.
EURO MEDIUM TERM NOTE PROGRAMME KEY RESPONSIBILITIES In February 2018, an updated version of easyJets Euro Medium To regulate how the treasury activities of easyJet are Term Note programme EMTN was approved by the UK conducted and how the associated risks are controlled Listing Authority.
The Committee considers it good practice to maintain the EMTN platform, allowing the Group rapid access To determine and approve any material inter-company distributions for the purpose of simplifying interto highly liquid unsecured funding.
company balances or otherwise within the Group REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITY To determine and approve any change to the share A new two-year 250 million RCF was approved in July 2018, warehousing policies or loan facility arrangements in and subsequently entered into in August, to provide additional connection with the Companys share scheme trusts flexibility in maintaining the liquidity buffer.
To provide approvals in relation to hedging, International TREASURY POLICY UPDATE Swaps and Derivatives Association ISDA arrangements An update to the treasury policy was reviewed and approved and guarantees in line with the delegated authority and in July 2018.
The updates to the policy were made to ensure or the treasury policy compliance with IFRS 9 Financial Instruments as well as To ensure that treasury activities undertaken will not incorporating previously approved specific policy updates.
subject the Group to undesired levels of risk MEMBERSHIP, MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE Andy Martin Chair Dr Andreas Bierwirth Charles Gurassa All members of the Committee are independent NonExecutive Directors.
Member biographies can be found on pages61 to 63.
Key executives including the Chief Financial Officer, the Finance Director, the Head of Risk and Assurance and the Director of Treasury and Tax attended as relevant.
COMMITTEE CHANGES There were no changes to the Committee during the year.
