BOARD OF DIRECTORS An experienced and balanced Board N A F N R JOHN BARTON 1944 CHARLES GURASSA 1956 JOHAN LUNDGREN 1966 Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Chief Executive Nationality British and Senior Independent Director Nationality Swedish Appointed May 2013 Nationality British Appointed December 2017 Key areas of prior experience Appointed June 2011 Key areas of prior experience Finance, Governance Key areas of prior experience Traveland Tourism AirlineIndustry Skills & Experience John has served Skills & Experience Johan has as Chairman of Next plc, Catlin Skills & Experience Charles career morethan 30 years experience Group Limited, Cable and Wireless has been primarily in the travel, working inthe travel industry, Worldwide plc, Brit Holdings plc and tourism and leisure industries in a starting his career as a tour guide Wellington Underwriting plc.
John number of senior positions including and occupying various roles in travel was previously Senior Independent Chief Executive of Thomson Travel marketing and sales.
Prior to joining Director of WHSmith plc and Group plc, Executive Chairman of easyJet in December 2017 as Chief Hammerson plc.
He was also the TUI Northern Europe Limited and Executive, Johan was the Group Chief Executive of insurance broker Director of Passenger and Cargo Deputy Chief Executive Officer JIB Group plc.
After JIBs merger atBritish Airways plc.
Charles retired andChief Executive Officer of with Lloyd Thompson, he became from full-time work in June 2003 Mainstream Tourism at TUI AG.
Chairman of the combined Group, topursue a portfolio career.
He was Priorto this, Johan was the Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc, previously Non-Executive Chairman Managing Director for the Northern until 2001. of Genesis Housing Association, Region at TUI Travel plc from 2007 LOVEFiLM International Ltd, until 2011.
From 2003 until 2007, Current External Appointments Phones4U Ltd, Virgin Mobile plc, hewas the Managing Director Senior Independent Director of SSP Alamo National Rent a Car and andChief Executive Officer of Group plc, Chair of its Nomination 7Days Ltd, and a Non-Executive TUINordic.
Johan led MyTravels and Remuneration Committees and Director at Whitbread plc.
businesses out of Canada and member of its Audit Committee.
Sweden between 1999 and 2003, Senior Independent Director of Current External Appointments prior to which he was Managing Luceco plc and member of its Audit, Non-Executive Chairman of Channel Director of Always Tour Operations Remuneration and Nomination 4 and member of its Remuneration, from 1996.
Non-Executive Director Ethics and Audit Committees.
of Matheson & Co Ltd. SeniorIndependent Director of Current External Appointments Merlin Entertainments plc, Chairman None of its Remuneration Committee andmember of its Audit and Health and Safety Committees.
Member ofthe Board of Trustees at English Heritage and Chairman of its Remuneration and Appointments Committee.
Member of the Board of Trustees at the Migration Museum Project and member ofitsDevelopment Committee.
Chairman of Great Rail Journeys.
BOARD COMMITTEES Committee Chair F Finance Committee R Remuneration Committee A N S Audit Committee Nominations Committee Safety Committee 61 www.
com GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED R A S F S ANDREW FINDLAY 1969 ADLE ANDERSON 1965 DR ANDREAS BIERWIRTH Chief Financial Officer Independent Non-Executive 1971 Nationality British Director Independent Non-Executive Appointed October 2015 Nationality British Director Key areas of prior experience Appointed September 2011 Nationality German Finance Key areas of prior experience Appointed July 2014 Finance Key areas of prior experience Skills & Experience Andrew was Airline Industry, European previously Chief Financial Officer at Skills & Experience Until July 2011, Perspective Halfords Group plc from February Adle was a Partner in KPMG and 2011 to October 2015.
Prior to this, held roles including Chief Financial Skills & Experience Andreas Andrew was Director of Finance, Officer of KPMG UK, Chief Executive previously served as Chief Tax and Treasury at Marks and Officer of KPMGs captive insurer Commercial Officer and a Spencer Group plc.
He has also held and Chief Financial Officer of memberof the Board at Austrian senior finance roles at the London KPMGEurope.
Between 2006 and Stock Exchange and at Cable and 2008, Andreas served as Vice Current External Appointments Wireless both in the UK and the US.
President of Marketing at Deutsche Senior Independent Director of Lufthansa AG Frankfurt.
Prior to Current External Appointments IntuProperties plc, Chair of its this, Andreas was firstly Deputy Non-Executive Director at AuditCommittee and member Managing Director and later Rightmove plc, Chair of its Audit ofitsRemuneration Committee.
Committee and member of its Non-Executive Director of Spire Nomination Committee.
Healthcare Group plc, Chair of Current External Appointments itsAudit and Risk Committee Chief Executive Officer of andmember of its Remuneration T-MobileAustria GmbH.
Member of the Audit ofthe Supervisory Board of Committee of the Wellcome Trust.
Do&CoAG and member of the Supervisory Board of Telekom Deutschland GmbH.
DIVERSITY IN THE PLC BOARD easyJet recognises the benefits of having diversity across the Board to ensure effective engagement with key stakeholders and effective delivery of the business strategy.
TENURE YEARS GENDER AGE Executive Executive Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive 0-3 4-6 7-9 40-49 50-59 60 M F 62 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 2 2 2 3 2 4 3 1 1 1 3 3 S N R A F N R A R S MOYA GREENE DBE 1954 ANDY MARTIN 1960 JULIE SOUTHERN 1959 Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Director Director Director Nationality British and Canadian Nationality British Nationality British Appointed July 2017 Appointed September 2011 Appointed August 2018 Key areas of prior experience Key areas of prior experience Key areas of prior experience Logistics and Transport Finance, Airline Industry Finance, Airline Industry Skills & Experience Moya served as Skills & Experience Andy trained Skills & Experience Julie has held a Chief Executive of Royal Mail Group asaChartered Accountant at Peat number of commercially oriented for eight years.
Prior to joining Royal Marwick before moving to Arthur finance and related roles during her Mail, Moya was Chief Executive Andersen where he became a career.
She was Chief Commercial Officer of Canada Post.
He was, until 2015, Group Officer of Virgin Atlantic Limited a strong public sector background, Chief Operating Officer, Europe and between 2010 and 2013, responsible developed over a 17-year period Japan, for Compass Group plc, for the commercial strategy of when she assumed progressively having previously been their Group Virgin Atlantic Airways and Virgin more senior roles in seven different Finance Director from 2004 to 2012.
Prior to this, Julie was Ministries of the Canadian Federal Before joining Compass Group plc, Chief Financial Officer of Virgin Public Service.
Shehas previously Andy was Group Finance Director Atlantic Limited for 10 years.
In been a Non-Executive Director on atFirst Choice Holidays plc now addition, Julie was previously Group the Boards ofGreat-West Lifeco TUI Group and prior to that held Finance Director at Porsche Cars and Tim Hortons Inc, both publicly anumber of senior finance roles at Great Britain and Finance and quoted inCanada.
Granada Group plc and Forte plc.
Operations Director at WHSmith HJ Chapman & Co. Ltd. Current External Appointments Current External Appointments Non-Executive Director of Rio Non-Executive Director of Current External Appointments Tintoplc and member of its Audit, IntertekGroup plc and Chairman Non-Executive Director and Chair Remuneration and Nomination ofitsAudit Committee.
Nonofthe respective Audit Committees Committees.
Member of the Board Executive Director of John Lewis of Rentokil Initial plc, NXP Semiof Trustees of the Tate Gallery.
Partnership and Chairman Conductors N. V. and DFS Furniture ofitsAudit and Risk Committee.
Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director, Chair of the ofHaysGroup plc and Chairman Audit Committee and member of ofits NominationCommittee.
the Remuneration Committee at Cineworld Group plc.
Non-Executive Director of Ocado plc.
CHANGES TO THE BOARD DURING THE 2018 YEAR AND UP TO 19 NOVEMBER 2018: Carolyn McCall DBE stepped down as Chief Executive on 30November 2017, with Johan Lundgren being appointed in her place from 1 December 2017.
Keith Hamill OBE stepped down from the Board on 31December 2017.
Julie Southern was appointed to the Board on 1August2018.
