GOVERNANCE AIRLINE MANAGEMENT BOARD An experienced team to deliver ELLA BENNETT LIS BLAIR CHRIS BROWNE OBE Group People Director Chief Marketing Officer Chief Operating Officer Nationality British Nationality British Nationality British Appointed May 2018 Appointed May 2018 Appointed October 2016 Key areas of prior experience Key areas of prior experience Key areas of prior experience People, Reward and Digital Insight, Digital and Marketing Airline Industry Operations Transformation and Strategy Skills & Experience Lis joined the Skills & Experience Ella joined AMB as Chief Marketing Officer in Skills & Experience Chris was easyJet from Sainsburys Argos May 2018 after six years heading up appointed to the plc Board on where she led the integration of Customer Relationship Management 1January 2016 as a Non-Executive their non-food business to create CRM and insight for the airline.
Director, before stepping down on amulti-product, multi-channel Prior to joining easyJet Lis spent 30 September 2016 to join the AMB business with fast delivery networks.
fiveyears as a marketing consultant as Chief Operating Officer.
Chris has Ella was also Group HR Director across multiple sectors, leading over 25 years experience in the atHome Retail Group leading the brands and marketing agencies travel sector including the post of people aspects of Argos digital including Audi, Barclaycard, Belu Chief Operating Officer for TUI transformation.
Prior to this she and Rapier London.
Her marketing Aviation following 10 years as wasa member of the executive career began with 10 years at Managing Director for Thomson management team at Fujitsu.
She was previously the roles in all areas of marketing, youngest and first female general including digital, CRM, insight, brand manager for Iberia Airways and led and advertising.
the merger ofThomsonfly and First Choice Airways into one airline.
DIVERSITY IN THE AIRLINE MANAGEMENT BOARD AMB easyJet recognises the benefits of having diversity across the executive leadership team to inspire innovation and increased performance.
AGE GENDER 30-39 40-49 50-59 M F 64 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 2 5 4 7 4 ROBERT CAREY THOMAS HAAGENSEN FLIC HOWARD-ALLEN Group Director of Strategy and Group Markets Director Chief Communications Officer Network Nationality Danish Nationality British Nationality French American Appointed May 2018 Appointed August 2018 Appointed September 2017 Key areas of prior experience Key areas of prior experience Key areas of prior experience Commercial and Operations Corporate Communications, Airline Industry, Strategy Management Sustainability Skills & Experience Robert joined Skills & Experience With over Skills & Experience Flic has over from McKinsey & Company where 20years experience in operations 20years experience in corporate, he was a partner and leader in management in a variety of roles consumer, internal, government theAirline practice.
Over the last across Europe, Thomas has served relations and crisis communications.
11years, Robert has assisted airline as easyJets Country Director for the Flic joined easyJet from Associated clients around the world on a range Germany, Austria and Switzerland British Foods, the owner of Primark, of strategy, revenue and operations region since 2011, developing the Twinings and many other major topics.
Prior to McKinsey, Robert market entry strategy for Germany brands, where she headed up worked for Delta Air Lines and and the business traveller segment external affairs.
Flic was previously America West Airlines in a variety in Northern Europe.
Most recently, Director of Communications and ofroles across revenue and Thomas was appointed Managing Corporate Responsibility at Marks operations functions.
Director of our Austrian AOC, and Spencer where she led the easyJet Europe GmbH, which creation of Plan A, its Corporate formsa key part of our Brexit Responsibility and Sustainability migrationplan.
Flic was also a Director atpublic relations consultancy Hill Knowlton for a number of years.
AMB CHANGES DURING THE 2018 FINANCIAL YEAR AND UP TO 19 NOVEMBER 2018: Carolyn McCall stepped down as Chief Executive on 30 November 2017, with Johan Lundgren being appointed in her placefrom 1 December 2017.
Following Johans appointment as Chief Executive, he has reshaped the AMB to best align with easyJets strategic priorities.
Lis Blair was appointed to the new role of Chief Marketing Officer on 15May 2018.
Thomas Haagensen was appointed to the new role of Group Markets Director on 15 May 2018.
Ella Bennett was appointed Group People Director on21 May 2018, replacing Jacky Simmonds who stepped down in December 2017.
Jo Ferris acted as Interim Group People Director from December 2017 until Ellas appointment in May 2018.
Paul Moore stepped down from his role as Communications Director on 15 June 2018.
Flic Howard-Allen was appointed Chief Communications Officer on 20August 2018.
Luca Zuccoli was appointed to the new role of Chief Data Officer on 20August 2018.
Chris Brocklesby stepped down asChief Information Officer on 31October 2018.
Andrew Findlay has taken responsibility for this area until a new Chief Information Officer is appointed.
Garry Wilson joined the business in the new role of Chief Executive of easyJet Holidays on 12 November 2018.
Kyla Mullins stepped down as Company Secretary & Group General Counsel on 3 September 2018.
Daud Khan was appointed to this role on an interim basis from the same date.
com GOVERNANCE AIRLINE MANAGEMENT BOARD CONTINUED LUCA ZUCCOLI DAUD KHAN GARRY WILSON Chief Data Officer Company Secretary & Group Chief Executive, easyJet Holidays Nationality Italian General Counsel Interim Nationality British Appointed August 2018 Nationality British Appointed November 2018 Key areas of prior experience Appointed September 2018 Key areas of prior experience: Dataand Analytics Key areas of prior experience Travel, Business Transformation Corporate Advisory and andGlobal Markets Skills & Experience Luca Zuccoli CorporateFinance brings world-leading technical data Skills & Experience Garry has over expertise as well as the experience Skills & Experience Daud is currently 20 years experience in the holiday of successfully applying data acting as interim Company Secretary and travel sector and joins easyJet management to drive value in a & Group General Counsel and head from TUI Group where he most commercial context.
Prior to joining of easyJets Legal, Company recently held the role of Managing the airline Luca was at Experian Secretarial and Regulatory Director for Group Product and where he was Head of Analytics departments.
Daudis an Purchasing, leading commercial andData Lab for their Asia-Pacific experienced lawyer who specialises strategies across a number of region, focusing on managing in corporate advisory and corporate markets and heading a global team analytics and leading on big data finance matters.
Garry began his career as an international graduate at Nestl before joining Thomson Travel Group now TUI in 1997 where he held a number of senior commercial roles.
In 2006 he became Director of Europe, Middle East and Africa for American travel company Orbitz Worldwide now Expedia Inc. based in Chicago.
ANDREW FINDLAY JOHAN LUNDGREN Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive See Board of Directors profiles See Board of Directors profiles onpage 62 onpage 61 66 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
