CHAIRMANS STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTED TO good corporate JOHN BARTON Chairman governance I am pleased to introduce this report, which describes theactivities of your Board during the year, along with ourgovernance arrangements and how we have applied themainprinciples and complied with the relevant provisionsof the 2016 UK Corporate Governance We continue to achieve Code theCode.
This year the Board has continued to focus on providing good governance through effective leadership and oversight of the Group as it seekstofocus on its strategic priorities and create value a responsive governance forourshareholders.
A summary of Board activity during theyear can be found on page 68. framework that supports The role and effectiveness of the Board is essential to a successfully run company: the way in which we discharge and challenges our ourduties is set out on the following pages.
APPOINTMENT OF A NEW CHIEF EXECUTIVE executives decision making Johan Lundgren joined the Board as Director and Chief Executive on 1 December 2017.
During his first year Johan has taken the opportunity to meet many employees, customers, regulatory bodies and other stakeholders to seek their views on, amongst other things, the Groups strategy andculture.
CHANGES TO THE BOARD There have been a number of Board changes since the lastAnnual Report, with membership of the Board and itsCommittees having evolved, but remaining balanced.
Appointments have been subject to a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure.
We welcomed Julie Southern to the Board on 1 August 2018 asa Non-Executive Director.
She also became a member ofthe Audit, Remuneration and Safety Committees, and willtakeover from Adle Anderson as Audit Committee Chairfrom 1 January 2019.
Julie has held a number of  finance and related roles and bringswith her extensive experience of the airline industry.
Ibelieveshe will bea huge asset to the easyJet Board and itsCommittees.
More detailed information on Julies inductioncan be found onpage 75.
