Governance Statement of Corporate Governance Compliance there are concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion with the Chairman.
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Board is responsible for good All Directors are considered to be independent of the governance, and this statement describes how the Manager and to be free of any material relationship with Company applies the principles identified in the UK the Manager which could interfere with the exercise of Corporate Governance Code published in 2016 the UK their independent judgement.
The Board takes the view Code, which is available on the Financial Reporting that length of service does not compromise independence Councils website: www.
uk, throughout the financial and that experience can add significantly to the Boards year.
This is consistent with the AIC Code.
When making a recommendation for re-electing a Director, the The Company is a member of the Association of Board will take into account the on-going requirements of Investment Companies AIC, which has published its the UK Code.
own Code of Corporate Governance to recognise the special circumstances of investment trusts The Board normally meets at least five times each year, www.
and more frequently where business needs require.
In addition, there is regular contact between the Directors The Board confirms that, during the year to 31 August and the Manager throughout the year.
The table below 2018, the Company complied with the recommendations sets out the number of routine Board and Committee of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK meetings attended by each Director during the year Code, except as set out below.
compared to the number of meetings that each Director was eligible to attend.
Directors also have a number of The UK Codes provisions relating to: discussions by email, telephone or meeting to deal with administrative matters and ad hoc issues between the role of the chief executive A.
executive directors remuneration D. 1.1 and D. 1.2 : and The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys the need for an internal audit function C. 3.6. affairs.
It delegates, through a management agreement and specific instructions, the day-to-day management of For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained the Company to the Manager, Aberdeen Fund Managers in the UK Code, the Board considers that these provisions Limited.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to are not relevant to the position of the Company, being an it for decision, and the requirement for Board approval on externally managed investment company.
these matters is communicated directly to the senior staff of the Manager.
Such matters include overall strategy, The Board review of investment policy, performance, gearing policy, The Board consists of six non-executive Directors.
Profiles treasury, promotion, Board composition there is no of the Board members appear on pages 24 to 25.
Each separate Nominations Committee, corporate governance Director has the requisite range of business and financial policy and communications with shareholders.
Full and experience to enable the Board to provide clear and timely information is provided to the Board to enable the effective leadership and proper stewardship of the Directors to function effectively and to discharge their Company.
Mr McLaren is the Senior Independent Director responsibilities.
The Board also reviews the financial SID and is available to shareholders in the event that statements and revenue budgets.
Management Audit Remuneration Engagement Board Committee Committee Committee Director Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings 1, 2 A McKenzie 5 5 3 3 1 1 1 1 K Langridge 5 5 n a n a 1 1 1 P Maynard 5 5 3 3 n a 1 1 1, 2 I McLaren 5 5 3 3 1 1 1 1 C Ricketts 5 5 n a n a 1 1 J Will n a n a n a n a Member of Audit Committee Member of Remuneration Committee Appointed on 1 October 2018 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 29
