ACCOUNTS Company statement of changes in equity Cash flow statements at 30 September 2018 for the year ended 30 September 2018 Company Group Company Share Capital Treasury Profit 2018 2017 2018 2017 Share premium Revaluation redemption Merger share Other and loss m m m m capital account reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve account Total Cash flow from operating activities m m m m m m m m m Operating profit 263 261 139 152 At 1 October 2016 14 486 446 11 227 339 1,685 2,754 Depreciation and amortisation 19 17 11 10 Profit for the year 20 20 Share-based expense recognised in profit 2 3 2 3 Other comprehensive loss 6 6 Increase in receivables 7 7 30 53 Total comprehensive loss income 6 20 14 Increase decrease in payables 3 3 4 1 Transfer of realised revaluation surplus 11 11 Increase in inventories 1 1 Transfer of deferred tax 1 1 Increase in provisions 1 1 1 Share-based expense recognised in 280 277 119 111 operating profit 3 3 Tax paid 9 16 3 7 Share option entitlements exercised in Net cash flows from operating activities 271 261 116 104 the year 10 9 1 Purchase of own shares into Employee Cash flows from investing activities Benefit Trust 2 2 Share buybacks 1 1 15 15 Payments to acquire public houses 9 14 Payments made on improvements to public houses 75 72 38 34 Share buyback commitments 5 5 At 30 September 2017 13 486 430 12 227 347 1,699 2,760 Payments to acquire other property, plant and equipment 6 7 6 6 Receipts from sale of property 66 100 30 73 Profit for the year 5 5 Other comprehensive loss 4 4 New loans to subsidiary undertakings 6 7 Acquisition of subsidiary undertaking 1 1 Total comprehensive loss income 4 5 1 Transfer of realised revaluation surplus 2 2 Dividend from subsidiary undertaking 13 13 Transfer of deferred tax Net cash flows from investing activities 15 20 16 24 Share-based expense recognised in operating profit 2 2 Cash flows from financing activities Share option entitlements exercised in the Interest paid 143 149 81 82 year 2 2 Debt extinguishment costs 7 30 7 30 Purchase of own shares into Employee Debt restructuring costs 7 3 3 3 Benefit Trust 1 1 Payments to acquire own debt 5 Share buybacks 20 20 Payments to acquire own shares 21 17 21 17 Convertible bond redemption 21 11 10 Receipts from exercise of share options 1 1 Reclassification see note 31 29 29 New loans 340 520 340 520 At 30 September 2018 13 486 424 12 227 298 1,726 2,732 Repayment of loans 406 597 325 520 Net cash flows from financing activities 249 275 97 131 Net increase decrease in cash 7 6 3 3 Cash at start of year 151 145 15 18 Cash at end of year 158 151 18 15 88 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
com 89 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 ACCOUNTS Notes to the accounts at 30 September 2018 IFRS 15 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 October 1998 was 1.
General information Going concern The core principle of IFRS 15 is that an entity will recognise written off against reserves and has not been subsequently The Groups business activities, including a description of its The consolidated financial statements of Ei Group plc the Parent revenue in line with the transfer of each element of promised reversed.
Any such goodwill is not included in determining the financial position, cash flows, debt and borrowing facilities, are set Company or the Company for the year ended 30 September goods or services in a contract to customers in an amount profit or loss on disposal.
out in the strategic report on pages 1 to 39, along with a summary 2018 were authorised for issue by the Board on 19 November 2018. that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects of factors likely to affect the Groups future development and Ei Group plc is a public company limited by shares, incorporated and Fixed asset investments to be entitled in exchange for those individual elements of performance.
The Companys ordinary shares are traded on goods or services.
This core principle is delivered in a five-step Fixed asset investments in the Parent Company balance sheet the London Stock Exchange.
Further details on the Groups financial instruments and risks can be are initially recognised at fair value and then held at this value model framework that involves allocating the transaction price found in note 23 of the accounts on pages 117 to 124. to each performance condition within a contract.
Following subject to an annual impairment test.
Presentation of financial statements impairment is detailed in the property, plant and equipment an assessment of the terms of contracts it enters into with The directors have considered the Groups financial resources Statement of compliance customers the Group has concluded that the adoption of the accounting policy below.
including a review of the medium-term financial plan, which These financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis new standard will not have a material impact on its consolidated includes a review of the Groups cash flow forecasts for the period and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Property, plant and equipment results and financial position, but will result in additional of at least 12 months from the date of approval of these financial IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU.
Licensed land and buildings are held at their fair value, and disclosure requirements.
statements along with the principal risks and uncertainties as landlords fixtures and fittings and other assets are held at cost.
Effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 which is Basis of preparation The Groups licensed land and buildings recognised in property, the year ended 30 September 2020 for the Group: The financial information for the year ending 30 September 2018 Based on the outcome of the above considerations the directors plant and equipment, are revalued each year by external valuers has been prepared in accordance with the accounting policies set IAS 12: Income Taxes have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate or employees who are professionally qualified to carry out out in note 3 and is presented in pounds sterling.
Amounts are IFRIC 23 - Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments issued.
resources to continue in operational existence for the period under such valuations.
shown in millions, unless stated otherwise.
For this reason the directors continue to adopt the going The Interpretation sets out how to determine the accounting tax concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Surpluses arising from the revaluation exercise are taken through position when there is uncertainty over income tax treatments.
Basis of consolidation other comprehensive income to the revaluation reserve except The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial IFRS 16 Leases New standards and interpretations not yet adopted where they reverse a revaluation decrease relating to the same statements of Ei Group plc and its subsidiaries.
Consolidated IFRS 16 establishes principles for the recognition, During the year ended 30 September 2018 the Group has adopted asset previously recognised as an expense in the income financial statements are drawn up to 30 September each year measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases, with the the following amendments to existing standards, these have not statement.
Any deficit arising from the revaluation exercise is taken and adjustments are made to the financial statements of the objective of ensuring that lessees and lessors provide relevant had a material impact on the Group: through other comprehensive income to the revaluation reserve subsidiaries where necessary to bring the accounting policies used information that appropriately represents those transactions.
It to the extent that there is a surplus in place relating to the same IAS 12: Income Taxes in line with those used by the Group.
requires lessees to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases asset.
Any further decrease in value is recognised in the income Recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses - unless the underlying asset has a low value or the lease term is statement as an expense.
Subsidiaries are those controlled by the Group.
Control exists when amendment to IAS 12 12 months or less.
the Group is exposed to, or has the rights to, variable returns from IAS 7: Statement of Cash Flows Freehold land is not depreciated.
Freehold buildings are depreciated its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those On adoption the Group will recognise a right of use asset Disclosure initiative - amendment to IAS 7 so as to write off the difference between their carrying value and returns through its power over the entity taking into account any and a lease liability based on the net present value of the residual value over their useful economic life of 50 years.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the payments required under each of its leases.
The operating lease Effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, which is value is reviewed at least at each financial year end and there is no date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be charge, currently recognised in EBITDA will be replaced by the the year ended 30 September 2019 for the Group, although earlier depreciable amount if residual value is the same as, or exceeds, consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of depreciation of the right of use asset and interest on the lease application is permitted: book value.
As well as a change to the line items in the income IFRS 2 - Share-Based Payments statement it is also expected to change the profile of the net Landlords fixtures and fittings are split into two categories, long-life Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated Classification and measurement of share-based payment charge recognised in the income statement over the lease term.
landlords fixtures and fittings and short-life landlords fixtures and transactions - amendments to IFRS 2. subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity in fittings.
Both are held at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Profit or loss and each component of other The Group has made good progress on its transition project The amendment clarifies the accounting around cash-settled useful economic life of additions in the form of long-life landlords comprehensive income are attributed to the equity holders of the however it is not currently practicable to provide a reasonable share based payment transactions and those with net fixtures and fittings has been calculated at 30 years and additions parent of the Group and to the non-controlling interests.
estimate of the full impact of the standard at this stage.
to short-life landlords fixtures and fittings has been calculated at 5 years.
Depreciation is charged on a straight line basis to write off Result of the Parent Company IFRS 9 - Financial Instruments 3.
Accounting policies the total cost less residual value over the useful economic life.
The directors have taken advantage of the exemption provided IFRS 9 replaces IAS 39 and addresses the classification, Goodwill under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to publish measurement and fide-recognition of financial assets and Properties held under finance leases are depreciated on a straight Goodwill represents the excess of consideration over the fair the Parent Company individual income statement, statement of liabilities.
The standard also introduces a new impairment model line basis over the shorter of the remaining lease term and their value of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired in a business comprehensive income and related notes.
for financial assets and new rules for hedge accounting.
The useful economic life of 50 years.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment Group has reviewed its financial assets and liabilities and is annually, or more frequently where events or changes in not expecting any significant impact or material adjustment to Depreciation is provided on other categories of property, plant circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
opening balances from the adoption of the new standard on and equipment over 3 to 50 years on a straight line basis to Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment.
At 30 September 1 October 2018. residual value.
2015 goodwill was allocated to individual properties based on their relative value at that time, and on disposal of a property, this attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of profit or loss on sale.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to cash generating units that are consistent with the Groups operating segments.
As properties move between segments the associated goodwill will also be transferred.
90 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
com 91 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 ACCOUNTS Notes to the accounts at 30 September 2018 d Equity instruments 3.
Accounting policies continued Inventories Financial instruments Equity instruments, being ordinary shares issued by the Parent Inventories which comprise products held for resale in managed a Cash and cash equivalents Property, plant and equipment is reviewed annually for indicators Company, are recorded at the fair value of the proceeds received, houses are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net Cash comprises cash at bank and in hand.
Any short-term deposits of impairment.
Where any indicators are identified, assets are net of any direct issue costs.
The nominal value of shares issued realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course with an original maturity date of three months or less are classified assessed fully for impairment.
Impairment occurs where the is recorded in called up share capital and the balance of the net of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling as cash equivalents.
recoverable amount of the asset is less than its carrying amount.
proceeds is recorded in share premium.
Recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs b Borrowings to dispose and value in use.
Any impairment loss is treated as a When the Group returns surplus cash to shareholders through Leases Borrowings which include bank borrowings, corporate bonds and revaluation decrease to the extent that a surplus exists for the same share buybacks, consideration paid or payable for shares purchased Leases where the Group assumes substantially all the risks and securitised bonds are measured at amortised cost.
This method is asset, and thereafter as an expense in the income statement.
for cancellation is deducted from equity.
The Company uses rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Properties used to ensure that the interest charge associated with the debt, contingent share purchase contracts and the obligation to purchase acquired under finance leases are capitalised at the lower of their combined with the amortisation of the issue costs, premiums and Investment property shares is recognised in full at the inception of the contract.
Any fair value and the present value of future minimum lease payments.
discounts, represents a constant percentage of the borrowings The Group leases some properties on commercial leases within subsequent reduction in the obligation caused by the expiry or The corresponding liability is included in the balance sheet as a across the life of the instrument based on the estimated cash flows the Commercial Properties segment, the commercial terms of termination of a contract is credited back to equity at that time.
Properties held under finance leases are and the contractual terms of the agreement.
these leases result in the assets meeting the criteria of investment revalued along with the freehold estate on an annual basis.
e Trade receivables and trade payables When borrowings are refinanced the Group reviews whether payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction Trade receivables are held at their original invoiced amount net of of the lease liability so as to obtain a constant rate of interest on the the arrangement constitutes an extinguishment of the original Properties held as investment property are measured at fair value an allowance for any doubtful amounts when collection of the full financial liability and the recognition of a new financial liability or remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are taken as an reflecting market conditions at the balance sheet date.
Gains and amount is no longer considered probable further detail is given in expense to the income statement.
a modification of the terms of the existing financial liability.
If the losses arising from changes in the fair value of investment property note 21.
Trade payables are held at amortised cost.
refinanced borrowings are accounted for as an extinguishment are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they Leases where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the original financial liability, any costs or fees incurred are arise.
Fair values are determined based on an annual revaluation by Fair value measurement are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Rentals recognised as part of the gain or loss on the extinguishment and external valuers or employees who are professionally qualified to The Group measures licensed land and buildings, within property, paid under operating leases are charged on a straight line basis to written off through non-underlying finance costs.
If the refinanced carry out such valuations.
plant and equipment, investment property and non-current assets the income statement over the lease term.
The fair value attributed borrowings are accounted for as a modification, any costs or fees held for sale, at fair value and provides disclosure information in to properties acquired as part of business combinations that are Transfers are made to from investment property when there is incurred adjust the carrying amount of the liability and are amortised respect of the financial assets and liabilities.
held as operating leases are classified in the balance sheet as change of use evidenced by a change in the lease terms.
When over the remaining life of the modified loan.
The effects of changes intangible assets: operating lease premiums within non-current a property transfers from property, plant and equipment to to the amount and timing of cash flows due to a modification adjust Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or assets and are amortised over the lease term.
investment property it is revalued to fair value and the movement the future amortisation of the carrying amount.
paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market recognised in line with the accounting policy described under participants at the measurement date.
The fair value measurement The Group has previously entered into sale and leaseback property, plant and equipment.
When a property transfers from c Convertible financial instruments is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transactions where licensed land and buildings have been sold and The gross proceeds received from the issue of a convertible bond investment property to property, plant and equipment it is transfer the liability takes place either in the principal market for the the Group has immediately entered into a lease agreement with the revalued to fair value and the movement recognised in the income are split between a liability element and an equity component asset or liability or in the absence of a principal market, in the most acquiree.
These land and buildings have been classified as operating at the date of issue.
The fair value of the liability component is statement.
advantageous market for the asset or liability.
The principal or the leases.
They are no longer included within property, plant and estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for similar most advantageous market must be accessible by the Group.
equipment and the rentals paid are charged on a straight line basis Non-current assets held for sale non-convertible debt.
The difference between the proceeds of to the income statement over the lease term.
Properties identified for disposal which are classified in the balance issue of the convertible bond and the fair value assigned to the The fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into sheet as non-current assets held for sale are held at the lower liability component, representing any embedded option to convert account a market participants ability to generate economic benefits Repairs and maintenance of carrying value on transfer to non-current assets held for sale, the liability into equity of the Company, is included in equity and by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to Repairs and maintenance expenditure is charged to the income as assessed at the time of transfer, and fair value less costs to is not remeasured.
The liability component is carried at amortised another market participant that would use the asset in its highest statement as incurred.
The fair value less costs to dispose is based on the net cost using the effective interest method until extinguished upon and best use provided that use was physically possible, legally estimated realisable disposal proceeds ERV which is provided conversion or the instruments maturity date.
Issue costs are permissible and financially feasible to access.
The Group uses Assignment premiums by third party property agents who have been engaged to sell the apportioned between the liability and equity components of the valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances Where an amount is paid to a publican in order to take the properties.
Licensed land and buildings, investment property and convertible bond based on their relative carrying amounts at the and for which sufficient data is available to measure fair value, assignment of a lease or to break a lease at any point other than operating lease intangibles are classified as held for sale when date of issue.
The portion relating to the equity component is maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising at renewal, the payment made is expensed through administrative they have been identified for disposal by the Group.
They must charged directly against equity.
The difference between the interest the use of unobservable inputs.
During the period of our strategic evolution, which we be available for immediate sale in their present condition and the expense calculated under the effective interest rate method and determine to be five years following the implementation of the sale should be highly probable.
These conditions are met when interest paid to bondholders is added to the carrying amount of the IFRS 13 requires that all assets and liabilities for which fair value is Pubs Code to allow for a full cycle of rent reviews, this will be management are committed to the sale, the property or lease is convertible bond.
measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised treated as non-underlying.
actively marketed and the sale is expected to occur within one year.
within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the On early redemption the consideration paid and any transaction Licensed land and buildings held for sale are not depreciated and lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement Where an amount is paid to a publican in order to regain control costs for the repurchase are allocated to the liability and equity operating lease intangible assets held for sale are not amortised.
of the property at the point of lease renewal in order that the components at the date of the transaction based on the fair value Group can operate the site as a directly managed pub, the amount Profits or losses on disposal of property are calculated as the of the liability component estimated using the prevailing market The classification uses the following three-level hierarchy: is linked to a capital investment project in order to reposition difference between the net sales proceeds and the carrying amount interest rate for a similar non-convertible debt.
The difference the property for the managed offering, and the premium paid is of the asset within non-current assets held for sale at the date between the amount allocated to the liability and the book Level 1 Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical capitalised and depreciated in line with the project spend.
value of the liability is recognised in the income statement as a assets or liabilities.
The amount allocated to equity is Level 2 Other techniques whereby the inputs are either directly or recognised in equity.
The balance remaining in equity relating to the indirectly derived from market data.
amount redeemed is transferred to the profit and loss reserve.
92 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
com 93 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 ACCOUNTS Notes to the accounts at 30 September 2018 reflects current market assessments of the time value of money Like market performance conditions, non-vesting conditions are In addition, during the period of our strategic evolution, assignment 3.
Accounting policies continued and the risks specific to the liability.
The amount of the provision taken into account in determining the grant date fair value.
The premiums where an amount is paid to a publican in order to take Level 3 Inputs used in the valuation are not based on observable would therefore represent the present value of the expenditure fair value is recognised as an expense over the vesting period by the assignment of a lease or to break a lease at any point other than market data.
expected to be required to settle the obligation.
calculating the cumulative expense and recognising the at renewal would be treated as non-underlying.
These costs have movement in the cumulative expense in the income statement.
been incurred following the strategic review and the introduction For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial Pension obligations A corresponding entry is made to equity.
of the Pubs Code in July 2016 and are not considered to be part statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether The Group has both defined contribution and defined benefit of the underlying business as they are not expected to recur once transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by reNo expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, pension arrangements.
the realignment of properties has been completed.
This treatment assessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or is expected to apply for five years following the implementation significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of The cost of defined contribution payments made to employees non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of the Pubs Code which will allow for a full cycle of rent reviews each reporting period.
own pension plans is charged to the income statement as incurred.
of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, over which time the Group will assess the optimal location for each provided that all other performance or service conditions are asset which may include the payment of an assignment premium to Net debt As described in note 28, the Group entered into a bulk annuity satisfied.
allow the Group access to the property.
Net debt is the total book value of all financial assets and liabilities policy that is a qualifying insurance policy in respect of the defined not including trade receivables, trade payables and the equity benefit section of the pension scheme.
Dividends b Net profit loss on sale of property component of the convertible bond less cash.
Underlying net Final dividends are recognised as a liability when they have been Net profit loss arising from the sale of property less goodwill debt is the nominal value of all financial assets and liabilities Having entered into this policy, the scheme liabilities continue to approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The Groups trading operations are based not including trade receivables, trade payables and the equity be valued on the projected unit credit method and then the value dividends are recognised when they are paid.
around the income earned from owning property and therefore the component of the convertible bond less cash.
of the annuity policy is stated as equal to the amount ascribed profit or loss made from the sale of property is considered to be to the plan liabilities covered by the policy.
Actuarial movements Operating profit non-underlying.
Taxation in the value of the scheme liabilities and the interest costs on Operating profit as referred to in the income statement is defined The tax expense comprises both the tax payable based on taxable scheme liabilities are matched by equivalent movements in the as being profit generated from normal trading activities before net c Movements in valuation of the estate and related assets profits for the year and deferred tax.
Deferred tax is provided scheme asset.
To the extent that the Group is committed to profit loss on sale of property, movements in valuation of the Any revaluation that causes the book value of a property held in using the balance sheet liability method in respect of temporary deferred premiums or future administration costs in respect of the estate and related assets, finance costs and taxation.
property, plant and equipment to fall below historic cost will lead differences between the carrying value of assets and liabilities for annuity policy or the scheme, these are recorded as an additional to a charge in the income statement.
If that same property later accounting and tax purposes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised liability within the pension deficit at the net present value of future Non-underlying items recovers in value so that its book value exceeds historic cost, the to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be premiums.
The interest paid on the bulk annuity policy is charged The Group uses adjusted figures as key performance measures increase in value is credited to the income statement to the extent available against which the asset can be utilised.
No deferred tax is as a finance cost.
The plan obligations will be derecognised on final in addition to those reported under IFRS as management believe that a debit was previously recognised.
Where properties identified recognised if the taxable temporary difference arises from goodwill settlement of the plan.
these measures enable them to assess the underlying performance for disposal are revalued immediately prior to transfer to non-current or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that of the business.
Adjusted figures exclude non-underlying items assets held for sale, the revaluation movement is recognised on the is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, Treasury shares which comprise exceptional items, non-recurring items and other same basis.
affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
The cost of own shares held in employee benefit trusts and in adjusting items.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that treasury is deducted from shareholders equity until the shares are Any gain or loss arising from the change in value of investment are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or cancelled, re-issued or disposed of.
Any proceeds received are also Use of accounting estimates and judgements property is recognised in the income statement in the period in the liability is settled based on tax rates that have been enacted or taken to shareholders equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in the The Group makes judgements, estimates and assumptions during which it arises.
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the preparation of the financial statements in the application of its own shares held.
The movements in valuation of the estate and related assets do not accounting policies.
Actual results may differ from these estimates Current tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a directly result from underlying trading performance of the Group in under different assumptions and conditions.
Those judgements legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and Revenue recognition any one reporting period and therefore have been categorised as and estimates that have the most significant effect on the amounts the intention is to either settle on a net basis or realise the asset Revenue is the fair value of consideration received or receivable for non-underlying since they are not in the direct control of the Group.
recognised in the financial statements are discussed below.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax of discounts, volume rebates and VAT.
Revenue from drink and food d Net finance costs Significant judgements: assets and liabilities, and the assets and liabilities relate to taxes is recognised at the point at which the goods are provided.
Property The gain or loss on purchase of own debt is calculated as the Classification of non-underlying items levied by the same tax authority which are intended to be settled rental income is recognised on a straight line basis over the life difference between the carrying value of the debt purchased Judgement is used to determine those items that should be net or simultaneously.
Amusement machine royalties are recognised in the less the aggregate of the consideration and related transaction classified as non-underlying so as to give a better understanding accounting period to which the income relates.
The Group has elected to take the gain or loss on the of the underlying trading performance of the Group.
These items Tax is charged or credited to other comprehensive income settlement date.
include: if it relates to items that are charged or credited to other Share-based payments comprehensive income.
Similarly tax is charged or credited directly The Group operates a number of equity-settled share-based Non-underlying finance costs are recognised in relation to fees a Non-underlying operating costs to equity if it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity.
Share-based payments written off following the commitment to extinguish or restructure Non-underlying operating costs relating to regulatory matters and Otherwise tax is charged in the income statement.
Tax is calculated are measured at fair value at the date of the award.
This borrowings or where incurred as part of debt restructuring projects.
reorganisational costs have been recognised in the operating costs using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance value is subsequently updated at each balance sheet date for before depreciation and amortisation line.
managements best estimate of the effect of non-market based vesting conditions on the number of equity instruments that will Provisions ultimately vest.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or is taken of any service and performance vesting conditions, other constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that than performance conditions linked to the price of the shares of the an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and Parent Company market conditions.
Any other conditions which the amount can be reliably estimated.
If the effect is material, the are required to be met in order for an employee to become fully amount of the provision is discounted using a pre-tax rate that entitled to an award are considered to be non-vesting conditions.
94 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
com 95 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 ACCOUNTS Notes to the accounts at 30 September 2018 Related party transactions 3.
Segmental analysis The Group uses judgement when concluding that transactions with The Group has five distinguishable operating segments being Publican Partnerships, Commercial Properties, Bermondsey Pub Company, e Taxation related parties of minority interests are not material for disclosure.
Craft Union Pub Company and Managed Investments which reflect the different nature of income earned, types of property and profile A deferred tax liability has been recognised on the balance sheet This judgement is made based on the value of transactions.
The five segments have been identified because the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM regularly reviews discrete relating to the estate.
On transition to IFRS, the Group elected to financial information relating to them.
apply IFRS 3 retrospectively to acquisitions from 1 January 1999.
Taxation This led to an increase in goodwill in respect of this deferred tax.
In order to calculate deferred tax on balances held by the Group Operating segments are aggregated when they have similar economic characteristics and therefore Bermondsey Pub Company, Craft As this pre-acquisition liability changes due to capital gains it must make a judgement at each balance sheet date as to when Union Pub Company and Managed Investments have been combined as they represent income earned from the direct operation of pubs indexation relief and changes in the rate of UK tax, a debit or a deferred tax asset is likely to be realised or when a deferred tax albeit through differing trading styles.
a credit is recognised in the income statement.
This has been liability is likely to be settled to determine the rate at which tax classified as a non-underlying tax item due to its size and because should be calculated.
This results in three reportable segments being: it does not relate to any income or expense recognised in the income statement in the same period.
All other movements in As the tax treatment of some transactions cannot be finally 1 Publican Partnerships Rental income and revenue from supply of drinks and gaming machines respect of this deferred tax liability are accounted for in the same determined until a formal resolution has been reached with the 2 Commercial Properties Rental income performance statement as the gross item to which it relates.
tax authorities the Group uses judgement to determine the need 3 Managed Revenue from the sale of food, drink and accommodation and gaming machine income for a tax provision.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is The effect of changes in the substantively enacted rate of tax probable that the benefit will be obtained.
Tax provisions are The CODM reviews the financial results by segment to underlying EBITDA and this therefore provides the basis for the disclosures below.
used to calculate deferred tax is reflected in other comprehensive made if it is expected that a liability will arise.
The Group reviews Inter-segment revenues and costs are eliminated upon consolidation and the segmental note is presented net of these eliminations.
income to the extent it relates to revaluation surpluses therein and each significant tax liability or benefit to assess the appropriate in non-underlying profit loss for all other elements of deferred tax.
All of the Groups revenue is generated in the United Kingdom and is not further segmented based on location, therefore no geographical segmental analysis has been provided.
The balance sheet is not reviewed by the CODM on a segmented basis and therefore no disclosure The tax effect of all other non-underlying items is categorised as Significant estimates: has been made in relation to segmental assets and liabilities.
non-underlying in the income statement.
Property valuation estimates The valuation methodology uses an estimation of the fair Publican Commercial Methodology applied in the valuation of properties Partnerships Properties Managed Central Total maintainable trade FMT of a pub and then applies a multiple.
The Property assets are revalued annually to fair value in accordance Year ended 30 September 2018 m m m m m FMT is estimated based on historic trends and projected future with the Appraisal and Valuation Manual published by the Royal Revenue 516 27 152 695 income whilst the multiples are determined by our valuers with Institute of Chartered Surveyors RICS and IFRS 13.
The valuation reference to each specific asset and market information.
For more Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation 209 124 75 408 is based on an assessment of the income generating potential of detail on the FMT and multiples see note 18.
Underlying EBITDA 307 27 28 75 287 the properties, and applying an appropriate multiple.
The highest Non-underlying operating costs before depreciation and and best use for the property assets is assumed to be their current Goodwill and investment impairment testing estimates amortisation 5 use by the Group, principally due to the legal restrictions imposed The Group annually tests whether goodwill has been impaired and by the agreement with the publican, planning regulations and the Depreciation and amortisation 19 the parent company tests whether the investment in subsidiary financial implications of a change of use given those restrictions Profit on sale of controlling interest in subsidiary undertaking 1 undertakings has been impaired.
Management makes judgements and the Groups business model.
However, consideration is given to Net loss on sale of property 6 in calculating the recoverable amount based on value-in-use an alternative highest and best use if there are factors that indicate Movements in valuation of the estate and related assets 19 calculations which require estimating future cash flows and applying that such an alternative use exists which is physically possible, Net finance costs 152 a suitable discount rate.
Details of the tests and carrying value of legally permissible and financially feasible to access.
the asset are shown in notes 13 and 19.
Profit before tax 87 Further information about the valuation of the estate is provided in Taxation 15 Taxation note 18 of these financial statements.
Profit after tax 72 If the Group has determined that a tax provision is required whilst a formal resolution is being reached with tax authorities it recognises Financing costs Publican Commercial a provision which requires estimation.
The Group will use the When borrowings are refinanced with substantially the same Partnerships Properties Managed Central Total information and circumstances it has available to it at the time to lender, the Group uses judgement when reviewing whether Year ended 30 September 2017 m m m m m best estimate the quantum of any provision required.
the arrangement constitutes an extinguishment of the original Revenue 547 21 80 648 financial liability and the recognition of a new financial liability or Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation 222 67 72 361 The Group also uses fair value as its estimate for realisable value in a modification of the terms of the existing financial liability.
As Underlying EBITDA 325 21 13 72 287 calculating the deferred tax on the property estate.
described in note 5, the Group carried out a number of re-financing Non-underlying operating costs before depreciation and events during the year and the following judgements were made: amortisation 9 Depreciation and amortisation 17 With regards to the Unique consent solicitation exercise, Movements in valuation of the estate and related assets 24 judgement has been applied when assessing the change in Net finance costs 179 terms and conditions, in determining that the event was a nonProfit before tax 58 substantial modification to the existing financial liability.
Taxation 4 With regards to the refinancing of the RCF, judgement has been Profit after tax 54 applied in determining that the event was a non-substantial modification to the existing financial liability by considering the expected future drawndown balance.
96 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
