EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Committees focus in 2018 has been: REPORT BOARD EVALUATION During the year, the Committee was responsible for the tendering process and recommendation to the Board for a third party provider to provide an evaluation of the Board and its Directors.
The Committee recommended the appointment of Manchester Square Partners to carry out the review.
Further detail of the evaluation can be found on pages 70 to 71.
At its December meeting the Committee reviewed Manchester Square Partners findings.
APPRAISAL PROCESS The expertise and performance of the Directors is considered as part of the annual review of the Board and its Committees.
ANDREW DUFF The appraisal of the Chairman is led by the Senior Independent CHAIRMAN Director, who meets separately with the Non-Executive Directors NOMINATION COMMITTEE to discuss the performance of the Chairman.
Following consideration, it was agreed that the Chairman continues to lead the Board effectively and constructively.
The Chairman, supported by the Non-Executive Directors, leads the appraisal of the CEO and they agreed the CEO was implementing the Reignite Growth strategy at pace, delivering improved safety and operational performance and effective leadership.
The performance of the other Non-Executive Directors is appraised by the Chairman whilst the CFOs performance is appraised by the CEO with feedback from other Directors where appropriate.
The Board is satisfied that all Directors possess relevant experience and appropriate levels of independence and financial and commercial experience across various industries.
Committee members REAPPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS The Committee considered the output from the appraisal process and the Board effectiveness evaluation report and concluded that each of the Directors continued to make an effective contribution to the Board.
The Committee considered the tenure, time commitments and any other significant 6 appointments of each of the Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman and concluded that each Director continues to Scheduled meetings contribute effectively and provides sufficient time to the Company.
In accordance with the Code, each of the Directors will submit themselves for re-election at the 2019 AGM.
DIVERSITY The Board recognises that diversity, which should be construed in its broadest sense, is essential for a high performing and 2 effective Board.
The Board is committed to actively searching Committee members Scheduled meetings for candidates from the widest talent pool against objective criteria and with regard for the benefits of diversity including Andrew Duff 2 2 gender and ethnicity.
The Board has exceeded the HamptonSandra Boss 2 2 Alexander target for the percentage of women on Boards to Dorothee Deuring 2 2 reach one third by 2020.
It is acknowledged that there is a need to identify and develop the next generation of talent within the Steve Good 2 2 Group and processes are in place to ensure the Board have Anne Hyland 2 2 visibility.
Further information can be found on page 50.
Nick Salmon 2 2 As diversity, inclusion and culture continue to be areas of focus for the Committee and the Board as a whole, practices will be The Committee is chaired by the Chairman and comprises all developed to ensure the Company is meeting appropriate the Non-Executive Directors.
The CEO has a standing invitation standards of governance and is able to realise the benefits to attend meetings.
The Committee is responsible for regularly associated with diversity.
reviewing the structure, size, diversity and composition of the Board.
This is to ensure that the Company has the right CORPORATE GOVERNANCE leadership, balance of skills and experience to deliver the During the year, the Committee received updates from the Companys strategy and enable the Board to effectively fulfil Company Secretary on the revised Code, reviewed the its obligations.
independence of the Non-Executive Directors, considered potential conflicts of interest and the diversity of the Board and made recommendations concerning these matters to the Board.
72 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
