STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS AS A GLOBAL SPECIALTY CHEMICALS COMPANY WE RECOGNISE THAT THE PRODUCTS WE PRODUCE AND HOW WE PRODUCE THEM HAS AN IMPACT ON EVERYDAY LIFE.
Our behaviours impact the people who work for us as well as the wider environment.
Effective stakeholder management goes hand in hand with operational performance and we continually strive to improve the ways we work.
49 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS CONTINUED PEOPLE Diversity and inclusion We recognise our people are our greatest asset for our Diversity of our people is intrinsic to better business decisions.
success, and deliver value to customers, shareholders and Appointments are made on merit and we seek to leverage the the communities we impact.
Our teams are innovative, agile benefits of a wide and diverse talent pool.
and responsive to the ever changing needs of customers and the world.
We believe in a culture driven by strong values We are dedicated to increasing diversity through our recruitment and an environment that promotes safety, accountability and and talent review processes and creating awareness and high performance.
understanding of the value of diverse teams at all levels.
Our Directors and ELT have committed to continue to build Highlights for 2018 diverse teams that succeed through all aspects of diversity, Engagement with our employees in launching our renewed e. g. gender, age, nationality, ways of thinking.
values Completed GDPR assessment and implemented key actions Gender diversity statistics Reinforced performance culture, performance management processes and systems and expanded our implementation 31 December 2018 of workday Male Female Further developed talent and succession processes Board 5 62% 3 38% Priorities for 2019 Executive leadership Further embed our culture and values 1 team ELT 9 82% 2 18% Roll-out talent process focused on development and 2 diversity Senior management 43 81% 10 19% Launch employee experience monitor to enhance employee All employees 1,159 76% 360 24% engagement 1 Excluding the CEO and CFO.
2 Defined as grade 10 and above, excluding CEO, CFO and the ELT.
Employees are defined as those employed by Elementis Group companies.
Culture and values Safety is at the heart of everything we do and is at the forefront of every decision we make and every action we take.
Our culture is driven by a strong set of values that unify the entire organisation.
In 2018, we engaged more than 200 employees from across the organisation to refresh our values.
This resulted in a launch of new values this year.
Values Safety Employee locations Solutions 33% located in Europe Ambition 43% located in Americas 24% located Respect in Asia Team Employees c. 1, 5 00 2017: c. 1,600 50 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Building stronger teams BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS We support the continuous development of our people in Our Code of Conduct Code sets out the standards of conduct enhancing their skills and providing the tools they need to be expected from everyone who works for Elementis.
Our Code is successful in their roles.
Our focus is on building capability aligned with applicable laws and regulations, as well as our values.
through a long term approach to development and effective organisational design.
Our global leaders are building functional To help employees understand and adopt these values, capability with teams aligned across our business segments.
principles and standards in their daily work life, information and We continue to look at how we build high performing teams training is provided supported by comprehensive whether local, regional, global or virtual.
whistleblowing procedures and an anti-retaliation policy.
A number of our employees have participated in external The Code is translated from English into seven languages and development programmes in 2018 and we will continue to supported with interactive online training to help employees stay expand this in the future.
up to date with their responsibilities.
All new employees are required to undertake training on the Code and refresher People drive performance training is given regularly.
Through our people management processes our employees learn about the strategy, priorities and goals of our Company, Compliance training hours businesses and functions.
This promotes an environment of accountability and performance to achieve clear goals each year.
Annual and mid-year performance discussions enable managers and employees to review their progress, give and receive feedback and ensure clarity and alignment of goals.
1,800 Performance is recognised through a robust reward philosophy.
We have advanced our compensation and performance Compliance training programme management processes to build performance into both annual Training courses assigned to employees in 2018 merit review and individual bonus outcomes.
We also provide Preventing sexual harassment California specific opportunities to give one time awards for exceptional Anti money laundering performance.
Data privacy and protection GDPR Intellectual property: trade secrets HR systems and processes Avoiding workplace harassment Through a clear people strategy, we have invested in creating Sustainable supply chain management and enhancing critical HR systems and processes including talent reviews and performance calibration, building capability within workday, our automated HR system, standardising policies and processes globally, and utilising reporting and analytics for better decision making.
The Code covers the following: Roadmap for 2019 Fair dealing Maintaining a safe, healthy In 2019 we will continue to create a culture of high performance, Confidentiality and privacy and affirmative workplace with focus being on strengthening our organisation, supporting Record keeping Equal opportunities the effectiveness of our teams and reinforcing our culture that Communications Anti-harassment will lead to continued transformation in the way we work and Trade practices and Offensive materials succeed together.
competition compliance Alcohol and drugs Insider trading and fair Conflicts of interest Initiatives will include measuring and enhancing employee disclosure Gifts and hospitality engagement, creating additional value from our HR tools and Bribery and other corrupt Theft and misuse of data, simplifying and standardising our policies and processes practices Company assets and further advancing talent development and diversity.
Our Product liability Corporate opportunities renewed values will be an intrinsic part of all these initiatives.
International business Intellectual property and dealings network use Political contributions and Integrity and security activities Bribery and corruption We have a zero tolerance policy for bribery and corruption.
Our Code covers bribery and corruption and is further supported by an anti-corruption policy.
Reporting procedures are in place supported by processes to prevent retaliation against any employees who communicate good faith concerns relating to business conduct.
51 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS CONTINUED INNOVATION We have 93 scientists at seven locations around the world Innovation is at the heart of what we do across the business.
providing global innovation and technical support to a global We have a dedicated technology organisation structured customer base.
During the year, we spent over $9m on around combined technical service and research and research and development activities and launched several new development functions that is directed at our customers needs products.
Our product pipeline is healthy with a range of active and the trends impacting our business segments.
Leveraging projects in late stage development, reflecting the variety of our core competencies in natural mineral-based technologies global customers formulations and needs.
and polymer architecture, we create innovative solutions aimed at transforming the markets which we serve.
We apply stage gate processes and pipeline management tools to focus on the most attractive and material innovation opportunities available.
In 2018, we were awarded a Elementis has developed a significant contract to supply strong portfolio of additives our newly developed that are extremely effective rheology modifier for a in waterborne industrial premium interior paint line.
In 2018, we have This was due in part to our seen an increase in interest expanded customer in the use of waterborne relationship through deeper coatings for industrial uses product development especially in China where the partnerships, ongoing market has seen a shift to technical support and lower environmental impact consistent quality of delivery products.
Xu Frank Chunfeng Joe Furano Coatings Marketing Manager Senior Account Manager Songjiang, China California, USA Natural, clean and green are very important trends for colour cosmetics and skin care.
Consumers also demand performance and a nice sensory experience as well.
Our R&D team has developed unique organo clays and emulsifying gels that allow skin care and colour cosmetic formulators to create new and inspiring textures and product concepts.
In fact, we won the Gold Sensory Award from InCosmetics this year.
Kate Watermann Consumer Applications Manager, EMEA and Asia Cologne, Germany Scientists around the world 93 52 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION OUR SUPPLY CHAIN Our Supply Chain transformation strategic pillar focuses on As a global Group we seek to maximise efficiencies and sustained improvements across every aspect of how we run synergies across our business.
Suppliers Our initiatives Assets Optimise underperforming sites Sale of non-core assets 5 00 Asset optimisation Product optimisation Raw materials Process optimisation Automisation across operations Driving utilisation 700 Process simplification Manufacturing locations Cost Higher efficiency equipment 2 0 Materials delivery Equipment reliability Customers and local distributors Procurement Procurement excellence is a key strategic driver for our success.
We employ a functional led organisation structure, with category specific expertise located around the world.
We are aligned with 1, 5 00 the businesses to leverage our spend delivering continuous total cost improvement and supply risk mitigation.
In 2018, we qualified new raw material sources for greater than 10% of our raw material spend and achieved more than $6m of savings.
Smarter procurement and the utilisation of hedging and pre-buys enabled the partial mitigation of raw material cost inflation, including the impact of new tariff regulation particularly within the antiperspirant actives business.
Improved planning processes and strong supplier relationships enabled timely delivery of raw materials enabling our plants to produce reliably even through several market force majeures and weather related events.
We also made improvements in our warehouse networks globally, ensuring that we have the right assets in the right places and that we are prepared for the changing global landscape with regards to new regulations and trade tariffs.
Payment terms We work collaboratively with our suppliers to enable us to deliver value to the business and are committed to paying our suppliers on time.
Our standard payment terms for all suppliers is net 60 days from receipt of goods and services.
53 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS CONTINUED Mines Trade and tariff impacts Elementis operates five mines which provide us with a clear Following US and Chinese trade negotiations alongside the UKs source of competitive advantage.
proposed withdrawal from the EU we have taken a proactive and collaborative approach internally and with our customers Hectorite mine and suppliers.
In some cases, we have built inventories to mitigate supply risks, and where appropriate we have shifted certain production to new locations to minimise the cost of new tariffs.
We continue to monitor developments and to date have incurred minimal cost and no supply disruptions.
Supplier community and human rights We expect the people in our supply chain to be treated fairly and their human rights respected.
We strive for the highest ethical standards, holding our suppliers and partners to the same criteria.
Our Code details our commitment to human rights and covers bribery and corruption, conducting business with respect, integrity and equality, and managing personal activities and interests.
Our approach is guided by international conventions and standards, including the United Nations UN Universal Location: California, US Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Guiding Principles on We own the only commercially viable high quality rheology grade Business and Human Rights as well as the International Labour hectorite mine in the world, this combined with manufacturing know Organizations Declaration on Fundamental Principles and how enables us to supply high value functional additives globally.
We prohibit the use of child and forced labour Markets served: personal care, coatings and energy and are committed to the principles of equality of treatment and Resource life: 50 years non-discrimination.
With our supply chain partners we undertake ongoing risk assessments and due diligence processes to monitor compliance.
Full details on our approach to preventing Talc mines modern slavery across our business can be found within our Modern Slavery Statement published on our website at elementisplc.
Product stewardship, sustainability and compliance Product safety, sustainability and compliance are core values at Elementis and how we do business.
We intend that our products are safe for people and the environment and contribute to a more sustainable planet.
In developing new products we consider hazards and risks at all points in a product life cycle, the utilisation of natural and renewable resources, and compliance with global regulations.
To support these ideals we have comprehensive programmes in place that adhere to the principles of the UN Global Compact.
We are committed to improving our corporate social responsibilities scoring and proactively registering our products to deliver global growth to Location: two mines in Vuonos, Finland both Elementis and our customers.
Reflective of our programmes and progress, in 2018, Elementis received improved and above average ratings in recognised third party evaluations such as CDP and Ecovadis, and attained natural certifications for a significant number of products in our growing natural product portfolio.
In addition, we completed all of our EU REACH registrations which brought a close out to a programme began in 2008.
Location: two mines in Vuonos, Finland These specialty talc mines in Finland are within one of only two known deposits of scale in Europe.
As a result of optimised upstream and downstream logistics from plants in Finland and the Netherlands, we are in a position to serve dynamic end markets globally.
Markets served: Long life plastics, coatings, life sciences, personal care and paper Resource life: 90 years 54 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STEWARDSHIP AND SUSTAINABILITY ACHIEVEMENTS Ecovadis CDP FTSE4Good Ecovadis is a tool to enable customers The Carbon Disclosure Project is a global The FTSE4Good Index is a leading global to evaluate the sustainability of their disclosure system that enable us to responsible investment index.
We are recognised as having met the We were awarded a silver medal by In 2018, we received a score of B, higher corporate responsibility criteria for Ecovadis putting us in the top 7% than the Chemicals industry average of C. inclusion in the membership of the index.
of Ecovadis reporting companies in Through improvement programmes and our sector.
unique solutions to everyday obstacles, we have demonstrated a decrease in our manufacturings environmental footprint and enhanced reporting transparency.
UN Global ECOCERT RSPO Compact The UN Global Compact is the worlds Cosmos Natural is a certification for RSPO was started in 2014 in order to largest corporate sustainability initiative natural and biological products.
The contribute to the conservation and to align strategies and operations with ECOCERT is a certification programme protection of the rain forests and its universal principles on human rights, for natural products used in cosmetics.
labour, environment and anti-corruption, and take actions that advance societal In 2018, five additional products were We continue to remain a member of the goals.
certified under Cosmos and Ecocert, Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil bringing the total number of approved RSPO programme and use sustainable In 2018, we signed the commitment letter Personal Care products to nine.
palm oil derived products in our to the UN Global Compact and agreed manufacturing.
to annually report on our sustainability performance and improvements.
ISO 16128 REACH Global Harmonized System GHS Products qualified Substances Translated under this registered into 23 30 86 23 standard in 2018 languages ISO 16128 was launched in 2018 and is REACH is an EU regulation in respect The GHS is an international programme, a standard for evaluating the naturalness to the production and use of chemical under the auspices of the UN, with the of products.
More than 30 of our Personal substances, regulating their potential goal of harmonising product label Care products have qualified under this impacts on both human health and the warnings across the globe.
countries have adopted this standard.
The EU REACH phase-in period We now provide product safety data concluded on 31 May 2018. information and labels in over 23 languages in accordance with this A total of 86 substances were successfully programme.
registered in 2018 concluding this programme, with 115 product substances registered in total since 2008.
These registrations support over 360 products.
55 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS CONTINUED HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT Our performance We place great emphasis on protecting people and operating We use the US Occupational Safety and Health Administration responsibly.
Our Health, Safety and Environment HSE OSHA definitions for Recordable Injuries and Illnesses, the programmes provide the basis of how we develop, manufacture Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences and distribute our products around the world.
This is comprised Regulations 2013 for Lost Time Accidents LTA, and Total of management systems and internal procedures that define our Recordable Incident Rate TRIR as a means for benchmarking regulatory obligations, the industry best practices that we performance.
employ, risk management and the various programmes that drive continuous improvement.
Our operations without a recordable injury or illness Global HSE programmes Corpus Christi, US Internal auditing 15 years Milwaukee, US Process Incident safety investigation management Global HSE 6years framework Hsinchu, Taiwan Injury External risk assessments prevention 5 years Environmental Anji, China sustainability Continuous improvement cycle 6years Raise 2018 safety performance awareness 2017 2017 Elementis Elementis excluding including 2018 SummitReheis SummitReheis TRIR incidents per Recognise Engage 200,000 hours worked 0.22 0.88 1.10 performance people Of these incidents 0 resulted in an LTA.
2018 safety initiatives We continued our execution and training of our initiatives such as the Life Saving Rules and Stop Work Authority and DuPonts Take Two... for Safety programme Measure Identify We rolled out a comprehensive HSE information results risk management software solution that allows for better tracking and trending of our HSE data We initiated several capital investments at our plants to eliminate risks and improve production safety We implemented advanced safety audits and increased Take managements HSE interactions with our people action 56 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 2018 environmental performance Our HSE capital expenditure programmes in 2018 Greenhouse gas GHG emissions Carbon dioxide derived from natural gas combustion is the principal GHG attributed to our operations.
Other GHG emissions arising from our operations include other fuels, chemical reactions in production processes, wastewater treatment and carbon dioxide used for process cooling.
Our data includes all operating sites and principal offices.
Small office locations are excluded as the level of carbon dioxide equivalent CO2e emissions from these offices do not make a material contribution.
These new machines at Livingston, Scotland, UK improve For the year ended 31 December 2018, the data has been the ergonomics around the filling areas, reducing manual impacted by the addition of three sites from the Mondo handling of intermediate bulk containers.
acquired business pro-rated for our period of ownership as well as the inclusion of the SummitReheis sites for the first time.
Two weather related events extreme freezing conditions and Hurricane Florence affected our Castle Hayne site and as we managed through these outages and enacted business interruption plans, the sites continued to contribute to carbon emissions.
We continue to implement initiatives to improve our emissions.
For example, our Anji site uses biofuels for production of chemicals which has resulted in reduced emission levels, and our Chromium leather tanning plants have installed air scrubbers This railcar unloading platform at Amarillo, Texas, US provides operating at 99.95% resulting in the control of unwanted safe access and fall protection to our employees.
Greenhouse gas emissions GHG emissions are calculated from energy purchased and process calculations.
Energy units are converted into CO2e using the official data provided by the UK Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Defra.
Please note that Scope 1 and 2 emissions, and the intensity ratios, are subject to variations due to changes in the mix of products manufactured, volumes and energy efficiency improvements.
Base year 2018 2017 2013 Scope 1: Combustion of fuel and operation facilities tonnes CO2e 242,476 218,198 221,076 Scope 2: Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use tonnes CO2e 96,059 92,390 89,500 Total Scope 1 and 2 tonnes CO2e 338,535 310,588 310,576 Intensity ratio: tonnes CO2e tonne production 0.89 0.73 0.77 Supplementary intensity ratio: kg CO2e kWh energy consumed 0.22 0.26 0.27 Out of Scope: Biofuel tonnes CO2e 5,753 7,248 0 CO2e values were derived using DEFRA published factors 2018 and data from IEA 2017.
Note: Scope 1 and 2 CO2e emissions are affected by production volume, product mix and weather conditions.
Energy consumption We consume energy from oil, electricity both wind and solar, natural gas, coal and biomass.
Our performance is outlined below.
2018 2017 Absolute Per tonne of Absolute Per tonne of 000s production 000s production Energy consumed GJ 5,753 14.7 5,333 12.6 57 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS CONTINUED Biodiversity programmes Milwaukee Harbor District fish hotels Our Milwaukee plant neighbours Lake Michigan.
We currently sponsor three habitat hotels on the lake with ten more planned for 2019.
These habitat hotels are part of an initiative from the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation and provide shelter, in an area devoid of habitat, for fish on their journey between Lake Michigan and Milwaukee rivers.
Desert tortoise preservation Our hectorite mine is situated in the Mojave Desert in California which is home to desert tortoises, a protected species.
We have erected special fences to keep the tortoises away from our operations at the mine.
We have a certified biologist on call should a tortoise make its way behind the fencing, to be safely returned to its own habitat.
58 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
