STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ACCOUNTABILITY The past year has been transformational for Elementis.
The AUDIT COMMITTEE strengthening of its portfolio via both the disposal of the Surfactants business and the acquisition of Mondo has required REPORT the Committee to focus on the financial integrity of these transactions, to enable us to be assured that the appropriate accounting treatments have been applied.
As part of the Mondo transaction and in my role as Chair of the Audit Committee, I led the review of progress of the financial related workstreams and held meetings with each of the advisers relating to working capital assumptions and sensitivities, the financial position, prospects and procedures of both businesses and the historical and current financial information of Mondo and Elementis.
I held regular meetings with Ralph and his team who kept me abreast of both the transactions, financial reporting and internal control matters.
I ANNE HYLAND value our open and constructive relationship and I am confident CHAIRMAN that the team are able to discuss matters as the need arises.
AUDIT COMMITTEE I have held regular meetings with the senior audit partner from Deloitte, the external auditors, to discuss the audit processes, the new segmental reporting structure, and the accounting treatment relating to Mondo.
The ability to discuss matters throughout the year enables me to be effective as chair of the Audit Committee.
PwC provide an outsourced internal audit function.
The Committee needs assurance that the internal control environment in which Elementis operates is appropriate, and a focus of the 2018 internal audit reviews was on the SummitReheis sites that were acquired by the Company in 2017.
Next year, one area of focus for the Committee will be the integration of the Mondo Committee members acquisition.
Finally, I would like to extend a thank you from the Committee to the Elementis Finance teams and in particular the Group Finance team who have supported us diligently over the past year and whose efforts have made a significant contribution to the 4 Companys Reignite Growth strategy.
Scheduled meetings The below report of the Audit Committee for the 2018 financial year explains how we have carried out our responsibilities during the year.
AUDIT COMMITTEE Composition The Committee is comprised of Anne Hyland, as chair, Sandra 4 Boss, Dorothee Deuring and Nick Salmon.
The Chairman of the Committee members Scheduled meetings Board, CEO, CFO and Group Financial Controller alongside representatives from the external auditors, Deloitte, and internal Anne Hyland 4 4 auditors, PwC, have a standing invitation to attend Committee Sandra Boss 3 4 meetings.
As required by the Code, Anne Hyland has the relevant Dorothee Deuring 4 4 financial experience to chair this Committee and the Committee as a whole has the financial and commercial competence to Nick Salmon 4 4 meet its responsibilities in an independent and robust manner.
Sandra Boss was unable to attend the July 2018 meeting due to Meetings an illness.
In 2018, there were four scheduled meetings an additional one was held in October 2018 to consider the audit plan taking into account the acquisition of Mondo.
73 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 ACCOUNTABILITY CONTINUED Main activities during the year Ensured compliance with applicable accounting standards, In 2018, the Committee: monitoring developments in accounting regulations as they Met with both the internal and external auditors to review their affect the Group and reviewed the appropriateness of key findings accounting policies and practices in place Reviewed the internal control systems and considered the Reviewed the effectiveness of the internal and external output of internal audit reviews and managements action plans auditors, their independence and objectivity and terms and Reviewed the integrity, consistency and key accounting scope of engagement and recommended their reappointment judgements made by management in both the Companys full Oversaw matters relating to tax including the impact of tax and half year results rates on the financial statements, the impact of the State Aid Ensured the appropriate accounting treatment applied to Investigation being conducted by the EU and recommended the acquisition of Mondo and the disposal of the Surfactants for approval the Companys tax strategy business Received litigation and compliance reports for both the full Advised the Board on whether the process supporting the and half year preparation of Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, Considered for both the full and half year the material legal is fair balanced and understandable and provides the risks impacting the Company and the associated provisioning information necessary to shareholders to assess the Groups Received updates on the implementation of the revised Code position and performance, business model and strategy of Business Conduct and Ethics and associated training and Reviewed the going concern and viability statements and the whistleblowing policies and the control procedures in place supporting assumptions and assessments in the Companys in respect of these Annual Report and Accounts Received technical updates on the 2018 UK Corporate Monitored the ratio and level of audit to non-audit fees paid to Governance Code and IFRS 16 the external auditors Key judgements The following table sets out the significant matters considered by the Committee during the year in relation to the Financial Statements.
Further information on these judgements is detailed in Note 1 of the accounts.
Key judgement How the Committee has addressed these matters Key judgement How the Committee has addressed these matters Purchase price Following the purchase of Mondo in Use of The Committee considers separate allocation for October 2018, it was necessary to adjusting items disclosure of adjusting items in light of the the Mondo determine the allocation of the purchase in the Annual FRC recommendations of a balanced and business price to goodwill, intangibles and other Report consistent approach.
The Committee balance sheet items.
Key areas of understands the importance to judgement surrounded the evaluation of stakeholders of being able to assess the intangible assets.
The Committee underlying performance of the business reviewed progress made on the analysis by adjusting for exceptional items.
The that was conducted by a third party Committee does not consider such provider and led by management.
measures to be a substitute for, or superior Management updated the Committee on to, IFRS measures.
their proposals and the external auditors provided assurance to the Committee that their subject matter experts were in Revenue IFRS 15 revenue from contracts with support of the allocation of purchase price.
recognition customers has been applied with an effective date of 1 January 2018.
Whilst the principles of revenue recognition differ to Environmental A process consistent with 2017 for the IAS 18 Revenue, the previous accounting provision evaluation of environmental provisions was standard, application of IFRS 15 has not followed by management, the key area of had a material impact on our financial judgement being the discount rate used statements.
The main area of judgement for future liabilities.
In 2017, this discount continues to be in relation to recognition rate was 2.5%.
The Committee considered of revenue for shipments by sea.
The this discount rate and were satisfied that Committee has received and reviewed the a rate of 2.5% remained consistent with reports of external advisers who have current market assessments of the time provided guidance on IFRS 15 value of money and the risks specific to implementation and have ensured our the liabilities and is therefore appropriate accounting policies have been updated for 2018. accordingly.
Following the acquisition of Mondo the The carrying A tax report was provided to the Committee considered the application of values of Committee at each of its meetings.
The the Company policy to the acquired advance Committee challenged both the operations at the year end and adopted corporation justification for, and carrying values of, the policy accordingly.
tax ACT ACT recoverable and deferred tax assets.
74 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Audit Committee evaluation Auditor independence During the year, Manchester Square Partners undertook an The Committee considers the external auditors objectivity and evaluation of the Committee as part of the Board effectiveness independence at least twice a year.
It receives reports from review.
The findings show that the Committee has evolved well Deloitte on its internal quality controls and independence rules since the last review with a more proactive agenda.
Financial and considers carefully the extent of the non-audit services management and reporting have continued to improve under provided by Deloitte.
This is further maintained by the Group the leadership of the CFO and Committee Chair.
policy on non-audit services which contains guidance on the types of non-audit work that the external auditors may be EXTERNAL AUDITORS considered for.
Deloitte have served as external auditors for three years.
The Committee engaged with Deloitte to ensure this key area of Under the policy, the CFO may approve individual engagements oversight was appropriately maintained.
The Committee where the fee is up to 15% of the Groups audit fee for the year, periodically meets privately with the lead audit partner and provided that the total non-audit fees in the year do not exceed senior members of the audit team to discuss their work and 50% of that Group audit fee.
Decisions above these thresholds findings.
No areas of concern have been raised.
must be referred to the Committee for determination.
Audit of the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Examples of services that the external auditors may and may At the end of 2018, Deloitte presented their audit plan for the not be allowed to perform under the policy can be found at year ahead which the Committee considered and then approved.
Deloitte highlighted the key areas of risk, which were primarily The Committee is of the view that Deloitte was objective and identified as areas of judgement and complexity and were independent throughout the 2018 audit process notwithstanding consistent with those areas identified by the Committee.
The the level of non-audit services provided.
Based on the Committee were also informed and agreed with the level of audit Committees recommendation, the Board is proposing that materiality, taking into account the enlarged Group following the Deloitte be re-appointed as external auditors to the Company acquisition of Mondo.
As part of the audit process, Deloitte then at the AGM in April 2019. presented a detailed report of their audit findings, which were reviewed and discussed.
Non-audit services 2018 2017 A similar process is undertaken for the half year results.
Audit fees $m 1.4 0.9 Auditor rotation and tendering and competition and Assurance related markets authority order statement of compliance services $m 0.1 0.1 As reported this time last year, the Committee carried out Non-audit fees $m 0.3 0.5 an audit tender process in 2015 resulting in the appointment of Deloitte as external auditors in April 2016.
Deloittes Ratio of non-audit re-appointment in 2018 was approved by shareholders at fees to audit fees % 21% 56% the Companys AGM in April 2018.
The Committee therefore confirms that the Company is compliant with the order on INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK MANAGEMENT mandatory tendering of audit contracts.
SYSTEM The Committees role is to review the effectiveness of the internal Audit effectiveness control, compliance and risk management systems which it To support the Committee in evaluating the effectiveness of the carries out in support of the Boards formal review of significant external auditors, a questionnaire based evaluation is completed risks and material controls, as summarised in the Risk by the Finance team globally and the data is collated into a management report on pages 42 and 43. score card that can then be used to assess the strengths and weaknesses of the external auditors.
Management and the PwC provide an outsourced internal audit function.
The external auditors then address any areas of weakness in their Committee consider that the value of internal audit is enhanced regular review meetings, and the senior audit partner from by having a third party perform this function, to support the Deloitte updates the Committee on how areas of weakness are independent challenge of management and give greater access being addressed.
to expertise and resources than an internal function could provide.
The Committee also monitors audit effectiveness by reviewing the Audit Quality Inspection reports published by the FRC.
Following the 2018 review, the Committee considers the auditors performance to be satisfactory and that the audit is effective as measured against their letter of engagement and the scope of services agreed.
75 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 ACCOUNTABILITY CONTINUED The internal audit plan is based on a review of the Groups key Whistleblowing risks which are considered high risk or have not been subject The Groups whistleblowing policy contains arrangements for an to a recent audit.
The proposed internal audit programme was independent service provider to receive, in confidence, reports discussed and agreed between management and PwC ahead of breaches of any legal or Company policy requirements, of it being considered and subsequently approved by the including those related to accounting, auditing, risk, internal Committee.
Management review the schedule with PwC on a control and related matters.
Any such disclosures are reported quarterly basis and adapt during the year to incorporate any to the Committee as appropriate.
new or increased risks which materialise.
This is then reviewed and approved by the Committee.
The outcome of the internal Fair, balanced and understandable reports are provided to the Committee, alongside any The Committee adopted a similar approach as in previous years remedial actions.
to ensure that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
The process was as follows: Following an evaluation of the services provided by PwC in respect of the Internal Audit, the Committee confirms that both An internal Annual Report Team ART was set up to manage the process for determining the internal audit programme, and the process.
The ART was chaired by the CFO and consisted the programme itself, are appropriate and effective.
No of members drawn from Group Finance, Company Secretariat, significant internal control failings or weaknesses were reported and Investor Relations teams.
The inclusion of these various last year.
Set out below is a summary of the key features of the departments, with input from Group Tax and business Groups internal controls and risk management system.
segments as appropriate, ensured the balance, completeness and accuracy of the Annual Report.
The ART was responsible Control environment for regularly reviewing work and ensuring balanced reporting The Group has policies and procedures that set out the with appropriate links between key messages and sections of responsibilities of business and site management, including the Annual Report.
authority levels, reporting disciplines and responsibility for risk The Committee chairman held meetings with the audit partner, management and internal control.
In addition, annual and the Committee held meetings with the external auditor compliance statements on internal controls are certified by without management being present.
An audit clearance meeting was held with the Committee chairman, CFO and members of the Finance team alongside Risk identification and review the audit partner and audit team members.
A formal risk review process exists at Board and ELT levels for The Committee received updates from management on the the identification, evaluation, mitigation and ongoing monitoring Annual Report progress and audit throughout the process as of risks.
Further details can be found on pages 42 to 48. well as from the Companys brokers and other advisers The Committee, Chairman and Executive Directors reviewed Internal audit programme the Annual Report in its final stages An internal audit programme is proposed by PwC in consultation with the CFO and approved by the Committee each year, Following this process, the Committee and then the Board were setting out a programme of audits over the course of the next able to confirm that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, 12 months.
The programme covers the monitoring of the balanced and understandable and provides the necessary effectiveness of internal controls and the design of processes information for shareholders to assess the Groups position, to test the effectiveness of controls.
As well as conducting audits performance, business model and strategy.
of operating facilities, sales offices and tolling sites on a two to three year rotational basis, the internal audit programme ANNE HYLAND includes reviews of Group functions and processes.
In 2018, CHAIRMAN the internal audit reviews focused on the recently acquired AUDIT COMMITTEE SummitReheis sites in the US and Asian sites.
Controls assurance The controls assurance framework at Elementis is as follows: Board leadership supported by an open and transparent culture of no surprises, good governance and compliance.
This means knowing and understanding the businesses, quality interactions between the Board and the Executive Leadership team including a regular programme of presentations and reports to the Board, as well as operational site visits Internal and external audit programmes, regular litigation and compliance reviews with the General Counsel and a programme of compliance audits, regulatory inspections, environmental reviews and property surveys by external specialists Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, on which all employees are given training and are required to self certify compliance with, supplemented by an online compliance training programme, an anti-bribery and corruption policy, which contractors are also required to sign up to, whistleblowing arrangements and an anti-retaliation policy 76 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS THE BOARDS APPROACH 2018 IR PROGRAMME Elementis is committed to delivering long term sustainable During 2018: returns to its shareholders.
The Chairman is responsible for Institutional investors and analysts were invited to attend the effective communication with shareholders.
The CEO and CFO Companys full year and half year results presentation in are the Companys principal contacts for investors, analysts, person or via webcast press and other interested stakeholders.
Over 170 investor meetings were held with management in attendance of which 26 related to the acquisition of Mondo There is a dedicated investor relations programme for current The Chairman or Senior Independent Director attended and potential investors, which is managed by the Director of investor meetings and a Chairmans roadshow was held Investor Relations who reports to the CFO.
The Board receives Management attended six investor conferences an investor relations report at each of its meetings outlining The geographic spread of the programme covered the US recent dialogue with investors and feedback received.
reports are also made available to the Board.
The Chairman attends the financial results presentations where he has the PRIVATE INVESTORS opportunity to meet with those analysts who attend.
The Board is keen to hear the views of our private shareholders and they are encouraged to use our shareholder mailbox, The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are available to company.
com, for detailed enquiries and shareholders to discuss governance and strategy concerns as to access our website for our Company reports and business appropriate.
On an annual basis, the Chairman meets with information.
Specific enquiries may also be addressed to the shareholders to discuss governance or other matters as Company Secretary and sent to the registered office.
SHAREHOLDER TRACING PROGRAMME SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS In 2015, a shareholder tracing programme was launched to During the year, we held an AGM in April and a General Meeting reduce the number of gone-away shareholders on the share in October 2018 to approve the acquisition of Mondo.
During the year, 69 accounts have been closed, with welcomes attendance at these meetings and they provide a 58,618 being returned to shareholders since launch, 764 valuable opportunity to discuss Company matters.
We are accounts have been closed with 530,925 being returned grateful to those shareholders who were unable to attend but to shareholders.
submitted voting instructions via proxy.
At the AGM, all the members of the Board attended and the CEO provided a presentation to shareholders outlining performance of the Company during the prior financial year and an update on the Reignite Growth strategy which was followed by a questions and answers session.
At the General Meeting, shareholders were given the opportunity to enter into dialogue with the Board to discuss matters relating to the Mondo acquisition.
At the 2018 AGM all proposed resolutions were passed, with votes in favour ranging from 87.72% to 100%.
At the General Meeting the resolution was passed at 97.86%.
The Notice of the AGM was posted to shareholders at least 20 days prior to the meeting and the documents in respect of the General Meeting were posted at least 14 days prior to the meeting.
Each resolution was proposed separately and voting was conducted on a poll taking into account votes cast at the meeting and those submitted via proxy.
Shareholders had the option to vote either for or against a resolution or to withhold their vote.
Following the meeting, the voting results were announced to the London Stock Exchange and published on the Companys corporate website.
2018 INVESTOR RELATIONS CALENDAR January February March May June July September October December Overseas FY 17 results Chairmans UBS mid cap Credit Suisse H1 18 results Berenberg Overseas Berenberg roadshow in presentation governance conference chemicals presentation food roadshow in European New York roadshow conference ingredients France, Conference FY 17 H1 18 and chemicals Germany and roadshow Goldman JP Morgan roadshow conference Norway Sachs materials chemicals conference Numis UK conference conference Mondo roadshow 77 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
