NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Company and the Group are committed to high standards of corporate governance to underpin the business through a period of high growth.
PETER JOHNSON CHAIRMAN Dear fellow shareholder The Committee has continued to review succession As Chairman of the Nomination Committee, I present planning for Executive and Non-Executive Directors, as our report detailing the role and responsibilities of the well as for the Senior Management Team, to ensure we Committee and its activities during the year.
have the capability to drive the long-term growth and development of the business.
The Committee is responsible for: Considering the structure, size and composition of Specific focus for the coming year the Board to ensure it has an appropriate balance Talent development will be a key focus of the Committee and diversity of skills, experience and independence this year to gain greater visibility of the talent pipeline Developing short-term and long-term succession plans below the Senior Management Team, particularly the for the Board and management team development plans of high-potential individuals.
The Reviewing the standard process for appointing Directors, Committee will also consider the skills and capabilities ensuring it is rigorous, transparent, inclusive and objective needed on the Board to support the next stage of the Groups strategic development.
Recommending suitable candidates for appointment to the Board and ensuring new Directors undergo an Succession planning for the Board, as well as for the Senior appropriate induction Management Team, will remain a focus of our work.
We will Reviewing the Boards diversity policy continue to consider how to increase diversity at Board andexecutive levels, a matter I personally take very Reviewing the talent development programme and seriously, and the Nomination Committee will track tracking progress progressin this area.
Specific focus during the year This year we welcomed Louisa Burdett as our Chair of the Peter Johnson Audit Committee, and we are delighted with the way she has Chairman of the Nomination Committee so smoothly transitioned into her new role and quickly gained 23 May 2018 the respect of her colleagues.
Simon Pryce, who joined the Board in September 2016, has settled in well and has already demonstrated a strong ability to contribute across a wide range of topics.
62 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE as well as technical training on legal and governance issues Committee members and any other relevant documentation.
Peter Johnson Chairman Towards the end of the last financial year, Louisa Burdett received Bertrand Bodson her induction to the Group and to her role as Audit Committee Louisa Burdett Chair.
This induction included a thorough handover from Paul Karen Guerra Hollingworth, corporate governance and compliance training John Pattullo from the Company Secretary and his team, meetings with Simon Pryce the CEO, Group Finance Director and our Senior Management Details of the skills, experience and tenure of the Team, as well as visits to our Corby and Nuneaton sites and Committee members are given in their biographies meetings with the Groups advisors.
Terms of appointment Membership of the Committee, the number of meetings Executive Directors have one-year rolling contracts.
Nonthat took place in the year and attendance at those Executive Directors do not have service contracts but instead meetings, are set out in the Corporate Governance Report have a letter of appointment which sets out expected time on page 52.
The Chairman provides updates to the Board commitments.
Such time commitments can involve peaks of on the proceedings of each meeting.
Details of the Companys policy on Executive Directors service contracts and terms of appointment for Non-Executive Directors are set out in the Directors Activities during the year Remuneration Report on page 78.
Succession Reviews were carried out for both Executive The Board takes into account the need for it to refresh its planning and Non-Executive Directors, as well as for membership progressively over time.
Non-Executive Directors the Senior Management Team.
are normally expected to serve for six years.
They may be invited to serve longer, but additional service beyond six years is subject Talent reviews The Committee reviewed the Groups approach to rigorous review, and service beyond nine years is unlikely.
to talent, assessing where talent might be The terms of appointment for the Board members are available encouraged to progress further within the organisation.
for inspection at the Companys registered office and will be available at our AGM.
Organisational The Committee reviewed the organisations capability leadership and technical capability, identifying Succession planning review priorities for the coming year in relation to Succession planning, both at Executive and Non-Executive talent acquisition, leadership development, level, in both the short and long-term, remains a key focus diversity and inclusion.
The Chief HR Officer gave presentations to the Board during the year on short-term and long-term Diversity The Committee received reports setting out organisational capability and succession planning for key the Companys progress against objectives Senior Management Team roles.
On recommendation from the in relation to diversity, noting the continuing Committee, the Board agrees details of the key competencies focus on creating an inclusive culture within required to enhance the composition of the Board.
It also noted the appointment of a new Head of Diversity and Inclusion, who is driving this agenda forward.
Diversity The Committee has a Policy Statement which emphasises its adherence to the Group Diversity and Inclusion Policy Policy Appointment of Directors in considering succession planning and recruitment at Board Where a new director is to be appointed, a candidate profile is level, and is mindful of the Policy when instructing any developed based on a review of future business issues against recruitment consultants or other advisors it appoints.
The Policy the experience and skills of existing Board members.
This is states that it is in the best interests of the Company to ensure used to brief external recruitment consultants appointed by the balance and diversity at Board level, and strongly encourages Committee to undertake the selection process.
Initial meetings recruitment consultants to widen search parameters so that with prospective candidates are held by a combination of the a diverse range of candidates may be considered, where Company Chairman, the Company Secretary and sometimes appropriate.
The Committee has actively sought to increase another Board Director, and a shortlist is selected to meet all both gender and national diversity whilst also recognising the other Board members.
The Committee then meets and decides importance of inherent diversity of experience and approach which candidate, if any, will be recommended to join the Board.
and ensuring we recruit the best possible person for the job.
Any appointees to the Board receive an induction in respect We continue to have strong international diversity both at of their directorship.
This will typically include meetings with Board level and within the Senior Management Team, reflecting senior management and our corporate advisors, sales visits to the global nature of our business.
More information on activities customers, presentations from key business areas, tours of our within the Group to promote diversity is given in the Strategic UK warehouses, and the option to visit our overseas businesses, Report on pages 42 and 43.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 Electrocomponents plc63
