EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM The ELT meets on a regular basis and considers OUR ELT COMPRISES OUR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS, the execution of the strategic priorities, financial performance, capital investment, risk and safety GLOBAL COMMERCIAL AND FUNCTIONAL LEADERS and operational performance of the business.
3 2 7 12 8 11 5 9 13 1 4 10 6 PAUL WATERMAN 1 WALKER ALLEN 3 MARCI BRAND 4 CEO GENERAL COUNSEL AND VP GLOBAL PERSONAL CARE CHIEF COMPLIANCE OFFICER Full biography can found on page 62.
Joined Elementis in 1999 Joined Elementis in 2018 Based: New Jersey, US Based: New Jersey, US RALPH HEWINS 2 Experience and role Experience and role CFO Walker leads the Groups Legal function with Marci is responsible for the Personal Care global responsibility for all legal matters within business which includes the Cosmetics, the Group including litigation, M&A and AP actives, Pharma and Dental businesses.
As Chief As VP Global Personal Care, Marcis focus is on Full biography can found on page 62.
Compliance Officer, Walkers remit includes directing the Personal Care sales and marketing oversight of the Groups compliance teams and driving synergies in the business programme including the development of our following the acquisition of SummitReheis in 2017 Group compliance policies and procedures.
and integration of the recently acquired Mondo.
Walker has nearly 25 years experience as an in This role follows her 35 years experience at house lawyer within global businesses having BP in marketing and sales leadership roles started his career in private practice in two New developing strategic business opportunities York City law firms.
in both business to business and business to consumer environments.
64 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION LAURA HIGGINS, 5 JOE LUPIA 8 LUC VAN RAVENSTEIN 11 GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY VP GLOBAL R&D VP GLOBAL COATINGS Joined Elementis in 2018 Joined Elementis in 2018 Joined Elementis in 2012 Based: London, UK Based: New Jersey, US Based: New Jersey, US Experience and role Experience and role Experience and role Laura is the Groups Company Secretary and Joe joined Elementis in January 2019 to lead Luc is responsible for the leadership of the is responsible for providing Board support and the Global R&D function.
His former commercial Global Coatings business.
In addition, Luc has advice on corporate governance, UK listing experience enables him to lead with a focus recently increased his leadership responsibilities obligations and corporate transactions.
Joe is responsible for to support the growth of the Energy business.
is also responsible for overall Group risk collaborating with the business leaders on Luc is leading the global Coatings transformation management processes, insurance and is developing new technologies to enhance our programme including the streamlining of the a pension trustee.
customers product performance taking into product portfolio and cost base, implementation account the quality, sustainability and efficiency of more efficient routes to market and creation Laura has held various senior company needs of our customers.
secretarial positions at public quoted companies including Sky, Britvic, Betfair and Rio Tinto.
Joe has 30 years in the chemicals industry and Luc started his career at Elementis heading joined us from BASF where he led the technical up the Personal Care and Surfactants business innovations and customer support team for following leadership positions at specialty Care Chemicals USA.
DANIEL HUGHES 6 ROBERT MANGOLD 9 CHRIS SHEPHERD 12 VP BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT VP GLOBAL SUPPLY CHAIN CHIEF HUMAN RESOURCES OFFICER Joined Elementis in 2007 Joined Elementis in 2016 Joined Elementis in 2017 Based: New Jersey, US Based: New Jersey, US Based: London, UK Experience and role Experience and role Experience and role Daniel is responsible for leading the business Robert is responsible for the Supply Chain Chris leads the Group Human Resources through strategic transactions and is currently Transformation programme and to deliver function and is responsible for talent, leading the integration of the Mondo business.
improved working capital and improved succession, HR operations, reward In 2018, he led the asset disposal at Jersey City, operational performance.
Roberts remit programmes and internal communications.
the acquisition of the India site and the disposal includes HSE, Manufacturing, Procurement, Chris focus is on embedding the Companys of the Surfactants business.
all the Supply Chain and Quality functions and culture and values throughout the organisation, Product Stewardship.
He drives sustained developing internal talent and standardising Daniel has held a number of roles in Elementis improvements in these key areas.
including previously the Chief Information Officer and being the Vice President Coatings Robert has over 35 years experience in This role follows 20 years of global human Asia, integrating the production and sales sites operations for manufacturing and specialty resources experience gained in a mix of there while developing the local strategy, chemicals companies.
privately held US and UK listed plcs with the customer facing channels and organisational first 12 years of his career in manufacturing design.
Prior to joining Elementis, Daniel and supply chain.
held various senior procurement and supply chain positions.
CHRISTIAN KATHER 7 PAUL RAO 10 ERIC WALDMANN 13 VP TALC VP ENERGY VP CHROMIUM Joined Elementis in 2018 Joined Elementis in 2014 Joined Elementis in 2007 Based: Amsterdam, Netherlands Based: Houston, US Based: New Jersey, US Experience and role Experience and role Experience and role Christian has led the Talc business since 2011, As VP Energy, Paul has responsibility for Eric is responsible for the leadership of our having joined Mondo in 2010.
Following the leading the Energy sales and marketing teams.
global Chromium operation which includes acquisition of Mondo he is currently in the His focus is on developing strategic managing the commercial team and strategic process of integrating certain functions into the relationships and offering products that meet sourcing.
Elementis Group alongside delivery and growth our oilfield customers needs.
of the Talc business on a global basis.
Eric has held a number of roles in our Chromium Paul has 28 years of global oilfield experience business, most recently as VP Finance and Christians former experience was in business in sales, marketing, business development Sourcing.
Prior to joining Elementis, Erics leadership roles in international specialty and strategic planning.
experience was focused in the areas of finance, chemicals companies with roles in both accounting, mergers and acquisitions and Europe and the US.
65 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
