AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT LETTER FROM THE CHAIR OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE I have come into a business with a strong corporate governance foundation which will underpin the next phase of its strategic development.
LOUISA BURDETT CHAIR OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Dear fellow shareholder Specific focus during the year As Chair of the Audit Committee, I would first like to thank We noted in last years report that as the Group continued to Paul Hollingworth for his great support in helping me change we would maintain our focus on the effective design transition into my new role as Chair of the Committee.
and workings of the Groups operating controls.
With this in I have come into a business with a strong corporate mind, we have reviewed a number of reports on the progress governance foundation which will underpin the next phase of strategic initiatives and the continued implementation of of its strategic development.
improved controls to underpin these changes.
We specifically reviewed the continuously evolving area of cyber risk and the I am pleased to present our report detailing the role and associated system and business controls.
During the year responsibilities of the Committee and its activities during we appointed a permanent Chief Information Security Officer the year.
who reported to the Audit Committee on the implementation The Committee aims to protect the interests of shareholders by: of a programme to improve our Information Security Assisting the Board in ensuring the integrity of the financial capability.
This includes improvements to cyber security and corporate reporting and auditing processes compliance, readiness for the new EU General Data Protection Regulation GDPR and Payment Card Industry requirements, Ensuring effective internal control and risk management as well as a continuing programme of education and systems are in place awareness to ensure that our people are appropriately briefed Measuring the Groups effectiveness in managing risk on, and able to take action against, common cyber threats.
Assisting the Board to present a fair, balanced and We are always mindful of the necessity of a sound system understandable assessment of the Groups position and of internal control to provide us with a good system of prospects in the full-year and half-year financial reports checks and balances, and this very much remained a Assisting the Board by reviewing and challenging the stress focus of Internal Audit during the year.
testing performed, based on plausible scenarios arising from selected principal risks, in assessing the long-term Specific focus for the coming year viability of the Group The Information Security programme will continue to Approving the remit of the Internal Audit function and be a significant focus of the Committee, together with reviewing its effectiveness and findings discussions around the risk appetite in a period of high Ensuring that an appropriate relationship is maintained growth for the Group.
We will ensure that we closely between the Group and its external Auditor, including the monitor progress on the second phase of the Performance recommendation to approve their appointment and fees Improvement Plan PIP and assess the judgements applied in determining the fair values and goodwill for the acquisition Reviewing the scope and effectiveness of the external of IESA and monitor its integration.
audit process Reviewing whistleblowing and fraud procedures On behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank everyone for their hard work over the year including the external Auditor,  PwC, and the Internal Audit and Finance teams.
Louisa Burdett Chair of the Audit Committee 23 May 2018 56 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Financial reporting Committee members The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial Louisa Burdett Chair from 20 July 2017 reporting is to review, with both management and the external Paul Hollingworth Chairman up to 20 July 2017 Auditor, the full-year and half-year financial reports.
Bertrand Bodson The Committee focuses on ensuring compliance with the Karen Guerra relevant financial and governance reporting requirements John Pattullo and determines whether the Annual Report and Accounts taken Simon Pryce as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
It also takes Other regular attendees into account the significant accounting issues and judgements Company Chairman noted on page 58 and, to support its reviews, regular reports Chief Executive Officer are also received from the Group Finance Director and the Group Finance Director Group Financial Controller.
Company Secretary Further information about how we carry out the above Group Financial Controller processes is available in the corporate governance section Head of Internal Audit and Risk of our website.
Senior Statutory Auditor Fair, balanced and understandable In its financial reporting to shareholders and other interested Composition of the Committee parties, the Board aims to present a fair, balanced and The Board is satisfied that the Chair of the Committee has understandable assessment of the Groups position and the current and relevant financial and accounting experience prospects, providing necessary information for shareholders to required by the provisions of the Code and that the other assess the Groups business model, strategy and performance.
members of the Committee have a sufficiently wide range of For the year ended 31 March 2018 the Group carried out business experience, expertise and competence such that the a process for reviewing the Annual Report and Accounts Committee can effectively fulfil its responsibilities.
Details of to ensure that these requirements were met.
the skills and experience of the Committee members are given in their biographies on pages 48 and 49.
The process used includes: Attendance of others is at the invitation of the Committee A thorough understanding of the regulatory requirements Chair only and does not restrict the Committees independent for the Annual Report and Accounts decision-making.
A draft copy provided to the Chair of the Committee early in the drafting process to assess the broad direction and key Meetings are scheduled in accordance with the financial and messages, with a further draft provided prior to sign-off of reporting cycles of the Company and generally take place the Annual Report and Accounts prior to Board meetings to ensure effectiveness of the collaboration with the Board.
A cascaded sign-off across the Group to determine the accuracy and consistency of the data and language Members and their attendance at meetings during the year A detailed review by all appropriate parties including the are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 52. external advisors The Committee has independent access to the Internal Audit A checklist of all the elements of the process was completed team and to the external Auditor.
The Head of Internal Audit to document the process and presented to the Committee for and Risk and the external Auditor have direct access to the review to provide assurance that the appropriate procedures Chair of the Committee outside formal Committee meetings.
The Chair provides updates to the Board on the proceedings The Committee has reviewed the Groups Annual Report and of each meeting.
Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 and has advised the Board that, in its opinion, the Annual Report and Accounts Activities during the year taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and Further information on the activities of the Audit Committee provides the information necessary to assess the Groups during the year is available in the corporate governance position and performance, business model and strategy.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 Electrocomponents plc57 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Significant accounting issues and areas of judgement Details of accounting policies and areas of judgement can The Committee focuses in particular on key accounting policies be found in the Notes to the accounts on pages 94 to 123. and practices adopted by the Group and any significant areas Significant accounting issues and areas of judgement of judgement that may materially impact reported results as considered by the Committee during the year, and how these well as the clarity of disclosures, compliance with financial were addressed, are set out below.
Further details in each of reporting standards and the relevant requirements around these areas are given in the summary of key estimates and financial and governance reporting.
judgements in Note 1 on page 94.
Significant accounting issues and areas of judgement How the Committee addressed these matters Inventory valuation: Inventory represents a material The Group estimates the net realisable value of inventory in order to proportion of the Groups net assets.
At 31 March 2018, the determine the value of any provision required and key judgements Group had 331.0 million 2017: 303.8 million of inventory on relate to the duration of product life cycles, amount of anticipated the balance sheet.
Key judgements are made in estimating its revenue over these life cycles and the value recoverable from any net realisable value.
See Note 17 on page 112. excess inventory.
An update of these assumptions, based on recent experience, was presented to the Committee.
The Committee reviewed and agreed the reasonableness of the assumptions.
In order to reach this conclusion, the Committee also discussed with the Senior Management Team the inventory management process, particularly in relation to inventory write offs.
Retirement benefit obligations: The Group has a material Small changes to the assumptions used to value the UK retirement defined benefit pension scheme in the UK, and smaller benefit obligation can have a significant impact on the financial defined benefit schemes in the Republic of Ireland, Germany, position and results of the Group, and bond yields used to determine France and Italy.
At 31March 2018, the total deficit in relation the discount rate in particular have a significant impact.
The to these retirement benefit obligations was 72.4 million assumptions put forward by the actuaries and Group Pension 2017: 104.6 million, of which the UK was 58.1 million Manager were compared by PwC with other similar schemes.
Key judgements are made in relation Committee reviewed these assumptions and PwCs comparisons to the assumptions used when valuing the retirement benefit and, after discussion, agreed the reasonableness of the assumptions.
Taxation: The Group operates across a number of different The Committee receives regular updates on challenges by local tax jurisdictions and is subject to periodic challenges by local tax authorities and any other areas of potential risk.
It reviews the tax authorities on a range of matters during the normal course effective tax rate, the balance sheet provision at the half year and of business.
These challenges currently include transfer pricing the full year and relevant disclosures, and discusses the position and customs declaration process reviews.
Key judgements with the Senior Management Team as well as the Auditor.
The are made in assessing the levels of tax contingencies required Committee agreed the reasonableness of the tax provision and for current challenges, recoverability of losses and areas that disclosures were reasonable and appropriate.
of potential risk where the precise impact of tax laws and regulations is unclear.
The Groups taxation provision was 7.8 million as at 31 March 2018 2017: 3.6 million.
Impairment of goodwill and other assets: There is The value of goodwill is reviewed regularly for impairment using 186.5 million of goodwill on the balance sheet at 31 March a value-in-use model using cash flow and discount rates as set 2018 2017: 208.2 million, which principally relates to out in Note 13 on pages 110 and 111.
The Committee reviews these the acquisition of Allied Electronics, Inc. in July 1999.
Key impairment tests every year, including the key assumptions, judgements are made in relation to the assumptions used in confirming that there remains adequate headroom in place the value-in-use models which are used to assess impairment and no impairment provision is required.
of goodwill and other assets when there are indicators that Other assets are regularly reviewed to ensure there are no indicators they may be impaired.
that they may be impaired.
If any significant impairments are found, the Committee will also review these impairment tests, including the key assumptions, confirming that the valuation is reasonable.
58 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Going concern and viability statements Internal control and risk management As part of the Committees responsibility to provide advice to The Boards responsibilities for the systems of internal the Board, the Committee reviewed the Groups going concern control and their effectiveness are detailed in the Corporate assumptions and reviewed and challenged the process and Governance Report on page 54, together with the going assessment of the Groups longer-term viability.
For the viability concern and viability statements on pages 34 and 35. statement, this included reviewing the assessment period The Committee receives quarterly reports from the Head of selected as well as the assumptions used in the stress testing Internal Audit and Risk on the performance of the system of performed, which was based on plausible scenarios arising internal control, and on its effectiveness in managing principal from selected principal risks.
Details of these statements are risks and in identifying control failings or weaknesses.
In noted on pages 34 and 35 of the Strategic Report.
accordance with the requirements of the Code, the Financial Reporting Council FRC Guidance on Audit Committees, Other matters and the recommendations of the FRC Guidance on Risk The Committee also undertook a range of further activities Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and inrelation to the Groups accounting and external reporting Business Reporting, the Committee reviews the Groups risk inthe year, which included the following.
This years review reconfirmed We reviewed the items excluded from adjusted profit the risk appetite.
The outcomes of these reviews are reported to before tax of a charge of 4.5 million 2017: 0.9 million the Board.
This, together with regular updates to the Board on and adjusted cash flow of an outflow of 2.4 million the principal risks, allows the Board to assess the systems of 2017: 5.1 million and the non-cash deferred tax credit of internal control and the residual risk for the purposes of making 27.9 million excluded from adjusted profit for the year and its public statement.
agreed it was appropriate to do so.
The Committee believes These reviews include material controls, which cover financial, that separate disclosure of these items and other alternative operational and compliance controls and risk management performance measures enables the reader to understand systems.
Further information regarding principal risks and more clearly the underlying financial and operating uncertainties to the business is given on pages 34, 36 and 37 performance of the Group.
Further details are set out of the Strategic Report.
A developing area of focus has been the Groups processes During the year, the Group consolidated its Oxford-based to gain assurance from its more important third party vendors headquarters with its London-based digital office into on their key controls.
This risk area was reviewed by Internal one enlarged head office and digital hub in Kings Cross, Audit for a specific business area and the findings shared London.
The Committee reviewed the Groups plan for this more widely.
This area will continue to be monitored in the relocation and the associated Group Finance staff retention coming year.
The Committee is satisfied that the relocation was completed successfully and allowed for sufficient Where weaknesses in the internal control system have been continuity and handover to ensure any risk was mitigated.
identified through the processes outlined above, plans for We received regular updates on the Groups ongoing strengthening them are put in place and action plans regularly implementation of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and monitored.
There were no control failings or weaknesses that IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers which resulted in unforeseen material losses.
will be adopted in the year ending 31 March 2019 and IFRS 16 Leases which will be adopted in the year ending 31 March 2020.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 Electrocomponents plc59 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Internal financial controls Other activities Internal financial controls are the systems employed by During the year the Committee also: the Group to support the Directors in discharging their Considered the Groups tax strategy prior to its approval responsibilities for financial matters.
Those responsibilities by the Board arenoted on page 83.
Received updates on the corporate offence of failing The main elements include: to prevent the criminal facilitation of tax evasion and managements actions to mitigate such risks Assessments by Internal Audit on the effectiveness of operational controls Auditor Clear terms of reference setting out the duties of the Effectiveness and independence Boardand its Committees, with delegation to management The Committee and the Board put great emphasis on the in all locations objectivity of our external Auditor, PwC, in their reporting to Group Finance and Group Treasury manuals outlining the shareholders.
To ensure full and transparent communication, accounting policies and controls the Senior Statutory Auditor from PwC was present at all of the Committee meetings.
Weekly, monthly and annual reporting cycles, including an annual budget approved by the Board and regular The Committee is responsible for reviewing the performance forecast updates and effectiveness of the external Auditor.
This review takes Local leadership teams reviewing results against forecast place annually and covers qualification, expertise, resources and agreed performance metrics and targets with overall and appointment as well as assurance that there are no performance reviewed at region and Group levels issues which could adversely affect the external Auditors independence and objectivity taking into account the relevant Specific reporting systems covering Treasury operations, standards.
As part of risk evaluation planning, the Committee major investment projects and legal and insurance activities, considers the risk of the external Auditor withdrawing from the which are reviewed by the Board and its Committees on market.
The Committee also assesses how well the external a regular basis Auditor exercised professional scepticism and an appropriate Whistleblowing procedures allowing individuals to report degree of constructive challenge to management.
fraud or financial irregularities and other matters of concern Following a full review and having given full consideration to Internal Audit the performance and independence of the external Auditor, The Committee reviews and approves the scope and resourcing the Committee has recommended to the Board that a of the Internal Audit programme annually with the Groups resolution to reappoint PwC be proposed at the AGM and internal auditors.
The scope is decided upon by reference the Board has accepted and endorsed this recommendation.
to the perceived geographic, functional and operating risks The Company also considers the annual appointment of around the business.
These risks are identified from previous the external Auditor by the shareholders at the AGM to be audit experience, input from the Senior Management Team a fundamental safeguard.
Further details of how we work with our external Auditor The Committee reviews: and how its independence is maintained can be found in the corporate governance section of our website.
The Group will The level and skills of resources allocated to the Internal not engage the external Auditor to undertake any work that Audit function to conduct this programme of work could threaten its independence.
The summary of the results of each audit and the resolution The Company confirms that it has complied with the provisions of any control issues identified of the Competition and Market Authoritys Order for the The effectiveness of the Internal Audit function financial year under review.
The Head of Internal Audit and Risk has regular contact with Tender and rotation the Chair of the Committee, through telephone calls and Following an external tender process carried out in 2014, we face-to-face meetings.
These discussions are around audit are not required to retender until 2024.
This is in accordance planning and matters noted during Internal Audit assignments.
with the EU Audit Regulation and Directive, and the Companies The Company Chairman and other members of the Committee Act 2006, which states that there should be a public tender are also available as required.
At least annually the Committee every 10 years and a change of external Auditor at least every meets with the Head of Internal Audit and Risk without the 20 years.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the presence of the Senior Management Team.
Committees choice of external Auditor.
Our Senior Statutory Audit Partner with PwC is Christopher Richmond.
Chris has been involved on our audit since 2015 and has taken over from Ian Chambers as our Group Engagement Partner this year.
He is due for rotation after the 2019 audit.
60 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Non-audit assignments undertaken by the Auditor Fraud The Group has a policy to ensure that the provision of such The Committee reviews the procedures for prevention and services does not impair the external Auditors independence detection of fraud in the Group.
Suspected cases of fraud must or objectivity.
In determining the policy, the Committee be reported to the Company Secretary within 48 hours and has also taken into account possible threats to the external investigated by operational management or Internal Audit, Auditors independence and objectivity.
The outcome of any investigation is reported to the Company Secretary and the Group Finance Director.
Policy on non-audit services includes: A register of all suspected fraudulent activity and the outcome In providing a non-audit service, the external Auditor of any investigation is kept and circulated to the Board on should not: a regular basis, with the Committee also receiving regular updates.
We take steps in line with good business practice to audit their own work detect and prevent fraudulent activity.
During the year, there make management decisions for the Group were no frauds of a material nature, although as a business we create a mutuality of interest are subject to various attempts at external and low-level credit find themselves in the role of advocate for the Group card and online fraud.
The total non-audit fees for any financial year should not exceed 70% of the average of the external audit fee over the Whistleblowing last three years.
In practice the non-audit fees are normally In accordance with the provisions of our Code of Conduct, significantly below this level the Committee is responsible for reviewing the arrangements whereby staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about illegal, Full details of our policy in relation to non-audit services can unethical or improper behaviour or other matters and for be found in the corporate governance section of our website.
ensuring that these concerns are investigated and escalated We have reviewed this policy during the year and no changes as appropriate.
An external third party operates the reporting were required.
tools, except in Germany where local regulations prohibit this During the year under review the non-audit fees for PwC and an in-house alternative has been set up.
Whistleblowing were 16,000, compared to audit fees of 1.2 million.
Further is referred to as Speak Up internally and is available to all information on fees payable to PwC are included in Note 5 employees.
There was focused activity to promote the facility on page 100. to our employees over the course of this year which included management briefings and face-to-face presentations in the Interaction with regulators UK and Eastern Europe.
The Committee receives aggregated The FRCs Audit Quality Review team carried out a review of reports on matters raised through these services and monitors PwCs audit of the Groups Annual Report and Accounts for their resolution.
the year ended 31 March 2017 as part of its 2017 18 inspection cycle.
We received a copy of the report, discussed it with PwC and are pleased to confirm that there were no significant findings.
Committee evaluation The activities of the Committee were reviewed as part of this years internal Board evaluation process.
The responses to the questionnaires strongly supported the way the Committee operates and is chaired.
There was unanimous support for the smooth transition to the new Chair of the Committee, with Committee meetings being described as very efficient and well chaired.
There were very few suggestions for change but actions agreed included looking at streamlining processes such as those between the Board and the Committee for trading statements and continuing to focus on the Groups risk appetite in a period of high growth for the Group.
Further details of the evaluation process can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 53 and 54.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 Electrocomponents plc61
