BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANDREW DUFF PAUL WATERMAN NICK SALMON CHAIRMAN CEO SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Andrew joined the Board as a Non-Executive Paul was appointed CEO on 8 February 2016.
Nick was appointed a Non-Executive Director Director and Deputy Chairman on 1 April 2014 on 20 October 2014 and became Senior Skills, experience and contribution and was appointed Non-Executive Chairman Independent Director on 16 December 2014.
Paul has a proven track record in developing and Chairman of the Nomination Committee markets, products and opportunities for Skills, experience and contribution on 24 April 2014. creating value, business optimisation and Nick has extensive experience gained from Skills, experience and contribution transformation.
Pauls global experience non-executive roles and as an accomplished Andrew has significant boardroom experience provides the skill set required to deliver the executive in specialty chemicals, utility and gained from serving as a director and chairman Reignite Growth strategy and provide inspiring engineering sectors.
He has been responsible of a number of UK and international companies.
for leading several major restructuring projects This combined with experience in the and negotiating complex acquisitions and Prior to joining Elementis, Paul was global manufacturing, energy and utilities sectors, disposals which is highly valuable in Board CEO of the BP lubricants business in 2013 after enables Andrew to effectively lead the Board debates.
having overseen the BP Australia New Zealand and deliver value to shareholders and other downstream business.
In 2010, Paul was Nick was chief executive of Cookson Group plc stakeholders.
country president of BP Australia.
Prior to this from July 2004 to December 2012 when From 2003 until 2009, Andrew was chief he was CEO of BPs global aviation, industrial, Cookson demerged to create two new listed executive officer of npower, the successor marine and energy lubricants businesses companies, Vesuvius plc and the specialty entity to Innogy plc which in 2000 was 2009 to 2010 and CEO of BP Lubricants chemicals company, Alent plc.
Nick was demerged from National Power, restructured Americas 2007 to 2009.
He joined BP after formerly executive vice-president of Alstom and then sold to RWE, the German electricity it acquired Burmah-Castrol in 2000, having S. A. and chief executive of Babcock and gas company.
He was also a member of joined the latter in 1994 after roles at Reckitt International Group plc.
He held other senior the RWEs executive committee.
Before this, Benckiser and Kraft Foods.
Paul holds a BSc management positions at GEC and GEC he spent 16 years at BP in downstream degree in Packaging Engineering from Alsthom and the China Light and Power international markets.
Andrew was a nonMichigan State University and an MBA in Company.
Nick served as a non-executive executive director of Wolseley plc, the Finance and International Business from New director of United Utilities plc from 2005 to international plumbing and building materials York University, Stern School of Business.
2014, where he was also senior independent company, between 2004 and 2013, where he director from 2007 onwards.
Nick holds a Nationality was also the senior independent director and degree in Mechanical Engineering and is a American chairman of the remuneration committee.
fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering.
Andrew holds a BSc Honours degree in Committee membership Mechanical Engineering and is a fellow of the A, N, R Energy Institute.
External appointments Committee membership Non-executive director of Interserve plc from N August 2014, chairman of the remuneration External appointments committee June 2018 and member of the Non-executive chairman of Severn Trent plc audit and nomination committees from July 2010 and chairman of the Independent chairman of South East Water nominations committee and member of the Limited from April 2015 corporate responsibility committee and RALPH HEWINS Nationality remuneration committee CFO British Member of the CBI Presidents Committee Trustee of Macmillan Cancer Support Ralph was appointed CFO-Designate and Nationality Executive Director on 12 September 2016 and British became the Elementis Group CFO on 1 November 2016.
Skills, experience and contribution Ralph is an accomplished CFO who has a strong track record in finance, strategy development and implementation, and M&A which enables him to provide effective financial leadership to underpin the delivery of the Reignite Growth strategy.
Ralph had a 30 year career with BP, where he held a number of significant leadership positions, including roles in financial management, sales and marketing, corporate development, M&A, strategy and planning.
In 2010, Ralph was CFO of BP Lubricants and served on the board of Castrol India Limited from 2010 until 2016.
Ralph holds an MA degree in Modern History and Economics from the University of Oxford and an MBA from INSEAD.
Key A Member of Audit Committee Nationality N Member of Nomination Committee British R Member of Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Committee 62 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION bodies on a wide range of strategic, operational and policy issues.
Sandra has held other non-executive and advisory appointments with the Institute of International Finance, the McKinsey Master Retirement Trust and the Edith Wharton Restoration.
Sandra has a BA degree in American Studies and Economics from Stanford University and an MBA degree STEVE GOOD ANNE HYLAND from Harvard Business School.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Committee membership A, N, R Steve was appointed a Non-Executive Director Anne was appointed a Non-Executive Director External appointments on 20 October 2014 and became Chairman of on 1 June 2013 and became Chairman of the External member of the Bank of Englands the Remuneration Committee on 25 April 2017.
Prudential Regulation Committee from Skills, experience and contribution Skills, experience and contribution September 2014 and an independent Steve has strong and relevant international Anne brings significant financial, internal member of its RTGS CHAPS board which experience in specialty chemicals businesses, controls, audit and tax expertise to the Board oversees the UKs high value payment manufacturing and diverse industrial markets which enables her to be effective in her role as system, chair of the RTGS CHAPS board risk which enables him to provide guidance and Audit Committee chair.
Annes background with committee and member of the RTGS renewal challenge to management.
Steves involvement global companies enables her to effectively committee with remuneration committees in other contribute in the context of Elementis existing A non-executive director of Enstar Group organisations enable him to provide judgement markets and new business opportunities.
Limited from November 2015, chairman of and knowledge of topical remuneration matters in the risk committee and a member of the Anne is currently CFO of Kymab Group Ltd, his capacity as Remuneration Committee chair.
compensation and nominating committees a bio-pharmaceutical company funded by the Steve was chief executive of Low & Bonar plc Wellcome Trust and the Bill & Melinda Gates Nationality between September 2009 and September Foundation.
Prior to her current executive role, British American 2014.
Prior to that role, he was managing she was CFO and company secretary of both director of its technical textiles division between BBI Diagnostics Group Ltd and Vectura Group 2006 and 2009, director of new business plc.
Previous senior finance positions held between 2005 and 2006, and managing include director of corporate finance at, the director of its plastics division between 2004 then FTSE 100, Celltech Group plc, Medeva plc and 2005.
Prior to joining Low & Bonar, he and KPMG.
Anne holds a degree in Business spent 10 years with BTP plc now part of Studies from Trinity College, Dublin and is a Clariant in a variety of leadership positions chartered accountant FCA and a corporate managing international specialty chemicals tax adviser CTA-AITI.
Steve served as non-executive Committee membership director and chairman of the remuneration DOROTHEE DEURING A, N committee of Cape plc from July 2015 to NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR September 2017 and non-executive director of External appointments Anglian Water Services and member of the Non-executive director of Clinigen Group plc Dorothee was appointed a Non-Executive audit committee, nomination committee and from January 2018 and chairman of the Director on 1 March 2017. remuneration committee from April 2015 to audit committee October 2018.
CFO of Kymab Group Ltd from March 2015 Skills, experience and contribution Dorothee provides the Board with valuable Nationality Steve holds a degree in Economics and insight into the wider European chemicals Irish Financial Management from Sheffield sector as well as sector specific acquisition University.
Committee membership Dorothee manages her own corporate advisory R, N consultancy serving a number of European clients in the pharma biotech sector.
She is External appointments active in various industry bodies.
Her previous Non-executive chairman of Zotefoams plc executive roles included managing director and non-executive director from October 2014 head of Corporate Advisory Group Europe at and chairman from April 2016 and chairman UBS in Zurich, head of M&A chemicals and of the nomination committee and member of healthcare at a private investment bank in the remuneration committee SANDRA BOSS Germany and as a senior executive in the Non-executive director of Dialight plc from NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR corporate finance department at the Roche June 2018 and member of the nominations Group.
Dorothee holds a masters degree in committee and remuneration committee Chemistry from the Universit Louis Pasteur, Sandra was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Low & Bonar Pension Trustee Ltd Strasbourg and an MBA from INSEAD.
Director on 1 February 2017. from July 2018 Committee membership Skills, experience and contribution Nationality A, N, R Sandra brings strategic advisory and corporate British finance experience gained as a consultant to External appointments complex global companies on transformational Non-executive director of the supervisory change.
Her contribution in financial markets board of Bilfinger SE from May 2016 and alongside risk management in regulated member of the audit committee industries provides the Board with valuable Non-executive director of Rchling Group SE insight.
from May 2016 Non-executive director of AXPO Holding AG Sandra was a senior partner at McKinsey & from March 2017 Company from 2005 to 2014 and a partner from 2000, where she specialised in Nationality investment banking and risk, and held several Austrian senior management positions in the United Kingdom and the United States.
At McKinsey, Sandra acted as an adviser to global financial institutions, corporates and public sector 63 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
