LEADERSHIP GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK THE BOARD The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for the delivery of long term value and success and provides effective challenge and support to management in relation to the execution of strategy, whilst ensuring the Group maintains an effective risk management and internal controls system.
Further information on the Boards focus and activities during 2018 can be found on page 68.
Board Committees AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE The Audit Committee monitors The Remuneration Committee The Nomination Committee is the integrity of the Groups is responsible for setting the responsible for the structure, financial statements, the remuneration policy and size and composition of the systems of internal control and determines the reward Board ensuring that the Board risk management and the structure for the Chairman, and Committees have the relationships with our internal Executive Directors and ELT correct balance of skills, and external auditors.
to align their remuneration knowledge and experience.
with the long term interests This Committee ensures and of the Company.
oversees succession planning and has responsibility for the annual review of Board effectiveness.
FOR MORE FOR MORE FOR MORE INFORMATION PLEASE INFORMATION PLEASE INFORMATION PLEASE SEE PAGES 73 AND 76 SEE PAGES 78 AND 92 SEE PAGE 72 Associated documents The Matters Reserved for the Board and terms of reference for the Committees can be found on the corporate website: elementisplc.
com 66 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION BOARD COMPOSITION Composition of the Board CHAIRMAN Andrew Duff The Chairman leads the Board and is responsible for its Chairman 12.5% leadership, setting its agenda, monitoring its effectiveness and ensuring good governance.
Andrew facilitates open, honest and constructive debate during meetings and guides the CEO and CFO in their delivery of the Reignite Growth strategy.
Non-Executive Directors 62.5% Andrew ensures effective communication with our shareholders and that the Board is aware of the views of major shareholders.
Executive Directors 25% CEO Paul Waterman The CEO is responsible for the day-to-day management of the business and the execution of strategy and operational performance.
Paul is supported by the ELT for the delivery Gender diversity of both functional and business targets CFO Female 37.5% Ralph Hewins The CFO is responsible for supporting the CEO in the delivery of the Companys strategy.
Ralph leads the Group Finance function and is responsible for financial reporting, investor Male 62.5% relations, IT and tax matters.
SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Nick Salmon The Senior Independent Director acts as a sounding board Length of tenure to the Chairman and leads the performance evaluation of the Chairman.
3 to 6 years 50% INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Sandra Boss, Dorothee Deuring, Steve Good and Anne Hyland The independent Non-Executive Directors provide independent oversight and constructive challenge to the Executive Directors.
They bring an independent judgement Less than 3 years 50% to bear on matters of strategy, performance and resources, including key appointments and behaviours.
COMPANY SECRETARY Laura Higgins The Company Secretary supports the Chairman in ensuring Board skills and experience the Board operates efficiently and effectively.
Laura provides the Board with advice on governance developments and is Manufacturing 62.5% responsible for the flow of information to the Board and induction and training needs.
Chemicals 37.5% Finance investment 50.0% Global markets 37.5% Average age of the Board 56 Nationality 67 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 LEADERSHIP CONTINUED The Boards focus in 2018 was as follows: Operational Shareholders, Finance matters Reignite Growth performance stakeholders strategy and governance Working capital Regular CEO reports Investor relations reports, Financial performance optimisation programme roadshows and other reports and forecasts Health, safety and investor meetings and environment reports Dividend policy, Global Coatings strategy feedback distributable reserves India and South East Asia Group insurance AGM and GM preparation and recommendation including the investment programme of payment case for a site in India Corporate broker review Group risk review Treasury and hedging Disposal of the Surfactants including Brexit plans Board effectiveness reports business and Jersey City evaluation Annual operating plan site Approval of financial People strategy including Hurricane Florence impact Strategic reviews of statements for full and half talent management, at Castle Hayne Personal Care, Energy, year and Q1 and Q3 succession planning, GDPR implementation and Chromium and Coatings trading statements values and culture updates Tax strategy including M&A updates including a Updates on the revised UK position on EU state aid series of meetings focused Corporate Governance on the acquisition of Code Triennial pension valuation Mondo and associated updates Modern Slavery Statement financing Annual operating plan Litigation and compliance Three year plan reports IT strategy including cyber Directors duties training security and digital Updates from Committee Strategic review of Dental chairs business BOARD ACTIVITIES ROLE OF THE BOARD IN THE ACQUISITION OF MONDO The Board has a formal programme of activities that are The Board had a valuable and important contribution to play undertaken at scheduled meetings throughout the year which in the consideration of the investment and strategic rationale, is supplemented by ad hoc meetings and conference calls, diligence process and key findings, valuation considerations, as and when appropriate.
financial impact, process timeline, financing and shareholder engagement strategy.
The Board receives updates on the business, financial, operational, governance, compliance, HSE performance and investor engagement at each of its formal meetings.
The Board welcomes the ELT attending Board meetings and receives presentations from their relevant business and functional areas.
During 2018, the majority of Board meetings took place in London.
A meeting was held at the management headquarters in New Jersey, US, where a townhall lunch provided the Board the opportunity to meet with a cross-section of employees.
Scheduled Board meetings Additional Mondo acquisition meetings 8 12 68 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Board activities timeline Board meeting Board meeting Prospectus and Non-executive shareholder only meeting Investor feedback Interim results circular published review Chairman and Board meeting investor meetings Mondo acquisition update Shareholder consultation on 2018 interim remuneration results announced policy Investor roadshow 2018 JAN FEB APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC MAR Board meeting Shareholder Visit to US meeting approval headquarters and of Mondo townhall lunch with acquisition Board meeting Board meeting employees Board meeting Full year results Global Coatings Strategic updates review strategic review Board evaluation of Personal Care, Board meetings Q1 trading update 2017 full year Energy, Chromium Three year plan Board meeting relating to announced results announced Mondo acquisition acquisition of Q3 trading update Annual operating Investor roadshow AGM announced Mondo announced plan BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE DURING 2018 INDEPENDENCE OF THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS During the year, there were eight scheduled Board meetings.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors is considered independent There were 12 additional meetings in respect of the acquisition in character and judgement.
The Chairman was considered of Mondo.
Directors attendance at scheduled Board meetings independent on appointment and the Board confirms that he was as follows: remains effective.
Further information can be found in the Nomination Committee report on page 72.
Director Board meeting CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Andrew Duff 8 8 The Board operates a policy to identify and, when appropriate, Paul Waterman 8 8 manage actual or potential conflicts of interest affecting Ralph Hewins 8 8 Directors.
Sandra Boss 7 8 Directors are required to seek Board approval for any actual Dorothee Deuring 8 8 or potential conflicts of interest.
Any conflicts of interest are Steve Good 8 8 considered by the Board, at each meeting, and are reviewed throughout the year.
Anne Hyland 8 8 Nick Salmon 8 8 Ralph Hewins is in receipt of a conflict authorisation from the Company in respect of him acting as a trustee of the Elementis Sandra Boss was unable to attend the July 2018 meeting due to Group Pension Scheme.
Further detail can be found in the an illness.
INSURANCE The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance, which gives appropriate cover for legal action brought against its Directors.
69 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 EFFECTIVENESS BOARD INDUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION FLOW The Chairman, with the support of the Company Secretary, The Chairman and Company Secretary ensure that the Directors is responsible for preparing and coordinating an appropriate receive clear and timely information on all relevant matters.
induction programme for newly appointed Directors.
The Board papers are circulated in a timely manner in advance of programme includes meeting members of the ELT and meetings to ensure that there is adequate time for them to be corporate advisers and tailored training on the duties and read and to facilitate robust and informed discussion.
A fully responsibilities of a Director of a UK listed company.
The encrypted electronic Board portal is used to distribute Board Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to visit Group and Committee papers and to provide efficient distribution of manufacturing sites to enable them to gain a greater business updates and other resources to the Board.
understanding of the Groups activities and to meet people across the business.
The Board agreed to postpone site visits BOARD EVALUATION in 2018 to focus on the acquisition of Mondo and a programme Process of visits is being scheduled for 2019.
During 2018, Manchester Square Partners MSP were engaged to conduct this years external evaluation in accordance with the BOARD TRAINING AND INDEPENDENT ADVICE Code.
The last external review was carried out in 2015.
Following All Directors have access to the advice and services of the consultation with the Chairman and the Company Secretary, the Company Secretary and may take independent professional review process took place from September to December 2018, advice, as appropriate, at the expense of the Company.
taking into account the conclusion of the Mondo acquisition.
Directors are given the opportunity throughout the year to MSP had access to Board and Committee papers for the prior undertake training and attend seminars as necessary to keep year and observed a Board meeting and Audit Committee their skills and knowledge up to date.
Individual interviews were conducted with the Board, supports the Chairman in ensuring that the Board and Board the Company Secretary and the CHRO.
Committees operate within the governance framework and that communication and information flows within the Board and its The outcome of the evaluation was presented for discussion Committees and between management and Non-Executive in December 2018.
Further information can be found below Directors remain effective.
BOARD, COMMITTEE AND DIRECTORS PERFORMANCE EVALUATION CYCLE IN 2018 Year 1 2018 An externally facilitated evaluation was carried out by MSP.
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Following a tender process Interviews were conducted MSP prepared a report which The report and findings were by the Nomination with all Directors, the detailed their findings on the presented and discussed Committee, MSP who has Company Secretary and overall effectiveness of the with the Board.
The Board no other connection with the the CHRO.
subsequently agreed on the Company were development areas for 2019 recommended to the MSP had access to the which are outlined overleaf.
Board and Committee papers for the prior year and The Chairman and Company observed a Board and Audit Secretary were consulted Committee meeting.
to ensure that the review process would be in line with Code requirements and best practice as well as draw out themes specific to the Company.
Years 2 and 3 Following consultation with the Chairman, an internal questionnaire is developed with facilitation of the process carried out by the Company Secretary.
70 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Review The review covered the following themes: Challenges Values and Strategy and risks culture Board Board effectiveness Committees role and review dynamics Leadership Governance Composition Engagement Outcome 2.
Investor engagement consider the strategy and approach The comprehensive review concluded that the Board and for engaging with the investment community following the its Committees continue to function and operate well and acquisition of Mondo and enhancing overall understanding confirmed that the Board environment is open, inclusive, of the business.
The Board continues to provide good leadership and support to the business.
Talent management and succession continue to develop Board exposure to up and coming talent below ELT level.
At the December Board meeting, the Board agreed on some areas for further improvement as follows: 4.
L everaging Board skills and experience consider ways to identify how the skills and experiences of the Non-Executive 1.
R isk management as the business continues to evolve to Directors can be better leveraged to support the Executive ensure that the quality of risk management and compliance Directors and the broader organisation.
reporting to the Board is improved in line with emerging risks as and when they arise.
Theme 2018 findings Strategy Over and above the strategy focused meeting in the US, there has been regular ongoing review and debate throughout the year with strategic topics featuring on each Board agenda.
Challenges and Board members share a consistent view of the key challenges and risks facing the business.
Sufficient time risks is devoted to discussion of risk.
Values and culture The Board utilises site visits to feel and test culture and behaviours throughout all levels of the organisation.
The Board continue to enhance their understanding of culture and values at Board level.
Board role and Under the leadership of the Chairman, the Board provides valuable advice, support and challenge.
The dynamics Board environment is open and inclusive and enables Board members to effectively contribute to Board discussions.
Engagement The Board are diligent, engaged and demonstrate enthusiasm for their individual and collective roles.
Composition The Board has relevant diversity of experience, expertise and skills.
The Committees are well chaired and operate well.
The Board has evolved under the Chairmans leadership: there are no pressing succession plans to consider.
Governance Board processes are effective, thorough and efficient.
The quality of Board papers and financial reporting have improved.
Leadership The relationships between the Chairman, CEO and CFO are strong and effective with regular dialogue on all sides.
Committees The Committees are well chaired and operate well.
The main Board operates as a valuable mechanism to appropriately inform and involve Directors who are not members of a particular Committee.
71 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
