CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT COMMITTED TO THE HIGHEST STANDARDS The Company and the Group are committed to high standards of corporate governance to underpin the business through a period of high growth.
PETER JOHNSON CHAIRMAN Dear fellow shareholder Board development On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our corporate During the year, we said farewell to Paul Hollingworth and governance reports for 2018.
I would like to thank him for his outstanding performance as Audit Committee Chairman over the last nine years.
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance to underpin the business through a period of Our two most recent Non-Executive Director appointments, high growth and change.
The Board is accountable to the Simon Pryce appointed in September 2016 and Louisa Burdett Companys shareholders and actively engages in two-way appointed in February 2017, are settling in well and greatly communication with them.
During the year management held adding to the breadth of skills on the Board with their combined numerous face-to-face meetings and invited shareholders experience in mergers and acquisitions, listed companies and to presentations on both the Groups financial results and financial management.
elements of its strategy, including meeting with analysts and investors during a visit to our US business.
I also had a number Evaluation of meetings with shareholders, whilst John Pattullo, our Senior We continuously evaluate the balance of skills, experience, Independent Director SID, had introductory meetings with knowledge and independence of the Directors.
In line with our larger shareholders.
Code requirements, we carried out an externally facilitated Board evaluation last year, and this year the Company As a UK-listed company, we are required to explain how we Secretary carried out an internal evaluation.
The results and have applied the main principles set out in the UK Corporate recommendations of the internal review are discussed in detail Governance Code Code and whether the Company has later in this report, together with progress made on last years complied with the relevant provisions throughout the financial external evaluation.
This report explains how we have applied the Code during the year and confirms our compliance.
Peter Johnson Chairman Looking ahead 23 May 2018 This year has been a period of further development of the business with strong growth and changes continuing to be made throughout the organisation.
The markets in which we operate continue to evolve rapidly and we must continue to adapt to these changes if our aspirations for the Group are to be met.
Our ability to do so securely is supported by our commitment to strengthen continuously our robust corporate governance framework.
Further details of the Companys strategy can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 47.
50 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Code During the year ended 31 March 2018, the Company The sections within this Corporate Governance Report explain has been subject to the provisions of the Code published how the Main Principles of the Code have been applied.
The Code is publicly available at www.
The information required by the Code on Directors There are five main sections of the Code covering: accountability, our process for the appointment of Leadership Directors including our approach to diversity and our report on Directors remuneration, can be found in the Effectiveness following sections: Accountability Audit Committee Report on page 56 Remuneration Nomination Committee Report on page 62 Relations with shareholders Directors Remuneration Report on page 64 Setting the Groups values and standards The Board Role, effectiveness and composition On the advice of the Nomination Committee, reviewing The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the succession plans for the Board and Senior Management Team long-term success of the Company.
The Board has carefully Evaluating Group and subsidiary performance and considered the guidance criteria regarding the composition reviewing forecasts of the Board under the Code.
In the opinion of the Board, the Chairman and all the Non-Executive Directors bring Further details of the outcome of Board discussions regarding independence of judgement and character, a wealth of the above can be found in the Strategic Report.
experience and knowledge, the appropriate balance of The Board is fully committed to diversity of gender, ethnicity, skills, and assign sufficient time to enable them to effectively race and nationality throughout the organisation and ensures carry out their responsibilities and duties to the Board and it considers candidates from all such backgrounds when to the Committees on which they sit.
They are sufficiently appointing new Board members.
Further details of our independent of management and are free from any other approach to diversity in relation to appointments across circumstances or relationships that could interfere with the Group and at Board level can be found in the Our People the exercise of their judgement.
section on pages 42 and 43 and the Nomination Committee Biographical details of the Directors standing for re-election Report on pages 62 and 63 respectively.
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM are Committees set out on pages 48 and 49 and in the Notice of Meeting.
The Board has a number of standing committees consisting These set out their skills and experience, details of roles of certain Directors and, in the case of the Treasury Committee, and tenure, together with details of their membership of certain senior managers to whom specific responsibilities have Board Committees.
been delegated, and for which written terms of reference have The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its been agreed.
These terms of reference can be found in the approval which includes responsibility for: corporate governance section of our website.
A verbal update on the proceedings from each Committee meeting is provided The review and approval of the Groups long-term strategy to the Board by the Chair of the relevant Committee.
Board and its budgetary and business plans members can also request presentations or reports on areas The review and approval of major investment proposals of interest.
and capital expenditure The performance of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Major changes to the Groups corporate structure Committees are assessed annually as part of the evaluation including acquisitions or disposals process described later in this report.
Further details of the The approval of full-year and half-year results and trading work, composition, role and responsibilities of the Audit, updates, including the review and approval of the going Nomination and Remuneration Committees are provided concern basis of accounting and the viability assessment in separate reports on pages 56 to 78.
The approval of the Groups dividend policy and the payment Effective division of responsibilities and Board operation and recommendation of interim and final dividends The roles of Chairman and CEO are held by different The review and approval of the Groups tax strategy individuals.
The division of responsibilities between the Ensuring the operation and maintenance of the Groups Chairman and CEO has been clearly established: their systems of risk management, internal control and responsibilities are set out in writing and have been corporate governance agreed by the Board.
Further information on the division of responsibilities between the Board members is available Reviewing health and safety performance across the Group in the corporate governance section of our website.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 Electrocomponents plc51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Information and development At each Board meeting: Training and induction The CEO presents a comprehensive update on the business Directors are encouraged to update and refresh their skills, issues across the Group knowledge and familiarity with the Group by attending The Group Finance Director GFD presents a detailed external seminars and briefings, through participation at analysis of the financial performance, as well as reports meetings and through visits to operating units, both in the on investor relations and feedback from investors UK and overseas, as well as by receiving presentations from management.
Appropriate and relevant training course details Updates on any relevant strategic matters are also are circulated by the Company Secretary who also shares with presented.
Members of the Senior Management Team the Board a record of training courses attended by individual and other managers attend relevant parts of Board Directors.
During the year, training on such subjects as meetings inorder to make presentations on their areas leadership development and cyber risk were attended.
of responsibility, provide updates on developments and This isinaddition to the access that every Director has changes to the business to the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary presents a report on key regulatory, compliance and legal issues that affect the Group Board Committees and Directors are given access to independent professional advice at the Groups expense Updates from the Chairs of the Committees of the Board if they deem it necessary in order for them to carry out their are given if applicable responsibilities.
Specific training provided to the Board during Updates on performance against certain metrics are the year included updates regarding corporate governance received, enabling the Board to understand how we perform matters, data protection and the business approach to with our customers and how the customer journey is evolving managing cyber risk including associated system and Between Board meetings, Directors meet from time to time with business controls and a report on the Groups corporate members of the Senior Management Team and are provided responsibility activity.
The Board was also given online training with information in a timely manner on matters affecting the on the risk of phishing emails and the Market Abuse Regulation.
A tailored induction programme is provided for each new Further information relating to the activities of the Board Director.
Further details of our induction programme can duringthe year is available in the corporate governance be found in the Nomination Committee Report on page 62. section of our website.
Board meetings The table below sets out the number of meetings of the Board Directors receive a pack of relevant and timely information and the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees on the matters to be discussed for each Board and during the year and individual attendance by the relevant Committee meeting.
members at these meetings, demonstrating commitment to their role as Directors of the Company.
The Board normally meets eight times during the year and supplementary meetings of the Board are held when necessary.
Number of meetings held during the year 2018 Scheduled Unscheduled Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee 1 Bertrand Bodson 8 8 3 4 5 5 5 5 Louisa Burdett 8 8 4 4 5 5 5 5 David Egan 8 8 - Karen Guerra 8 8 4 4 5 5 5 5 2 Paul Hollingworth 3 3 2 2 2 2 2 2 Peter Johnson 8 8 5 5 John Pattullo 8 8 4 4 5 5 5 5 Simon Pryce 8 8 4 4 5 5 5 5 Lindsley Ruth 8 8 - 1.
Bertrand Bodson attended one day Strategy Review of a two-day meeting due to his new role at Novartis.
Paul Hollingworth resigned from the Company as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee with effect from 20 July 2017.
52 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board evaluation Last year we undertook an external evaluation and we appointed Constal Limited to carry out this exercise for us.
This year we carried out an internal evaluation of the Board, facilitated by the Company Secretary and followed up by one-to-one meetings by the Chairman with each Director.
The Board recognises the benefit of a full evaluation of its performance and we believe it provides fresh insight and objectivity to its Committees and Directors, enabling it to improve its leadership, effectiveness and focus.
Evaluation process 1 2 3 4 The Chairman and The Company Secretary The Company Secretary The Company Secretary Company Secretary prepared a questionnaire analysed the responses presented the reports discussed and agreed the which was sent to Board and prepared separate of the findings and scope of the evaluation.
reports of the findings recommendations to Feedback from Board for the Chairman, the SID the Board and each of its members was provided and the Chairs of each Committees.
These reports on a no-name basis.
Committee identifying were then discussed and strengths, challenges any relevant actions were and priorities.
The SID agreed for the year ahead.
analysed the responses The SID also discussed relating to the Company the feedback on the Secretary.
A number of Chairman and the recommendations were Company Secretary also included for discussion with the other Directors.
by the Board and each of its Committees.
The aim of the questionnaire sent to Board members was to In addition, the Chairman held one-to-one meetings with obtain views on certain key corporate governance areas as each of the Directors covering the themes outlined above, well as to gauge its own effectiveness.
It also gave members the dynamics of the Board, and the training and development an opportunity to say candidly what they thought: what was needs of the Directors, as well as any other areas of concern.
being done well and what needed to be improved.
Views were In relation to the performance of the Chairman, in addition also sought on the Chairman and SID and the workings of to the questionnaire completed by all members of the Board, the Committees of the Board.
the SID had discussions with the CEO and GFD, and provided feedback to the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors The questionnaire included issues such as: accordingly.
It was agreed that the Company Secretary Effectiveness of Board and Committee meetings, including will also continue to seek regular feedback from the individual team dynamics Directors.
The SID also had a meeting with the Company Secretary to discuss his feedback.
Contributions of the Board and its Committees The overall results of this years evaluation were positive Relationships with Senior Management Team around the and there was a consensus about the challenges ahead direction and values of the organisation and the and the areas of focus for the Board.
It was noted that the decision-making process Board members identified that early engagement between Delivery of strategy against performance measures the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors was Boards understanding of the Companys change journey key to maintaining the existing good progress.
and developing culture Risk management Training and development Shareholder and stakeholder communications Succession and talent management Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 Electrocomponents plc53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Evaluation outputs The actions taken during the year as a result of last years external evaluation, together with areas of focus for the coming year arising from this years internal evaluation, are outlined below.
Outputs from last years external evaluation Outputs from this years internal evaluation and actions taken during the year The Board agreed that more time was needed to be spent As a result of this years evaluation, it was agreed that on the Groups strategy and the organisational structure the following would be focused on by the Board, or its to support it.
In addition, there needed to be more Committees, during the coming year: understanding around growth opportunities, the industry, The development of the next stage of the strategy competition and market dynamics.
Actions included: and organisational capability Time management: more time allowed for significant Cyber risk and technology approach agenda items, as well as providing better and more Succession planning for members of the Board focused pre-read, allowing discussion to be more focused including future capabilities and skills to support standard format introduced.
Strategic items and reviews the growth of the business are now regular items on Board agendas Development of the organisations talent Digital capabilities: more digital and innovation items are now discussed at Board level Succession plans talent development: these items, also including diversity, are discussed not only at Board level but also by the Nomination Committee taking on more of a monitoring role.
This is providing better visibility of succession plans for both Executive Directors and the Senior Management Team Director re-election Internal control and risk management Notwithstanding the provisions of the Companys Articles, The Board is responsible for the effectiveness of the Groups all Directors are required to retire and stand for re-election system of internal control, which has been designed and at each AGM, in compliance with the Code.
implemented to meet the particular requirements of the Groupand the risks to which it is exposed.
The Group has The Board has a broad range of skills and experience and works anestablished and ongoing process of risk management together effectively as evidenced throughout this Annual Report andinternal control, which was continuously monitored and and Accounts.
The Board, following its evaluation process, developed during the year under review and up to the date also considers that the performance of all the Directors who ofapproval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
are nominated for re-election continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to their role, and therefore The Board carries out its own review of the risk management recommends that they be re-elected at this years AGM.
process, this is in addition to the reviews carried out by the Audit Committee.
Further details of the Audit Committees process are given in the Audit Committee Report on pages 56 to 61 andin the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 47.
The Groups internal control system can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Going concern and viability The Boards statements on going concern and long-term viability can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 34 and 35, together with an analysis of the Companys principal risks anduncertainties on pages 36 and 37.
54 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Relations with shareholders This year we also took the step of inviting a shareholder to The Company encourages two-way communication with one of our Board meetings, with the aim being to provide the both institutional and private investors.
The Annual Report Board with a shareholder perspective of the market and how and Accounts is sent to all shareholders who wish to receive the Group is perceived.
It is also available on the Companys website, which Investor relations activity during the year included: additionally contains up-to-date information on the Groups activities and published financial results and presentations.
Introductory meeting between the SID and larger shareholders Face-to-face meetings and telephone briefings for analysts, The Board ensures that regular and useful dialogue is investors and potential investors in the UK, US and Europe, maintained with shareholders.
The AGM is used as an covering the vast majority of shareholdings additional opportunity for the Chairman and other Board members to meet with shareholders and investors and gives Face-to-face presentations of full-year and half-year results them the opportunity to ask questions.
Final voting results are Recorded webcasts and presentations available on the published through a Regulatory Information Service and on corporate website the Companys website following the AGM.
The AGM where each member of the Board is available to Executive Directors have frequent discussions with institutional answer questions shareholders on a range of issues affecting the Groups Meetings between the Chairman and shareholders performance, which include meetings following the Periodically, shareholders were invited to visit our announcements of the full-year and half-year results.
At these variousoperations meetings the Executive Directors meet with major shareholders to discuss performance, strategy and governance.
Board activity During the year, the Board visited both our US and UK The GFD and Head of Investor Relations regularly report to the operations in Texas and Corby respectively.
During the Board on investor relations, including reports compiled by the visit to our US site, the Board met with the local management Companys brokers containing feedback from institutional team and also had a tour of the warehouse.
This ensures that the views of shareholders are site visit, the Board saw demonstrations on our technology communicated to the Board.
truck, Titan II, and also spent time with the various teams in Corby including customer services, sales, digital marketing and operations, finance and product management.
Our Executive Directors also visited the US, where they met with both analysts and key investors and our GFD also hosted an investor tour of our UK operations.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 Electrocomponents plc55
