BOARD OF DIRECTORS OUR BOARD We have strong international diversity at Board level, reflecting the global nature of our business, and we have a wealth of experience and knowledge, and the appropriate balance of skills.
Peter Johnson Lindsley Ruth David Egan John Pattullo Bertrand Bodson Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Senior Independent Independent Officer Director Director Non-Executive Director Joined in October 2010 Joined in April 2015 Joined in March 2016 Joined in January 2013 Joined in June 2015 External roles External roles External roles External roles External roles Bertrand is Chief Digital Peter is Vice Chairman None.
John is Chairman of V Group.
Officer at Novartis of the Supervisory Board Past roles Past roles Past roles International AG.
Lindsley was Executive David was Group Finance John has been Chairman Past roles Vice President of the Director at Alent plc and of NHS Blood and Past roles Peter was Chairman Future Electronics Group he also held a variety of Transplant, Chair of In Bertrand has held a of DS Smith plc, a of companies, the fourth senior finance positions at Kind Direct, Non-Executive number of senior executive Non-Executive Director largest electronics ESAB Holdings and Hanson Chairman of Marken positions, including of SSL International plc, distributor in the world.
David was also a Group and on the Boards Chief Digital and Marketing Officer at Sainsburys Chief Executive of George He was a key member of Non-Executive Director of both GWI UK Acquisition Argos.
Prior to that Wimpey plc and Chief itscore leadership team.
of Tribal Group plc, Company Limited and he had leading global Executive of The Rugby Lindsley has also held and Chairman of its CEVA Group plc.
As a fullresponsibilities at Amazon Group plc.
senior positions with TTI Inc Audit Committee.
time executive, he served and EMI Music and was and Solectron Corporation.
as Chief Executive Officer Skills and experience Skills and experience co-founder CEO at of CEVA Logistics and Chief International operations Skills and experience Leadership Bragster, which is now part Executive Officer of the Emerging markets Management International operations of Guinness World Records.
He Mergers and acquisitions Leadership Emerging markets also ran the EMEA contract Distribution Mergers and acquisitions Current financial Skills and experience logistics business at DHL.
Sales and marketing International operations experience Digital He spent most of his early Manufacturing Emerging markets Distribution eCommerce career working in supply Service industry Distribution Manufacturing International operations chain management roles Chairman Sales and marketing Mergers and acquisitions Product development with Procter & Gamble.
Chief Executive Officer Manufacturing Service industry Sales and marketing Supply chain and Supply chain and logistics Skills and experience Committee membership procurement Committee membership International operations Committee membership Chairman of the Chairman of the Emerging markets Member of the Audit, Nomination Committee.
Supply chain and logistics Nomination and Member of the Manufacturing Remuneration Committees.
Service industry Chief Executive Officer Committee membership Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
48 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE Board composition Board tenure members GOVERNANCE REPORT PAGE 50 03 yrs 4 Female 2 36 yrs 3 Male 6 6 yrs 1 Louisa Burdett Karen Guerra Simon Pryce Ian Haslegrave Independent Independent Independent General Counsel Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive and Company Director Director Director Secretary Joined in February 2017 Joined in January 2013 Joined in September 2016 Joined in September 2006 External roles External roles External roles External roles None.
Karen is a Non-Executive Simon has been appointed None.
Director of Amcor Limited CEO of Ultra Electronics Past roles Past roles and Davide Holdings plc.
He is a Louisa was Group Finance Ian was International Campari-Milano S. p. A. member of the Council, Director at Victrex plc, LegalDirector at Viacom Chairman of the Investment Chief Financial Officer at Past roles Outdoor Limited.
Committee and a member Optos plc, Chief Financial Karen was a Non-Executive He has also worked of the Strategy and Officer at the Financial Director of Paysafe Group at United Biscuits Finance Committee of Times Group, and also plc, Non-Executive Director Limited and Freshfields The University of Reading.
held roles at Chep Europe, at Swedish Match AB, Bruckhaus Deringer.
a division of Brambles Ltd, Inchcape plc, More Group Past roles Skills and experience the Australian listed pallet plc and Samlerhuset Group Simon was Group Chief International operations distribution company, BV.
She has also held senior Executive at BBA Aviation Mergers and acquisitions GE Healthcare and executive positions at plc and held a range of Corporate law and GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Colgate-Palmolive, international finance and governance Louisa has also worked as including Managing management roles at GKN Risk management a mergers and acquisitions Director and Chairman plc, JP Morgan and Lazards Procurement consultant at Charterhouse of both their UK and in London and New York.
Manufacturing Bank and spent four years French businesses.
Skills and experience Service industry at KPMG in London.
Skills and experience Strategy Skills and experience International operations International operations Committee membership International operations Sales and marketing Emerging markets Member of the Treasury Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Committee.
Mergers and acquisitions Service industry Mergers and acquisitions Digital Integration Service industry Committee membership Strategic financing and Current financial Member of the Audit, capital markets experience Nomination and Leadership Remuneration Committees.
Service industry Committee membership Group Chief Executive Chair of the Audit Committee.
Member Committee membership of the Nomination and Member of the Audit, Remuneration Committees.
As advised in the Companys announcement on 23 March 2018, Simon Pryce will take over as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee from the close of the Annual General Meeting on 19 July 2018.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 Electrocomponents plc49
