Audit Committee Report Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the Audit Committee the Committee understanding and preparing for the introduction of IFRS 15 Report for the year ended 31 December 2018. and IFRS 16: During the year, Vicky Jarman stood down from the Committee reviewing the Groups accounting policies and public when she retired from the Board in May 2018 and we welcomed announcements with the intention to continuously improve the Alison Burns who was appointed to the Board and became a clarity and depth of disclosure where appropriate: and Committee member in April 2018.
Following a review of the reducing the number of overdue high-risk audit issues.
composition of all Board Committees in November, this resulted in Dr Tim Miller standing down from the Committee and Cheryl These are important to the business and good progress has been Millington and Mark Brooker being appointed.
I look forward made on them.
to working with Alison, Cheryl and Mark and would like to thank PRIORITIES FOR 2019 Vicky and Tim for their invaluable contributions to the Committee In addition to continuing to focus on the areas stated in the over the years.
paragraph above, we will focus on the implementation of During the year we also had a change in our PwC audit partner IFRS 16 to ensure that these are implemented smoothly.
We with Darren Meek being appointed.
The Committee undertook will also focus on ensuring that the Committee complies with its a rigorous selection process and are pleased to have Darren obligations under the new 2018 UK Corporate Governance code.
He brings a wealth of experience and we look I would like to thank my fellow Committee members, the finance forward to working with him.
and internal audit teams within the Group, and the team at PwC CHANGES IN FINANCIAL REPORTING for their work during the year.
Throughout the year there have been some significant changes in financial reporting in respect of the implementation of new International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS on Revenue Darren Pope from contracts with customers IFRS 15 and Financial Instruments Chair of the Audit Committee IFRS 9.
The Committee has reviewed the impact of the new standards on the 2018 financial statements and disclosures.
12 March 2019 In addition, the Committee has received training on key areas of revenue recognition that affect the Group and on the expected COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE impact of IFRS 16 Leases which is effective from 1 January 2019.
The Committee is made up exclusively of independent nonThe Committee has reviewed the findings of the Financial executive Directors.
The members of the Committee who served Reporting Councils thematic review for 2018 which was issued in during the year and as at the date of this report are shown in the November 2018 and focused on disclosures around IFRS 15, IFRS table below, together with their attendance at the six committee 9 and on reporting by smaller listed and AIM quoted companies.
meetings held during the year or those held during their tenure: A number of improvements in the Groups financial reporting disclosures were identified which have been implemented in Name Attended this Annual Report and Accounts including a reconciliation of cash from operations to working capital movements Committee Chair: Darren Pope 6 6 and an explanation of the changes made as a result of the 1 Alison Burns implementation of IFRS 15.
4 4 2 EFFECTIVENESS OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Mark Brooker 1 1 An external evaluation of the Committee was undertaken during Sally-Ann Hibberd 6 6 the year by Lintstock.
Details of the evaluation and its results can be found on page 69.
3,4 Vicky Jarman 1 2 PRIORITIES FOR 2018 2,4 Dr Tim Miller 4 5 In addition to its normal business undertaken throughout the year, the Committee spent time focusing on the following 2 Cheryl Millington 1 1 key areas: ensuring that the Group Internal Audit function is fully 1 Alison Burns was appointed to the Committee effective from 1 April 2018. resourced and has a clear mandate and methodology to 2 Mark Brooker and Cheryl Millington were appointed to, and Dr Tim Miller follow: stood down from, the Committee effective from 1 November 2018.
3 focusing on the integration of EQ US into the work of the Vicky Jarman stood down from the Committee effective from 3 May 2018.
4 Committee with a particular focus on the building of a US Vicky Jarman and Dr Tim Miller were each unable to attend one meeting internal audit team: due to illness.
72 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 GOVERNANCE The Committee acts independently of management and reports Financial Reporting and makes recommendations directly to the Board.
monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, including the annual and half-year results The Committee structure requires the inclusion of at least one announcements and other formal announcements relating to member with significant, recent and relevant financial experience its financial performance and positions: and competence in accounting or auditing or both.
The Committee Chair fulfilled this requirement during the year.
reviewing the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted throughout the period: The Committee structure also requires at least one member of the Committee to also be a member of the Companys Risk reporting to the Board on any significant financial issues and Committee.
Sally-Ann Hibberd is the Risk Committee Chair and judgements: Darren Pope and Cheryl Millington are also members of the Risk Committee.
This facilitates efficient cross-communication External Auditor between the two committees, which ensures that all audit and monitoring and overseeing the relationship with the external risk issues are addressed effectively.
auditor: All committee members are expected to be financially literate recommending the external auditor's appointment, and to have an understanding of the following areas: re-appointment and removal to the Board for approval by shareholders: key aspects of the Companys operations including corporate policies and the Groups internal control environment: ensuring that at least every ten years, in compliance with all relevant legislation, the external audit is put out to tender: the principles of, and developments in, financial reporting including the applicable financial reporting standards and reviewing and approving the annual audit and half-year review statements of recommended practice: plans: matters which may influence the presentation of the figures recommending the external auditors remuneration: and disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts: reviewing and approving the non-audit services policy and the role of internal and external auditors: and fees: the regulatory framework for the Companys business.
reviewing the effectiveness and objectivity of the audit process on an annual basis, including the quality control The Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the procedures and considering the expertise and resources of sectors in which the Company operates.
the external auditor: The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee and attends all meetings.
The Committee invites the Chief Financial Internal Control Officer, the Chief Executive, Group Chief Audit Executive and in conjunction with the Risk Committee reviewing the senior representatives of the external auditor to attend its adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal financial meetings in full, although it reserves its rights to request any of controls, and the whistleblowing policy: those individuals to withdraw.
Other senior managers are invited reviewing the manner in which management ensure and to present such reports as are required for the Committee to monitor the adequacy of the nature, extent and effectiveness discharge its duties.
of internal controls: The Committee has unrestricted access to Company documents and information, as well as to employees of the Company and ensuring that the review covers all material controls including the external auditor.
financial, operational, and compliance: During the year, the Committee met with the senior Internal Audit representatives of the external auditor, and also with the monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups Group Chief Audit Executive, without management and or any internal audit GIA function: executive member of the Board being present.
reviewing and approving the internal audit programme at Although it chose not to do so during 2018, the Committee least annually and when significant changes occur: may take independent professional advice on any matters covered by its Terms of Reference, a copy of which can be reviewing the GIA reports and procedures to ensure timely found in the investor section of the Companys website: http: implementation by management of audit recommendations: investors.
com investors shareholder-services corporateapproving the charter of the GIA function and ensuring governance the function has the necessary resources and access to ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE information to enable it to fulfil its mandate, and is equipped In accordance with its Terms of Reference, the Committee to perform to appropriate professional standards for internal provides an independent overview of the effectiveness of auditors: and the internal financial control systems and financial reporting monitoring the working relationship, co-ordination and processes.
Its responsibilities include: exchange of information between the external and internal audit teams ensuring there are no inappropriate restrictions.
73 COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES DURING 2018 The Committee met on six occasions during the year.
At those meetings, the Committee carried out its remit which primarily included the following: February March June reviewed the GIA quarterly report: reviewed the GIA assurance reviewed the GIA quarterly report: report on the internal control approved the internal audit plan approved the annual update to environment, covering internal for 2019: the internal audit charter: audit, risk and compliance, and financial operations: reviewed and approved the new reviewed arrangements for client GIA methodology and quality disbursement accounts: reviewed and approved the assurance programme: draft viability and going concern reviewed the external auditors approved the internal audit statements for inclusion within half-year review plan: and resource plan, including the 2017 Annual Report and reviewed the report on the developing the team: Accounts: effectiveness of the external reviewed the whistleblowing approved the significant auditor.
policy and report: judgements statement in the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts: reviewed the independence and reviewed the external auditors objectivity of the external auditor: report for the 2017 financial year: approved the exemption of audits for certain subsidiary companies reviewed the 2017 Annual Report under s479 of the Company Act and Accounts, including the 2006 and UK GAAP FRS101: financial statements, disclosures and notes and recommended reviewed the key judgements their approval to the Board: and for the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts: reviewed the Committees Terms of Reference.
reviewed the progress made in producing the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts: and reviewed a initial report from the external auditor on the progress of the 2017 audit.
74 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 July September November reviewed an update to the GIA reviewed the GIA quarterly report: reviewed the GIA quarterly report: quarterly report: received an update on the received an update from the reviewed an update on the GIA integration of EQ US: and GIA and management on the quality assurance programme: compliance of technology received training on: infrastructure: undertook a mid-year review of IFRS 15 Revenue Recognition: approved the 2019 internal audit the 2018 internal audit plan: IFRS 16 Lease Accounting: and a technical update from PwC plan: approved the payment practices on corporate governance, the report: received an update on the Committees responsibilities, integration of EQ US: and Audit Committee best reviewed the key management practice.
judgements on the interim reviewed the external auditors financial reporting: year-end audit plan including the acceleration of certain areas reviewed the Groups accounting of work so they were completed policies and disclosures for in advance of the balance sheet interim financial report: date: reviewed the external auditors reviewed the Companys year-end interim review report: and audit readiness plan: reviewed the half-year received an accounting policy results announcement and update on non-operating costs recommended its approval to the and contract renewal: and Board.
reviewed the Companys approach to IFRS 15 and the controls in place to manage compliance with this standard.
75 SIGNIFICANT JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES RELATING TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In considering the financial results contained in the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts, the Committee reviewed the significant judgements and estimates made by management to determine those results.
These are set out in the following table: AREA OF FOCUS WHY WAS THIS SIGNIFICANT?
HOW DID THE COMMITTEE ADDRESS THIS?
Capitalisation The Group has invested in software development Management presented the accounting of software relating to its acquisition of EQ US.
Sirius, the UK judgements relating to the capitalisation of the development in-house software share registration platform, is development costs to the Committee.
Evidence costs and related being developed for use in the US.
The timeline was provided and discussed to show that the assessment of over which this is being developed has been judgements satisfied criteria under accounting carrying value extended in order to focus on widening the standard IAS 38.
Management also considered the product offering to US customers first.
Judgement scope of the project to review whether any costs has been applied in assessing whether the costs of capitalised to date require impairment.
software development meet the criteria of IAS 38 which allows for costs to be capitalised.
Revenue The Group has entered into a number of software Management presented the accounting recognition on contracts.
These arrangements can include judgement relating to material transactions that software contracts multiple performance obligations, including included multiple performance obligations and licence delivery.
As a result revenue recognition significant licences to the Committee.
Evidence in connection with these contracts can involve a was provided and discussed to support how these significant degree of management judgement transactions aligned to the Groups accounting around the allocation of revenue to performance policy and IFRS 15. obligations and the timing of the revenue in accordance with IFRS 15 and the Groups stated accounting policy for such items.
Corporate The Group acts as registrar for clients who can Management presented their judgement to the action revenue be involved in major corporate actions.
These Committee on how much time had been spent recognition corporate actions can be complex and cross on a significant project and how much time was accounting year-end dates.
Revenue is recognised forecast for the project to complete and were in line with the agreed contractual terms, typically satisfied that revenues were recognised in step on a stage of completion method, by referencing with the costs that were incurred.
costs incurred to date against the total anticipated project costs.
Management judgement is required in assessing the costs to complete the actions as this impacts the percentage of the contract value that has been recognised as revenue.
Employee benefit Employee benefit expenses, relating to the The Committee discussed, and agreed with, the expenses Groups LTIPs, required judgement in assessing assumptions used by management in calculating how many options are expected to vest based the expenses figure relating to the LTIP.
on the potential satisfaction of performance conditions and attrition of eligible employees.
US Corporate The methods clients use to pay for corporate Management presented their proposal on the Action Income actions in the UK and US are different.
In the US, classification of interest earned in the US from contracts are often structured so that the fee for holding clients funds as part of a corporate activity.
performing the work is received from interest This was compared to the Groups treatment of earned on holding the clients funds.
This interest interest received in the UK from activities such as income is specific for performing a task and is administering SAYE schemes.
It was agreed that not incidental interest.
Therefore such income such income should be recognised as fee income.
received from corporate actions is recognised as After due discussion, it was agreed that other fee income.
US interest income, which was not received as compensation for services performed, would be treated in the same manner as interest earned in the UK from client money held.
76 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 AREA OF FOCUS WHY WAS THIS SIGNIFICANT?
Accounting for A fair value had to be assigned to the net The Committee discussed the assumptions used the acquisition of assets acquired as well as determining the fair by management in calculating the fair value of the EQ US including value of acquisition related intangibles such as net assets acquired in the US.
the determination customer related contracts.
The fair value of of goodwill and customer related contracts is determined using a other acquisition discounted cash flow model which has a number related of assumptions around forecast data, growth rates intangibles and discount rates.
Consideration Goodwill is generated on business combinations Management has produced discounted cash of the carrying where the price paid for the business exceeds flow models for each cash generating unit and value of goodwill the fair value of the net assets acquired.
compared this to the book value of goodwill and related and other net assets.
The Committee discussed, Goodwill is not amortised and therefore needs impairment and agreed with, the assumptions used by to be tested for impairment at least annually.
assessments management in producing the discounted cash The book value of goodwill and other net flow model and discussed the sensitivity of the assets related to each cash generating unit, results to reasonable changes in these estimates.
was compared to the present value of its future expected cash flows to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
This requires estimations of the long-term growth rates and the suitable discount rate.
INTERNAL AUDIT The Group has a dedicated in-house Internal Audit team GIA.
The Committee determines the nature and scope of the During 2018, GIA implemented an enhanced and formalised annual internal audit programme which is derived from an quality assurance programme designed to evidence ongoing audit universe including financial and commercial processes, compliance with international internal audit professional governance considerations and key corporate risks and standards, and to promote a culture of continuous improvement.
revises it from time to time, in response to changes to business This included an ongoing internal self-assessment which is circumstances and risk profiles.
reported to the Committee every six months and showed GIA to The findings of the internal audits are reported to executive be materially in conformance with relevant standards throughout management, and any necessary corrective actions are agreed 2018, with improvements evident during the year as the and tracked.
Summaries of these reports are presented to, programme matured.
and discussed with, the Committee on a quarterly basis, along In addition, during 2018, GIA leveraged the specialist expertise with details of progress against management action plans as of KPMG LLP, as co-source internal audit partner, for 11 audits appropriate.
which represented 16% of the total number of audits completed.
The Committee agrees the annual Internal Audit plan for the year In addition, GIA continued to partner with KPMG on further and ensures that GIA has appropriate resources available to it to developing the function as a whole, including through complete that plan.
The Committee approved the strengthening incorporating KPMG's input into initiatives to enhance the of the team through adding a Deputy Chief Audit Executive role internal audit risk assessment and annual planning approach and and additional Management Information capability.
In addition, through provision of training to all members of the GIA.
a Director of Internal Audit and IT Auditor have been added to The Group Chief Audit Executive reports directly to the cover the business acquired in the US.
Committee Chair and in addition reports on an administrative During 2018, the internal audit team completed fieldwork for basis to the Chief Financial Officer.
96% of the approved audit plan, in line with the agreed Key GIA principally review the design and effectiveness of Performance Indicator.
All overdue actions relating to high risk governance, risk management and controls operating within the internal audit observations are reported to the Committee.
The business by undertaking an agreed schedule of independent Committee remains very focused on timely completion of audits each year.
agreed management action plans to address audit findings.
77 Tenure RISK MANAGEMENT & INTERNAL CONTROLS The Committee undertook a full tender of the Companys The Audit Committee and the Risk Committee both support the external audit services in 2016, following which the Board when considering the nature of the Groups risks, its risk recommendation to approve the reappointment of PwC as management framework and its risk appetite.
Details of these external auditor was approved by the Board and subsequently by are included within the Risk Committee report which can be shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
The Committee is not looking to found on pages 80 to 85.
Details of the Groups principal risks re-tender the external audit services within the near term and will and uncertainties can be found in the Strategic Report on pages be recommending PwC be re-appointed the Companys external 48 to 51. auditor for a further year at the 2019 AGM.
The Committee has overall oversight of the Groups systems of financial controls, including their design, implementation and Non-audit Services Policy and Fees effectiveness and details of these controls can be found on While the insight gained as the Groups auditor may sometimes page 84. make it logical for PwC to undertake work outside of the annual audit, the Committee recognises that engaging PwC to Having considered reports from Risk, Finance and GIA, the provide non-audit services to the Group risks affecting PwCs Committee is satisfied that the internal controls over financial independence.
reporting and risk management systems were appropriately designed and were operating effectively in all material respects.
Accordingly, the Group has established a policy which governs the provision of any non-audit services.
The policy specifies WHISTLEBLOWING AND ANTI-BRIBERY services which cannot be carried out by PwC as external The Group is committed to the highest standards of quality, auditor primarily activities which would involve PwC taking up honesty, openness and accountability.
management responsibilities and sets the framework within Accordingly, the Group has whistleblowing, anti-bribery and which non-audit work may be provided.
The policy states that corruption risk policies in place.
The Committee reviewed the PwC will only be able to perform non-audit work in limited whistleblowing policy during the year.
circumstances and where approved by the Committee.
Further details on these policies can be found in the Strategic The Group paid 523,000 2017:235,000 in audit and audit Report on page 45. related fees, and 264,000 2017: 278,000 in non-audit related fees, for the financial year ended 31 December 2018.
This work EXTERNAL AUDITOR was primarily services performed in relation to the CASS audit of The Committee is responsible for overseeing the Groups Equiniti Financial Services Limited EFSL.
relationship with its external auditor,  The CASS audit of EFSL is required by the Financial Conduct LLP PwC.
During the year, the Committee undertook a rigorous Authority FCA to provide it with assurance on client assets.
selection process to appoint a new PwC audit partner which Under the guidance issued by the FCA, the auditor undertaking resulted in Darren Meek being appointed.
a CASS audit should obtain an understanding of the firms The Committee considers the nature, scope and results of PwCs business model that is sufficient to enable the CASS auditor to work and reviews, develops and implements the policy on the establish expectations about the existence or otherwise of client supply of any non-audit services that are to be provided by PwC.
assets, including: The Committee receives and reviews reports from PwC relating the nature of the services it provides to clients: to the Companys Annual Report and Accounts and the external audit process including the auditors work at the half-year review.
how it is remunerated for those services and other ancillary services: Effectiveness and Independence the nature of any transactions which it undertakes with or on During the year, an assessment of the quality and effectiveness behalf of, or facilitates or advises on, for clients and how those of the external audit process was undertaken by GIA.
The team transactions are executed or settled: sought the views of the divisional finance directors, the Group finance team, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chair of the Audit the nature of relationships within a group and with other Committee, and members of the Executive Committee who related parties: had interacted with PwC to assess whether the audit had been the sources and destinations of cash and other asset inflows conducted in a comprehensive, appropriate and effective manner.
and outflows in its own accounts and any accounts it holds or The report was then discussed by the Committee at its meeting controls on behalf of clients and other parties: and in June 2018, with the Committee concluding that the audit had been conducted in a challenging and robust manner and that the role of sub-custodians and third party administrators.
the audit plan agreed by the Committee had been followed.
Given that PwC is EFSLs auditor and had the knowledge The Committee also reviewed PwCs objectivity and required by the FCA to undertake the CASS audit, it was independence and confirmed that sufficient procedures are in logical for it to undertake this work.
The nature of the work is place to safeguard those.
independent assurance and therefore wholly consistent with PwCs role as our auditor.
The Group has committed to seeking to the ratio of audit to non-audit fees to 70% of the average statutory audit fee.
For further information on how the non-audit fees are broken down, and the ratio of audit to non-audit fees, please see note 7.4 on page 178.
78 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 VIABILITY STATEMENT The viability statement can be found on page 52.
The Committee a detailed briefing note as an integral part of the Annual reviewed managements work in conducting a robust assessment Report and Accounts sign-off process, which set out how this of the business model, the risks that could threaten the model, had been achieved by the internal teams who prepared the and the future viability of the Company.
Furthermore the Committee received briefings and included assessing a reasonable time period for the review, updates during the course of the year, appraising them of the reviewing financial forecasts for that period, identifying plausible Code requirements and business performance, and spent downside scenarios consistent with our principal risks, as well time discussing the Annual Report and Accounts with senior as considering their interdependencies and scenarios involving management.
The Committee was presented with a draft of the 2018 Annual These assessments also included consideration of potential Report and Accounts with sufficient time to review, challenge and Brexit scenarios and their impact on the Group.
To support the final conclusion on viability, the assessment also The briefing note: took into account the mitigations available to the Company to explained how the process of preparing and compiling the protect against these downside scenarios and also the adequacy report was collaborated across the businesss internal teams of the internal control environment.
Based on this analysis, the Investor Relations, Finance, HR and Company Secretariat Committee recommended to the Board that it could approve and also involved specialist advisors with the requisite skills to and make the viability statement.
structure and review the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts: STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE explained how the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts was Having tendered the audit in 2016, the Company confirms designed to be understandable, with consistent presentation that it has complied with the terms of The Statutory Audit of key messages throughout the report.
In arriving at its Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory conclusion the Committee also noted that internal reporting Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee aligned to the KPIs, key financial measures and narrative Responsibilities Order 2014 the Order throughout the year.
themes as presented in the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts: and In addition to requiring mandatory audit re-tendering at least every ten years for FTSE 350 companies, the Order provides demonstrated that the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts was that only the Audit Committee, acting collectively or through its put together in a balanced manner, with the narrative aligning Chair, and for and on behalf of the Board is permitted: to the business model, strategy and financial performance.
This was achieved through our business leaders reviewing and to the extent permissible in law and regulation, to negotiate signing off on the content.
and agree the statutory audit fee and the scope of the statutory audit: When taken with the assessment of the significant judgements on pages 76 to 77, the Committee concluded that the 2018 to initiate and supervise a competitive tender process: Annual Report and Accounts are presented in a fair, balanced to make recommendations to the Directors as to the auditor and understandable manner, allowing shareholders to assess the appointment pursuant to a competitive tender process: Groups performance, strategy, risk and business as a whole.
to influence the appointment of the audit engagement partner: and Darren Pope to authorise an auditor to provide any non-audit services to Chair of the Audit Committee the Group, prior to the commencement of those non-audit services.
12 March 2019 FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE The Board is committed to ensuring that all external financial reporting presents a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups performance, position and prospects.
In line with provision C. 3.4 of the Code, the Committee has been requested by the Board to consider whether it supports the view that the Companys Annual Report and Accounts, when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and, further, that it provides shareholders with the information necessary to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
In forming its view, the Committee has considered the processes undertaken to prepare for, and produce, the Annual Report and Accounts and how consideration was given for each of the fair, balanced and understandable criteria in the compilation of the narrative and presentation of the numbers, themes and highlights.
To support this, the Committee received 79
