Corporate Governance Report Dear Shareholder In my letter to you last year, I noted that the Board takes CULTURE corporate governance very seriously and that I was determined Another advantage of spending time in the business is that to ensure that we maintain high standards throughout my time as it gives us a feel for the Groups culture.
combines the entrepreneurial drive needed by a growth orientated company with the client focus and operational rigour I am pleased to report that during the year, the Company that are essential for first-class delivery of regulated services.
The continued to comply in full with the 2016 UK Corporate Groups culture is never set in stone and needs to adapt over Governance Code the Code.
We believe that compliance with time, so it remains aligned to the Groups purpose and strategy.
the Code should be the minimum standard we aspire to, so We also need to ensure that when we acquire businesses that during the year we continued to enhance the Board and our have thrived as independents, we have a culture that allows them corporate governance framework to ensure that the Group has to continue to thrive under our ownership.
the governance procedures and processes it requires to meet the needs of its clients, employees, shareholders and other More information on our cultural initiatives and the Groups stakeholders.
Additionally, we look forward to working towards values can be found in the Strategic Report on page 38. full compliance with the new 2018 UK Corporate Governance DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Code and continuing to further progress our governance To us, diversity and inclusion means understanding, appreciating standards.
and valuing the visible and invisible differences in our colleagues, BOARD AND COMMITTEE CHANGES and understanding that these differences enrich our culture and There were a number of changes to the Board this year, with benefit the business.
Recognising this diversity and inclusion our Board refreshment seeing Vicky Jarman standing down is an integral part of our cultural agenda and we are keen to and Alison Burns, Mark Brooker and Cheryl Millington all being operationalise our approach, with work already in progress.
appointed as independent non-executive Directors.
More The Group has a range of initiatives for enhancing diversity and information on them and their appointments can be found in my supporting our people, which are described on page 40. statement in the Strategic Report on page 18.
TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT The appointments have enhanced our Board diversity, with A key part of my role is to ensure that all Directors have access female Directors now making up one third of the Board, in line to ongoing training and development to provide them with with the recommendation of the Hampton-Alexander Review.
the relevant skills and expertise for their role on the Board and More importantly, our new non-executive Directors bring its Committees.
During the year, training was provided on the additional skills and experience to the Board, which are highly following: relevant to the Groups strategic direction.
IFRS 15 Revenue Recognition: The increase in Board membership also allowed us to review the IFRS 16 Lease Accounting: composition of the Board Committees, increasing the number of members of some Committees while streamlining others.
These changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code: changes enhance the operation of the Committees and ensure the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR and how it they continue to provide robust oversight of their respective affected the Group: and areas.
BOARD VISITS We also provided extensive induction programmes for the new We believe that to be an effective Board, we must stay abreast non-executive Directors.
of what is happening in the business and its markets.
During the year, we visited three parts of the organisation: EQ Data located BOARD EVALUATION in Exeter UK, EQ US located in Minneapolis US and EQ Credit During the year, we undertook an  evaluation Services located in Leeds UK.
of the Board and its Committees.
Overall, the Board and its Visiting the Groups operations has a number of benefits for Committees were found to be operating effectively and were the Board.
We can talk directly to the senior management well managed.
A consistent theme from all of the Committee concerned and see demonstrations of current products and evaluations was that the allocation of more time for each of those in development.
This gives us insight into how the business the meetings would further develop the breadth and depth is performing and what our clients need from us, both now and of coverage and enhance the wider corporate governance in the future.
This in turn informs our Board discussions about framework.
Accordingly, where possible, the Risk Committee strategy and helps us to reach conclusions on the strategic meetings will be held on a separate day from the main Board initiatives we are asked to approve.
meeting to ensure sufficient time is provided for all of the meetings.
More details about the evaluation can be found on page 69.
56 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 GOVERNANCE AND RISK CONCLUSION In an evolving environment, the Board recognises that it is critical This has been a progressive year, further strengthening the that the Group has a rigorous focus on identifying, managing Groups corporate governance structure.
Looking forward we will and mitigating the risks it faces.
Through the Risk and Audit continue to maintain a strong and effective governance structure, Committees, we have continued to advance our approach this to help the business to deliver its strategy, create value and year, as described in their respective reports.
safeguard our stakeholders long-term interests.
The most significant change to the Group this year was the acquisition of EQ US.
As a regulated business, Equiniti Trust Company ETC is required to have its own board of independent Philip Yea directors and its own board committees.
We rely on this board Chairman to carry out a number of governance functions on our behalf in the US and the Board receives regular reports from ETC.
To help 12 March 2019 ensure alignment between the Group and EQ US, the Board held a joint session with the board of ETC at which we discussed both the strategy for the US business and our regulatory and client commitments.
ETC has a competent and committed board that is fully equipped to discharge all of our regulatory and statutory commitments in the United States, with appropriate oversight from the Group.
WORKFORCE ENGAGEMENT EMPLOYEE VOICE In 2016, an Employee Forum the Forum was established within the UK to enable our UK colleagues to meet and discuss employee concerns with senior management and the executive Directors.
As part of our work to comply with the new 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code, we are extending the Forum to include representatives from India, the US, the Netherlands and South Africa.
We have designated Dr Tim Miller, who chairs our Remuneration Committee, as the non-executive Director with responsibility for conveying Employee Voice.
The Forum will meet quarterly during the year, in the UK and overseas.
For those members unable to attend in person, arrangements will be in place for them to attend remotely.
Dr Tim Miller will attend those meetings and report back to the Board after each meeting.
Where Board meetings are held overseas, these meetings will be used as an opportunity to meet with colleagues in those locations face to face.
In addition to the Forum, we also have other methods of allowing colleagues to contact the Directors.
For example, Ask Guy is an open forum via the Groups intranet system which allows colleagues to ask Guy Wakeley any question.
This method is used extensively by our colleagues across the Group.
