Risk Committee Report Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the Risk Committee Report for 2018, its history as part of a major bank.
The Board and the Committee which provides an update on the Committees work during also spent time during the year reviewing the plan to integrate the year.
In our 2017 report, we set out five objectives for the the business and implement our Sirius platform in the US.
These were to: are satisfied that the decision to implement Sirius following the separation from Wells Fargo has reduced the risk profile of the continue to oversee the implementation and embedding of integration process.
the Enterprise-wide Risk Management Framework within the Group: In addition to the objectives listed, cyber security was an important focus for the Committee during the year.
The risk here review the risk skills and experience within the risk and is constantly evolving, so the Group must stay ahead of the threat compliance functions and the business divisions: while continuing to bring the businesses it acquires within its cyber security defences.
We have confidence in our information continue to monitor progress with implementing changes security team and had several presentations during the year to brought in by MiFID II, GDPR and the EU Data Protection update the Committee on progress in this area.
Regulation, as well as other relevant regulatory and legislative changes: EFFECTIVENESS OF THE RISK COMMITTEE review the time allocated to Committee meetings, to ensure An external evaluation of the Committee was undertaken during sufficient time to cover all matters under review: and the year by Lintstock by means of a questionnaire.
Details of the evaluation and its results can be found on page 69. review the embedding of the EQ US business into the Group and consider any risks that may arise as a result.
2019 PRIORITIES For 2019, our areas of focus will be: The Committee met all of its objectives during the year.
The work to embed the risk management tool within the business has continuing to embed our Enterprise-wide Risk Management gone well and, having reviewed the risk skills and experience in Framework and risk management tool within the Group: the Group, we have put additional resources into our operations, continuing to enhance the corporate governance processes which provide the first line of our three lines of defence risk within EQ US: and management model.
The success of this work is reflected in our external benchmarking, which shows that Equinitis risk to develop a long-term strategic view of the risk profile for the management maturity has steadily improved during the year.
The next four to five years.
process of embedding our risk management tool will continue More information on the Committees activities and the Groups in 2019. risk structures are provided in this report and in the Principal The Group successfully met the challenges of MiFID II, GDPR Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 48 to 51. and EUDPR during 2018.
The major regulatory and legislative changes ahead of us are now posed by Brexit, which continues to evolve.
We have a Brexit planning committee which continually Sally-Ann Hibberd reviews the risks.
Whilst we do not consider that Brexit has a Chair of the Risk Committee material direct operational impact on our business, the influence that it will potentially have on the UK economy and particularly 12 March 2019 on the core markets through which the Group transacts for customers in 2019 will require close monitoring.
During 2018 we have undertaken detailed assessments of the potential Brexit scenarios and their impact on the Group, and have developed operational plans to mitigate areas of potential disruption.
The ability of the Group to manage a range of Brexit market stresses has been reviewed during the year, and as part of the 2018 viability statement on pages 52 to 53.
The acquisition of EQ US completed in February 2018.
Since then, we have begun to implement our risk management framework in the US, with this programme continuing into 2019.
EQ US already had a strong risk management culture, reflecting 80 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE RISK COMMITTEE REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 The Committee has unrestricted access to Company documents COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE and information, as well as to employees of the Company.
The Committee is made up exclusively of independent nonexecutive Directors.
The members of the Committee who served The Committee may take independent professional advice on during the year and as at the date of this report are shown any matters covered by its Terms of Reference, a copy of which in the table below, together with their attendance at the five can be found in the investor section of the Companys website: committee meetings held during the year or those held during http: investors.
com investors shareholder-services their tenure: corporate-governance ROLE OF THE RISK COMMITTEE Name Attended In accordance with its Terms of Reference, the Committee Committee Chair: Sally-Ann Hibberd 5 5 provides an independent overview of the effectiveness of 1 the internal operational and financial control systems.
Its Alison Burns 2 2 responsibilities include: 2,4 Vicky Jarman 1 2 Risk Strategy advising the Board on development of the Companys overall Tim Miller 5 5 current and future risk appetite, tolerance and strategy: 3,4 Cheryl Millington 1 2 overseeing and advising the Board on the current and 4 emerging risk exposures: Darren Pope 3 5 Risk Assessment 1 Alison Burns was appointed to the Committee effective from 1 April and in conjunction with the Audit Committee, keeping under then stood down on 1 November 2018 as part of the reorganisation of all review the Companys overall risk assessment processes that committee memberships.
inform the Boards decision making: 2 Vicky Jarman stood down from the Committee effective from 3 May 2018.
3 Cheryl Millington was appointed to the Committee effective from regularly reviewing and approving the parameters used in 1 November 2018. these measures and the methodology adopted: 4 Vicky Jarman was unable to attend one meeting due to illness.
Darren Pope was unable to attend one meeting due to illness and one meeting added setting standards for the accurate and timely monitoring of during the year due to prior commitments.
Cheryl Millington was unable to large exposures and certain risk types of critical importance: attend her first meeting due to prior commitments.
For those Directors unable to attend a meeting, they are able to feedback any reviewing the Companys ability to identify and manage new comments they may have on the papers to the Chair and are advised of any risk types: decisions taken during the meeting.
Internal Control GOVERNANCE in conjunction with the Audit Committee, reviewing the The Committee acts independently of management and reports adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal controls: and makes recommendations directly to the Board.
overseeing the Enterprise-Wide Risk Management Framework: The Committees Terms of Reference requires the participation reviewing reports on any material breaches of risk limits and by the Chair of the Audit Committee and Darren Pope is a the adequacy of proposed action: member of the Committee.
Sally-Ann Hibberd and Cheryl Millington are also members of the Audit Committee.
This reviewing the manner in which management ensures and facilitates efficient cross-communication between the two monitors the adequacy of the nature, extent and effectiveness committees, which ensures that all audit and risk issues are of internal controls: addressed effectively.
reviewing the adequacy and security of the Companys The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee and arrangements for its employees and contractors to raise attends all meetings.
The Committee invites the Chairman, Chief concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer and Group financial reporting or other matters: Chief Audit Executive to attend its meetings in full, although it reviewing the Companys procedures for managing material reserves its rights to request any of those individuals to withdraw.
compliance requirements, including fraud, bribery and Other senior managers are invited to present such reports as are corruption, financial crime, data protection, health and safety, required for the Committee to discharge its duties.
and financial services regulatory compliance: and During the year, the Committee regularly met with the Chief Risk considering and approving the remit of the risk management Officer, without management and or any executive member of function and ensuring it has adequate resources and the Board being present.
appropriate access to information to enable it to perform its function effectively.
81 COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES DURING 2018 The Committee met on five occasions during the year.
At those meetings, the Committee carried out its remit which primarily included the following: February April July reviewed the quarterly report on reviewed and approved proposed reviewed the Groups selfrisk and compliance: amendments to risk categories: assessment attestation report, noting the use of internal reviewed the risk acceptance reviewed the 2018 risk plan measures, and external approval process: update: benchmarking, to measure the Groups risk maturity and reviewed the compliance reviewed and approved the capability: monitoring report: EQ US risk model and the implementation of its risk matrix received training on the General reviewed the developments in the and structure: Data Protection Regulation risk management approach: GDPR and how it affected the received a progress update on reviewed and approved updated Group: and the implementation of GDPR: risk acceptances: reviewed risk committee updates received and discussed an inrecommended the approval from the Executive Risk and depth presentation on Groupof the following policies: Compliance Committee ERCC wide IT risk: Whistleblowing, Conflicts of and the EFSL Risk Committee.
Interests, Business Continuity reviewed the Committees Terms Management and Vulnerable of Reference: and Customer: reviewed risk committee updates from the ERCC and the EFSL Risk received training on cyber Committee.
security: received an update on Groupwide IT risks: and reviewed risk committee updates from the ERCC and the EFSL Risk Committee.
82 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE RISK COMMITTEE REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 Late Early November November reviewed the Risk Templating reviewed the Chief Risk Officer's update which is used to assist in report, including the risk and the establishment of the inherent control framework schematic: risks within the business: assessed the top ten Group risks: received an update on GDPR: reviewed and approved the 2019 recommended the approval of a Second Line Assurance plan: suite of financial crime policies, reviewed the management such as Anti-Bribery & Corruption, summaries and ongoing action Anti-Money Laundering: points for compliance monitoring recommended the approval and business continuity: and of a suite of Data Protection reviewed risk committee updates policies, such as Data Protection, from the ERCC and the EFSL Risk Documents & Data Retention, Committee.
CCTV: recommended the approval of the updated Compliance & Risk Charter: recommended the approval of the Human Rights, Corporate Social Responsibility, Ethical Business and Environmental and Modern Slavery statements: received training on Equiniti's risk identification programme, preventing data leakage and how Brexit may affect the business: received the annual Money Laundering Reporting Officer's report: and reviewed risk committee updates from the ERCC and the EFSL Risk Committee.
83 RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS Our Approach to Risk Management bonuses of the executive Directors and members of the Executive The Group has a complex risk landscape and to manage this, Committee.
the Group has its Enterprise-Wide Risk Management EWRM Governance of UK Regulated Entities and Prudential Framework in place.
This is a stable platform from which the Capital Risk Group can assess, prioritise and mitigate this risk landscape In the UK we have subsidiary companies which are subject to The EWRM Framework is based on the following model: FCA regulatory capital requirements where they must maintain minimum levels of capital in order to manage their affairs.
The Groups most significant FCA regulated entity is Equiniti Third Line of Defence Financial Services Limited EFSL.
EFSL is categorised as a P2 Risk Committee prudentially significant firm, which means that its disorderly A committee report is created failure would have a significant impact on the functioning of the providing a status of risk management.
market in which it operates.
It must ensure that it can meet its regulatory capital requirements and has sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities as they fall due, including under potentially highly-stressed circumstances.
It must also comply with a range of Second Line of Defence - other regulatory obligations, such as the FCAs conduct of business Risk & Compliance Oversight and Challenge Every quarter, the ERCC reviews and rules and the need for periodic regulatory supervisory visits.
challenges the top ten risks for each business.
To help it meet these requirements, EFSL has its own governance structure.
This includes a Board with an independent chair, who also chairs EFSLs Audit Committee.
One of the Groups independent non-executive Directors, Dr Tim Miller, is also a nonFirst Line of Defence - Operational Management executive Director of EFSL and chairs the EFSL Risk Committee.
The businesses CEOs our risk leaders are EFSL has monthly Board meetings and quarterly Risk and Audit responsible for proactive risk identification and Committee meetings, with its Remuneration and Nomination application of systems and controls in line with policy.
EFSLs Risk Committee reviews and challenges EFSL's risk assessment and log, which flow up from its executive management and risk processes.
Our risk leaders are responsible for proactive risk reviewed by the Chief Risk Officer, to ensure risk management is identification and application of systems and controls consolidated across all of Equiniti.
in line with the EWRM Framework.
Using our online risk management tool, risks are inputted and actions taken to A detailed description of EFSLs risk management approach, mitigate those risks monitored to ensure they are on track.
risk governance and risk appetite can be found in its Capital The risk management tool also enables oversight of those Requirement Directive Pillar 3 disclosures, which are available accepted risks which are outside the Groups risk appetite on our website at https: equiniti.
com uk about-us statutory-andbut where no mitigation is taking place.
Our risk leaders attend quarterly ERCC meetings chaired The second such subsidiary company is Paymaster 1836 Limited by the Chief Financial Officer and attended by the Chief Paymaster.
Paymaster is categorised as a P3 prudentially nonExecutive, the Chief Risk Officer and the Group Chief Audit significant firm, which means that its failure, even if disorderly, Executive.
At these meetings, the EWRM Framework is would be unlikely to have a significant impact on the market reviewed to ensure that it remains effective, risks for each in which it operates.
As a MiFID exempt firm, Paymaster is not business are raised, discussed, and actions to mitigate bound to comply with the Capital Requirements Directive.
Where new risks are identified, these Paymaster does, however, assess its capital requirements and are ranked from low to high in probability and impact so is subject to Equinitis EWRM and three lines of defence risk that they can be included within the EWRM Framework for management model.
In July 2018, the FCA granted Paymaster an e-money licence.
While the Board has ultimate responsibility for the system licence enables the company to provide payment services and of risk management and internal control, it has delegated issue digital cash alternatives, which can then be used to make authority for overseeing and directing the EWRM card, internet or phone payments globally.
Post year-end, Equiniti Frameworks development to the Risk Committee.
The Chief Global Payments Limited also obtained an e-money licence.
Risk Officer oversees the risk management system as a whole Governance of US Regulated Entities and, together with the Group Chief Audit Executive, ensures In the US we have a subsidiary company, Equiniti Trust Company that all parts of the business, with regards to compliance ETC, that is regulated by the New York State Department of monitoring and internal audit reviews, are covered and Financial Services DFS.
ETC is approved by the DFS as a fullyregularly reviewed.
Members of the ERCC attend the Risk licenced limited purpose trust company bank under the New York Committee meetings and the Chief Risk Officer presents his State Banking Laws and has its capital requirements set by the DFS.
report to the Risk Committee for its review.
To help meet its regulatory requirements, ETC has its own Principal Risks and Uncertainties governance structure which include a Board with independent For details of our principal risks and uncertainties, please see non-executive Directors: an Examination Committee: an Audit pages 48 to 51.
These principal risks and uncertainties are linked Committee: and a Remuneration and Nominations Committee.
to KPIs and the Remuneration Committee reviews those KPIs with ETC has monthly Board and quarterly Examination Committee the Chief Risk Officer when considering the remuneration and meetings which review risk, compliance and audit matters.
84 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE RISK COMMITTEE REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 The Examination Committee is chaired by a senior independent Price Risk non-executive Director of ETC.
These ETC committees and the Price risk results from changes in market prices such as interest Board challenge the companys risk assessments and operational rates, foreign exchange rates and equity dealing prices, which framework across ETC and escalate and inform the Equiniti influence our income or the value of our financial instruments.
The Group earns income in relation to client monies as well as interest on its own deposits.
We are therefore exposed to FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT movements in the interest rate in both our intermediary fee The Groups operations expose it to a variety of financial risks, revenue and net finance costs.
Intermediary fee revenue is including credit risk, liquidity risk and the effects of changes in primarily linked to the bank base rate, while both our term and interest rates on debt and cash balances.
The EWRM Framework revolving credit facilities are linked to LIBOR.
seeks to limit the adverse effects on the Groups financial As noted previously, interest rate swaps are used to manage performance, by monitoring levels of cash and debt finance and medium-term exposure to movements in interest rates.
In 2017 and 2018 Equiniti entered into interest rate swaps for The Groups principal financial instruments comprise sterling a total of $700m and 1,025m, agreeing to receive fixed rate and US dollar cash and bank deposits, bank term loans and a income in exchange for variable rates for a range of maturities to revolving credit facility, and a portfolio of interest rate swaps, September 2023. together with trade debtors and trade creditors that arise directly from its operations.
We continually review these risks and identify suitable instruments where applicable.
Cash Flow Interest Rate Risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk in three main respects CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT and protected against this as outlined below: During the IPO in 2015, funds were raised to reduce the overall level of debt.
Our objectives when managing capital are to floating rates are generally earned on client and corporate maximise shareholder value while safeguarding our ability to cash balances, which are partially fixed by interest rate continue as a going concern.
We continue to proactively manage derivatives with maturities to September 2023: our capital structure for example through debt repayment, share the mid-term risk of change in long-term interest rate swaps, issuance and repurchase or management of dividend payments, through which income is earned on our SAYE share-plan while maintaining flexibility to take advantage of opportunities products, is protected by notional fixed rate interest rate swap to grow our business.
One element of our strategy is to agreements: and make targeted, value-enhancing acquisitions.
The availability of suitable acquisitions, at acceptable prices is, however, expenses relating to our bank term loans which incur interest unpredictable.
at a variable rate and includes the 250m and $92m term facilities are offset by interest income earned on unhedged LIQUIDITY RISK AND GOING CONCERN cash balances.
The Group does not hedge the revolving credit Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will be unable to meet its facility as this is a flexible instrument and the drawn proportion financial obligations as they fall due.
Our approach to managing of the facility is offset by cash we hold for day-to-day trading liquidity is to ensure, as far as is possible, that we will have matters.
sufficient liquidity at all times to meet the Groups liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions.
Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or We have used our business plan as the basis for projecting cash counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual flows and measured the resulting outcomes on cash availability obligations to the Group.
The Groups principal financial assets and bank covenant test points for the next three years.
The are bank deposits, cash and trade debtors.
These represent our Group has a very high level of client retention, which gives us a maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets.
high degree of comfort about the certainty of our revenue.
We have strict controls around, and regularly monitor, the credit Our principal uncertainties about our income relate to activities ratings of institutions with which we enter transactions, either that are more difficult to predict, such as corporate action on our own behalf or for clients.
Although our credit risk arises income.
These depend on the specific activities of corporate mainly from our receivables from clients, this risk is not significant clients, the timing of which may be influenced by underlying as it is spread across a large and diverse client base and the market conditions.
majority of our trade receivables are with FTSE 350 companies During the three-year period covered by the business plan we and public sector organisations.
The Group does have Trade expect to remain compliant with all covenants.
As such, the Credit Insurance against some key customers.
The amounts Board is satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to presented in the consolidated statement of financial position continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For are net of allowances for doubtful debts, which are estimated by this reason, the going concern basis has been adopted in the management based on prior experience and an assessment of preparation of these accounts.
Losses have only occurred infrequently in previous years and have never been material.
Sally-Ann Hibberd Foreign Currency Risk Chair of the Risk Committee There is some exposure to foreign currency risk, particularly in relation to the Groups operations in the US and India.
This risk is hedged on a rolling basis.
The Group will continue to monitor both its exposure to, and management of, this risk.
