Directors Report During the year, the Nomination Nomination Committee Committee met to discuss general succession planning for the Report Board, Senior Management and the appointment of the new Chief Financial Officer.
Paul Lester, CBE Non-Executive Chairman Committee Chairman Membership and attendance The Nomination Committee is responsible for regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board for any changes Meetings during the year that it considers to be appropriate.
The Nomination Committee 4 4 Paul Lester, Non-Executive Chairman leads the process for board appointments and makes Paul Forman, Chief Executive 4 4 recommendations to the Board.
In selecting and recommending Tommy Breen, Non-Executive Director 4 4 candidates for appointment, the Nomination Committee Mary Reilly, Non-Executive Director 4 4 evaluates the balance of skills, experience, independence Lorraine Trainer, Non-Executive Director 3 4 knowledge and diversity on the Board, taking into account the Ralf K. Wunderlich, Non-Executive Director 3 3 future challenges and opportunities facing the Company.
During Terry Twigger, Non-Executive Director 2 2 the year, the Nomination Committee met four times to discuss general succession planning for the Board, senior management and the appointment of the new Chief Financial Officer.
Other attendees During 2018, the Group Human Resources Director and the Chairman of the Diversity and Inclusion Steering Group Appointments attended by invitation as appropriate.
The Nomination Committee was satisfied with the appointment of Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended.
The Company Secretary and General Lily Liu, as the Chief Financial Officer.
The Nomination Committee Counsel acts as Secretary to the Nomination Committee.
Ralf K. believe that Lilys proven track record of international experience in Wunderlich was appointed to the Nomination Committee with the business sectors applicable to Essentra and her strong people effect from 1 March 2018.
Lorraine was absent from one meeting focus will provide the necessary skills and current experience due to an illness.
relevant to the activities of the Board and the Group, providing a positive contribution to its current strategic objectives and the Companys future development.
The biography of Lily is available on page 68.
Inzito Partnership were engaged to assist the Nomination Committee in the recruitment of Lily Liu.
There is no related party connection with Inzito Partnership, and the assignment was undertaken on an arms length basis.
Lorraine Trainer has advised her intention to retire from the Board of Essentra plc as a Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee following the Companys 2020 Annual General Meeting.
In order to ensure a smooth transition and that the new Non-Executive Director is in situ for approximately one year, prior to Lorraines retirement, we have announced that Nicki Demby will be appointed as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman designate of the Remuneration Committee effective 1 June 2019.
78 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 DIRECTORS REPORT Inzito Partnership were engaged to assist the Nomination During 2019 the Nomination Committee in the recruitment of Nicki Demby.
There is no related party connection with Inzito Partnership and the assignment was Committee will work with the undertaken on an arms length basis.
Group Human Resources The Nomination Committee is satisfied that the appointment of Nicki Demby will provide the Board and the Remuneration Director and the Diversity Committee with the necessary skills and current experience relevant to the Company.
In particular, consideration was taken and Inclusion Steering Group of Nickys extensive remuneration experience of providing Board level counsel to many UK and International businesses for more in setting and meeting than 25 years.
When considering succession planning for both the Board and the senior management roles the Nomination Committee considered diversity within a range of different aspects, including age, disability, ethnicity, education and social background, as well as gender.
Diversity The Nomination Committee and the Board supports the Securing the right combination of skills, experience and expertise recommendations set out in the Lord Davies Report Women on allows the Board to effectively lead the sustainable growth and Boards.
The fundamental objective must be to ensure that the success of the Company for the benefit of all stakeholders.
best people are appointed to do the best job for Essentra, taking With regard to the 2018 Code the Nomination Committee noted into consideration other factors, such as market and international that the Board has appointed Mary Reilly as the designated experience, and diversity of thought and background.
Appointing Non-Executive Director responsible for the engagement of people on merit, without any form of discrimination, is a key employees and reporting the Voice of the Employee to the component of Essentra policies across its international operations Board and its Committees.
During 2019 the Nomination Committee will work with the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code Group Human Resources Director and the Diversity and Inclusion Steering Group in setting and meeting diversity objectives and Following the publication of the 2018 Corporate Governance Code strategies for the Group as a whole, and in monitoring the impact the Terms of Reference for the Nomination Committee were of diversity initiatives.
reviewed and revised to ensure Essentra follows best practice.
The impact of diversity amongst the Board and the senior management is the responsibility of the Nomination Committee who believe that diversity can have a positive effect on the quality of decision-making by reducing the risk of group think.
Key activities Nomination Committee Reviewed the nature and Developed, in conjunction Reviewed and agreed revised 2018 key activities extent of the succession with external consultation, Terms of Reference for the planning for senior the key requirements for Nomination Committee Reviewed the composition management roles and the the new appointments to Reviewed the workstreams and structure of the plans to address any the Board, and assessed the and progress currently Companys Board and development needs for capabilities of potential being undertaken by the Committees senior management candidates the Diversity and Inclusion Reviewed the Companys Reviewed the capabilities of Made recommendations Steering Group evolving approach to external consultants to to the Board for the Considered the appointment ensuring a diverse and assist the Committee in the appointment of Lily Liu as the of Nicki Demby as a inclusive culture and the search for, and evaluation new Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director and initiatives being undertaken and appointment of, new Reviewed the new 2018 Remuneration Committee by the Company individuals to the Board and Corporate Governance Chair Designate its Committees Reviewed the succession Code and noted the new planning for the Board guidelines in relation to the role of the Nomination Committee NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 79
