Directors Report The Board believes that it and its Committees have the appropriate composition to discharge their respective duties effectively with the Corporate appropriate level of challenge and independence, and that the members of the Board in conjunction with the senior executive teams are well equipped to drive, and are capable of delivering, Governance the Companys strategic objectives.
The Board is of the view that it has a highly competent Chairman who, together with each of the other Non-Executive Directors, has considerable international Report experience at a senior level in the management of activities broadly similar to those carried out by Essentra and the material issues likely to arise for the Group.
As at the date of this report, the Board has seven members, Roles comprising a Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
The names of the The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separately Directors serving during the year and at the date of this held and are so defined as to ensure a clear separation of report are set out below.
The Chairman leads the Board and ensures its effectiveness, and the Chief Executive is responsible for the executive management and performance of Essentras operations.
Meetings during the year The Board has reviewed its operations and governance framework 8 of 8 Paul Lester, Non-Executive Chairman and confirms that, as at the date of this report, the Company has 8 of 8 Paul Forman, Chief Executive complied with the provisions set out in the 2016 Code.
8 of 8 Tommy Breen, Senior Independent Director 1 1 of 1 Lily Liu, Chief Financial Officer The Board maintains that, for the year ended 31 December 2018, 8 of 8 Mary Reilly, Non-Executive Director the Non-Executive Directors were each considered to be 8 of 8 Lorraine Trainer, Non-Executive Director independent.
In making this assessment of independence, the Ralf K Wunderlich, Non-Executive Director 8 of 8 Board considers that the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors 2 Stefan Schellinger, Chief Financial Officer 7 of 7 are independent of management, and free from business and 3 other relationships which could interfere with the exercise of Terry Twigger, Non-Executive Director 3 of 3 independent judgement now and in the future.
The Board believes that any shareholdings of the Chairman and Non-Executive 1 Appointed 15 November 2018.
Directors serve to align their interests with those of shareholders.
The Board considers that the Non-Executive Directors provide an independent view in Board discussions and in the development of the Companys strategy.
Non-Executive Directors also ensure a sound basis for good corporate governance for the Company, The Essentra Board is accountable to all of the Companys challenging managements performance and, in conjunction with stakeholders for the standards of governance which are the Executive Directors, ensuring that rigorous financial controls maintained across Essentras diverse range of global and systems of risk management are maintained as appropriate businesses.
to the needs of the businesses within Essentra.
During the year, Essentra was subject to the UK 2016 Corporate External Commitments Governance Code the 2016 Code published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC, a copy of which can be found on its The Board is fully aware of current external commitments for website frc.
all of the Non-Executive Directors, and is satisfied these do not distract from the time committed to Essentra.
Non-Executive The Company applies the 2016 Codes principles of openness, Directors are also required to discuss any additional external integrity and accountability clear definition of reserved matters appointments with the Chairman prior to their acceptance, in and delegated authorities, there is a system which exists of checks addition, the time commitments of the Chairman are the subject and balances in which no individual has unfettered decisionof review by the Senior Non-Independent Director SID, in making power.
conjunction with the other Non-Executive Directors.
The Conflict of Interest register is reviewed at each Board meeting.
The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company, and its role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership While there were no material changes to the time commitment of within a framework of prudent and effective controls, which the Chairman during the year, the Board took note of Paul Lesters enables risk to be assessed and managed in the pursuit of the appointment as Chairman of McCarthy and Stone plc at its AGM Companys strategic objectives.
It has considered Paul Lesters commitment of time to the Company in light of this and other external positions, and concluded that he would continue to be able to fully satisfy his obligations to Essentra.
In considering the Chairmans continued time commitments to the Company, the Non-Executive Directors also viewed positively his exemplary attendance record at Essentra, ensuring that he was able to attend 100% of Board and Committee meetings throughout the year.
The Board expects this attendance record to continue going forward, and Paul Lester has 72 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 DIRECTORS REPORT Roles and responsibilities Chairman Chief Executive Senior Independent Company Secretary Sets the board agenda Proposes the strategy to the Director SID Maintains a record of primarily focused on Board and implements the Provides a sounding board attendance at Board strategy, performance, strategy which has been for the Chairman meetings and Committee value creation, culture, approved by the Board meeting Serves as an intermediary for stakeholders and Communicates to the the other Directors when Responsible for ensuring accountability, and ensuring workforce the expectations necessary good information flows to that issues relevant to these in respect of the Companys the Board and its Acts as an alternative point areas are reserved for culture and for ensuring Committees, and between of contact for shareholders board decision that operational policies senior management and the where contact through Shapes the culture in the and practices drive Non-Executive Directors the normal channels of boardroom appropriate behaviour Chairman, or other Executive Advises the Board on all Encourages board members Develops manageable goals Directors has failed to regulatory and corporate to engage in board and and priorities for the resolve any concerns, or governance matters committee meetings management team for which such contact Assists the Chairman in is inappropriate Fosters relationships based Leads and motivates the ensuring that the Directors on trust, mutual respect and management teams Leads the annual have suitably tailored and open communication assessment of the detailed induction and Ensures that the Board is between Non-Executive effectiveness of ongoing training and aware of the views of the Directors and the Group the Chairman professional development senior management team Management Committee programmes on business issues Non-Executive Directors Develops a working Develops proposals to Provide constructive relationship with the Chief present to the Board on challenge to executive Executive all areas reserved for management Provides guidance and its judgement Bring experience and mentoring to new directors objectivity to the Boards as appropriate discussions and decisionLeads the annual board making evaluation Monitor the delivery of the Groups strategy against the governance, risk and control framework established by the Board Responsible for evaluating the performance of the Chairman, led by the SID given assurances of his continued commitments to the Company.
Paul Forman, Chief Executive, currently holds one external The Board also notes that Paul Lester has announced his intention non-executive position, and the Board is of the view that this is to retire from Forterra plc as Chairman and Director with effect not detrimental to the performance of his duties given the time from Forterras AGM on 20 May 2019. requirements involved and that this appointment is beneficial to Essentra given Pauls exposure to another business and their Since Tommy Breens retirement as Chief Executive of DCC plc response to a wide variety of issues.
Tommy has taken on a number of smaller roles with privately owned companies, the Board remains confident that he has The letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors are sufficient time for the SID role which he undertook with effect from available for review at the Companys registered office and prior to the 2018 AGM.
The Board is content that the Non-Executive Directors devote Directors elections sufficient time to the business of Essentra.
Executive Directors may The Companys Articles of Association require that all new accept outside appointments, provided that such appointments Directors seek election to the Board at the AGM following their do not in any way prejudice the ability to perform their duties on appointment.
In compliance with the 2016 Code, all eligible behalf of Essentra.
Directors will put themselves forward for re-election on an annual basis.
The Board is satisfied that each of the Directors being put forward for re-election continues to be effective and that their ongoing commitment to the role is undiminished.
The Notice of Meeting contains additional information as to the recommendations of the Directors election or re-election.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 73 Directors Report Corporate Governance Report continued The conduct of Board matters Some matters are reserved During the year, there were eight scheduled Board meetings.
In exclusively for decision by the addition to these scheduled formal meetings, the Board met on a number of other occasions as required.
In particular, the Directors Board, while others are held a specific meeting in June 2018 to review the progress to date including the reaction of Essentras shareholders to the current delegated to the Board Group strategy.
During this meeting the Board reviewed the proposed strategies for each of the six businesses within the Committees.
Specialist Components division, all of which are now being operationalised.
In managing the affairs of the Company, the Boards agenda is set by the Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary and General Counsel.
The annual cycle of agenda items deals with an adopted schedule of reserved matters.
Matters considered by the Board in 2018 include: Corporate Responsibility Governance and risk establishment of a Group Sustainability Committee to assess review of the Governance Improvement Programme by the Companys approach to sustainability and establish a receiving regular reports and updates on governance matters future strategy with objectives review of the 2018 Corporate Governance Code review of its meeting processes particularly in relation to the consistent approach and use of templates for meeting papers participated in the externally facilitated Board evaluation and regularly reviewed progress against actions arising from Strategy the evaluation receiving regular strategy update sessions in Board meeting review of risk strategy and risk appetite holding an annual away-day focused on strategy annual review of Principal Risks, other Key Risks and Emerging setting and approving the Company Purpose Risks facing the Groups businesses Deep Dive reviews for the Companys Principal Risks continued consideration of cyber security risk Acquisitions and disposals continued consideration of Brexit implications and approved the purchase of Hertila mitigating strategies approved the divestment of Swiftbrook, Ireland reviewing and approving gender pay reporting approved the closure of the Largo, USA reviewing and approving the annual Modern approved the divestment of Kilmarnock, UK Slavery Statement approved the sale of the Pipe Protection Technologies business People review of Talent Management process within the Group reviewed the annual employee engagement survey results monitoring of performance and continued development of Health and Safety risk appointment of new Chief Financial Officer Financial and Operational Performance receiving updates on and considering senior succession approval of the Companys trading statements, full year planning and people activities and half year results and quarterly trading statements appointment of new Group Human Resources Director receiving regular reports to the Board from the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer approving the Group budget for the year 2019 recommending the 2017 final dividend and approving the 2018 interim dividend received detailed presentations from senior management across the businesses and considered reports from enabling functional management about matters of material importance to the Company approval of major capital and operating expenditure proposals.
74 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 DIRECTORS REPORT During the year a number of informal discussions were held Applying Essentras Corporate between the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors without Responsibility principles the Executive Directors being present, additionally prior or post each scheduled Board meeting the Non-Executive Directors will The Chief Executive is the Director with primary responsibility meet.
Led by the SID, the Non-Executive Directors also met without for the implementation and integration of Essentras Corporate the Chairman present to appraise his performance.
Regular Responsibility principles across the Company.
During 2018, the contact is also maintained with the Chief Executive.
Further to the Group Human Resources Director and the Group Operations formal Board meetings there is an enhanced programme of Director, were responsible for co-ordinating the operation of meetings, both formal and informal, in line with recommendations detailed policies on health and safety, ethics and the of the Board evaluation action plan, with members of the senior environment which support Essentras commitment to its executive management.
Further details of these policies can be viewed in the Corporate Responsibility statement on pages Operational matters and the responsibility for the day-to-day 26 to 29 and on the Companys website.
management of the businesses are delegated to the Chief Executive, supported by members of senior executive management Diversity as appropriate, within delegated authority limits.
The support of During 2018 Essentra established a Diversity and Inclusion Steering the GMC ensures a strong link between Essentras overall corporate Group and has committed to a programme of work with some strategy and its implementation within an effective internal control externally facilitated support with a view to ensuring behaviours environment and robust risk management.
fully reflect the principles of diversity and inclusion across the Company, and has recently approved a Diversity and Inclusion Full details of the membership of the GMC can be found on policy.
A Diversity and Inclusion strategy has been developed and page 46. as part of that, the Company has developed partnerships with everywoman and Business in the Community and is beginning to As part of the Governance Improvement Programme that take action to tackle the barriers faced by some individuals in Essentra has established, in order to continue to implement terms of recruitment and progression.
The Board confirms a strong effective corporate governance within the Group, the GMC is commitment to diversity including, but not limited to, gender driving working practices and behaviours through the diversity at all levels of the Group.
Further information can be establishment of clearly defined annual agendas for reporting, found on pages 24 to 25. reviewing and decision making.
Group Sustainability Committee Whilst the Board Committees are a valuable part of the During 2018 the Company also established a Group Sustainability Companys corporate governance structure the Board as a whole Committee chaired by the Group Operations Director.
The maintains oversight of such important matters and, after each purpose of the Group Sustainability Committee is to identify and Committee meeting, the Chairman of the Audit and Risk co-ordinate company-wide opportunities to improve Essentras Committee reports on the matters which have been reviewed.
In performance and reduce the Companys risk profile through particular the Board looks to the Audit and Risk Committee to  activity.
Further details can be found on undertake the majority of the work involved in monitoring and pages 26 to 29. seeking assurance as to compliance with the internal controls and risk management practices within this structure.
Conflict of interests Directors have a statutory duty to avoid actual or potential In 2018 the Board held one of its meetings at its facility in Hungary conflicts of interest.
The Companys Articles of Association permit and it is intended that further locations will host meetings during the Board to consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations 2019 so that the Board has the opportunity to engage with local where a Director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly management and derive a better understanding of the Companys conflict, with the interests of the Company.
The decision to operations and business model.
Additionally Non-Executive authorise a conflict of interest can only be made by non-conflicted Directors were encouraged to undertake site visits during 2018 and Directors.
A register of Directors interests is maintained so that continuing into 2019 to gain a better understanding of the Groups any potential concerns are addressed before any material issues businesses in a more informal environment.
Executive Directors also visited the Packaging facility based in Charlotte, USA as part of the annual Leadership Conference.
The Conflict of Interests register and the schedule of Directors Interests is reviewed at each Board meeting.
During the course of Other specific responsibilities are delegated to the Nomination and the year, there were no material conflicts of interest impacting on Remuneration Committees.
The Remuneration Committee Report the conduct of the Boards activities.
can be found on pages 85 to 103 and the Nomination Committee Report can be found on pages 78 to 79.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 75 Directors Report Corporate Governance Report continued Information and professional development that the Board has a balanced view from the major investors.
The Chairman, supported by the Company Secretary and General Additionally, the Board uses the AGM as an occasion to Counsel, takes responsibility for ensuring that the Directors receive communicate with all shareholders, including private investors, accurate, timely and clear information.
who are provided with the opportunity to question the Directors.
On appointment, an induction programme tailored to their At the AGM, the level of proxy votes lodged on each resolution is individual needs is available to Directors, and is designed to assist made available, both at the meeting and subsequently on the them in their understanding of Essentra and its operations.
Each substantially separate issue is presented as a separate resolution, and the Chairmen of the Audit and Risk, Throughout a Directors tenure, they are encouraged to develop Nomination and Remuneration Committees are available to their knowledge of the Group through meetings with senior answer questions from shareholders.
Directors are also provided with updates, as appropriate, on matters such as fiduciary duties, The Company also communicates regularly with its major Companies Act requirements, share dealing restrictions and institutional shareholders and ensures that all the Directors, corporate governance matters.
including the Non-Executive Directors, understand the views and concerns of major shareholders, and can explain business All Directors have access to the advice and services of the developments and financial results as appropriate.
The Chief Company Secretary and General Counsel, and for the year under Executive, Chief Financial Officer and Investor Relations Director review, his advice was sought in relation to share dealings only.
In have primary responsibility for investor relations.
Presentations for the furtherance of their duties, there are agreed procedures for the analysts and shareholders were held during the year, and meetings Directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at were also undertaken with key institutional investors to discuss the Companys expense.
No Director took independent professional strategy, financial performance and investment activities.
Slide advice during the year.
presentations are made immediately available after the full and half year results, and are also available on the Companys website Shareholder communications to view and download.
The Company ensures that any priceThe Board recognises the importance of effective communication, sensitive information is released to all shareholders at the same and seeks to maintain open and transparent relationships with its time, in accordance with regulatory requirements.
shareholders and other stakeholders, including providers of finance, customers and suppliers.
This is achieved by regular updates Board roles through public announcements, the corporate website and other The SID, currently Tommy Breen, can be contacted via the published material.
In that role, he is available to shareholders to discuss and develop an understanding of their All shareholders can meet any of the Directors of the Company issues and any concerns which cannot be resolved by discussions should they so wish.
In particular, the SID is available to with the Chairman, the Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer, shareholders should they have concerns or wish to share their or where such contact is inappropriate.
Feedback from meetings with shareholders is provided to the Board so they are aware of any issues or concerns, and ensures Financial reporting The Directors have acknowledged, in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 109, their responsibility for preparing the Financial Statements of the Company and the Group.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts, and they consider that the Annual Report Lily Lius induction and Accounts taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable.
The External Auditor has included a statement Since Lily Liu joined the Board she has been through about their reporting responsibilities in the Independent Auditors an induction programme to ensure a smooth Report, set out on pages 169 to 175. transition, which has included The Directors are also responsible for the publication of half year Meetings with Chairman, Chief Executive results, as required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the and the Non-Executive Director and the Audit and Financial Conduct Authority.
This provides a general description of Risk Committee Chairman the financial position and performance of the Company and the Group during the relevant period.
Meeting with the Company Secretary covering UK Corporate Governance and Board procedures Directors and Officers insurance Engagement with key members of the finance team In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, and to Meeting with key advisers including briefing from the extent permitted by the laws of England and Wales, the brokers and External Auditors Directors are granted an indemnity from the Company in respect of those liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
In respect of Meetings and presentations with other senior those matters for which the Directors may not be indemnified, the executives, including Corporate Development Company maintained a Directors and Officers Liability Insurance and Strategy, Investor Relations, Group Assurance, policy throughout the year.
It is anticipated this policy will be Human Resources, Operations and IT renewed.
Neither the Companys indemnity, nor the insurance Receiving briefings from divisional provides cover, to the extent that a Director is proven to have acted management teams dishonestly or fraudulently.
Site tours of both the UK and overseas, which will continue throughout 2019 76 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 DIRECTORS REPORT The following enables the Board to review the effectiveness of the A number of actions have system of internal control: been put in place which the Audit and Risk Committee meets regularly and reports to the Board, no less frequently than at every Board meeting should serve to ensure a clear following an Audit and Risk Committee meeting the terms of reference provide a framework for the Audit and focus by the executive Risk Committee to review and oversee the quality, integrity, appropriateness and effectiveness of the Groups internal control management team on the framework the Board has the opportunity to review the internal control key requirements for effective environment at local sites when Board meetings are held away from the Companys head office internal control and appropriate every month, each division submits detailed operating and financial reports covering all aspects of performance.
These are reporting and monitoring.
reviewed by the Chief Financial Officer and the Groups central Finance function, and summary reports are communicated to the GMC and the Board certificates are required from the businesses to confirm compliance with the Groups policies including financial and procedures at both the half year and year end Policies and procedures which are subject to ongoing review and updated as required in response to strategic, operational, business, legal or regulatory developments, with the approval of the Board or its respective Committees as appropriate are communicated Internal controls across the Group.
The improvement initiatives for Essentras In accordance with the 2016 Code, the Board acknowledges its internal controls are designed to ensure significant risks, investment overall responsibility to shareholders to ensure that an adequate decisions and management issues are identified, considered and system of risk management and internal control is in place and for escalated as necessary at the earliest opportunity.
Divisional reviewing the effectiveness of this system.
Such a system can only Managing Directors and Presidents are responsible for ensuring the be designed to mitigate, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure communication of, and compliance with, Essentras internal to achieve business objectives, and can therefore only provide controls across their respective businesses.
reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
This is essential for reliable financial Control of significant risks reporting and also for the effective management of the Group.
The Boards responsibility for risk and risk management in Essentra encompasses: Further details on the Companys risk management system and internal controls can be found on page 84. determining the Companys approach to risk and establishing the Companys risk appetite In order to strengthen the Companys internal control systems, setting and instilling the appropriate culture throughout the and in accordance with the implementation of the Governance Company Improvement Programme a number of actions have been put in identifying the risks inherent in the Companys business model place which should serve to ensure a clear focus by the executive and strategy, including risks from external factors management team on the key requirements for effective internal monitoring the Companys exposure to risk and the key risks that control and appropriate reporting and monitoring.
could undermine its strategy, reputation or long-term viability providing an effective oversight of the risk management The Audit and Risk Committee takes responsibility for reviewing the processes in the Company Essentra internal controls through its engagement with the Group ensuring the Company has effective crisis management systems Assurance function.
Essentra has a well-established internal audit function which is now part of Group Assurance and potential There is a Group risk framework in place to support the Board in opportunities for improvements in its effectiveness in driving a high fulfilling these responsibilities and to ensure that risk review quality internal control system, deliver value to the respective processes are embedded within the business.
Further details of the businesses and to support change management were identified.
Companys risk management framework and activities during 2018 are provided on page 84.
The Audit and Risk Committee is committed to a prioritised and structured programme and to drive improvements in the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
Better engagement with the businesses should further reduce the risk of error, fraud or poor practice.
Template agendas for the leadership teams have been introduced to deliver greater visibility on potential internal control concerns, process gaps and drive appropriate executive and management responses.
It is anticipated that this will ensure that a more structured and detailed approach will be adopted in reviewing governance, strategy and performance reviews.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 77
