Directors Report Corporate Governance Framework The Board An effective Board defines the Companys purpose and then sets a strategy to deliver it, underpinned by the values and behaviours The Boards role is to provide leadership to the Company that shape its culture and the way it conducts its business.
The and to be responsible to the shareholders for the long-term Board should consider the main trends and factors which will success of the Company.
affect the long-term success and future viability of the Company and how these and the Companys Principal Risks and uncertainties have been addressed.
Our structure Board assesses shareholder and stakeholder ensures that the necessary financial and In fulfilling its role, the Board: interests from the perspective of the human resources are in place for the long-term sustainable success of Company to meet its objectives the Company sets, continually reviews and tests the sets the Companys values, standards Companys strategic aims oversees the establishment of formal and purpose and transparent arrangements for the determines the nature and extent of reviews the performance of the Companys application of corporate reporting, risk acceptable risks in achieving the Companys executive management management and internal control strategic objectives presents a fair, balanced and understandable requirements and principles assessment of the Companys position and prospects to its shareholders.
Audit and Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Group Management The Audit and Risk Committee The Remuneration Committee is The Nomination Committee Committee supports the Board and is established by the Board and is is responsible for regularly The Group Management responsible for: monitoring the responsible for setting a reviewing the structure, size and Committee GMC provides integrity of the Companys remuneration policy for Directors composition of the Board for any general executive management Financial Statements: reviewing, and senior executives, which changes that it considers to be of Essentra within agreed challenging and approving its should be designed to promote appropriate.
The Nomination delegated authority limits accounting policies: and the long-term success of the Committee will lead the process determined by the Board.
scrutinising the effectiveness of Company, taking into for board appointments and Specifically, the GMC will support the internal and external consideration the reward, make recommendations to the the Chief Executive in reinforcing auditors and the Companys incentives and conditions Board taking into account the Essentras six principles.
internal control and risk available to the Companys Companys strategic priorities management systems.
workforce, shareholders and and the main trends and other stakeholders.
The factors affecting the long-term Remuneration Committee success and future viability of should determine an appropriate the Company.
balance between fixed and performance-related and immediate and deferred remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee is also responsible for setting the fees of the Chairman.
com Group Risk Committee The terms of reference for each of The Group Risk Committee GRC is responsible for monitoring the Audit and Risk, Remuneration principal, key group risks and emerging risks, and ensuring the and Nomination Committee can effectiveness of divisional and functional risk management.
Further be found on the Companys details of the Companys risk management framework can be found on website essentraplc.
com or on page 30. request from the Company Secretary and General Counsel.
70 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 DIRECTORS REPORT Board Effectiveness A high performing Board is a fundamental requirement of any effective corporate governance framework, with continuous The continued development of the Governance Improvement improvement in the contribution of the Board being driven by Programme emphasises the Boards commitment to an a programme of actions arising from a thorough, independent effective governance framework and its objective of achieving Board evaluation process each year.
robust processes, procedures and controls, which by 2020, will be aligned with FTSE 250 upper quartile best practice.
As reported in last years Annual Report, during the early part of 2018, the Company engaged Lintstock Ltd to externally facilitate The publication of the revised 2018 Corporate Governance Code an interview-driven review of the performance of the Board and has led to a further assessment of the status of the corporate each of its Committees.
governance framework and a renewed focus of driving improvement and best practice actions.
Board evaluation Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 The first stage of the review involved Lintstock subsequently conducted one to Lintstock presented their report during Lintstock engaging with the Chairman one interviews with the Board members the April Board meeting.
and the Company Secretary to set the addressing the performance of the context for the evaluation, and to tailor Board, its Committees and the survey content to the Companys Chairman, as well as their own individual specific circumstances.
The anonymity of all respondents was ensured throughout the process, in order to promote open and frank exchange of views.
Addressing the following areas the current composition of the Board, the Boards relationships with, and the identification of the priorities for and any particular considerations exposure to, management both inside the Chief Executive, as well as the relevant to any potential new Director and outside the boardroom priorities for improving the Boards appointments performance over the coming year the Boards understanding of the the relationship between the Board separate parts of the business, as well the performance of each of the Board and Chief Executive as the Boards oversight of strategy, Committees in fulfilling their major projects and the main risks mandates the management of Board and facing the business Committee meetings, and particular considerations to ensure thoughtful the delegation of authority from the debate and broad input Board to senior management, alongside the Boards oversight of the improvements to the quality of the performance of management Board and Committee meeting packs What we found Board dynamics Management and focus of Board oversight Board support Further increase engagement meetings Ensuring clear agendas and cycle Improving quality, content and between Board and management Continuing the improvements of reviews to facilitate appropriate timeliness of materials submitted teams through additional and relating to content and steering and supervising focus on to the Board.
more formal and informal prioritisation of the agenda and key issues with a particular focus interaction inside and outside the pre read documents allowing the on risk.
Boardroom including a more focus of the meeting to be around detailed programme of site visits.
a handful of key issues to discuss.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 71
