DIRECTORS REPORT The Board has already commenced its review of any upcoming changes and started to take action by putting into place a Chairmans number of new procedures: for example we have enhanced our remuneration reporting which is further detailed in the Remuneration Report on page 85.
As recommended by the Corporate 2018 Code guidance we have identified Mary Reilly to be the Board Employee Champion.
A programme of activities will be commenced early in the year so that Mary might engage with Governance as many global employees as possible.
The Board will continue to review the 2018 Code for reporting in the 2019 Annual Report.
Statement In line with the 2018 Code recommendations the Nomination Committee has reviewed and revised its terms of reference to ensure that the Nomination Committee takes responsibility for the execution of a more diverse pipeline for both executive and senior management.
This should cover a range of different aspects of diversity, including age, disability, ethnicity, education and social background as well as gender.
Board evaluation Further to the completion of the interviews and submission of the Lintstock report to the Board we are continuing to make good progress with a number of actions identified in our external board evaluation in early 2018, and further details on the process and findings can be found on page 71.
The action plan put in place resulting from the last evaluation is reviewed at each Board meeting.
One area that has substantially improved, following identification during both the 2017 and 2018 board evaluations, is the continuous development in Board Reporting.
Essentra has taken guidance from an external party and introduced templates and advice on effective briefing papers which has enabled Board members to Dear Shareholder determine what to focus on and subsequently enable good decision making.
A clear set of priorities are the cornerstone of Essentra continues its commitment to achieving FTSE 250 a focused and effective board helping to align its priorities, upper quartile best practice governance by 2020 by driving quickly and with confidence.
The improved method of reporting better governance practices in line with the Governance has been a substantial help for both myself and my colleagues.
This will establish clear leadership, effectiveness and accountability at both Board and Committee Another area of focus following the Board Evaluation is a more levels in order to drive better governance practices.
structured approach to Non-Executive Directors visiting sites independently of Board meetings to gain a better understanding It is my responsibility to ensure that Essentra is governed and of the business and to interact more informally with the local managed in the best interests of shareholders and wider management and all employees.
stakeholders, this includes encouraging open discussions and constructive challenges.
The Board is committed to maintaining Summary high standards of corporate governance which are fundamental to discharging our responsibilities.
In this report we set out our During 2018 the Company strived to put in place the previously governance framework and explain how our activities as a Board identified processes and practices which were required to improve throughout the year have supported our strategy.
There has been its corporate governance structure.
An effective framework was a continued focus on company governance arrangements not only created and the priority now remains to embed these new at Group level but also throughout the organisation to ensure that processes within the Group and to continue with the identification strong corporate governance arrangements are cascaded and exist of areas that require continued improvement.
at the heart of everything Essentra does.
We continue to support the ongoing improvements to our The 2018 Corporate Governance Code 2018 Code was governance practices in order to secure stability, provide a solid published during the year which included a number of new and foundation for future sustainable growth, build stakeholder revised processes and procedures to be implemented and put in confidence and make Essentra a top performing company.
From an early stage the Board received comprehensive briefings and guidance on the changes Paul Lester, CBE being implemented.
Chairman 1 March 2019 DIRECTORS REPORT ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 67
