DIRECTORS REPORT Governance Report of the All the Audit and Risk Committee members are independent Non-Executive Directors, and have financial and or related business experience gained in senior positions in other large diverse Audit and Risk organisations.
Mary Reilly has been the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee since April 2018, and the Board is satisfied that Mary has recent and relevant financial experience.
As a whole Committee the Audit and Risk Committee believe that its members are competent in the business sectors within which the Essentra Group operates.
The Audit and Risk Committee supports the Board and Mary Reilly reports to it on a regular basis, and no less frequently than at each Non-Executive Director following Board meeting.
Committee Chairman During early 2018, the Company engaged Lintstock Ltd to facilitate an interview-driven review of the performance of the Audit and Membership and attendance Risk Committee, in conjunction with a full review of the Board and the other Board Committees.
The particular focus for the Meetings during the year Committees was to ensure that the meeting mandates were fully 4 4 Mary Reilly, Chairman addressed.
Recommendations concerning the performance of the 4 4 Tommy Breen, Non-Executive Director meetings were made and an action plan put in place to address 4 4 Lorraine Trainer, Non-Executive Director these points.
1 1 Terry Twigger, Non-Executive Director There is an annual cycle of items considered by the Audit and Risk Committee.
These items are scheduled in accordance with Other attendees the requirements of the external audit cycle and any other The External Auditor, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive, requirements of the Audit and Risk Committees responsibilities, Chief Financial Officer, Group Head of Assurance, Group Financial as detailed in its terms of reference.
The annual agenda was Controller and members of the Group Management Committee GMC attended meetings by invitation, as appropriate.
During reviewed during the year as part of the ongoing Governance the year, the Audit and Risk Committee met the External Auditor, Improvement Programme and the FRC review of the UK 2018  PwC, and the Group Head of Assurance Corporate Governance Code the 2018 Code.
without the Executive Directors being present.
The Audit and Risk Committee received presentations from The current terms of reference for the Audit and Risk Committee Ernst and Young EY, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, are available at essentraplc.
A substantive review of the terms the majority of the divisional Managing Directors, the Group Head of Tax, the Group Head of Treasury, the Group Human Resourcres of reference was carried out after publication of the 2018 Code Director and the Group Chief Information Officer.
and they were subsequently aligned to ensure best practice in the context of Essentra.
The terms of reference provide a framework Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that for the Audit and Risk Committees work during the year, to review could have been attended.
and oversee the quality, integrity, appropriateness and effectiveness of the Group including: The Company Secretary and General Counsel acts as Secretary to the Audit and Risk Committee.
financial statements and external financial reporting significant financial judgements tax activities compliance programme cyber security response relationship with, and performance of the External Auditor system of internal control internal audit function risk management processes and practices Financial Statements and External Financial Reporting Ensuring the integrity of the financial statements and associated announcements is a fundamental responsibility of the Audit and Risk Committee.
As part of recommending for approval the 31 December 2018 Annual Report and Accounts and the 30 June 2018 Half Year Report, the Audit and Risk Committee reviewed, examined and challenged the Chief Financial Officer and External Auditor on their respective assessments including, in particular: going concern basis of preparation: accounting policies and disclosures, any financial reporting issues: significant financial judgements made and levels of disclosure to ensure that the reports are fair, balanced and understandable.
ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 81 Directors Report Report of the Audit and Risk Committee continued Additionally the Audit and Risk Committee reviewed the contents In July 2018, Essentra received a letter from the Corporate Reporting and suitability of the Long-Term Viability Statement and Review Team CRRT of the Financial Reporting Council in relation challenged the risk scenarios and potential impacts outlined by to its regular review and assessment of the quality of corporate the Company prior to confirming its support and approval of reporting in the UK.
The CRRT raised certain questions regarding the the statement.
impairment assessment of goodwill and other intangible assets including disclosures, information on the underlying gain on disposal The Audit and Risk Committee was presented with information and of the Porous Technologies business, depreciation expense and advice regarding the changes due to the implementation of IFRS 15 effective tax rate reconciliation.
The Company responded to the Revenue from Contracts with Customers, IFRS 16 Leases and IFRS 9 CRRTs questions providing clarifying information and proposing Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
specific enhancements to its 2018 Annual Report and Accounts.
These enhancements included further sensitivity disclosures in relation to reasonable possible changes in key assumptions for impairment assessment and disclosure of assets and liabilities for material disposals.
These enhancements have been incorporated into the 2018 financial statements.
Significant financial judgements Goodwill and intangible assets Committee is satisfied that the Groups appropriate fashion.
Uncertain tax As required by IAS 36, the Company definition of exceptional and other positions continue to be a focus of the undertakes an assessment of the carrying adjusting items remains clear and that full year work.
There is a focus on the value of intangible assets on an annual appropriate level of disclosure is included.
uncertainty over the Groups transfer basis, or more frequently if there is an The definition remains consistent with the pricing position and the deductibility indication of impairment.
The details of prior year, and in the current year the of interest on internal financing.
the work carried out and the results are Audit and Risk Committee has been in note 8 of the Notes to the Financial involved in a rigourous review of the items The Audit and Risk Committee reviewed Statements.
The assumptions for 2019 presented, and challenged the Chief the tax liabilities which existed at the and beyond such as the annual growth Financial Officer about the start of the year, and those created rate and the terminal growth rate are appropriateness of items presented.
This during the year and the effective tax rate based on the 2019 annual plan and included impairment and restructuring together with their corresponding managements best estimates of the activities on the basis that they are assumptions.
The Audit and Risk performance in subsequent years.
The one-off material items which are Committee questioned and challenged impairment reviews performed by presented separately to allow a better the Chief Financial Officer and Group management contain a number of understanding of the Groups ongoing Head of Tax as to the appropriateness of significant judgements and estimates activities.
Further details can be found the Companys risk attitude in this area.
including revenue growth, profit margins in note 2 of the Financial Statements.
Upon consideration of the Companys and discount rates.
A change in these explanations and the External Auditors assumptions can result in a material Tax liabilities conclusions, the Audit and Risk change in the valuation of the assets and The Group is, from time to time, subject Committee was satisfied that the tax a further impairment charge.
The Audit to tax assessments that may represent liabilities are appropriate, and that the and Risk Committee evaluated and potential future tax exposures, which Groups tax disclosures are adequate challenged the methodology of the arise in the ordinary course of business given the nature of the Groups activities.
impairment review and the assumptions from tax authorities in a number of the on which it was based, including the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Revenue recognition financial plans approved by the Board.
The Group assesses all such exposures in There are a large number of sales The Audit and Risk Committee discussed the context of the tax laws of the transactions that are incurred across the at length with the Chief Financial Officer countries in which it operates and, where Group.
Given the risk that revenue may and the External Auditor the review and applicable, makes provisions for any be recognised in the incorrect period assumptions presented.
After due settlements which it considers over reporting dates, the Group needs consideration the Audit and Risk appropriate.
to ensure that there are effective Committee was satisfied that the controls regarding the recording of impairment assessment is appropriately The Group operates in a number of tax sales transactions.
jurisdictions, and recognises tax based on interpretation of local laws and regulations Revenue recognition continued to be a Exceptional and other Adjusting Items which are sometimes uncertain.
Where key area of audit focus, and the External The Financial Statements include certain the amount of tax payable is uncertain, Auditor addressed the potential issue with items which are disclosed as exceptional the Directors are required to exercise the Audit and Risk Committee during the and other adjusting items.
The nature significant judgement in determining the planning and scoping of the external of these items is explained within the appropriate amount to provide in respect audit process.
The Group has adopted Group accounting policy, and includes of potential tax exposures and uncertain IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with transaction costs and gains or losses tax positions.
The Audit and Risk Customers during the year.
The adoption relating to acquisitions and disposals of Committee challenged the nature and of this standard does not have a material businesses, acquisition integration and extent of the tax provisioning of the effect on the Groups 31 December 2018 restructuring costs, and other items such Company and sought assurance that consolidated financial statements.
Following an the Company was working diligently extensive review, the Audit and Risk to resolve outstanding liabilities in an 82 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 DIRECTORS REPORT Tax activities Cyber security The Group Head of Tax presented to the Audit and Risk Committee a report detailing the Companys tax strategy, governance, Cyber security risk remains constant review by the Audit planning and attitude to tax risk.
The presentation set out the key an important matter for and Risk Committee and the activities that the tax department was engaged upon regarding constant monitoring.
The Group embarked the management of these tax-related matters, and the nature and the course of the year, the on a six month cycle of cyber extent of the tax provisions maintained by the Company.
The Audit Audit and Risk Committee security awareness training and Risk Committee considered these activities in conjunction with further assessed the for all employees towards the advice from the Chief Financial Officer, and was satisfied with the Companys programme to end of 2018 which will run approach being taken by the Company.
respond to potential threats until April 2019.
The intent to the integrity of its IT of this Group-wide training Compliance programme systems.
Presentations were programme is to make provided by the Chief employees aware of the The Audit and Risk Committee continued its regular review of Information Officer and also threat of cyber crime so the Groups compliance activities and received regular a third party, EY, was that more employees can presentations from the Company Secretary and General Counsel.
engaged to carry out a play a part in keeping the At each meeting reports are presented detailing any claims made review of the Cyber Security business secure.
under the Companys independent Right to Speak process.
threat to the Essentra Group.
Introduced during 2018, each division, on a rotating basis, makes This topic remains under a presentation to the Audit and Risk Committee detailing their own compliance and risk mitigation programmes.
The Audit and Risk Committee reviewed the Group 2018 Compliance three-year Strategy.
This new framework is intended to: more formally define the scope and objectives of the compliance with the GMC.
The Audit and Risk Committee remains satisfied programme, to ensure that management can more effectively that the External Auditor is effective and provided appropriate plan for and prioritise its goals, activities, and day-to-day independent challenge to the Companys management.
In making responsibilities this assessment, the Audit and Risk Committee had due regard to establish a dedicated compliance and ethics risk assessment their expertise, resourcing and independence.
process to identify key compliance risks in the business, evaluate the effectiveness of existing controls, and build mitigation strategies Independence of the External Auditor create a more targeted training and communication approach The Audit and Risk Committee believes that it is important to more fully evaluate the effectiveness of the programme and maintain the objectivity and independence of the External Auditor communicate that information to key stakeholders by minimising their involvement in projects of a non-audit nature.
It is, however, also acknowledged that, due to their detailed The Audit and Risk Committee noted the continued investment understanding of the Companys business, it may sometimes be being made by the Company to improve the compliance policy necessary to involve the External Auditor in non-audit related work, management and training across the Group, and to deliver due principally comprising further assurance services relating to due diligence processes to assist in the management of third-party risk diligence and other duties carried out in respect of acquisitions, while monitoring any developments in the regulatory environment disposals, tax services outside the EU and other services.
The and assessing any impact to the Company.
Audit and Risk Committee has in place a policy which reflects best practice in relation to the engagement of the External Auditor to External Auditor supply non-audit services with defined parameters and approval requirements in relation to any such appointments.
During the year the Audit and Risk Committee: The Audit and Risk Committee Chairman, without the approval reviewed and agreed the scope and strategic nature of the audit of the Committee, is authorised by the Company to engage the work to be undertaken External Auditor on non-audit related work where the fees per agreed the terms of engagement and fees to be paid to the project are not considered to be significant, provided that the External Auditor annual aggregate of non-audit related fees shall not exceed 70% reviewed the qualifications, expertise, resources and of the average of the fees paid in the last three consecutive independence of the External Auditor and assessed its financial years.
The External Auditor may not be engaged to performance provide a non-audit service when the objectives of the service reviewed proposals for the engagement of the External Auditor would be regarded, by a reasonable and informed third party, for non-audit services and confirmed that their independence as conflicting with the objectives of the external audit.
At each was safeguarded Audit and Risk Committee meeting non-audit fee work is reviewed.
reviewed the level of non-audit work being carried out by the Details of the fees paid to PwC up until 31 December 2018, can External Auditor and other external audit assignment providers be found in note 2 to the Financial Statements, which includes Assessment of the External Auditor fees paid to the External Auditor and its network firms for audit services, audit-related services and non-audit services.
The Audit and Risk Committee is provided with reports, reviews, information and advice throughout the year, as set out in the terms of the External Auditors engagement.
Performance is formally assessed by the Audit and Risk Committee in conjunction REPORT OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 83 Directors Report Report of the Audit and Risk Committee continued and independence and has recommended to the Board that PwC The Audit and Risk be reappointed as the Companys External Auditor at the 2019 AGM.
The Company will continue to consider on a regular basis any Committee has formally potential benefits from tendering the audit process having regard, in particular, to the importance of audit quality or the reviewed the independence continued independence of the External Auditor.
There are no contractual obligations in place that restrict the Companys choice of its External Auditor.
In preparation for their audit activities, the External Auditor carried out a review of the Companys existing IT systems and concluded that the external audit approach would continue to be a fully substantive one, with a greater focus on detailed sample testing rather than full reliance on automated processes and controls.
Essentra has a well-established internal audit function, which now In order to fulfil its responsibility, the Audit and Risk Committee sits within the Group Assurance role, but has identified potential reviewed a report from the External Auditor describing the opportunities for improvements to deliver additional value to the arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts of respective businesses and to support change management.
interest, and reviewed and considered the extent of non-audit services provided by the External Auditor.
The Audit and Risk The Company has complied throughout the year with the Statutory Committee has formally reviewed the independence of its External Order 2014 issued by the Competition and Markets Authority.
PwC has provided a letter confirming that it believes it remained independent throughout the year, within the meaning Internal control and internal audit of the regulations on this matter and in accordance with their professional standards.
The letter describes arrangements to The Audit and Risk Committee is required to assist the Board in identify report and manage any conflicts of interests and policies fulfilling its responsibilities for ensuring the capability of the Group and procedures in place to maintain independence and the Assurance function and the adequacy of its resourcing and plans.
To fulfil its duties the Audit and Risk Committee is committed to a prioritised and structured programme to drive improvements in the Effectiveness of the External Auditor Companys internal control systems.
In order to strengthen the The Audit and Risk Committee assessed the effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems a number of actions were put External Auditor by reviewing: in place in 2018, this included improvements in the effectiveness of the Group Assurance function.
The Company appointed a new the External Auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and Head of Group Assurance and a Director of Group Assurance who variations therefrom attend each Audit and Risk Committee.
Group Assurance assists reports highlighting the major issues that arose during the the Company in accomplishing its objectives by bringing a course of the audit systematic and disciplined approach to the evaluation, assurance feedback from the businesses, evaluating the performance of and improvement in the effectiveness of the organisations risk each assigned audit team management, internal control and governance processes.
The agreed annual internal audit plan is drawn up by the Group Head Engagement of the External Auditor of Assurance on a risk-based approach across a broad section of the Companys activities.
The External Auditor is engaged to express an audit opinion on the truth and fairness of the Financial Statements.
The audit includes The Audit and Risk Committee reviewed: the review and testing of the system of internal financial controls and the data contained in the Financial Statements to the extent the internal audit plan and its achievement of the planned activity necessary.
In order to protect independence and objectivity and any significant findings from internal audits undertaken during provide fresh challenge to the business, the External Auditor the year, to ensure they are appropriately investigated periodically changes the audit partners at a Group, divisional and the adequacy of managements response and the necessary country level, in accordance with professional and regulatory actions taken to address and rectify any weaknesses identified standards.
Such changes are carefully planned to ensure that the the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and disclosures Group benefits from staff continuity without incurring undue risk made in the Annual Report and Financial Statement of inefficiency.
The External Auditor is required to rotate the lead partner every five years, and such changes will be carefully planned Risk management processes and practices to ensure business continuity without undue risk or inefficiency.
The current audit partner is Nicholas Stevenson who has been The Audit and Risk Committees discussions and considerations on in this role since PwC was appointed in April 2017. risk to ensure an oversight of the risk management process continued throughout the year.
The Audit and Risk Committee The Audit and Risk Committee has been kept up-to-date with the worked closely with the Group Risk Committee and the Group development of new EU-wide regulations concerning audit tenure Assurance function to assess the quality of its existing practices and the longevity of audit firm relationships with companies they and to identify key principal risks, other risks and emerging risks.
The Audit and Risk Committee undertook a comprehensive Further details on the risk management initiatives reviewed by the competitor tender for the external audit in 2015 and the Audit and Risk Committee can be found on pages 30 to 41 in the appointment of PwC to replace the Companys previous auditors Management of Principal Risks Report.
was approved by the shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
The Audit and Risk Committee is satisfied with the External Auditors effectiveness 84 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018
