Governance Corporate Governance Report Statement of compliance This Corporate Governance Report explains how the The Company continues substantially to comply with the provisions Company has applied the main principles of the UK of the Code and has made progress during the course of the year Corporate Governance Code the Code.
We have used the remedying areas where it was previously not compliant.
key themes of the Code as a framework: The Company entered into a relationship deed with Daily Mail Leadership and effectiveness are on pages 44 to 45.
General Trust DMGT on 8 December 2016 in light of DMGTs substantial shareholding in the Company.
The deed contains Accountability: The reports of the Audit and Risk provisions which protect other shareholders of the Company.
Committees are set out on pages 50 to 55.
The Board values the significant support provided by DMGT tothe Company and accordingly DMGT is entitled to two NonRelations with shareholders on page 48.
Executive Director positions on the Board and certain Committee Remuneration is covered in the Directors Remuneration representation in accordance with the terms of the Deed.
DMGTs Report on pages 56 to 74. representative directors are not considered independent since they are  representatives, therefore the composition of the Companys Board and Committees cannot be fully Code compliant.
Prior to his retirement from the Board in May 2018, Sir Patrick Sergeant, the Companys founder, Life President and ex-Chairman, was not regarded as independent under the Code due to his long association with the Company.
The Company therefore did not comply throughout the financial year ended 30 September 2018 with certain provisions of the Code as set out on page 43.
In terms of progress during the year, the Company appointed fournew independent Non-Executive Directors which has resulted in the composition of the Board and its Committees being more in line with the requirements of the Code than in previous years.
Following those appointments, at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, are now independent Non-Executive Directors.
In addition, the Audit and Remuneration Committees are now chaired by independent Non-Executive Directors.
Following the decision of our former Chairman, John Botts, to retire at this years AGM, David Pritchard was appointed Acting Chairman and Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
David is leading the search for a new Non-Executive Chairman and providing continuity through to the appointment of Johns permanent successor.
The Board is committed to continuing to reduce the areas of non-compliance with the Code.
Areas of focus are described in theNominations Committee Report on page 49.
42 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Provision Code requirement Explanation of non-compliance A.
3.1 Chairman John Botts and David Pritchard did not meet the Codes definition of independence on appointment as Chairman and Acting Chairman, respectively, due to their length of service on appointment.
The Board believes that David Pritchards recent service as Senior Independent Director and familiarity with the Company made him a suitable candidate for Acting Chairman and will enhance the Companys search for a new independent NonExecutive Chairman during the transitional period.
4.1 Senior Independent David Pritchard was appointed Acting Chairman in February 2018, meaning that he could Director no longer continue in his role as Senior Independent Director.
The Board intends to appoint a new Senior Independent Director in 2019 to support the new Chairman following their appointment.
1.2 Composition of the Prior to March 2018, fewer than half the Board were independent Non-Executive Directors.
Board The majority of the Board now comprise independent Non-Executive Directors.
2.1 Composition of the The Nominations Committee comprises five Non-Executive Directors, including two Nominations Committee considered independent under the Code.
The Acting Chairman is chairing the Nominations Committee in order to manage the process to appoint a new Chairman.
3.2 Terms and conditions During the year, the following Non-Executive Directors did not have terms and conditions of appointment of Nonof appointment with the Company: The Viscount Rothermere, Paul Zwillenberg, Tim Collier, Executive Directors Kevin Beatty and Sir Patrick Sergeant.
The Directors noted above operated under the terms of their employment contracts with DMGT and Euromoney respectively.
Sir Patricks retirement from the Board during the year means that only DMGTs representatives on the Board do not have terms of appointment with the Company.
C. 3.1 Composition and The Audit Committee does not comprise at least three independent Non-Executive Directors.
Chairmanship of the The Committee comprises four Non-Executive Directors, two of whom are considered Audit Committee independent under the Code.
The Acting Chairman has served as Chair of the Committee during part of the year and is considered by the Board to be a valuable and independently minded member of the Committee.
Colin Day, an independent Non-Executive Director with recent and relevant financial experience, was appointed Chair of the Committee in June 2018.
Tim Collier, CFO of DMGT, joined the Committee as a member on his appointment to the Board in November 2017 and brings significant insight and financial experience to the Committee.
The Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the sector in which the Company operates.
The Committee has agreed that the new Chairman of the Board, once appointed, will not be a member of the Audit Committee.
D. 2.1 Composition and The Remuneration Committee does not comprise at least three independent Non-Executive chairmanship of Directors.
The Committee comprises three Non-Executive Directors, one of whom is the Remuneration considered independent under the Code.
John Botts served as Committee Chairman during Committee the year and was succeeded by Imogen Joss, an independent Non-Executive Director, in February 2018.
The Board will consider appointing additional independent Non-Executive Directors to the Committee in 2019.
E. 1.1 Senior Independent The Company does not have an appointed Senior Independent Director.
David Pritchard, Director dialogue with Acting Chairman and previously Senior Independent Director, has met with major shareholders shareholders during the year in his capacity as Acting Chairman.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 43 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Leadership and effectiveness Role of the Board and its Committees Board Meets every two months chaired by David Pritchard Approve and monitor strategy, identify, evaluate and manage material risks, review trading performance, ensure adequate funding, examine major acquisition possibilities and approve reports to shareholders Matters reserved to the Board and delegated authorities The Board has delegated certain aspects of the Groups affairs to standing Committees, each of which operates within defined terms of reference.
However, to ensure its overall control of the Groups affairs, the Board has reserved certain matters to itself for decision.
Procedures are established to ensure that appropriate information is communicated to the Board in a timely manner to enable it to fulfil its duties.
Nominations Remuneration Audit Committee Meets at least three times a year Committee Committee chaired by Colin Day Meets at least three times a year Meets at least three times a year Reviews and is responsible for oversight chaired by David Pritchard chaired by Imogen Joss of the Groups financial reporting Reviews the structure, size and Responsible for determining the processes, the integrity of the Financial composition of the Board and contract terms, remuneration and Statements and the management of risk its Committees, and makes other benefits of Executive Directors, across the Group.
It scrutinises the work recommendations to the including performance-related of the external and internal auditors and Board accordingly.
This Committee also any significant accounting judgements Page 49 recommends and monitors the overall made by management.
The Committee level of remuneration for senior reports on its operations to the Board management, including Group-wide to enable the Directors to determine share incentive schemes.
the overall effectiveness of the Groups Page 56 internal controls system.
The Committee will be reconstituted as the Audit and Risk Committee in 2019.
Page 50 Group Tax and Treasury Risk Committee Meets four times a year Management Committee chaired by Wendy Pallot Meets twice a year Board Oversees the Groups risk management chaired by Wendy Pallot Meets each month processes.
It reviews specific risks and A management committee responsible A management board that monitors developments in relevant for recommending policy to the Audit and operates under the direction legislation and regulation, assessing the Risk Committee.
The Groups treasury and authority of the CEO and impact on the Group.
The Committee policies are designed to reduce the comprises the Groups divisional reports on its operations to the Board to impact of short-term currency movements and functional leaders.
It assists enable the Directors to determine the giving greater certainty and ensuring the CEO and CFO in implementing overall effectiveness of the Groups risk that the Group has adequate liquidity strategy: monitoring financial management.
Its members are the CEO, for working capital and debt capacity performance of our segments: CFO, Chief Information Officer, General for funding acquisitions.
The Committee developing the Groups approach Counsel & Company Secretary, Head of is also responsible for the Groups tax to managing employees: taking Risk as well as two Divisional Directors strategy.
Its members are the CEO, CFO, joint responsibility for the Groups on a yearly rotating basis.
All NonDeputy CFO and General Counsel & approach to corporate governance: Executive Directors of the Company are Company Secretary.
All Non-Executive and ensuring that the Groups bestinvited to attend the meetings.
In 2019, Directors of the Company are invited to of-both-worlds operating model our management Risk Committee will attend the meetings.
report to the Audit and Risk Committee on the management of risk across the Group.
The discussions of the Board Committees are summarised and reported to the Board following each Committee meeting, togetherwith recommendations on matters reserved for Board decisions.
44 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Management Committees Board Governance Board composition and roles The Board comprises an Acting Chairman, two Executive Directors, six independent Non-Executive Directors and two NonExecutive Directors.
There are clear divisions of responsibility within the Board such that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
There is a procedure for all Directors in the furtherance of their duties to take independent professional advice, at the Companys expense.
They also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
A summary of changes to the Board during the year and their key responsibilities are set out in the table below: Executive Directors Chief Executive Officer Andrew Rashbass Strategy and Group performance 1 Chief Financial Officer Wendy Pallot Group financial and operational performance 2 Finance Director Colin Jones Chairman 3 Acting Chairman David Pritchard Board governance, performance, shareholder engagement and leading the search for a new Chairman 4 Chairman John Botts Board governance, performance, shareholder engagement Non-Executive Directors 5 Life President Sir Patrick Sergeant 6 Independent Jan Babiak Bring an external perspective, Non-Executive Directors independence and objectivity Andrew Ballingal Support and constructively to the Boards deliberations and 7 Colin Day challenge the Executive Directors decision-making using their broad range of Tristan Hillgarth experience and expertise.
8 Imogen Joss Monitor the delivery of the 9 Lorna Tilbian agreed strategy within the risk 10 Non-Executive Directors Kevin Beatty Bring the views of the Companys management framework set by anddirectors of DMGT 11 largest shareholder to the Board the Board Tim Collier 12 The Viscount Rothermere 13 Paul Zwillenberg 1 Appointed to the Board on 16 August 2018 8 Appointed to the Board on 10 November 2017 2 Resigned from the Board on 15 June 2018 9 Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2018 3 Appointed Acting Chairman on 1 February 2018 10 Appointed to the Board on 21 November 2017 4 Resigned from the Board on 1 February 2018 11 Appointed to the Board on 21 November 2017 5 Resigned from the Board on 16 May 2018 and appointed Life President 12 Resigned from the Board on 21 November 2017 6 Appointed to the Board on 1 December 2017 13 Resigned from the Board on 21 November 2017 7 Appointed to the Board on 5 March 2018 Independence Effectiveness The Board has determined that Jan Babiak, Andrew Ballingal, The Code requires that the Board carries out an evaluation of Colin Day, Tristan Hillgarth, Imogen Joss and Lorna Tilbian are its own effectiveness and that of its Committees.
Following the independent within the meaning of the Code.
David Pritchard has externally facilitated evaluation by Independent Audit Limited in been on the Board for more than the recommended term of nine 2017, the Board conducted its own internal review in 2018 led by years under the Code.
The Board believes that David Pritchards the Acting Chairman.
The review took the form of a questionnaire recent service as Senior Independent Director and familiarity with and subsequent discussion between the Directors and Acting the Company enhances his role as Acting Chairman and that Chairman.
The evaluation focused on what the Board and its he remains independently minded.
Andrew Ballingal will not be Committees do well and areas for improvement identified by the seeking re-election at the 2019 AGM having served on the Board external review conducted in 2017.
The evaluation indicated that for six years.
the Board is performing effectively and that further progress will be made as the new Directors familiarise themselves with each other Kevin Beatty and Tim Collier are also Executive Directors of DMGT, and the Company.
Areas for development identified in this years a significant shareholder of the Company.
Both Directors bring evaluation process were the Companys approach to succession valuable experience and advice to the Company, although have planning and allocating additional time to discuss the Companys no involvement in the day-to-day management of the Company.
The Board has addressed The Board does not believe that these Non-Executive Directors are the areas identified by establishing an Investment Committee able to exert undue influence on decisions taken by the Board, nor to review and recommend strategic investments to the Board, does it consider their independence or objectivity to be impaired arranging a Board strategy offsite in March 2019 and reviewing the by their positions with DMGT.
However, their relationship with Companys succession planning for executive management at its DMGT as a significant shareholder in the Company means they meeting in October 2018. are not considered to be independent.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 45 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Board meetings and attendance The Board meets at least five times each year and there is frequent contact between meetings.
At least once a year, the Companys Chairman meets the Non-Executive Directors without the other Executive Directors being present.
The Non-Executive Directors either meet together or individually, in both cases without the Companys Chairman present, at least annually to appraise the Chairmans performance and on other occasions as necessary.
Non-Executive Directors are also encouraged to meet senior management in the business without the Executive Directors present in order to have access to a range of views and perspectives on the Company and its operation.
During the year, the Board met informally with senior management from across the Group every other month in line with the Board cycle.
The number of Board and Committee meetings and their attendance by each Director during the year was as follows: Nominations Audit Remuneration Director Board Committee Committee Committee Executive Directors Andrew Rashbass 5 5 Colin Jones 4 4 Wendy Pallot 1 1 Non-Executive Directors Jan Babiak 4 4 5 5 Andrew Ballingal 5 5 1 Kevin Beatty 4 4 4 5 4 4 John Botts 2 2 2 2 1 1 3 3 Tim Collier 4 4 4 4 4 4 2 Colin Day 2 3 3 3 Tristan Hillgarth 5 5 4 4 4 4 Imogen Joss 5 5 4 4 David Pritchard 5 5 6 6 4 4 5 5 The Viscount Rothermere 1 1 1 1 Sir Patrick Sergeant 1 4 3 Lorna Tilbian 3 4 Paul Zwillenberg 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Kevin Beatty was unable to join the Nominations Committee in August 2018 due to a pre-existing commitment 2 Colin Day was unable to join the Board meeting in July 2018 due to a pre-existing commitment arranged prior to his appointment as a Director 3 Lorna Tilbian was unable to join the Board meeting in January 2018 due to a pre-existing commitment arranged prior to her appointment as a Director Board activities Governance The key areas of Board activity in 2018 either directly at the Board approved appointment of David Pritchard as Acting Chairman or through its Committees were: approved the appointment of four new independent NonExecutive Directors Strategy monitored the implementation of the strategy as presented by approved the appointment of Imogen Joss as Chair of the the CEO Remuneration Committee and Colin Day as Chair of the Audit Committee received regular reports from the CEO and CFO which contained updates on the Groups financial performance, approved the appointment of Wendy Pallot as Chief discussion of any proposed corporate transactions, changes in Financial Officer senior management and progress against the Group strategy discussed the output of the Board evaluation and agreed on attended the Companys AGM in February 2018 areas of focus reviewed the Groups performance against budget approved updated terms of reference for the Boards Committees reviewed management presentations received reports from the Chairs of the Audit, Nominations and monitored the terms of external borrowing facilities and Remuneration Committees and considered M&A activity for the Group established an Investment Committee as a sub-committee of the Board which meets as and when required 46 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Risk management and internal control Internal control and risk management received reports from the Risk Committee on the Groups See pages 31 to 39 for the Groups principal risks and significant and emerging risks and mitigating actions with the support of the Risk and Audit Committees, reviewed The Board as a whole is responsible for the oversight of risk, the the Companys principal risks, the effectiveness of the systems Groups system of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
of internal control and risk management, and discussed the The Company aims to manage rather than eliminate risk and Groups risk appetite for 2018 can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against Financial performance material misstatement or loss.
The Board has implemented a considered the financial performance of the business and continuing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the approved the annual budget material risks faced by the Group.
The Board has delegated the day-to-day responsibility for internal controls and financial risk to reviewed the key financial judgements, all financial results the Audit Committee and for operational risk to the Risk Committee.
announcements and approved the Annual Report considered and approved the Groups going concern and The Directors have completed a review of the effectiveness of viability statements, and dividend for 2018 and the Groups system of risk management and internal controls covering all material controls, including financial, operational and considered longer-term financial projections as part compliance controls.
The majority of controls operated throughout of its regular discussions on the Groups strategy and the year.
Some new controls were introduced during the year.
funding requirements The Company is taking action to address any opportunities to Significant transactions strengthen the controls which were identified during the course of approved the disposal of the Global Market Intelligence Division the review.
A new, detailed self-assessment questionnaire, linked CEIC and EMIS to CITIC Capital Holdings and Caixin Global to our principal risks, was also introduced this year to provide greater visibility of how the Companys controls have operated as part of the strategy to manage the Groups portfolio, over the course of 2018.
The Company has also commenced a approved the disposals of Adhesion, World Bulk Wine and project to consolidate and enhance its existing risk and control Institutional Investor Journals frameworks which will be completed in 2019. oversaw the disposal of the Groups minority stake in Dealogic and The controls to prevent an information security breach or cyberattack are regularly reviewed and, where appropriate, updated.
approved the acquisition of TowerXchange, Extel and Cyber and other information security risks are increasing and the Random Lengths mitigation of these risks continues to be a key focus area for the Leadership and people Companys Risk Committee and Board.
The programme of work to discussed succession planning, talent development and implement tighter information security standards and controls and diversityacross management cyber resilience plans across the Group will continue into 2019. discussed employee reward schemes The Board has established procedures to ensure effective internal discussed the creation of a new Senior Management Group control.
These have been in place throughout the year and up to comprising of the Groups senior management and the date of this report, are as follows: reviewed the global staff survey and discussed its conclusions The Board of Directors Monitoring and oversight The Board has overall responsibility for the Group and there is a Fair, balanced and understandable formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the The Directors have responsibility for preparing the 2018 Annual Board.
The Board: Report and Accounts and for making certain confirmations concerning it.
In accordance with the Code provision C. 1.1 the reviews and assesses the Groups principal risks and Board confirms that, taken as a whole, the 2018 Annual Report uncertainties at least annually and has performed a robust and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable and assessment of those principal risks provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess seeks assurance that effective control is being maintained the Companys position and performance, business model and through regular reports from divisional management, Audit and strategy.
The Board reached this conclusion after receiving advice Risk Committees and various independent monitoring functions from the Audit Committee.
approves the annual budget after performing a review of key risk factors.
Performance is monitored regularly by way of variances and key performance indicators to enable relevant action to be taken and forecasts are updated each quarter.
The Board considers longer-term financial projections as part of its regular discussions on the Groups strategy and funding requirements and approves proposals for investments and capital expenditure beyond specified limits Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 47 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Audit and Risk Committees Relations with shareholders Previously, the Board determined that separate Audit and Risk The Companys Acting Chairman, together with the Board, Committees, each with specific terms of reference, were required encourages regular dialogue with shareholders.
Meetings with to provide the necessary challenge and review required for the shareholders are held, with the CEO, CFO and Chairman, to range of businesses the Group operates.
A change to committee discuss annual and interim results and highlight significant structure is being made for 2019 with the Audit Committee acquisitions or disposals, or at the request of institutional becoming the Audit and Risk Committee.
Shareholders also have the opportunity to will be retained as an operational committee and will report on participate in the AGM.
In line with best practice, all shareholders the risk programme to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Risk have at least 20 working days notice of the AGM at which the Committee continues to focus on the identification, management Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and Committee chairs and reporting of risk.
An example of this working in practice is the are available for questioning.
The Companys CEO and CFO Risk Committees active participation in developing an event risk report to the Board on matters raised by shareholders and analysts framework in conjunction with the Companys events businesses to to ensure members of the Board develop an understanding of be rolled out company-wide in 2019. investors and potential investors views of the Company.
All Board members regularly receive analyst reports about the Company During the year the Audit, Risk and Remuneration Committees to provide additional insight into how the market perceives collaborated, as appropriate, with one another, with members the Company.
from each Committee being invited to the other Committees and attending when able, ensuring that matters of mutual interest Viability statement raised in any of these Committees were discussed at each meeting.
See page 39 for the viability statement The Risk Committee is also attended by other executives possessing the requisite skills and experience to allow the Committee to meet its obligations and to provide the relevant assurance to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Entity level controls Each segment, division or central function is responsible for managing risks and operating controls within their area.
Each area confirms the operation of key controls including with management to central management annually.
The purpose of the assessment is to confirm the operation of a framework of internal controls, including business performance reviews, financial controls and anti-fraud controls which are expected to be in place in each business unit.
They are intended to provide standards against which the control environments of the Groups business units can be monitored.
An annual controls assessment is completed at the same time, detailing risks and mitigating controls.
In each case, the central management team follows up these submissions as appropriate.
The Group Management Board meets monthly to discuss strategic, operational and financial issues.
The Groups tax, financing and foreign exchange positions are overseen by the Tax and Treasury Committee.
Controls and procedures over the security of data and disaster recovery are periodically reviewed and are subject to internal audit.
Accounting controls and procedures are regularly reviewed and communicated throughout the Group.
Training and how to guides are published internally.
Authorisation levels and segregation of duties are reviewed on a regular basis.
Internal audit The Group has invested in its own internal audit department.
The department works closely with the Companys CFO, the Chairman of the Audit Committee as well as the Groups General Counsel & Company Secretary.
It undertakes internal control reviews across the Group and reports its findings to the Audit Committee.
48 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018
