Governance Nominations Committee Report The Nominations Committee is responsible for reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board.
This includes responsibility for proposing candidates for appointment to the Board and its Committees as well as taking into account succession planning for Directors and the skills and expertise needed on the Board The Committee also recommended the appointment of Wendy Pallot as CFO who joined the Board in August 2018.
Committee members The Company has worked with Russell Reynolds and Egon 1 David Pritchard Zehnder on these appointments: neither firm has any connection 2 with the Company.
Jan Babiak independent 3 David is continuing to lead the process to appoint a new NonKevin Beatty Executive Chairman, working closely with the Committee.
4 John Botts In addition to making appointments, the Committee has focused 5 on a range of other issues during the year.
These include: Tim Collier recommending appointments to Board Committees: supporting 6 Tristan Hillgarth independent the Executive Directors with changes at senior management level: monitoring and planning for the rotation of independent Non- 7 The Viscount Rothermere Executive Directors: reviewing and recommending updates to its own terms of reference: devising a skills matrix to assist with a 8 Paul Zwillenberg review of the structure, size, composition, skills and expertise of the Board: and reviewing the current Board composition.
1 Appointed as Committee Chair on 1 February 2018 2 Appointed as a member of the Committee on 1 December 2017 Focus for 2019 3 Appointed as a member of the Committee on 21 November 2017 The key activities for the year ahead will be: 4 Resigned as a member of the Committee on 1 February 2018 5 Appointed as a member of the Committee on 21 November 2017 the appointment of a new Chairman 6 Appointed as a member of the Committee on 27 September 2017 7 Resigned as a member of the Committee on 21 November 2017 the appointment of a Senior Independent Director, which is likely 8 Resigned as a member of the Committee on 21 November 2017 to happen after the Chairman is appointed considering the appointment of additional Non-Executive Directors to each of the Audit and Remuneration Committees using the skills matrix to review the Boards structure, skills and expertise and reviewing the Boards composition in light of the new incoming UK Corporate Governance Code requirements Diversity The changes in Board composition over the last 15 months mean that the Board now comprises four women and seven men.
David Pritchard The Group Management Board now comprises four women and Committee Chair six men following changes to its composition during the year.
Diversity including but not only gender diversity will continue to be an important consideration for the Committee when reviewing the Boards composition in 2019.
The Groups gender diversity Key activities information is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 22 and 23.
The Committee met six times during the course of the year.
The Company will consolidate its existing approach to diversity The Companys Acting Chairman, David Pritchard, succeeded during the course of 2019 in a policy which will be published on the John Botts as Chair of the Nominations Committee following Johns Companys website.
Davids focus is the appointment of a new Non-Executive Chairman.
Following the appointment of three new independent NonExecutive Directors during the early part of the year, the Committee focused on the appointment of a new Chief Financial Officer and Chairman as well as another new independent NonDavid Pritchard Executive Director.
Chair of the Nominations Committee The Committee recommended the appointment of Colin Day as 21 November 2018 an independent Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committee.
Colin joined the Board in March 2018.
In addition, the Committee recommended the appointment of Imogen Joss to chair the Remuneration Committee following the retirement of John Botts, an appointment Imogen took up in February 2018.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 49
