Governance Audit Committee Report I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for 2018 having been appointed Chair in May 2018, succeeding David Pritchard.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank David for his valuable contribution to the Committee as Chair for over seven years Committee members Committee members All current Committee members have a high level of financial literacy.
Colin Day and Tristan Hillgarth are both independent 1 Colin Day Non-Executive Directors and members of The Institute of Chartered 2 Accountants in England and Wales.
David Pritchard has John Botts considerable Audit Committee experience.
Tim Collier, DMGTs 3 Tim Collier Chief Financial Officer, brings a wealth of financial experience to the Committee.
Tim Collier and David Pritchard are not considered Tristan Hillgarth to be independent under the UK Corporate Governance Code.
4 David Pritchard Role and responsibilities 1 Appoin ted as a member of the Committee on 5 March 2018 and Chair on 16 May 2018 The Committee meets at least three times each financial year and 2 Resigned as a member of the Committee on 1 February 2018 is responsible for: 3 Appointed as a member of the Committee on 21 November 2017 4 Resigned as Committee Chair on 16 May 2018 monitoring the integrity of the Groups Financial Statements, including its annual and half-yearly reports, and preliminary announcements reviewing accounting policies used and judgements applied reviewing the content of the Annual Report and Accounts and advising the Board on whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy considering the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk management framework Colin Day considering the appointment or reappointment of the external Committee Chair auditor and reviewing their remuneration monitoring and reviewing the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process Chairs introduction monitoring and reviewing the resources and effectiveness of internal audit The Committee is responsible for monitoring: the Groups financial reporting processes: integrity of Financial Statements: significant reviewing the internal audit programme and receiving periodic judgements made by management: and the effectiveness of the reports on its findings Groups risk management and internal control framework.
It also reviewing the adequacy of the Groups arrangements for its oversees the relationship and work carried out by the external employees and contractors to raise concerns in confidence and auditor and internal audit function.
As Committee Chair, I report to the Board on the proceedings of each Committee meeting and reviewing the Groups policy on non-audit fees payable to the how the Committee has discharged its duties and responsibilities.
external auditor During the year, in addition to its core responsibilities, the Committee oversaw the implementation of the Global Finance Transformation Programme, assessed the impact of the US tax reform on the Group, reviewed the structure and reporting Colin Day lines of the internal audit function, and supported the transition Chair of the Audit Committee of the Groups Chief Financial Officer appointed in August.
Further information on these matters and other keys areas 21 November 2018 considered by the Committee can be found in this report.
50 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance During the year, the Committee also focused its attention on the Committee activities following matters: The Committee met four times during the year.
There were a number of regular attendees at Committee meetings including the overseeing the implementation of the Global Finance Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel & Transformation Programme to improve the quality and efficiency Company Secretary and representatives from the external and of financial reporting, and tightening of financial controls internal audit teams.
Members of senior management were invited and processes to attend as and when their specialist knowledge was required.
reviewing the programme of work across the Finance function to The Committee also met with representatives from internal and facilitate compliance with GDPR external audit at the conclusion of each meeting without supporting the Group Finance function during the transition executives present.
The Committee Chair also held separate between the retirement of the Finance Director in June 2018 and meetings during the year with the external auditor, representatives appointment of the Chief Financial Officer in August 2018 from internal audit and the Chief Financial Officer and her team.
The Committees core activities during the year included: assessing the impact of the US tax reform and uncertain tax positions on the Group identifying and assessing the matters which required significant judgement in 2018, including discussion and review of the reviewing the structure and resources of the internal audit exceptional items that may impact the performance of the function and reporting lines of the Head of Internal Audit business and overseeing the formalisation of the Groups policy recommending to the Board changes to the Committees Terms with regard to exceptional item classification and the use of of Reference, including the Committees reconstitution as the alternative performance measures Audit and Risk Committee and monitoring the integrity of the Groups annual and interim reviewing the potential impact of new standards IFRS 9 Financial Statements Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with advising the Board on whether the 2017 Annual Report and Customers on the Groups Financial Statements in 2019 Accounts was fair, balanced and understandable.
The 2018 Annual Report and Accounts was reviewed by the Committee in There was no interaction with the Financial Reporting Council November 2018 FRC corporate reporting team during the year.
reviewing the Groups system of internal control and Looking ahead to 2019, the Committee will oversee a programme risk management to enhance the Groups internal controls and risk management framework, monitor the transition of a new lead external audit reviewing internal audit reports and investigations, monitoring partner for the 2020 audit and oversee the Global Finance the resolution of issues raised and assessing the 2018 internal Transformation Programme.
audit plan conducting a review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function considering the reports of the external auditors and assessing the 2018 external audit plan monitoring the level of non-audit fees paid by the Group to the external auditor reviewing the Speak-Up policy and framework for employees and contractors to raise concerns and maintaining the relationship with the external auditor, including monitoring their independence and effectiveness, and recommending their re-appointment at the 2019 AGM Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51 Governance Audit Committee Report continued Financial reporting and significant financial judgements The Committee, with input from the external auditor, assessed whether suitable accounting policies had been adopted, that management had made appropriate estimates and judgements, and whether disclosures were balanced and fair.
For the year ended 30 September 2018, the Committee reviewed the following main issues noted below and is satisfied that all issues have been addressed appropriately and in accordance with the relevant accounting standards and principles.
Issue Review Fair, balanced and understandable At the request of the Board, the Committee has considered The Committee considered that the Groups strategy is clearly whether, in its opinion, the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts articulated, outlining the Groups purpose.
Business and is fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committee has market performance is considered in the round with equal provided oversight in formalising the Groups exceptional and prominence on strong and weak performance.
A mix of both adjusting items policy.
financial and non-financial information is disclosed.
Following the Committees review of the Annual Report and Accounts and after applying its knowledge of matters raised during the year, the Committee is satisfied that, taken as a whole, the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable.
Presentation of adjusted and underlying performance Presentation of adjusted and underlying performance, The Committee reviewed the 2018 Annual Report and including identification and treatment of exceptional and Accounts and discussed with management and the external adjusting items.
Management considered the latest European auditor the exceptional and adjusting items including Securities and Markets Authority, ESMA, and FRC guidelines consideration of their consistency and the avoidance of any on alternative performance measures to ensure that the misleading effect on the Financial Statements and on the Annual Report and Accounts had been prepared in line with Groups alternative performance measures.
challenged management to ensure that each item is appropriate to classify as an exceptional or adjusting item.
The Committee concluded that the presentation of the adjusted and underlying performance including discontinued operations is appropriate.
Goodwill and other intangibles The Group has goodwill of 414.7m and other intangible assets The Committee has considered the assessments made in of 173.5m.
As a result of the impairment review at the halfrelation to the impairment of goodwill and other intangible year, the Group recognised an impairment charge for Layer123 assets.
The Committee discussed the methodology and of 3.0m.
assumptions used in the model supporting the carrying value.
The Committee reviewed those businesses where headroom has decreased or where management has identified impairments.
The Committee has also understood the sensitivity analysis used by management in its review and disclosure of impairment.
The Committee concluded that no further impairments were required.
Investments The Group holds balances relating to the investments in The Committee reviewed the accounting treatment and associates and available for sale amounting to 4.3m.
disclosure of the disposal of Dealogic and concluded The Group disposed of its minority stake of 15.5% in Diamond that it should be classified as an exceptional item.
It also TopCo Limited Dealogic in December 2017.
The disposal is reviewed the assessments made in relation to the valuation classified as an exceptional item due to its size.
of Zanbato, Inc. and Estimize, Inc. for potential impairments at the half-year and year-end.
The Committee recognised that the Zanbato and Estimize businesses are still in start-up phase, concluding no additional impairment was considered necessary.
The Committee also reviewed the summary prepared by management on the investment in Zanbato and concluded that no impairment was required at year-end.
52 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Issue Review Accounting for acquisitions and disposals The Group made a number of acquisitions and disposals The Committee has reviewed the results of the work during the year.
There were a number of consequential undertaken in this area and the disclosure in the Financial accounting considerations, including identification and fair Statements and has sought further explanation where values of intangible assets, fair value of other assets, goodwill necessary.
The Committee concluded that the accounting arising and gain on sale of businesses recognised.
also has acquisition commitments on previous acquisitions.
Discontinued operations and assets held for sale On 30 April 2018, the Group completed the disposal of GMID.
The Committee has reviewed managements assumptions This division meets the IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 5 and agrees Sale and Discontinued Operations criteria to be treated as with the classification as discontinued operations in the discontinued operations at 30 September 2018.
GMID meets Income Statement at 30 September 2018.
The Committee the IFRS 5 criteria to be treated as discontinued operations has reviewed the disclosure, including the presentation of due to its size and the fact that the division constitutes a major adjusted performance measures which include discontinued line of the Groups business.
For the year ended 30 September operations and the underlying measures excluding 2018, the results of the operations through the date of disposal discontinued operations.
in April 2018 and the profit on disposal have been included in discontinued operations.
The results for the seven months are included in the adjusted measures, but have been excluded from underlying measures.
On 23 October 2018, the Group completed the disposal The Committee reviewed the disclosure of the sale of Mining of Mining Indaba to ITE Group plc for a consideration of Indaba at its meeting in November 2018 and agrees with the 30.1m.
Mining Indaba meets the IFRS 5 Non-current Assets classification as assets held for sale at 30 September 2018 in Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations criteria to be accordance with the requirements of IFRS 5.
The Committee classified as held for sale at 30 September 2018.
The assets also agrees its disclosure as an event after the balance and liabilities held for sale are recorded at the lower of their sheet date.
carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
No impairment of these net assets has been identified at 30 September 2018.
The net assets recorded as held for sale were 11.7m.
Mining Indaba does not meet the IFRS 5 criteria to be treated as discontinued operations.
Taxation The Committee reviewed the tax charge at the half-year and Taxation represents a significant cost to the Group in both full-year, including the adjusted effective tax rate, deferred cash and accounting terms and the Group is exposed to tax balances and the provision for uncertain tax positions differing tax regimes and risks which affect both the carrying for direct and indirect tax.
The Committee also reviewed values of tax balances including indirect tax and deferred managements disclosure of tax-related matters in the Annual tax and the resultant Income Statement charges.
There were Report and Accounts, including uncertain tax matters in note several significant judgement areas in respect of tax in the 2 to the Financial Statements.
The Committee agreed with year.
Firstly, the Group increased its tax provision in relation managements treatment of the Groups tax matters.
to the HMRC enquiry to the maximum exposure of 10.7m for which the Committee requested management to obtain third The Committee Chair also attends Tax and Treasury party advice to support its assessment of the challenge by Committee meetings which provide valuable insight into HMRC.
The increase in the provision has been booked as a the tax matters, related provisions and helps establish prior year tax charge and is therefore treated as an adjusting the appropriateness of the recognition of the deferred item when determining the adjusted tax charge.
was required in relation to the challenge by the Canadian Revenue Agency.
Secondly, the disposal of the GMID business was deemed to be exceptional and therefore the tax which crystallised on the disposal was treated as tax on an exceptional item and classified as an adjusting item.
Finally, following a review of the impact of US tax reform on the Groups debt profile, a dividend of $380m was repatriated from Canada to the UK which crystallised a non-recoverable withholding tax charge of 14.6m.
This charge has also been classified as an adjusting item given the link to US tax reform, which is an adjusting item in its own right, the size of the charge and the fact that this is the first time that funds have been remitted from Canada.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 53 Governance Audit Committee Report continued The Committee considered the effectiveness of internal audit Effectiveness of internal control systems during the year and confirmed that it was satisfied with the The Committee has responsibility for reviewing the process for performance of the function.
Areas identified for improvement identifying and managing risk and for reviewing internal controls.
included the materiality of issues identified, methodology of ratings It reviews reports from the Risk Committee and the results from used and the need for additional resource to be allocated to internal audit and any investigations performed.
the Committee reviews the external auditors assessment of the Groups financial controls framework.
External auditor The Groups primary sources of risk assurance are the legal and  LLP PwC were appointed by risk department, headed by the General Counsel & Company shareholders as the Groups statutory auditor in 2015 following Secretary, and the internal audit function.
The General Counsel a formal tender process.
The lead audit partner has held the & Company Secretary and Head of Internal Audit regularly report position for four years.
Following the 2018 19 audit his fifth year to the Committee on their respective activities at each Committee as lead audit partner a new audit partner will be appointed meeting.
Initiatives during the year included: enhancing in accordance with the FRCs auditing and ethical standards.
awareness of the controls to manage bribery and corruption The Committee will monitor the transition of the new lead audit risks: updating the Groups trade sanctions processes and partner for the 2019 20 audit.
procedures: monitoring the implementation of the Global Finance Transformation Programme: and the supporting governance and The external audit contract will be put out to tender at least controls documentation.
The Company has complied with the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation The Committee supports the continued review and suitability of Mandatory Use of Competitive Processes and Audit Committee the Companys internal controls and risk management framework.
Responsibilities Order 2014 for the financial year under review.
In 2019, the Chief Financial Officer will lead an initiative to strengthen the Companys control environment which will be As part of its role in ensuring effectiveness, the Committee subject to the Committees review.
reviewed PwCs audit plan to ensure its appropriateness for the Group and has completed a review which focused on the effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external Internal audit audit.
The assessment of effectiveness is based on a framework The function is responsible for providing independent assurance setting out the key areas of the audit process for the Committee to the Committee on the design and effectiveness of internal to consider, as well as the role that management has contributed controls to mitigate financial, operational and compliance risks.
Results from tailored questionnaires sent The purpose, authority and responsibilities of Internal Audit to Committee members and senior management, along with are defined in the Internal Audit Charter which is reviewed on PwCs client satisfaction survey, were reviewed by the Committee.
an annual basis by the Committee.
The Head of Internal Audit The outcome of the review was that PwC had performed has dual reporting lines into the Audit Committee and Chief effectively during the year.
PwCs areas of focus for 2018 and Financial Officer.
beyond include working with management to accelerate more work in advance of the financial year-end.
The internal audit plan follows a risk-based approach and is approved annually by the Committee.
The plan takes into PwC confirmed to the Committee that it maintained appropriate consideration the principal risks of the Group, previous internal internal safeguards to ensure its independence and objectivity.
audit findings, results of management self-assessments and The Committee recommends the reappointment of PwC at the significant strategic Group projects such as the Global Finance 2019 AGM.
Internal audit also collaborates with the external auditors to ensure that an appropriate breadth of Non-audit work audit coverage is obtained.
The Committee completes an annual assessment of the type of The Head of Internal Audit is responsible for updating the non-audit work permissible and a maximum level of non-audit Committee on progress against the plan and any changes to fees incurred.
Any non-audit work performed by PwC requires the plan are approved by the Committee.
At every meeting, pre-approval by the Audit Committee.
Fees paid to PwC for audit a summary of work performed, key finding and progress of services, audit-related services and other non-audit services are management action plans are presented to the Committee.
set out in note 4 of the Groups Financial Statements.
PwC provided non-audit services amounting to 0.2m during the year, In order to deliver the plan and any additional work, such as fraud representing 7% of the total Group auditors remuneration.
investigations, internal audit makes use of external resources to supplement in-house expertise.
The Committee reviews internal audit resource requirements at every meeting and the use of external support is considered a practical way to scale up the resources of the function when required.
54 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Committee effectiveness Responsibilities The Committees performance was reviewed during the year The Risk Committee is responsible for the review and by way of questionnaire completed by Committee members, consideration of: executive and senior management, and the external and internal the risks which the Committee believes are those most pertinent auditors.
The conclusion of the review was that the Committee to the Group and its subsidiaries including emerging or potential functioned effectively and carried out its duties and responsibilities future risks and their likely impact on the Group for the period under review.
Future areas of focus were identified during the evaluation which included the continued oversight of the impact of those risks and proposed remedial actions initiatives to strengthen the Companys control environment, and where appropriate the oversight of the internal audit function and the framework in the Group risk register and risk registers from each operating which it operates.
business including the applicable controls and reports on any material risk incidents and the adequacy of Global Finance Transformation Programme proposed action including managements responsiveness to During the year, the Committee was actively involved in the findings approving the business case for the first phase of the Global Finance Transformation Programme.
The Committee continued its The Committee is responsible for review of the Groups overall risk involvement through the design and first implementation phase assessment approach and methodology, including: in August 2018 at NDR and received regular updates during the course of the year.
The Committee has ensured that the global the Groups capability to identify and manage new risk types design, processes and controls documentation is fit for purpose the Groups procedures for detecting fraud and for the and has been subject to independent review.
prevention of bribery the adequacy and security of the Groups Speak-Up Risk Committee arrangements and The Risk Committee oversees the Groups risk management the principal risks and uncertainties disclosure and other processes and considers the Group risk register biannually.
relevant risk management disclosures for inclusion in the This report reviews specific risks and monitors developments in Annual Report relevant legislation and regulation, assessing the impact on the Group.
The Committee reports on its operations to the Board to The Committee also advises the Board on the current risk enable the Directors to determine the overall effectiveness of the exposures of the Group, future risk mitigation strategies and the Groups risk management.
overall risk appetite and tolerance.
Key activities Committee members The Committee meets four times a year.
The activities during the Wendy Pallot Committee Chair year included: Tim Bratton General Counsel & Company Secretary reviewing the Groups risk management processes and the Group risk register Ros Irving Divisional Director reviewing the Groups principal risks John Orchard Divisional Director assessment of the Groups cyber risk and information security governance Andrew Pieri Chief Information Officer reviewing the Groups risk management framework for the Andrew Rashbass Chief Executive Officer events organised by the Company monitoring the Groups programme to enhance controls for the Toby Smith Head of Risk management of trade sanctions risk and assessment of the management of operational risk by the Groups divisions Looking ahead, the Risk Committee will continue to monitor key risks affecting operating businesses and the Group.
Areas of focus will continue to include information security, data protection, trade sanctions and business continuity.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 55
