Annual report & accounts 2018 Corporate governance report The EVRAZ Board is responsible for the following to the financial performance of the business, INTRODUCTION key aspects of governance and performance: to be paid in semi-annual instalments of at least EVRAZ is a public company limited Financial and operational performance US$150 million each following interim and full year by shares incorporated in the United Strategic direction results.
Based upon the financial performance Kingdom.
It is a premium-listed Major acquisitions and disposals of the business, the Board may consider a higher company on the Main Market of the Overall risk management distribution level, taking into account the outlook London Stock Exchange and is a Capital expenditure and operational budgeting for the Groups major markets, the Boards view member of the FTSE 100 Index.
EVRAZ Business planning of the long-term growth prospects of the business is committed to high standards of Approval of internal regulations and policies and future capital investment requirements, corporate governance and control.
as well as the Companys commitment to maintain During the year to 31 December 2018, the Board a strong balance sheet.
In line with the Companys considered a wide range of matters, including: existing capital allocation policy, no dividends The critical success factors for strategic will be paid out if Net Debt EBITDA is above 3.0x.
COMPLIANCE development of the Groups competitive advantages The Board also discussed the proposals to pay: WITH CORPORATE HSE updates, including key initiatives an interim dividend of US$0.13 per ordinary and responses to significant incidents share, totalling US$187.6 million, on 22 June GOVERNANCE The performance of key businesses, including 2018: a second interim dividend of US$0.40 per commercial initiatives to improve operational share, totalling US$577.34 million, to be paid on 6 STANDARDS performances and revenues, with particular September 2018: and a third interim dividend emphasis on North America of US$0.25 per share, totalling US$360.8 million, to be paid on 21 December 2018.
The level EVRAZ approach to corporate governance The Groups consolidated budget and budgets is primarily based on the UK Corporate Governance of individual business units of distributable reserves within the balance sheet was considered at each distribution, noting that Code published by the Financial Reporting Council The interim and full-year results, and the 2017 FRC in April 2016 and the Listing Rules of the UK annual report it was sufficient to enable the dividend to be paid.
The dividends paid were in line with the dividend Listing Authority.
The Company complies with the UK The appropriateness of the going concern basis Corporate Governance Code or, if it does not comply, of financial reporting policy previously agreed by the Board.
explains the reasons for non-compliance.
During The assumptions, stress-test scenarios 2018, the FRC published a revised Corporate and mitigating actions used in preparing In order to support the dividend policy for future years and create additional distributable reserves, Governance Code, which comes into force the Companys viability statement for the financial year commencing on 1 January A revised dividend policy for the Group, the Board recommended to shareholders that a Court-approved capital reduction be approved 2019.
The Board has reviewed the updated code and approval of three interim dividends during and is introducing various changes of procedure the year at the annual general meeting held on 19 June 2018 to reduce the Companys nominal share and practice to be able to report fully on compliance Investment project reviews with the updated Corporate Governance Code Disposal of non-core businesses capital.
Following such shareholder approval and confirmation by the High Court of England for the 2019 financial year.
Appointment of a new non-executive director and changes to the composition of various and Wales, the nominal value of each ordinary share in the Company was reduced from US$1.00 During the year to 31 December 2018, EVRAZ Board committees complied with all the principles and provisions The length of tenure of the Companys external per share to US$0.05 per share.
of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the auditor and the Audit Committees decision Governance Code is available at www.
uk, to retain Ernst & Young as auditor until 2020 In August 2018, following a recommendation from the Nominations Committee, the Board with the following exception: Provision D. 1.1 Implementation throughout the Group of the Governance Code requires that performanceover the next five years of the EVRAZ Business appointed Ms Laurie Argo as an independent non-executive director.
Ms Argos biographical related remuneration schemes should include System to promote an operational culture malus and clawback provisions.
The Company of values and behaviours that support the drive details are disclosed on page 102.
The does not operate clawback arrangements.
for continuous improvement and business Board was of the opinion that she not only had An explanation for this non-compliance is set out change sufficient relevant experience to assist the Board in the Remuneration Report on page 120.
Linking succession planning to corporate but also that she had sufficient time to devote strategy execution, and the need to look deeper to the Boards duties.
into the Group for future leaders BOARD Compliance with the Market Abuse Regulation In December 2017, the Companys indirect wholly in relation to managing inside information, owned subsidiary, EVRAZ Mezhdurechensk, RESPONSIBILITIES share dealing by insiders and online training entered into management contracts of all insiders with nine companies owned by Sibuglemet, AND ACTIVITIES A review of the findings of the internally involved in mining, processing and trading facilitated Board evaluation exercises coal.
The management contracts required The Board and management of EVRAZ aim and action plans resulting therefrom the Company to enter into a guarantee of EVRAZ to pursue objectives in the best interests Mezhdurechensks obligations and, due to its size, of EVRAZ, its shareholders and other During the year, the Board agreed a dividend the proposed guarantee constituted a class 1 stakeholders, and particularly to create long-term policy, which aims to declare dividends transaction for the Company under the Listing value for shareholders.
of at least US$300 million per annum, subject Rules.
The Board requested shareholders 106 www.
com Strategic report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Business review Financial statements CSR report Additional information approval of the transaction.
At a general So far as the Company is aware, Greenleas that the Board as a whole plays a full meeting of the Company held on 19 June 2018, International Holdings Ltd. Abiglaze and constructive part in the development shareholder approval was duly given.
Ltd and Crosland Global Limited have and determination of the Groups strategy complied with the procurement obligations and overall commercial objectives.
The Board In September 2018, the Company was notified in the relationship agreements is chaired by Alexander Abramov.
by Lanebrook Limited, a major shareholder of the Company and with whom the Company had The CEO is responsible for leading the Groups previously entered into a relationship agreement, Stakeholders operating performance, as well as for the day-to-day that Lanebrook Limited had distributed all of its management of the Company and its subsidiaries.
shares in the Company to its direct shareholders The Board has considered The Groups CEO is Alexander Frolov.
in proportion to their holdings in Lanebrook in detail the Companys business model Limited.
The relationship agreement between outlined on pages 14 and 15 of this report, The CEO is supported by the executive team.
Lanebrook Limited and the Company was which identifies the Companys stakeholders as: terminated as a result of Lanebrook Limited Shareholders no longer being a shareholder of the Company.
Employees Board meetings and Following a detailed review of the transaction, Customers composition the independent non-executive directors approved Suppliers and business partners the entry into new relationship agreements Local communities, and EVRAZ plc held 10 scheduled Board meetings with its new controlling shareholders Crosland Government during 2018.
In 2019, up to the date Global Limited and Greenleas International of this reports publication, two Board meetings Holdings Ltd. on terms and conditions that were The Board considers the interests were held.
substantively the same as those that had been of all stakeholders by taking a long-term view entered into with Lanebrook Limited.
of how the business needs to develop within its The chief financial officer and the senior economic market.
The Board has considered vice president for commerce and business In December 2018, the Company was notified the technological developments in the market development attended all Board meetings, by Crosland Global Limited, a major shareholder to ensure that its assets are improved to remain with other members of senior management of the Company and with whom the Company had competitive, and that the necessary financing attending meetings by invitation to deliver previously entered into a relationship agreement requirements will be available over the medium presentations on the status of projects as described above, that Crosland Global Limited to long term to implement strategic projects.
When and performance of business units.
had transferred a certain number of ordinary development plans for projects are in their early shares in the Company to Abiglaze Ltd.
Following stages, the management engages key customers The table on the next page sets out a detailed review of the transaction, in the period to ensure that the products produced meet the attendance of each current director between the end of the 2018 financial year their specific requirements.
at scheduled EVRAZ plc Board and Board and the date of this report, independent noncommittee meetings in 2018. executive directors approved the entry into Assisted by the Nominations Committee, a revised relationship agreement with Crosland the Board regularly reviews the managements As at 31 December 2018, the Board comprised Global Limited and a new relationship agreement development plans and the Groups overall the chairman, one executive director, and seven with Abiglaze Ltd on terms and conditions that HR policy, including the current HR initiatives non-executive directors, including a senior were substantively the same as those that had in place.
The vice president of human resources independent director.
Olga Pokrovskaya, a former been entered into with Crosland Global Limited is invited to attend Board meetings to present non-executive director, is invited to attend Board previously.
the outcome of the annual employment meetings in an advisory capacity and to attend engagement survey, and to discuss the findings Audit Committee meetings as an observer.
Full details of the relationship agreements and actions planned as a result.
The Boards currently in place are disclosed on page 131.
HSE Committee is charged with fostering a safety The Board considers that five non-executive culture for employees throughout the Groups directors Laurie Argo, Karl Gruber, Deborah In keeping with the requirements of the relationship operations and monitoring the implementation Gudgeon, Alexander Izosimov, Sir Michael Peat agreements in place between the Company of the Groups environmental policy.
are independent in character and judgement, and its major shareholders, the independent nonexecutive directors of the Company have conducted In preparation for the introduction of the 2018 UK an annual review to consider the continued Corporate Governance Code in effect Board composition good standing of the relationship agreements from 1 January 2019, the Remuneration and are satisfied that the terms of the relationship Committee has been working alongside agreements are being fully observed management to develop procedures so that by all parties.
4R 14, principle D of the revised code is met, and the views it is confirmed that: of employee stakeholders are fully considered.
The Company has complied with the independence provisions of the relationship agreements: Chairman and chief executive So far as the Company is aware, Greenleas International Holdings Ltd. Abiglaze The Board determines the division Ltd and Crosland Global Limited or of responsibilities between the chairman any of their associates have complied and the chief executive officer CEO.
Independent Non-Executive Director 56% with the independence provisions Non-Executive Director 22% of the relationship agreements: and The chairmans principal responsibility Chairman, Non-Executive 11% is the effective running of the Board, ensuring Executive Director 11% 107 Annual report & accounts 2018 and free from any business or other relationship Board expertise of the Board : and iii among the members that could materially interfere with the exercise of the Board as a whole.
of their independent judgement, in compliance The Board has determined that, as a whole, with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
it has the appropriate skills and experience Board performance was deemed to be satisfactory.
necessary to discharge its functions.
Executive At its January 2019 meeting, the Board agreed The independent non-executive directors and non-executive directors have the experience an action plan for 2019 that would allow the Board comprise the majority excluding the Health, required to contribute meaningfully to the Boards to continue developing its involvement in reviewing Safety and Environment Committee deliberations and resolutions.
Non-executive and considering managements strategy on and chair all Board Committees.
directors assist the Board by constructively proposals and to enhance its focus not only challenging and helping to develop strategy on the commercial issues but also on safety, The Board has also satisfied itself that there proposals.
While most of the directors have environmental and other CSR issues, as well is no compromise to the independence been in post since the incorporation of EVRAZ as on HR policy.
of, or existence of conflicts of interest for, those plc in October 2011, the recruitment of new directors who serve together as directors independent non-executive directors in recent Arising from the 2018 action plan, the Board noted on the boards of outside entities.
years has strengthened the Boards technical that its members had been given more exposure expertise and widened the skills base.
to senior management below Board level.
In 2019, further consideration will be given to succession planning and ensuring that appropriate induction 1 Board and AGM attendance by each director programmes are in place for Board members.
Board Remco HSEco Auditco Nomco AGM The Company will continue to undertake regular Total number of meetings 10 4 2 8 4 1 performance evaluations of the Board in line Alexander Abramov 10 10 4 4 1 with the requirements of the UK Corporate Alexander Frolov 10 10 2 2 1 Governance Code.
1 Laurie Argo appointed 8 August 2018 5 5 2 2 n a 1 Karl Gruber 10 10 2 2 6 6 4 4 1 Board committees Deborah Gudgeon 10 10 4 4 8 8 1 Alexander Izosimov 10 10 4 4 8 8 4 4 1 The following principal committees support Sir Michael Peat 10 10 4 4 4 4 1 the Board in its work: the Audit Committee, 2 2 Eugene Shvidler 9 10 4 4 - the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Eugene Tenenbaum 10 10 1 Committee, and the Health, Safety and Environment Committee.
Boardroom diversity Induction and professional Each committee has written terms of reference, development EVRAZ recognises the importance of diversity approved by the Board, summarising its role both at the Board level and organisation-wide.
The chairman is responsible for ensuring that there and responsibilities.
The committees review The Group remains committed to increasing is a properly constructed and timely induction their respective terms of reference each diversity throughout its global operations for new directors upon joining the Board.
Directors year and submit any recommended changes and takes diversity into account during each have full access to a regular supply of financial, to the Board for approval.
All terms of reference recruitment and appointment process, working operational, strategic and regulatory information for the committees are available on the Groups to attract outstanding candidates with diverse to help them discharge their responsibilities.
backgrounds, skills, ideas and culture.
As more detailed information, see the Nominations stated in the CSR report, EVRAZ sees diversity Committee report on pages 116117.
The Audit Committee consists of three as a crucial business driver and strives to ensure non-executive directors, all independent, which that all employees rights receive equal protection, complies with the Code, and the Board considers regardless of race, nationality, gender or sexual Performance evaluation that, as a whole, the committee has competence orientation.
People with disabilities are given full relevant to the industry sector in which the Group consideration both during the recruitment process In 2017, Lintstock LLP conducted an externally operates.
Specifically, Deborah Gudgeon has and once employed, to ensure that their unique facilitated annual Board evaluation.
Building relevant recent financial experience.
aptitudes and abilities are taken into account.
on that review, in October 2018, the company secretary undertook an internally facilitated For more detailed information, see review at the initiative and with the participation Shareholder engagement the Nominations Committee report and the CSR of the Companys Nominations Committee.
The Company believes that the Board Questionnaires were distributed to all Board The Company continues to encourage composition provides an appropriate balance directors for their response and comment.
The annual of skills, knowledge and experience.
The Board general meeting was held on 19 June 2018 members comprise a number of different The results were discussed at three levels: and all directors, with the exception of one nationalities with a wide range of skills, capabilities i among the members of the Nominations non-executive director, including all committee and experience from a variety of business Committee: ii between Sir Michael Peat as chairs, were in attendance.
Biographies of the Board members chairman of the Nominations Committee are welcomed to attend, ask questions are provided in the Board of Directors section.
and Alexander Abramov as chairman and discuss issues with individual directors.
1 On 8 August 2018, Karl Gruber stood down from the Audit Committee and Laurie Argo was appointed in his place.
2 Eugene Shvidler was unable to attend the meeting on the day of the AGM due to a business commitment that arose unexpectedly.
com Strategic report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Business review Financial statements CSR report Additional information An additional general meeting was held brief analysts and institutional investors fully operations and performance.
Sir Michael Peat, on 19 June 2018 to approve the issuance after the publication of the Companys half-year the senior independent non-executive director of a guarantee of the obligations of EVRAZ and full-year results.
and chairman of the Nominations Committee, Mezhdurechensk under management contracts attended and presented on the Companys with nine companies owned by Sibuglemet.
In October 2018, an investor day was held corporate governance structure as well for analysts and institutional investors, where as meeting with investors, as did Deborah The CEO, supported by the chief financial officer key members of the management team Gudgeon, an independent non-executive director and the vice president of investor relations, gave presentations to explain the Groups and chairman of the Audit Committee.
Board composition as of 31 December 2018 Name Position Committee Membership Years of tenure Executive director Alexander Frolov CEO HSEC - member 7 Non-executive directors Alexander Abramov Chairman NC - member 7 Eugene Shvidler Director NC - member 7 Eugene Tenenbaum Director None 7 Independent non-executive directors Laurie Argo Director AC - member Less than 1 Karl Gruber Director HSEC chairman, NC member 7 Deborah Gudgeon Director AC chairman, RC - member 3 Alexander Izosimov Director RC chairman, NC member, 6 AC member Sir Michael Peat Senior independent director NC chairman, RC - member 7 Role and composition of each committee Committee name Function Composition Link to committee report Audit Committee Audit, financial reporting, risk All three members are independent See on pages 112115 management and controls non-executive directors Nominations Committee Selection and nomination of Board All five members are non-executive See on pages 116117 members directors, of which three are independent Remuneration Committee Remuneration of Board members and All three members are independent See on pages 120127 top management non-executive directors HSE Committee HSE issues Two of the three members are See on pages 118119 non-executive with an independent chairman who is also a non-executive 3 director of the Company RISK MANAGEMENT and manage potential and actual threats issued in June 2014, and the abovementioned to the Groups ability to achieve its objectives.
FRC guidance issued in September 2014.
AND INTERNAL The EVRAZ Enterprise Risk Management Executive management is responsible for both CONTROL ERM process is designed to identify, quantify, internal controls in place and mitigating and respond to these threats: and monitor actions related to risk management throughout EVRAZ maintains a comprehensive financial the Groups prevention and mitigation system.
This serves reporting procedures FRP manual detailing Management maintains a risk register that to encourage a risk-conscious business culture.
the Groups internal control and risk encompasses both internal and external management systems and activity.
The level of risk appetite approved EVRAZ applies the following core principles was last updated in December 2018, in line by the Board is used to identify particular risks to identifying, monitoring and managing risk with the Financial Reporting Council FRC and uncertainties that require specific Board throughout the organisation: Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control oversight.
In 2018, the process in relation Risks are identified, documented, and Related Financial and Business Reporting to principal risks and uncertainties was assessed and monitored, and their profile issued in September 2014.
The aim of the risk consistent with the UK Corporate Governance is communicated to the relevant levels management process is to identify, evaluate Code, the FRC Guidance on the Strategic Report of the management team, regularly.
The 3 The members of the Health, Safety and Environment Committee at 31 December 2018 were Karl Gruber chairman, Alexander Frolov and Olga Pokrovskaya, who has continued as a non-executive member of the HSE Committee following her cessation as a Board member of the Company on 14 March 2016.
With more than 50% of EVRAZ operations based in the Russian Federation, the committee continues to value the contribution she brings in terms of her technical and regional experience.
109 Annual report & accounts 2018 business management team is primarily Management Group which consists of all Internal audit responsible for ERM and accountable for all business unit and function vice-presidents: risks assumed in the operations: All acquired businesses are brought within Internal audit is an independent appraisal The Board is responsible for assessing the Groups system of internal control as soon function established by the Board to evaluate the optimum balance of risk risk appetite as practicable.
the adequacy and effectiveness of controls, through the alignment of business strategy systems and procedures at EVRAZ which helps and risk tolerance on an enterprise-wide The Board has delegated primary oversight reduce business risks to an acceptable level basis.
In addition, the Board oversees of the Groups internal control process in a cost-effective manner.
and approves risks above the Groups defined to the Audit Committee, which tables any major risk appetite and reviews any significant internal control findings exceeding the Boards The Board approved the latest version internal control weaknesses: risk appetite.
of the internal audit charter on 27 February The Group has established a reporting 2019. process involving business unit management The EVRAZ Business Security department teams and other relevant bodies at major is headed up by a senior vice president The internal audit functions role in the Group enterprises.
Its aim is to identify, evaluate and has specific responsibility for preventing is to provide an independent, objective, and establish management actions and detecting business fraud and malpractice innovative, responsive and effective valuefor risk mitigation at a regional level, including fraudulent behaviour by employees, added internal audit service.
This is achieved as well as at EVRAZ major steel and mining customers and suppliers.
Robust internal through a systematic and disciplined approach operations.
The Risk Management Group controls help to minimise the risk, based on assisting management in controlling maintains a corporate risk register and the EVRAZ Business Security department risks, monitoring compliance, and improving representing a summary of this information.
ensures that appropriate processes are in place the efficiency and effectiveness of internal Business unit management teams and other to protect the Groups interests.
control systems and governance processes.
relevant bodies are accountable to the Risk Once a year, the function provides an opinion of the overall effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
Internal control For additional information about principal risks During 2018, EVRAZ head of internal audit, and uncertainties, see the Strategic Report.
as secretary of the Audit Committee, attended all the committees meetings and addressed any reported deficiencies in internal control THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS as required by the committee.
Ensuring Groups ongoing The internal audit planning process starts internal control process is with the Groups strategy: includes the formal adequate and effective risk assessment process, consideration THE AUDIT COMMITTEE of the results of the management internal control self-assessment, Primary oversight and the identification of management of internal control regime concerns based on the results of previous INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK audits: and ends with an internal audit plan, which the Audit Committee approves.
Audit resources are predominantly allocated INTERNAL AUDIT to areas of higher risk and, to the extent considered necessary, to financial and business controls and processes, with appropriate resource reservation for ad hoc and follow-up Reviewing Supervise effectiveness of and review assignments.
internal control of reports In 2018, internal audit projects covered EVRAZ ASSURANCE FRAMEWORK the following Group risks: annual management self-assessments Cost effectiveness Health, safety and environment Capital projects and expenditure RISK MANAGEMENT GROUP Human resources Compliance Business interruption, and equipment Reviews of REGIONAL RISK COMMITTEES OR BUSINESS UNITS MANAGEMENT TEAMS and infrastructure downtime management reports and effectiveness Transportation, sourcing, raw materials and energy supply IT security and IT infrastructure risk SITE LEVEL MANAGERS management Fraud, security, bribery and corruption EVRAZ internal audit function is structured on a regional basis, reflecting the geographic 110 www.
com Strategic report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Business review Financial statements CSR report Additional information Components of the internal control system Component Basis for assurance Action in 2018 Assurance framework principal entity-level Annual self-assessment by management at all In 2018, the internal audit function reviewed the controls to prevent and detect error or material major operations of the internal control system result of the managements internal control selffraud, ensure effectiveness of operations and using the EVRAZ Assurance Framework assessment and evaluated the effectiveness of compliance with principal external and internal Review of the self-assessment by the internal the internal control system.
regulations audit function In 2018, all major production sites were certified Assessment of effectiveness of internal control as having effective internal control.
and risk management Investment project management Effectiveness of project management Continuous enhancement of procedures regarding and management of project risks is monitored quality and reporting control, as well as other by established management committee and subelements of the project oversight process.
committees Numerous activities were developed in 2018 to Reviewed by the internal audit function further increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the project management process.
Operating policies and procedures Implemented, updated and monitored Operating policies and procedures are by the management updated as per the internal initiatives by the Reviewed by the internal audit function operational management and in response to recommendations from the internal audit function.
Operating budgets Approved by the Board Operating budgets are prepared by executive Monitored by the controlling unit management and approved by the Board.
Reviewed by the internal audit function Accounting policies and procedures as per the Developed and updated by the reporting Accounting policies and procedures were updated corporate accounting manual department as part of the standard annual review process.
Reviewed by the internal audit function spread of the Groups operations.
The internal to the Audit Committee.
The committee then In 2019, HR risk management practices audit function works to align common internal makes recommendations to the Board regarding will be structured and further improved.
The audit practices throughout the Group via quality the level of risk appetite.
The Risk Management existing occupational safety risk management assurance and improvement programmes.
Group and the Audit Committee last reviewed system, which is focused on enhancing the Groups risk profile in November 2018 the Groups safety culture, will be further and finalised the assessment in January 2019. developed and implemented in 2019.
Approach to risk appetite Based on the results of the most recent review, the management concluded that the Groups In 2018, the Group appointed a data protection Risk appetite is an important part of the risk risk-acceptance approach had not changed officer to strengthen risk management management process that serves as a measure and that the risk appetite remained practices for personal data protection in 2019 of the risks EVRAZ management is willing the same as in the prior year.
An appropriate and to address changes in the EU General Data to accept in pursuit of value.
The Board recommendation regarding the level of risk Protection Regulation.
has approved a risk appetite in accordance appetite was made to the Audit Committee with the risk management methodology adopted and to the Board on February 27, 2019.
In early 2019, the Group plans to organise by the Group.
risk management training as part of its Top- 300 programme.
The purpose of this training Risk appetite is considered in evaluating Objectives for 2019 session is to increase the management strategies and setting objectives within EVRAZ teams engagement with and support for risk strategic and budgeting cycle, in decision Further development of the risk management identification and management.
making and in developing risk management system and risk management practices actions and methods, as well as in identifying is planned for 2019 based on the analysis Further information regarding EVRAZs internal particular risks and uncertainties that of the adequacy of risk management practices control and risk management processes can require specific Board oversight.
The Groups and the gaps identified for the main business be found on the Groups website.
strategic objectives are aligned with, and risk processes in 2018.
While the maturity of EVRAZ mitigation actions are reflective of, the risk risk management process was generally appetite approved by the Board.
The Group assessed as fair, there were areas identified adopts a robust approach in relation to risk that require additional management focus management.
Risk appetite for some specific and implementation or improvement of risk business processes eg health & safety, fraud, management instruments or practices.
An security, bribery and corruption is assessed, action plan for each gap was developed defined and evaluated separately from the rest and will be introduced.
In 2018, the Group began to improve The management reassesses the risk appetite the procedure of identifying, assessing at least annually via the Risk Management and mitigating risks within project management Group, which reports on the analysis performed to enhance the depth of risk analysis.
111 Annual report & accounts 2018 Audit Committee report additional technical expertise and valuable regional knowledge.
Deborah Gudgeon Independent Non-Executive Director, Senior members of the Groups finance function, Chairman of Audit Committee the head of internal audit who acts as secretary The role and responsibilities of the Audit to the Audit Committee and Risk Management Committee are delegated by the Board and set Group, and the external auditors also attend out in the written terms of reference Committee meetings.
Key members of the management team and Risk Management Group are also invited to attend Committee meetings when appropriate.
In 2018, these included the CEO and vice presidents of strategy, steel, IT, security, legal, compliance I am pleased to present the Audit Committee Report for the financial year and personnel, the CFO of EVRAZ North America ended 31 December 2018. plc ENA and the director of investor relations.
Other members of th management team Following her appointment to the Board, Laurie Argo has joined the Audit and internal audit function were also invited Committee, replacing Karl Gruber.
I would like to extend my personal thanks to attend Committee meetings as appropriate.
to Karl for his contribution to the Committees work and to welcome Laurie.
During 2018, I visited two of the Groups steel mills in North America, EVRAZ The Audit Committee met eight times during Regina in Canada and EVRAZ Pueblo in the US.
In 2019, we plan to hold an 2018 and three times in early 2019 before Audit Committee meeting at one of our North American operations.
the publication of this Annual Report.
Once again, I would like to extend the thanks of the Committee to the Details of committee attendance are set out executive and financial management of the Group the internal audit on page 108. department and EY, our external auditor, for their continuing diligence and valued contributions to the work of the Committee.
ACTIVITIES AND WORK ROLE AND Management Group and considered them to be OF THE COMMITTEE appropriate with no changes deemed necessary.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF DURING 2018 EVRAZ also confirmed its compliance, during THE AUDIT COMMITTEE the financial year commencing 1 January 2018, The Audit Committee has continued to focus with the provisions of the Competition and Markets on the integrity of the Groups financial reporting, The role and responsibilities of the Audit Authority Order 2014 on mandatory tendering the related internal control framework and risk Committee are delegated by the Board and set out and audit committee responsibilities management, including finance, operations, in the written terms of reference: regulatory compliance and fraud.
These areas were http: www.
com governance directors comprehensively reviewed, and the Committee committees.
COMMITTEE MEMBERS received regular updates from the Groups financial and operational management, internal The Audit Committee minutes are tabled AND ATTENDANCE audit, compliance officer and legal team, as well for the Boards meeting for consideration, as the external auditors.
and the chairman updates the Board orally The Audit Committee members are all independent on the Committee proceedings, making non-executive directors.
The Committee members The Committee monitors the Groups IT recommendations on areas covered by its terms have a wide range of skills and experience: security on an ongoing basis, including of reference if appropriate.
Deborah Gudgeon has recent and relevant the results from external audit, mitigation financial experience and Alexander Izosimov plans and the level of attempted cyber attacks.
The Audit Committee reviews the Groups provides key strategic experience.
Laurie Argo has During 2018, the Committee reviewed progress risk register and risk appetite proposed extensive commercial and financial experience on the actions set out in the implementation plan by the management before they are considered in the North American market.
As disclosed developed for the Russian Federation following by the Board.
in the Corporate Governance Report on page 107, the external information security assessment Olga Pokrovskaya continues to attend Audit and the attack in 2017.
These actions were largely The Committee reviewed the terms of reference Committee meetings as an observer, providing completed by the end of 2018 and a further for both the Audit Committee and Risk round of penetration testing will be undertaken 112 www.
com Strategic report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Business review Financial statements CSR report Additional information during 2019.
An IT risk assessment of the North the updated risk register and the scenarios against the US dollar, the presentation currency American business was undertaken by EY tested and the assumptions underpinning of the financial statements, as set out in Note in 2018 and a detailed plan is being developed each scenario.
As a result, while challenging the consistency to upgrade the IT infrastructure and implement regulations and sanctions regimes is now identified and comparability of balances in the financial EYs recommendations.
Given the significance of IT as a principal risk, the Risk Management Group statements remains difficult, management security to the Groups risk profile and resilience, consider the risk of sanctions being imposed separates out where appropriate the forex impact this will remain an area of focus for the Audit on EVRAZ to be remote and the potential on areas of significant judgements and estimates.
Committee in 2019. implications difficult to predict in the current environment.
The Audit Committee challenged The following financial reporting issues Following the financial transformation project and then agreed with the Risk Management are considered significant.
and migration to the shared service centre Group and, as a result, this scenario has not been at, Novokuznetsk, management commissioned modelled as part of the viability analysis.
an external review of the overall finance function Going concern Note 2 to assess the maturity of the process within EVRAZ and this was reviewed by the Committee.
Based SIGNIFICANT EVRAZ is exposed to a wide range on the results, a transformation map has been of risks and inherent uncertainties as set out developed with strategic objectives for each part FINANCIAL REPORTING on pages 3537, many of which are outside of the finance function through to 2020.
The Audit the control of the Group.
In 2018, steel and raw Committee will monitor progress against this plan ISSUES CONSIDERED material pricing remained strong supported during 2019. by global demand and supply side reform in China, BY THE AUDIT but markets were volatile.
The Audit Committee The Committee continued to review the procurement reviewed managements going concern analysis, transformation project during the year, as well COMMITTEE IN 2018 which included both a base case and a flexed as the management plan to improve controls downside scenario based on forward pricing over contract approval and signing processes.
This The Audit Committees primary objective close to the bottom of the range of current plan should be fully implemented during 2019 is to support the Board in ensuring the integrity investment analyst forecasts, as well as a reduction and the completeness and effectiveness of the new of the Groups financial statements and Annual in the level of budgeted capital expenditure.
The controls will be reviewed by the Committee.
Report, including review of: Committee carefully considered the projected The Committee also assessed plans developed Compliance with financial reporting standards use and sources of funds for the period to June by management to improve controls over inventory and governance requirements 2020, which includes scheduled loan repayments, and product shipment at one of the plants: The material financial areas in which significant new committed funding, free cash flow after this is a complex process involving several accounting judgements have been made capital expenditure and the dividend policy.
Given business functions and the use of innovative The critical accounting policies and substance, the volatility of the global supply and demand technology solutions.
It will remain an area of focus consistency and fairness of management environment in which EVRAZ operates, for the Committee in 2019. estimates the Committee again focused on the pessimistic The clarity of disclosures and downside case and the implications on free cash The Committee continued to monitor the process Whether the annual report, taken as a whole, flow and compliance with financial covenants.
for identifying and approving related-party is fair, balanced and understandable, transactions during 2018 together with the accuracy and provides the information necessary Following these detailed considerations, the Audit and completeness of the disclosures in the 2018 for shareholders to assess the Groups Committee resolved to recommend the going financial statements.
performance, business model, strategy, principal concern basis of preparation for the Financial risks and uncertainties Statements as at 31 December 2018 to the Board.
The Committee updated its terms of reference, and undertook a self-assessment to consider its performance.
The internal audit charter Financial reporting standards Areas of significant and the Groups financial reporting procedures and governance requirements accounting judgement and FRP manual were also considered and updated.
management estimates The effectiveness and status of the anti-corruption The full financial statements can be found policy and sanctions risk compliance controls were on pages 132257.
Impairment of goodwill and non-current assets reviewed throughout the course of the year, together Notes 5 and 6 with progress to meet the requirements of the FRCs The Audit Committee considered several financial Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control reporting issues in relation to the interim results The Committee considered managements and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
for H1 2018 and the financial statements impairment assessment in the context The Committee also considered the implications for 2018.
These included the appropriateness of the current and future trading environment of the new Corporate Governance Code for its of accounting policies adopted, disclosures for the Group, including assumptions work and reviewed the operation of whistleblowing and managements estimates and judgements.
as to the continuation of tariffs and duties in North procedures to ensure they were appropriately The Committee considered papers produced America and their impact on the recoverable aligned across the Group and conformed to best by management on the key financial reporting amount of the affected assets.
judgements and reviewed reports by the external undertaken as at 30 September 2018 auditor on the full-year and half-year results which and reassessed at 31 December 2018 when no At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee highlight any issues with respect to the audit work.
further impairment triggers were identified.
The also considered the proforma Viability Statement continued weakness of the rouble means that and supporting analysis produced by management The financial statements continue to be impacted the carrying values of Russian cash-generating and reviewed by the Risk Management by fluctuations in the key functional currencies units remain low in US dollar terms and are largely Group.
The Audit Committee considered of the business primarily the Russian rouble not challenged by the value in use comparisons 113 Annual report & accounts 2018 used to determine impairment, even if the pricing discussions held with management throughout regime has been a key focus for the Committee outlook were to deteriorate.
the year and the preparation process adopted.
The Committee received Management agreed the key overall messages regular updates from the Groups external legal An impairment charge of US$30 million is recorded of the Annual Report at an early stage to ensure advisers and compliance officer on any extension in the financial statements for 2018.
This primarily a consistent message in both the narrative or change to the evolving sanctions framework.
relates to EVRAZ Stratcor Inc, where the full and financial reporting.
Regular meetings The control processes, procedures and reporting asset value of US$12 million has been impaired were held to review the draft Annual Report framework are updated regularly to incorporate in anticipation that the entity will enter bankruptcy and for management and Committee members the latest guidance.
These were tested by internal proceedings.
There was a further impairment to provide comments, and detailed review audit during the year, along with progress against charge of US$6 million at Yuzhkuzbassugol of the appropriate draft sections was undertaken the recommendations of the Groups external legal to reflect an increase in site restoration provisions by the relevant directors and external advisers.
advisers, and were found to be satisfactory.
There at one of the mothballed mines.
The Committee particularly considered whether is a process of continuing education of compliance the description of the business, principal risks personnel and executive management in relation The Committee gave particular attention and uncertainties, strategy and objectives were to sanctions.
to the implications of trade barriers consistent with the understanding of the Board, for the businesses in North America and whether the controls over the consistency and managements assumption that these will and accuracy of the information presented RISK MANAGEMENT end in 2023.
Given the inherent uncertainty in the Annual Report are robust.
around these measures at the current time, AND INTERNAL the Committee accepted managements Taking into account the disclosure implications assumption on this occasion but will review of the issues discussed in this report, the Committee CONTROL it for the interim statements.
recommended to the Board that, taken as a whole, it considers the Annual Report to be fair, balanced This should be read in conjunction and understandable.
The Audit Committee with the Risk Management and Internal Control Other matters recommended approval of the Groups 2018 section on pages 109111.
Consolidated Financial Statements by the Board.
The Committee reviewed and agreed Both recommendations were accepted by the Board.
EVRAZ has an integrated approach with the accounting treatment and disclosure to risk management to ensure that the review of several transactions during 2018, including: and consideration of risks inform the management The twenty-year contract with Air Liquide OTHER MATTERS of the business at all levels, the design of internal for the supply of oxygen and other gases.
controls and internal audit process.
The Groups As the Group will not control or manage the air UK Bribery Act financial reporting procedures, internal controls, separation plant and output will also be sold risk management systems and activities to unconnected third parties, management has The Committee continues to monitor the status are documented in a comprehensive FRP manual.
concluded that this contract does not constitute of the procedures, controls and data collection The manual was updated and reviewed by the Audit a lease as defined by IFRS 16 Note 30 : of the Groups Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption Committee in January 2019.
A contract with Brunswick Rail for the lease Policy.
A comprehensive framework for annually of gondola cars.
This contract was classified monitoring compliance with EVRAZ anti-corruption The Risk Management Group and the Audit as an operating lease under IAS 17 in 2018 policies and identifying risk was developed during Committee reviewed the Groups risk profile but, following the adoption of IFRS 16 in 2019, 2016 by the compliance, legal and internal audit in November 2018 and finalised the assessment the Group will recognise the right-of-use asset teams.
Using this framework, compliance was in January 2019.
The assessment includes and related liability of US$60 million in respect tested in late 2018 and the results reported the Risk Management Groups recommendation of this contract Note 30 : and to the Audit Committee in February 2019, indicating on the level of risk appetite of the Group and how The sale of the 15% interest in Delong further progress in reducing risk.
During 2019, that appetite is applied to strategic and operational Holdings Limited in June 2018 and recognition the methodology and current monitoring framework business decisions.
This was reviewed by the Audit of the US$59 million gain in other will be updated and extended in consultation Committee, along with the draft Statement comprehensive income Note 13. with internal audit and legal advisers to reflect of Principal Risks and Uncertainties to be the latest best practice.
included in the Annual Report, prior to the Boards The Financial Reporting Council FRC reviewed consideration.
the financial statements for the year ending Anti-corruption training continued during 2018.
31st December 2017 and wrote to the Company A further 2,500 managers across the business Internal audit findings on control issues that in July 2018.
The Audit Committee reviewed completed the anti-corruption training programme exceed the Groups risk appetite are reported the recommendations of the FRC with management developed by Thomson Reuters, bringing the total to the Board by the Audit Committee and followed and the external auditor and the majority of these number of those trained to 11,000.
The training will up by the Groups Management Committee.
recommendations where relevant have been continue to be extended to additional staff in 2019 Progress on resolving issues is monitored regularly incorporated into the financial statements and refresher training will commence.
In addition, by the Committee.
for the year ending 31st December 2018. specific training modules will be developed in-house by the management to supplement the Thomson The Audit Committee continues to receive quarterly Reuters programme during 2019. updates on whistleblowing reports together Fair, balanced and with a bi-annual security report on the progress of follow-up investigations and resulting actions understandable Sanctions compliance controls in relation to fraud and theft.
Any significant In considering whether the Annual Report is fair, whistleblowing report is reported to the Committee balanced and understandable, the Committee Given the increase in geo-political tension during on an ad hoc basis when it arises.
reviewed the information it had received, 2018, compliance with the extended sanctions 114 www.
com Strategic report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Business review Financial statements CSR report Additional information Assessment of the Groups risk external assessment of the internal audit function the Senior Statutory Auditor regularly outside in North America and Canada was undertaken of Audit Committee meetings.
profile and control environment during 2018 and confirmed that it generally Internal audit reviews the Groups risk and control conforms to the International Standards Engagement of the external auditor for non-audit environment annually and this is considered for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing, services is managed in accordance with the Groups by the Risk Management Group and the Audit Code of Ethics and Definition of Internal Audit policy, which can be found on the website: www.
The chairman of the Audit Committee of the Institute of Internal Auditors.
This policy identifies a range of nontables the internal audit report assessment of the risk scheduled external assessment of the internal audit services which are prohibited on the basis and control environment with the Board.
audit function in Russia, the CIS and Europe that they might compromise the independence will be undertaken in 2020. of the external auditor, and establishes threshold The Committee monitors the internal control limits for the level of non-audit fees relative to audit environment throughout the year and engages The head of internal audit is secretary to both fees and authorisation processes for the approval with executive management on any deficiencies the Audit Committee and Risk Management Group of all audit and non-audit fees.
This policy was identified by internal audit and assesses and prepares the minutes.
updated in January 2019 to reflect the latest managements response.
During 2018, the Audit guidance http: www.
com governance Committee reviewed the updated assessment documents.
Fees in respect of the interim review of the information security risks and supporting EXTERNAL AUDIT are now classified as an audit-related service analysis and the preliminary risk assessment and the threshold for audit-related and non-audit of GDPR compliance, and considered the analysis The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring services has been increased.
During 2018, nonof issues arising from the current contract approval the ongoing effectiveness and independence audit fees totalled US$1,202,000 and included process.
The Committee also reviewed the results of the external auditor, as well as for making US$459,000 in respect of the interim review 2017 of the external finance function assessment recommendations to the Board on the reUS$1,073,000 including US$530,000 in respect and a project to optimise product inventory appointment of the auditor.
The balance in 2018 primarily and shipment control at one of the plants.
The Audit related to work in connection with the EVRAZ plc Committee considered whether any of these matters guarantee to Sibuglemet, as well as other quality had implications for the risk and control environment Effectiveness and assurance reviews.
Non-audit fees were 41% of the Group.
of the 2018 audit fee of US$2.9 million, compared independence with 35% of the 2017 audit fee.
Irrespective of prior The Audit Committee reviewed in detail the Groups The Audit Committee has an established framework approval by the CFO and Audit Committee chairman, risk management practices and managements through which it monitors the effectiveness, all fees are reported to the Audit Committee self-assessment of the process.
While the maturity independence, objectivity and compliance for noting and comment.
of the process was assessed as fair, areas were of the external auditor with ethical, professional identified that require additional management and regulatory requirements of the external auditor.
focus and enhanced risk management This includes: Re-appointment of the practices.
As a result, management developed Review and approval of the external audit external auditor a plan to address these gaps, which was reviewed plan for the interim review and year-end audit, by the Audit Committee and considered appropriate.
including consideration of the audit scope, key Following a tender process undertaken Progress against this plan will be monitored during audit risks and audit materiality measures, during 2016, the Committee recommended 2019. and compliance with best practice the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP Review and approval of the external auditors EY as external auditor for the years ended engagement letter 31 December 2017 and 2018.
After consideration INTERNAL AUDIT Review of the FRCs June 2018 Quality Inspection of the UK Corporate Governance Code, EU Report and EYs response legislation on audit regulation and the performance The Audit Committee reviewed the internal audit Consideration of the external auditors report of EY, the Committee recommended in 2017 that, plans for 2019 and recommended certain revisions on the interim review and annual report subject to the agreement of appropriate terms, in view of the macroeconomic environment, risk and representation letters and a further tender to appoint an external auditor profile of the business and resources available.
Review of the external auditors management be deferred to 2021.
The Committee reviewed The plan was revised to reflect the updated risk letter on the 2017 audit with management, the terms agreed with EY in respect of the financial analysis and to prioritise key business cycles consideration of managements response years ended 31 December 2019 and 2020, and controls from a risk perspective.
During 2018, and proposed actions, and directing that internal as well as the performance of EY, and continues the Audit Committee also approved the expansion audit undertake a follow-up audit of key areas to recommend the deferral of the tender process.
of the internal audit function in North America to increase the geographic coverage of risk areas.
Management and members of the Audit EY was appointed as external auditor of EVRAZ plc Overall, the Committee considers the current internal Committee completed a questionnaire to assess in 2011.
The current audit engagement partner, audit resource to be adequate for the internal control the effectiveness and independence of the 2017 Steven Dobson, assumed the role for the year and risk management assurance requirements.
external audit process during 2018, which was ended 31st December 2016 and will continue up found to be satisfactory.
to and including the audit for the year ended 31st The Audit Committee reviewed and updated December 2020. the charter and key performance indicators The Audit Committee holds regular meetings of the internal audit function in early 2019.
An annual with the external auditor at which management The Audit Committee continues to consider EY assessment of the effectiveness, independence is not present to consider the appropriateness to be effective and independent in their role and quality of the internal audit function was of the Groups accounting policies and audit as auditor and has advised the Board that undertaken by way of a questionnaire to Committee process.
During 2018, the external auditor it should recommend to shareholders that EY be members, management and the external auditors, confirmed that these policies and processes were re-appointed as external auditor for the year ending and was again found to be very satisfactory.
The Committee chairman also meets 31 December 2019.
115 Annual report & accounts 2018 Nominations committee report Sir Michael Peat Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Chairman of Nominations Committee The Board delegates the Nominations Committees role and responsibilities, which are set out in written terms of reference http: www.
The Nominations Committee has continued to monitor the Boards composition to ensure that it remains appropriate for the Company and to uphold the integrity of the Companys corporate governance.
As reported last year, the Nominations Committee considered the range of experience currently on the Board and the need to widen diversity before commencing a recruitment exercise for an additional non-executive director.
With three of the five independent non-executive directors completing seven years on the Board, this process will continue as suitable candidates are sought.
ROLE ACTIVITY DURING of candidates in line with the Boards desire to enhance gender diversity on the Board where The Nominations Committee is responsible 2018 appropriate.
Heidrick & Struggles presented for making recommendations to the Board a number of candidates to the committee, who on the structure, size and composition During 2018, the committee considered reviewed and met with several of the candidates.
of the Board and its committees, and overseeing the following issues.
Further meetings between the identified succession planning for directors and senior candidate and key executive management were management.
arranged to ensure that the selected candidate Board and committee had a skill set that the Board could benefit from.
The Committee also considered, after composition COMMITTEE review, that Laurie Argo was fully independent The Board agreed that the size of the Board as defined by the Code and had sufficient time MEMBERS and its committees was appropriate for available to deliver the role.
A recommendation the Groups ongoing needs.
The committee was subsequently made to the Board, which AND ATTENDANCE agreed that the Board represented a good mix appointed Laurie Argo as an independent nonof skills and experience, and that the Group had executive director on 8 August 2018.
Ms Argos The Nominations Committee members benefited from having a stable board and a group biography is available on page 102.
Notably, at 31 December 2018 were Sir Michael Peat, of people who interact well.
she has a wide range of experience, particularly Alexander Izosimov, Karl Gruber, Alexander in the North American energy industry.
Sir Michael Peat served as the chairman of the Nominations Succession planning The committee also paid close attention to senior Committee throughout the year.
The committee considered succession planning Three of the five committee members were for independent non-executive directors, independent non-executive directors.
in the context of the length of service of each Board performance of the current independent non-executive evaluation The committee met on four occasions during directors.
As reported on page 108, all members in 2017 for an additional independent nonIn 2017, as required by the UK Corporate were in attendance for all meetings.
executive director and appointed Heidrick & Governance code, the Company undertook a board Struggles, a firm that has no other relationship performance evaluation using an external facilitator, The CEO attended all meetings and the company with the business, to undertake the search.
In October 2018, the company secretary acted as the committees secretary.
Heidrick & Struggles reviewed a wide range secretary undertook a follow up internal 116 www.
com Strategic report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Business review Financial statements CSR report Additional information evaluation under the guidance of the Nominations DIVERSITY POLICY Committee.
Following the 2018 reviews conclusion, the committee considered the outcome The Boards diversity policy is to have board of the report and prepared an action plan membership that reflects the international nature for the Board to review and agree, which reflected of the Groups operations and includes at least some minor improvements to board process two women as board members.
The Board and information flow.
The outcome of the review currently meets these criteria.
The committee and the action plan are described in the Corporate continues to review and monitor the Groups Governance section on page 108. performance against its diversity policy, including aspects such as age, gender and educational and professional backgrounds, as disclosed Independence of nonin the CSR report on page 84. executive directors The Nominations Committee and the Board The committee undertook a review are committed to meeting best practice of the independent status of the non-executive standards in gender diversity.
While the nature directors based on the provisions in the UK of the steel and mining industries makes Corporate Governance Code and confirmed this more challenging, it does not diminish the appropriateness of the independent status the committees and the Boards commitment.
of each of the independent non-executive directors.
2019 PRIORITIES PERFORMANCE The committee will continue to fulfil its general responsibilities with particular emphasis OF CHAIRMAN on compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, board diversity and succession planning.
AND INDIVIDUAL A review is in progress to confirm compliance with the revised 2018 UK Governance Code, DIRECTORS which takes effect for the 2019 financial year.
In addition, the committee will continue The senior independent non-executive to consider development and succession planning director sought views from all directors for senior management.
about the performance and contribution of the chairman.
The conclusions of this review were considered by the independent nonexecutive directors at a meeting on 17 January 2019.
It was concluded, as previously, that the chairman continues to make an important contribution to the Group, including his knowledge and experience of, and contacts in, the industry.
The chairman of the Group and the chairman of the Nominations Committee discussed the performance of the individual directors, including time available to devote to the Groups business, and noted no concerns.
117 Annual report & accounts 2018 HSE Committee report Karl Gruber Independent Non-Executive Director, Chairman of Health, Safety and Environment Committee The Board delegates the HSE Committees role and responsibilities, which are set out in written terms of reference http: www.
In 2018, EVRAZ continued the work to streamline its HSE system and developed measures to mitigate key risks.
Unfortunately, the results were unacceptable: six employees and four contractors lost their lives, while only the number of serious injuries fell by 8%.
This again highlights the need to improve the approach and focus on changing the safety culture by involving each and every employee in the efforts to uncover and eliminate production risks.
To this end, the Group has reviewed its HSE strategy and identified key areas of focus for the short term.
ROLE AND COMMITTEE ACTIVITY DURING RESPONSIBILITIES MEMBERS AND 2018 The Health, Safety and Environment HSE ATTENDANCE The following sections summarise how Committee is responsible for reporting the HSE Committee fulfilled its duties in 2018. to the Board on three key areas: employee As of 31 December 2018, the HSE Committees wellbeing, occupational safety and protection members were Karl Gruber chairman, of the environment and local communities Alexander Frolov and Olga Pokrovskaya, who HSE performance review where EVRAZ operates.
It receives monthly remains in place since leaving the Board HSE updates and provides a quarterly report on 14 March 2016.
Throughout the reporting period, the committee to the Board, and its tasks include: reviewed EVRAZ HSE performance using Assessing the effects of the Groups HSE In 2018, the committee held two meetings, the following criteria: initiatives on key stakeholder groups, on 7 February and 2 August, at the headquarters Fatal incidents such as employees and local residents, in Moscow.
Both had a necessary quorum Lost-time injuries LTI and on EVRAZ reputation and were convened as required.
The meetings Lost-time injury frequency rate LTIFR, Liaising between the management included reviews of current issues and HSE calculated as the number of injuries resulting and the Board when there have been fatalities initiatives at the divisional level.
In addition, in lost time per 1 million hours worked or serious incidents in the workplace, in June 2018, the committee chairman Enforcement of cardinal safety rules including to ensure that remedial action and EVRAZ CEO took part in a HSE strategy Progress of health and safety initiatives is implemented effectively session with 40 top managers.
In Reviewing HSE strategy, monitoring pertinent September 2018, the same group visited The HSE Committee reviews every fatality, severe parts of any independent operational audits divisional production sites to review HSE injury and significant damage to property at EVRAZ and making recommendations for action practices and take part in the EVRAZ Business to identify the root cause and remedial action.
or improvement as deemed necessary System Summit.
This involves recording a detailed description of the scene, the sequence of events, root cause analysis and corrective measures implemented.
com Strategic report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Business review Financial statements CSR report Additional information The committee evaluates the Groups Indeed, improving both of these were added COMMUNITY environmental performance using the following to the HSE performance assessment criteria: and safety conversations objectives.
RELATIONS Key air emissions, including nitrogen oxides Leadership plays a vital role in keeping NOx, sulphur oxides SOx, dust and volatile employees focuses on key risks and instituting PERFORMANCE organic compounds a culture of safety in the workplace, Non-mining waste and by-product generation, and there are plans to train 300 top managers In 2018, the HSE Committee reviewed EVRAZ CSR recycling and re-use on a dedicated leadership programme.
initiatives aimed at: Fresh water intake and water management Meanwhile, effective risk management involves Improving the quality of life in local communities aspects prioritising appropriately and detecting root Developing infrastructure, sports, educational Non-compliance related environmental levies causes with a view to eliminating fatalities.
and cultural programmes taxes and penalties Helping children with special needs EVRAZ environmental commitments Caring for the environment and liabilities HSE regulatory changes Promoting a responsible attitude towards safety Major environmental litigation and claims at work and home Asset coverage with environmental permits In 2018, the HSE Committee evaluated the risks licences and opportunities related to the introduction In addition, the committee reviewed the results Public complaints of new Russian regulations, as well of the annual reputation audit, engaging Material environmental incidents as the challenges associated with new national businesses, clients, media, government and preventative measures targets to 2024 announced by the government representatives and local communities.
The Environmental risk assessment in May.
Over the reporting period, EVRAZ Groups efforts to build sustainable partnerships reviewed 23 drafts of HSE-related legislation with key stakeholders were rated as satisfactory.
In 2018, the committee reviewed the risks for the Russian Steel Associations HSE EVRAZ reputation rating continues to increase.
and opportunities associated with greenhouse gas Committee, helping the regulator to form GHG emissions based on the Groups production definitive positions in various areas, including: For more details on HSE issues, see plans and initiatives.
Committee members set GHG regulation the Corporate Social Responsibility section a new environmental target of maintaining New national water discharge standards on pages 7282. the GHG intensity ratio.
Online emission and discharge monitoring Transition to best available techniques BAT HSE strategy review The Committee acknowledges the risks involved and recommended a proactive approach In 2018, the committee reviewed EVRAZ HSE in alliance with the business community Policy and Cardinal Safety Rules, approving and steel producers.
the annual HSE targets and new five-year environmental targets.
In addition, it supported management efforts in the following corporateHSE audit review level HSE initiatives, finding that the priorities are generally on track: In 2018, state supervisory agencies and internal Implementation of a lockout-tagout LOTO HSE auditors conducted compliance inspections system of EVRAZ operations, and the committee reviewed: Safety conversations and standard operating The HQ Industrial Safety Departments audits procedures of processes and structural units at Group Assessment of the safety management facilities system Health and safety cross-audits performed Review of contractor management by representatives of similar operations requirements from other EVRAZ facilities and overseen Divisional health and safety initiatives by the HQ safety team Environmental programmes, including air The environmental risks identified via the HQ emission, water consumption and waste Environmental Management Directorates management initiatives internal audit and risk assessment process The Internal Audit Departments audits The health and safety initiatives were based of the HSE function on the results of the HSE strategy session External environmental inspections carried in June 2018 and aim to address key issues out by the environmental authorities, as well regarding fatality prevention.
The assessment as the implementation of remedial action of the safety management system highlighted leadership and risk management as the main areas for improvement.
