Experian plc 76 Governance Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee report Committees key roles and As Chairman of the Nomination and responsibilities Corporate Governance Committee, Im The Board strongly believes that good pleased to report on how the Committee governance and strong, responsible, balanced has undertaken its roles in the past year.
leadership by the Board are critical to business We continued to monitor the Boards balance success and creating long-term shareholder of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity, value.
As a Committee, our responsibilities and recommend any required changes to include: the Board throughout the year.
We spent Ensuring we have appropriate procedures much time considering the recruitment of for nominating, selecting, training and two new non-executive directors, and the evaluating directors, and that adequate key attributes that the Board would require, succession plans are in place.
considering Experians current opportunities and challenges, as well as current Board Reviewing the Boards structure, size, composition.
We were delighted to We spent a lot of time considering composition and succession needs, recommend to the Board the appointment the recruitment of two new considering the balance of membership of Mike Rogers and Dr Ruba Borno as and the Boards required balance of skills, non-executive directors, and independent non-executive directors, and as experience, independence, knowledge the key attributes that the members of the Audit, Remuneration and and diversity.
Nomination and Corporate Governance Board would require.
Identifying and nominating, for the Boards Committees, with Mike Rogers also being approval, suitable candidates to ll appointed Chairman-designate of the George Rose vacancies for non-executive directors and, Remuneration Committee.
Chairman of the Nomination and with the Chief Executive Offi cers assistance, Corporate Governance Committee The Committee also continued to focus on executive directors.
Board appointments are the executive talent pool and our senior made on merit and against objective criteria, management succession plans, re ecting the to ensure the Board maintains its balance of Members Boards responsibility to ensure appropriate skills, experience, independence, knowledge George Rose Chairman plans are in place.
In January 2018, the and diversity.
Don Robert Committee received a comprehensive Ruba Borno Reviewing legislative, regulatory and executive succession and talent management corporate governance developments and Roger Davis update from the Group Human Resources making recommendations to the Board, and Director.
In March 2018, the Committee Caroline Donahue ensuring that the Company observes the considered an update on the structure, Luiz Fleury standards and disclosures recommended size and composition of the Board and its Deirdre Mahlan by the Code.
committees, to ensure critical skills and Mike Rogers experience are appropriately refreshed.
Paul Walker During the year, the Committee received a From 1 April 2018. number of corporate governance reform The Committees terms of reference can be updates, including in the areas of executive found at www.
com about-us corporate-governance board-committees pay, strengthening employee, customer and supplier voices in boardrooms and the extension of corporate governance to large, private companies.
We met six times during the year ended 31 March 2018.
The list of Committee members appears opposite and, of the nine Committee members, the Board considers eight including me as Committee Chairman to be independent non-executive directors, in accordance with the Code.
The Group Human Resources Director is invited to attend certain meetings, as is the Chief Executive Offi cer, Brian Cassin, who provides valuable contributions.
Governance 77 Committee activities Diversity Process for Board appointments During the year ended 31 March 2018, the The Boards diversity policy is unchanged.
When making Board appointments, the Committee: We strongly believe that diversity throughout Committee reviews and approves an outline the Group and at Board level is a driver of brief and role speci cation and appoints a Reviewed Board eff ectiveness, Board business success.
We respect, value and search agent for the assignment.
We disclose governance and non-executive director welcome diversity, including gender diversity, the name of the search agent and any succession.
and seek to re ect the diversity of our client, other connection with Experian in the next Considered the appointment of Mike Rogers investor and general employee bases in our Annual Report.
as a new independent non-executive Board.
We recruit talented and diverse Board The Committee then meets the search agent, director, including to succeed Roger Davis as members, who have the appropriate mix of to discuss the speci cation and the search, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, skills, capabilities and market knowledge to following which the agent prepares an initial and Dr Ruba Bornos appointment to the ensure the Board is eff ective.
When recruiting, longlist of candidates.
The Committee then Board, bearing in mind the structure, size we look across all sectors and non-traditional considers a shortlist and holds interviews.
and composition of the Board and each talent pools, and we require diversity of Ultimately, the Committee makes a committee, and future needs.
recommendation to the Board for its Reviewed and discussed the structure, As well as the Board policy outlined above, consideration.
Following Board approval, size and composition of the Board and the Groups Code of Conduct further outlines the appointment is announced in line with its committees.
our approach and how we think about the requirements of the FCAs Listing Rules diversity.
We understand the fundamental and, in due course, a tailored induction Considered an AGM brie ng from value diversity and inclusion brings to our programme is developed for the new director.
the Company Secretary and Chief business, and there are many initiatives Communications Offi cer, including voting We used Russell Reynolds as the specialist underway to create a work environment results and shareholder feedback.
search company involved with the search for where everyone is treated with fairness and the appointment of Mike Rogers during the Recommended to the Board that all respect, has equal access to opportunities year and we used JCA Group in respect of directors except Roger Davis, who has and resources, and can contribute fully to our the appointment of Dr Ruba Borno.
Russell decided to step down retire and be success.
At Experian, we embrace diversity Reynolds also provides other executive search considered for election or re-election and appreciate diff erent perspectives and services to the Group.
JCA Group does not at the 2018 AGM.
the unique value each employee brings.
provide additional services to the Group.
Fundamentally, we do not discriminate against Reviewed and discussed an update on the anyone on the basis of race, colour, religion, global executive succession and talent Process for Board appointments gender, sexual orientation, gender identity management programme, comprising an or expression, national origin, disability, update on executive succession plans, age, covered veteran status, or any other progress against the Groups talent and Stage 1 characteristic protected by law.
The Code diversity and inclusion plans, and future of Conduct applies to everyone at Experian, Committee reviews and approves an focus areas.
outline brief and role speci cation including contractors, suppliers and others and appoints a search agent for Reviewed the Committees performance who do business with us.
the assignment against its terms of reference.
Although we do not publish speci c Board Considered the annual company law diversity targets, after the changes that will and governance update, reviewed and take eff ect at the 2018 AGM, 27% of the Board Stage 2 discussed the proposed revisions to the will be female.
This compares favourably to the The agent prepares an initial longlist Code, and received updates from the recommended target of 33% by 2020 in the of candidates Company Secretary on a range of corporate Hampton-Alexander Review, and we recognise governance developments.
These included the signi cant bene ts of a diverse Board.
the Parker Review into Ethnic Diversity, the When recruiting, we will continue to seek to Stage 3 UK all-party Business, Energy and Industrial address any diversity gaps on our Board, The Committee then considers a Strategy BEIS Committees inquiry into including gender and ethnicity.
shortlist and we hold interviews corporate governance, the UK Governments For more on our approach to diversity see the People and corporate responsibility section in response to the BEIS Green Paper on the Strategic Report, page 32 Corporate Governance Reform and the UK Stage 4 Governments consultation on corporate The Committee makes a governance and pay.
recommendation to the Board for its consideration Stage 5 Following Board approval, the appointment is announced in line with the requirements of the FCAs Listing Rules
