Experian plc 64 Governance Board of directors Don Robert 59 Brian Cassin 50 Lloyd Pitchford 46 Kerry Williams 56 Chairman Chief Executive Offi cer Chief Financial Offi cer Chief Operating Offi cer Nm Appointed to the Board on 6 July 2006, Appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Appointed to the Board on 1 October 2014.
Appointed to the Board on 16 July 2014. and as Chairman on 16 July 2014.
Offi cer on 30 April 2012, and as Chief Key other roles: Lloyd is a non-executive Key other roles: A Board member of Executive Offi cer on 16 July 2014.
Key other roles: Member of Court of the director and chairs the Audit Committee of Paci c LifeCorp, and the US Institute for Bank of England.
Key other roles: Brian is a non-executive Bunzl plc.
Skills and experience: Prior to appointment Skills and experience: Lloyd is a quali ed Skills and experience: Kerry holds an MBA as Chairman, Don was Experians Chief Skills and experience: Brian brings strong accountant holding an MBA, and has deep quali cation and has built up a signi cant Executive Offi cer and previously Chief leadership, a clear view of strategic financial knowledge and experience, built and deep knowledge of Experians global Executive Offi cer of Experian North objectives and decisive management skills up through a career working in complex, business and operations, through the America, giving him a deep insight into to this role.
He also has strong financial and change-oriented, global organisations.
leadership roles he has held, including as the Experian business.
Don has extensive commercial acumen, and a broad range Before joining Experian, Lloyd held a wide the Groups Deputy Chief Operating Offi cer, international business expertise, as well of operational competencies.
Brian was portfolio of finance and operational President of Credit Services, President as more recent regulatory knowledge previously the Chief Financial Offi cer of responsibilities, including as Chief Financial of Experian Latin America, and Group gained with his Bank of England role, and Experian and, before that, Managing Offi cer of Intertek Group plc, senior finance President of Credit Services and Decision he ensures that the Experian Board culture Director at Greenhill & Co.
He has also positions including Group Financial Analytics, Experian North America.
is one of robust debate, openness and held various senior roles at Baring Controller at BG Group plc, and financial Kerry also brings to Experian and the transparency.
He previously held senior Brothers International and at the London and commercial roles at Mobil Oil.
Board a wide range of skills from his roles at The First American Corporation Stock Exchange.
broad background in the financial services and was President of Credco, Inc. former industry, including as President at ERisk chairman of the US Consumer Data Industry Holdings Incorporated, Senior Vice Association, trustee of Sage Hill School, President General Manager at Bank of California, a director and trustee of the America and senior management positions UK National Education and Employer at Wells Fargo Bank.
Partnership Taskforce and a non-executive Director and Senior Independent Director at Compass Group PLC.
Caroline Donahue 57 Luiz Fleury 61 Deirdre Mahlan 55 Mike Rogers 53 Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Au Re Nm Au Re Nm Au Re Nm Au Re Nm Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2017.
Appointed to the Board on 8 September Appointed to the Board on 1 September Appointed to the Board on 1 July 2017.
Key other roles: Caroline is on the board Key other roles: Mike is Chairmanof Emerge America, and the Computer Key other roles: Luiz is a Board member of Key other roles: Deirdre chairs our Audit designate of the Remuneration Committee.
She is also on the FHMV Holdings Ltda and Carrefour Brazil Committee, and is President of Diageo He is also a non-executive director of Executive Committee of Northwestern the trading name of Atacado S. A.. North America.
The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc C100, and is a mentor for She-Can.
and sits on the Group Performance Skills and experience: Luiz has spent the Skills and experience: Deirdre is a and Remuneration Committee, and the Skills and experience: Caroline brings majority of his career in financial services, quali ed accountant with an MBA, with Sustainable Banking Committee and the extensive international markets and and has extensive insight and deep local many years experience in senior finance non-executive Chairman of Aegon UK.
technology experience and knowledge of knowledge of the Brazilian financial market.
roles such as Chief Financial Offi cer, Deputy consumer sales and marketing, innovation He has held Chief Executive roles at Cetip Chief Financial Offi cer and Head of Tax Skills and experience: Mike brings to the and consumer-centricity.
The Board also S. A. Banco Ibi and Redecard, together with and Treasury at Diageo plc, Senior Vice Experian Board over 30 years of banking bene ts from her insight and extensive senior finance and investment positions President, Chief Financial Offi cer at Diageo and financial services experience, with a experience in mass-market, digital, at Banco Citibank S. A. Banco Marka S. A.
North America, and Vice President of reputation for strategic insight and focused multi-channel and business-to-consumer and C&A Brenninkmeyer Brasil.
Luiz was Finance at Diageo Guinness USA, as execution.
He was Group Chief Executive distribution, marketing, and brand and President and a member of the Executive well as various senior finance roles in Offi cer of LV Group from 2006 until 2016, sales management.
Caroline previously Board at Cetip S. A. and a Board member Joseph Seagram and Sons, Inc. and growing that organisation into a signi cant held roles at Intuit Executive Vice of Grupo Sequia fide Logstica, Eneva S. A. .
This financial player in the life and general insurance President, Chief Marketing and Sales Discount Malls do Brasil and Banco Ibi, expertise and experience ensures eff ective market.
Before that, Mike was with Barclays Offi cer: Senior Vice President, Sales and and this considerable boardroom leadership of our Audit Committee, plc for over 20 years holding a number of Channel Marketing: Vice President and experience adds to the strength, depth and Deirdre also brings her previous senior roles, most recently as Managing Director of Sales and sales and channel and eff ectiveness of our Board.
Board-level experience with Diageo plc Director, UK Retail Banking.
Mike was management roles at Knowledge to Experian.
previously a non-executive director of Adventure, NeXT Computer and Apple, Inc. the Association of British Insurers.
Governance 65 Board composition Balance of executive and non-executive directors A A Chairman 8% B Executive 25% B Dr Ruba Borno 37 Roger Davis 61 C Independent Non-executive director Non-executive director non-executive 67% Au Re Nm Au Re Nm C Appointed to the Board on 1 April 2018.
Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2007.
Key other roles: Ruba is a member of the Key other roles: Roger is Chairman of Executive Leadership Team at Cisco, and our Remuneration Committee, and the Length of tenure of directors also sits on the Board of The Tech Museum non-executive Chairman of Experian E A A 1 year 2 of Innovation in Silicon Valley.
Limited, the Groups regulated UK subsidiary.
He is also Chairman of Skills and experience: Ruba holds a Ph.
D. B 1- 3 years 2 Sainsburys Bank, Global RadioData D and a Master of Science in Electrical Communications and Future for Heroes, C 3- 6 years 5 B Engineering, and a Bachelor of Science and a non-executive director of Bupa.
in Computer Engineering and was an D 6- 9 years 1 Intel Ph.
D. fellow at the National Science Skills and experience: Roger spent over E 9 years 2 Foundations Engineering Research Center 20 years leading and managing change at C for Wireless Integrated MicroSystems.
large global businesses, including as Chief She was previously at The Boston Executive Offi cer of Barclays UK banking Consulting Group BCG, where she operation.
Roger was also a Board member Balance of male and female directors specialised in helping enterprises through of Barclays plc and Chairman of Gem complex technology transformations, and Diamonds Limited and Cabot Credit A Male 75% B was a leader in BCGs Technology, Media Management, and the Experian Board & Telecommunications, and People & bene ts greatly from this experience.
Ruba brings Before Barclays, Roger spent a number advanced technologies expertise to of years in investment banking in London Experian, and we will bene t greatly from and Asia with Flemings and BZW.
her focus on supporting businesses in strategically adapting to the threats and A opportunities created by technology, as well as pushing disruptive technology to create new opportunities.
Ethnic heritage D A North American 34% C A B European 50% C Middle Eastern 8% D South American 8% B George Rose 66 Paul Walker 60 Deputy Chairman and Senior Non-executive director Independent Director Au Re Nm Au Re Nm Appointed to the Board on 1 June 2010.
Appointed to the Board on 1 September Key other roles: Paul is the non-executive 2012 and as Deputy Chairman and Senior Chairman of Perform Group Ltd and Independent Director on 16 July 2014.
He is also Chair of the Newcastle Company Secretary: Charles Brown FCIS Science City Partnership, and a director of Key other roles: George is Chairman of the Independent Auditor: KPMG LLP, Chartered Accountants Nomination and Corporate Governance Sophos plc.
He is also Senior Independent Skills and experience: Paul spent 16 years Director and Audit Committee Chairman as Chief Executive Offi cer of The Sage of Genel Energy plc, and a non-executive Group plc, giving him a great understanding Au Member of the Audit Committee director of EXPO 2020 LLC.
of the challenges of running a global business.
He is an economics graduate and Re Member of the Remuneration Committee Skills and experience: George is a quali ed accountant, whose career has included quali ed accountant, with a strong financial Member of the Nomination and Nm background and high-level non-executive high-level finance positions such as Group Corporate Governance Committee Finance Director, and Director of Finance experience, which adds to the Boards strength.
Pauls roles at Sage included and Treasury, at BAE Systems plc where Committee Chairman he was a Board member, and senior Chief Executive Offi cer, Finance Director and Financial Controller.
He has also been finance positions at Leyland DAF plc and Rover Group.
He adds to the collective non-executive Chairman of WANdisco plc, Dr Ruba Bornos committee memberships commenced and a non-executive director at Diageo plc strength of the Board from the numerous on appointment on 1 April 2018. non-executive positions he has held with and MyTravel Group plc.
leading companies such as National Grid As at the date of approval of the Annual Report.
plc, SAAB AB, Orange plc and Laing ORourke plc where he also chaired the Audit Committee.
He has also been a member of the UK Industrial Development Advisory Board.
