Experian plc 78 Governance Audit Committee report Committees roles and responsibilities Im pleased, as Chairman of the Audit Monitoring the integrity of the financial Committee, to report on how the Committee statements and reviewing signi cant financial has undertaken its roles in the past year reporting judgments contained in them.
and outline how the Committee discharged its duties.
Reviewing internal financial controls and the Groups internal control and risk management The Committees overarching role is to: systems.
monitor the integrity of, and review, the Groups financial reporting, ensuring that any Reviewing the eff ectiveness of the audit judgments made are appropriate: ensure the process and the independence and objectivity external auditor is independent and eff ective of the external auditor.
in its role, and recommend the appointment Monitoring and reviewing the eff ectiveness of the external auditor: and ensure that the of the internal audit function.
Group has an eff ective internal control framework, including risk management We commissioned a review of Developing and implementing policy on systems.
The Committee members engaging the external auditor to supply information security risk reporting collective international and financial non-audit services, taking into account and oversight during the year.
experience enables them to act eff ectively relevant guidance.
Approving the external auditors remuneration Deirdre Mahlan This report also contains details of the and terms of engagement, and making Chairman of the Audit Committee signi cant issues we considered in relation to recommendations about its re-appointment.
the financial statements and how these were addressed, and our process for concluding Members Committee activities that this Annual Report was fair, balanced Deirdre Mahlan Chairman During the year ended 31 March 2018, the work and understandable.
Ruba Borno of the Committee included the following: Roger Davis The Committee was in place throughout the Given its importance to the Group, information Caroline Donahue year ended 31 March 2018.
We met four security is a standing item on the Committee times during the year, with each meeting Luiz Fleury agendas and reports are reviewed by the timed to coincide with key dates in the Mike Rogers Committee at every meeting.
In light of the Groups financial reporting and audit cycle.
George Rose increasing trend of external cyber security The list of Committee members appears Paul Walker threats to companies, including a data breach opposite, and the Board considers all of them at one of our competitors, the Committee From 1 April 2018. to be independent non-executive directors, Chairman researched and discussed in line with the Code.
In addition to the All Committee members are considered to be information security reporting and oversight Committee members, the Chairman and the appropriately experienced, but Deirdre Mahlan with external experts, and ultimately executive directors also attend Committee and George Rose are considered to have commissioned a review, the output of which meetings by invitation.
The Group General signi cant, recent and relevant financial will be rolled out during 2018 this work has Counsel, Global Head of Internal Audit and experience, in line with the UK Corporate been agreed by the Board as a key focus for representatives from the external auditor Governance Code.
We also The Committees terms of reference can be meet, as a Committee, with the external found at www.
com about-us Reviewed the preliminary and half-year corporate-governance board-committees auditor and the Global Head of Internal Audit, results announcements and the Annual without management present.
Report: year-end accounting papers: papers supporting the preparation of financial statements on the going concern basis: and papers supporting the making of a viability statement recommendation to the Board.
For more information on the matters considered in relation to the going concern assessment, please see note 2 to the Group financial statements.
Reviewed the Annual Report to ensure it was fair, balanced and understandable and provided information necessary to assess Experians position and performance, business model and strategy.
Discussed the 2018 audit plan with the external auditor, and approved it as appropriate for the Group, including in respect of scope and materiality.
The plan included the external auditors response to developments in the business during the year, developments in the audit process, the Groups risk assessment and the coverage of the audit.
Governance 79 Considered updates from the external auditor In October 2017, the FRC wrote to the Company following its review of the 2017 Annual Report.
on the audit process, including details of the This review, which was based solely on that report, did not identify any questions or queries audits status, key matters arising from the which the FRC wished to pursue, although some suggestions for improvements were noted, audit and assessments of managements and these have been taken into account in preparing this report.
The FRCs review provides no judgments on them: and reviewed the assurance that the report and accounts are correct in all material respects: the FRCs role is content of the independence letter and the not to verify the information provided but to consider compliance with reporting requirements.
management representation letter, as well as engagement terms.
Signi cant issues The table below summarises the signi cant matters considered by the Committee in relation to Reviewed and discussed an update from the Group and Company financial statements and the manner in which they were concluded.
the Global Head of Internal Audit at each These matters, together with any other signi cant considerations of the Committee, are reported Committee meeting, including the status of to the Board.
The minutes of each Audit Committee meeting are also circulated to all members of any overdue audit actions.
received details of the internal audit strategy, and reviewed and approved the annual Matter considered Conclusion internal audit plan.
Tax The Committee received a regular update from The Committee agreed that the assessment of Evaluated the performance of the Global management on the adequacy of provisions, and the uncertain tax positions was appropriate and Internal Audit function.
The evaluation the increase in the year, in respect of signi cant that the judgment taken in respect of the yearoperates on a four-year cycle, with a full open tax matters.
The review included details of end provision in the Group financial statements external quality assessment every four ongoing correspondence with tax authorities in was reasonable.
years, and follow-up interim external quality the UK, the USA and Brazil and the principal areas The Committee also noted the evolving and assessments and internal reviews in the of tax challenge.
complex tax laws that applied to the Group, and the intervening period.
In September 2017, the The Committee also received an update on uncertainty that these might bring.
It concluded that Committee reviewed the conclusions of the Groups deferred tax position following the the Group tax risk disclosures were appropriate.
the internal evaluation of internal audit enactment of the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in The Committee concluded that the revaluation comprising a number of inputs, including December 2017. of the Groups net deferred tax liabilities was post-audit stakeholder feedback, internal appropriate.
quality assurance results and key Litigation and regulatory matters internal metrics.
The Committee received an update and analysis The Committee concluded that these matters had Reviewed the eff ectiveness of the Groups of open litigation and regulatory matters aff ecting been appropriately provided for at 31 March 2018 system of risk management and internal the Group.
and approved the settlement in relation to the control, including financial, operational, Canadian legal matter.
The Committee considered and concurred with the proposed contingent liability disclosures included Discussed and approved proposed in the notes to the Group financial statements.
changes to the Groups reporting of Impairment review goodwill and other business segments, to re ect changes intangible assets in how the Group is organised.
A summary of the impairment analysis and The Committee concurred with managements Reviewed and discussed an update from underlying process was provided to the conclusion that no impairment of goodwill the Group Financial Controller on the Committee.
The Committee scrutinised the was required.
requirements for The UK Reporting on methodology applied by management.
The The Committee noted the headroom and the Payment Practices and Performance analysis indicated that the estimated recoverable sensitivity to changes in assumptions and Regulations 2017, and received a training amounts of the assets of all segments continued concurred with the proposed disclosure of these update on IFRS 15 and Experians proposed to suffi ciently exceed their carrying amounts, in note 19 to the Group financial statements.
with the excess the headroom in respect of revenue recognition approach.
the EMEA cash generating unit CGU having Reviewed reports on risk management increased during the year.
including details of material litigation at Acquisitions and disposal every scheduled meeting, with a full risk The Committee received an update on the The Committee approved the valuation of report at alternate meetings and an acquisitions made during the year and the acquisition intangibles and agreed the treatment abbreviated update twice yearly.
Reviewed reporting aspects of the disposal of CCM which of the disposal.
fraud and con dential helpline updates, completed in May 2017. in September 2017 and March 2018.
IFRS 15 The Committee received speci c training on The Committee approved the Groups accounting Discussed and approved the Groups IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
policy and the proposed disclosures under the treasury policy, tax policy, the updated terms new standard.
of reference for the Groups compliance function and an update to the Groups non-audit fee policy.
Approved the Committees annual meeting schedule and reviewed the Committees performance against its terms of reference.
Experian plc 80 Governance Audit Committee report continued External auditor Fair, balanced and understandable what did we do?
Tenure and tendering KPMG LLP has been the Companys auditor Each year, the Committee is asked to consider, in line with the Code and the Committees terms since July 2016.
There are currently no of reference, whether, in its opinion, the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable contractual obligations restricting our choice FBU and whether it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the of external auditor, and we con rm that we Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
There is an established have complied on a voluntary basis as a process to support the Audit Committee in making this assessment, and we use a similar non-UK-incorporated company with the process for the Groups half-yearly financial report.
provisions of the UK Competition and The main elements of the process are set The key areas to focus on included Markets Authority Order Mandatory Use of out below: ensuring that: Competitive Tender Processes and Audit A list of key areas to focus on see The overall message of the narrative Committee responsibilities for the financial opposite has previously been socialised reporting is consistent with the primary year under review.
with the Annual Report team, who are financial statements.
Eff ectiveness, independence and asked to consider these areas in their The overall message of the narrative appointment drafting.
reporting is appropriate, in the context At its September 2017 meeting, the Audit In advance of its May 2018 meeting, the of the industry as a whole and the wider Committee reviewed and discussed Audit Committee received a nearfinal economic environment.
KPMGs audit strategy for the year ended draft of the Annual Report, together with 31March 2018.
Then, in March and May 2018, The Annual Report is consistent with a reminder of the areas to focus on.
the Committee received detailed updates on messages already communicated to The FBU committees observations and the audits progress, which included details of investors, analysts and other stakeholders.
conclusions see below were also relayed the external auditors actions, such as the audit to the Audit Committee.
The Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, procedures undertaken, the audits coverage, balanced and understandable.
the segregation of duties and the status of any An internal FBU committee then signi cant findings.
These updates give the considered the Annual Report.
A wide The Chairman and Chief Executive Offi cers Committee an insight into the audit process.
range of functions are represented on statements include a balanced view of the this committee, including executives Groups performance and prospects, and The Committee reviews the eff ectiveness of from finance, communications, investor of the industry and market as a whole.
the external auditor at its September meeting.
relations, legal and corporate secretariat.
This year, tailored questionnaires were Any summaries or highlights capture the The external auditor also supports issued to all directors and the senior finance big picture of the Group appropriately.
As part of the evaluation, the FRC Case studies or examples are of strategic Guidance on Audit Committees the Guidance Following its review this year, the Audit importance and do not over-emphasise was reviewed to ensure that the external Committee concluded that it was immaterial matters.
auditor was following best practice.
The appropriate to con rm to the Board that evaluation focused on the four key areas the 2018 Annual Report was fair, balanced used in the FRCs Guidance, being transition: and understandable, and provided the mind-set and culture: skills, character and information necessary for shareholders knowledge: and quality control.
The overall to assess the Groups position and results were favourable, particularly in performance, business model and respect of the smoothness of the transition strategy.
The FBU statement appears for 2017 and the quality of service.
Further in the Directors report.
enhancements on communications were noted but it was recognised that this was the first year since the audit transition: as such, these enhancements would be dealt with as part of the focus on continuous improvements, as the relationship continues to develop.
The Committee concluded, based on this feedback and information it obtained during the course of its other work, that the external auditor had performed eff ectively.
The Committee concluded that the Group and the auditor had complied with the Guidance.
Governance 81 Independence is an important element of the Provision of non-audit services external audit.
To ensure auditor objectivity and independence, the Committee reviews Immaterial services in some of the above Background potential threats to independence and the areas may be acceptable, if written associated safeguards.
The safeguards that The Audit Committee reviews the policy permission is obtained in advance from the KPMG had in place during the year to maintain on the provision of non-audit services Chairman of the Audit Committee via the independence included annual con rmation annually and the latest review took place Group Financial Controller.
The appointment by KPMG staff of compliance with ethics in March 2018, when the policy regarding of the external auditor for any non-audit work and independence policies and procedures.
the employment of former employees of up to US$50,000 must be approved by the KPMG also has in place underlying safeguards the external auditor was also reviewed.
The appointment to maintain independence through instilling The non-audit fee policy recognises the of the external auditor for any non-audit work professional values: communications: importance of the external auditors where the expected fees are over US$50,000 international accountability: risk management, independence and objectivity.
and up to US$100,000 requires the approval, and independent reviews.
It also ensures in advance, of the Group Chief Financial that there is appropriate pre-approval for Policy Offi cer.
Where the expected fees are over non-audit services, which are only provided if The external auditor may provide services, US$100,000, the approval of the Chairman of permissible under relevant ethical standards.
provided that decisions to award work the Audit Committee is required in advance.
The Committee concluded that the external are taken on the basis of demonstrable auditor had maintained its independence Where cumulative annual fees exceed the competence and cost eff ectiveness.
50% annual limit, all expenditure must be However, the external auditor is speci cally approved by the Chairman of the Audit Non-audit services prohibited from the following areas of work: Committee via the Group Financial KPMG provides other services to Experian.
Where cumulative ensure auditor objectivity and independence, annual fees exceed the 55% annual limit, Services that involve playing any part in we have a policy relating to providing such all expenditure has to be approved by the management or decision-making.
The policy includes financial limits Audit Committee.
above which any proposed non-audit services Work relating to accounting records and must be pre-approved, depending on the All expenditure is subject to a tender process, financial statements.
amount proposed to be spent.
unless express permission is provided by the Payroll services.
Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Group The Committee receives half-yearly reports Chief Financial Offi cer or the Group Financial Design of and implementing internal detailing non-audit assignments carried out by Controller based on the above approval control and risk management procedures the external auditor, together with the related limits.
Any expenditure below US$100,000 and design of and implementing financial fees.
Under the policy, non-audit fees paid to not subject to a tender will be noti ed to the systems.
KPMG are capped at 50% of the fees for audit Chairman of the Audit Committee.
services excluding audit-related assurance Valuation services.
services, except in exceptional circumstances.
Commercial agreements where Experian Legal services general counsel, Pre-approval by the Audit Committee or provides services to the auditor must be negotiations and advocacy.
Audit Committee Chairman is required in approved by the Group Financial Controller that situation.
An analysis of fees paid to and not exceed the lower of 5% of the Internal audit services.
the external auditor for the year ended local Experian entitys total revenue and Services linked to nancing, capital 31 March 2018 is set out in note 12 to the US$250,000, and all transactions should structure and investment strategy unless Group financial statements.
be undertaken on an arms length basis.
Transactions in excess of this limit require approval of the Chairman of the Audit Promoting, dealing in, or underwriting Committee in advance.
shares in the audited entity.
The Committee will receive half-yearly Human resources services for hiring or reports providing details of assignments reference checking key management and and related fees carried out by the external finance resource, organisational design auditor in addition to its normal work.
