Experian plc 66 Governance Corporate governance report The Board is to lead the Company, and oversee its conduct and aff airs year, on key strategic initiatives, to provide Board Role an opportunity for feedback on progress, The principal role of the Board is to lead the and to solicit its ongoing input into the annual Composition Company, oversee its conduct and aff airs to strategic planning process.
The budget The Board currently comprises the Chairman, create sustainable value for our stakeholders.
discussions in March ensure that we have the three executive directors and eight The Board has collective responsibility for right resources to deliver the agreed strategy.
independent non-executive directors, setting the Groups strategy and ensuring the The discussions also include detailed focus on including the Deputy Chairman, George Rose.
necessary financial and human resources both regional and global business budgets.
On 1 July 2017, Mike Rogers was appointed are in place to achieve our goals.
In January as an independent non-executive director.
each year, senior management presents The Board continually monitors management In line with emerging best practice the proposed strategic plan to the Board.
and financial performance against the corporate governance, having served on the This takes place over two days and allows Groups objectives.
To enable it to do this, Remuneration Committee for 12 months, Mike the Board to critically review the proposed the Board receives operational and financial will succeed Roger Davis as Chairman of the strategy with management, before considering updates at every scheduled Board meeting, Remuneration Committee with eff ect from it for approval.
Last year, the Board had agreed as well as between meetings.
The Board also the AGM of the Company to be held on 18 July a number of focus areas for itself, one of conducts post-investment reviews on an 2018.
Dr Ruba Borno was appointed as a which related to the Boards engagement with agreed timeline, for any acquisitions it has non-executive director on 1 April 2018. strategy.
As a result of this, it was agreed that, previously approved.
The directors biographical details are set in addition to its ongoing oversight, the Board The Board is not involved in managing the out on pages 64 and 65. would receive progress updates, in July each Groups day-to-day activities but it is accountable to shareholders for delivering Strategic planning process financial performance and long-term shareholder value.
To achieve this, the Board has put in place a framework of controls and Preliminary delegated authorities, which enables the steps Group to appraise and manage risk eff ectively, March to May through clear and robust procedures and delegated authorities.
In addition, the Board Management has reserved certain key activities to itself for conference decision, including: June Board Strategy and management approving and review overseeing Experians long-term objectives January and commercial strategy, ensuring that we have the financial and human resources to Group meet our objectives.
Operating Committee Management oversight reviewing operating, review financial and risk performance.
Financial meeting planning and Regulatory and statutory activity including June prioritisation approving the Groups results, key stakeholder October to documents and dividends.
November Board mid-year Finance and treasury approving the review framework for the Groups finance, banking July Internal and capital structure arrangements.
review Appointments approving appointments to September the Board, on the recommendation of the Nomination and Corporate Governance Strategic planning Committee.
July to August Approval of certain Group policies including, for example, an Anti-Corruption Policy, a Gifts and Hospitality Policy, an Environmental Policy, a Global Code of Conduct, a Tax Policy and the Groups Treasury Policy.
Including two days of strategy presentations.
Governance 67 Governance framework subsidiaries, directors and senior executives.
and refreshed regularly and the Board Global Delegated Authorities Matrix For matters not reserved to the Board, the monitors the exercise of delegations to This key document comprises the schedule matrix prescribes the cascade of authorities the Groups principal subsidiaries, which of matters reserved to the Board, the Board delegated throughout the Group by respective are reported to it at each Board meeting.
committees terms of reference and the Group companies, together with their Regional matrices are also in place.
authority levels for the Groups principal monetary limits.
The matrix is reviewed Delegated authority ow Board Principal subsidiaries Executive Operating management businesses These are Group companies to which the Board has delegated certain See Board of team decision-making powers, for example implementing decisions agreed Directors on page 64 in principle by the Board: executive management of the operations of the Group within the strategy and budget approved by the Board: acquisitions and disposals with a value up to US$20m, and capital expenditure projects.
Board Committees Executive Committees Functions Nomination and Group Operating Committee Strategic project committees global and regional Corporate Governance OpCo Committee These committees comprise the most senior The OpCo comprises the most senior global and regional executives.
Their remit executives from the Group.
Its remit includes See report on is to oversee a process to ensure that all identifying, debating and achieving consensus page 76 strategic projects are appropriately resourced, on issues involving strategy, growth, people risk assessed and commercially, nancially and culture, and operational effi ciency.
It also and technically appraised.
A similar body, the focuses on ensuring strong communication Investment Committee, performs the same and co-operative working relationships among function in respect of proposals regarding the top team.
Its meetings tend to be issues Audit Committee minority investments.
Depending on the oriented and focus on selected Group issues outcome of the discussions, the committees worthy of debate.
See report on conclusions are then considered by the board page 78 of the relevant Group company for approval.
Remuneration Committee Risk management committees Internal Audit executive and regional See report on Internal Audit conducts a range of independent page 82 The Executive Risk Management Committee audit reviews throughout the Group during 'ERMC' comprises senior Group executives, the year and is represented at each Audit including the executive directors and the Committee meeting.
Internal Audits plans, Company Secretary.
Its primary responsibility results and key findings are presented to is to oversee the management of global risks.
and discussed with the Audit Committee.
The The regional risk management committees internal audit programme and methodology oversee the management of regional risks, are aligned to the risk categories and risk consistent with Experians risk appetite, assessment parameters established by the strategies and objectives, and are comprised global risk management function.
Internal of senior regional leaders.
Audit also makes use of risk assessment information at a business level, in planning The Security and Continuity Steering and conducting its audits.
Committee 'SCSC' is a sub-committee of the ERMC.
The SCSCs primary responsibility is to oversee management of global information security, physical security, and business continuity risks, consistent with Experians risk appetite, strategies and objectives.
The Assurance Steering Committee 'ASC' is also a sub-committee of the ERMC and oversees the development and implementation of Experians risk management framework.
Experian plc 68 Governance Corporate governance report continued Board meetings The Board meets regularly and holds committees, and contributes to the cohesive spent three days in San Diego and Costa additional meetings when required, e. g. for and collegiate Board culture.
Mesa, California, USA, and held Board a speci c transaction.
Each scheduled and committee meetings during the visit.
The Board met at overseas business locations meeting is normally held over two or three In March 2018, the Board spent time in So twice this year, which allowed management days, with Board committee meetings also Paulo and So Carlos, Brazil for site visits and employees across the Group to present taking place during this time.
Board members and business presentations, as well as to the Board and to meet the directors spending this time together further enhances Board and committee meetings.
In September 2017, the Board the eff ectiveness of the Board and its May July November January Board and Board and Board and Board and committee committee committee committee meetings in meetings in meetings in meetings Dublin, Ireland Dublin, Ireland Dublin, Ireland in Kildare, Ireland 2017 2018 September March Board and committee Board and meetings in California, committee USA meetings in Brazil For more information see case studies Board meeting of Board visits on page 72 Including two days of strategy presentations.
F The Boards key activities during the year A Operational and financial performance are set out below.
These include activities E B Strategy related to the Groups strategy, which the C Corporate development A Board decided on in light of its risk appetite D Governance and risk and risk management processes.
E Investor relations F Other D The strategy time does not include the two-day strategy session described below.
B C Reviewed and approved risk appetite A.
Operational and financial C. Corporate development statements for the Group.
performance, including monitoring Approved the acquisition of the US company, Clarity Services, Inc. the leading In light of external events during the Reviewed operational and financial updates US credit bureau focused speci cally on year, reviewed the Groups data breach from the Chief Executive Offi cer, the Chief sub-prime consumers.
response plan, commissioned a review Operating Offi cer and the Chief Financial of information security reporting and Offi cer at each scheduled Board meeting.
Approved the acquisition of a 25% minority oversight, and received a comprehensive stake in London & Country Mortgages Reviewed monthly reports, including update on legislative and regulatory Limited, the UKs leading fee-free details of performance against budget developments.
and the Groups financial position.
Continued to oversee ongoing information Approved the acquisition of the remaining Approved the Groups Annual Report and security initiatives, with the aim of further 75% stake in Runpath Group Limited, fulland half-year financial results, and reducing information security risk and a financial technology business based considered dividend payments and share further improving the maturity levels of in London.
Approved the acquisition of a 10% minority Considered and approved the Viability Received the Groups Gifts and stake in BankBazaar, the category leader statement for inclusion in the Annual Hospitality Policy, and received the in online loans, credit cards and saving Report.
annual Environmental, and Health and products in India.
Discussed and approved the Groups Approved the proposal to acquire budget presentation for FY19 and received Reviewed Board evaluation findings and ClearScore Credit Laser Holdings Limited, updates on Group insurance and pension agreed areas of focus, authorised Board an innovative UK consumer organisation.
members potential con icts of interest and Reviewed and discussed the corporate approved the annual election re-election of B.
Strategy development pipeline at each Board Board members.
Received an initiative strategy update Received details of Board members prior to commencement of the strategic external appointments and share dealings.
planning cycle for the upcoming year.
D. Governance and risk Reviewed and discussed regulatory Reviewed and discussed presentations E. Investor relations matters with the Group General Counsel at the annual two-day strategy session, Received an investor relations and media at Board and Audit Committee meetings, including a review of the Groups Strategic update at each Board meeting.
including updates on material matters, Corporate Development, Talent and potential impacts and plans.
Culture, Global Decision Analytics, Reviewed and discussed draft fulland Consumer Services and Targeting.
half-year financial results presentations, Reviewed risk reports, the appropriateness for analysts and institutional shareholders.
of preparing the financial statements on Approved the Groups strategy for FY19.
the going concern basis and the Audit Through the Remuneration Committee, Committees advice on making a fair, engaged extensively with shareholders on balanced and understandable statement proposed remuneration arrangements for in the Annual Report.
Received and considered a presentation on the EU General Data Protection Regulation GDPR, including the implications for Experian, our compliance planning and potential opportunities.
Experian plc 70 Governance Corporate governance report continued This years internal evaluation comprised a discussion on the Boards eff ectiveness at the Board, committee and director January 2018 Board meeting, based on materials circulated before the meeting.
These materials eff ectiveness review included managements update to the Board on the status of the focus areas and resulting The Code provides that the Board should actions, following last years external evaluation.
There were also separate meetings between undertake a formal and rigorous annual each director being proposed for re-election at the 2018 AGM and the Chairman, in relation to evaluation of its own performance and that performance and training requirements.
The Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director of its committees and individual directors, evaluated the Chairman, taking account of input from the Chief Executive Offi cer and the other and that the Board evaluation should be directors.
Each principal Board committee also evaluated its own performance.
externally facilitated at least every three years.
This year was Year 2 of the Boards three-year At the January 2018 meeting, the Board noted that there had been good progress against the review cycle, which is as follows: agreed areas of focus.
In particular: Area and focus Progress Year 1 a full external evaluation: Board succession Year 2 an internal review, against the The Nomination and Corporate The Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee, on behalf of detailed Year 1 review: and Governance Committee will the Board, reviews Board committee structure, size and composition action the forward plan for in detail at its March meeting each year, and on an ongoing basis at Year 3 a questionnaire-based internal Board and committee other times during the year, through a standing Board structure evaluation.
succession, to ensure orderly paper circulated for each Committee meeting.
succession to key posts, The Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee and the Board Board evaluation process eff ective recruitment and undertook an eff ective recruitment process during 2018 which smooth onboarding of new involved extensive referencing and the opportunity for all Board Board members including Committee members to meet candidates prior to appointment.
Board discussions Evaluation by external facilitator Continued focus on strategic The Board received numerous focused business presentations, priorities and deep dives into and presentations from external subject matter experts as part certain areas, as well as tackling of Board meetings and Board visit programmes adjacent to the more general topics, through Board meetings.
The extent of such focus is kept under review additional time at or adjacent to by the non-executive directors as part of their private meetings.
Year 2 FY18 the Board meetings, as Internal review against appropriate.
detailed Year 1 review Boards use of time, and agenda formation To assist in agenda formation The standing forward agenda planner is included within Board and appropriate focus and papers for each scheduled meeting, enabling it to be used by the Year 3 FY19 challenge in the right areas, Deputy Chairman Senior Independent Director as a discussion Questionnaire-based, the standing forward agenda tool at the private meetings of the non-executive directors.
internal evaluation planner will be used as a prompt for thought on wider issues, in particular by the non-executive directors in Last year, an independent external evaluation their private meetings.
of Board eff ectiveness was carried out by Board engagement with Condign Board Consulting.
Overall, the strategy evaluation concluded that the Board operated The Board will receive progress The Chief Executive Offi cer provided an update on progress against updates, at appropriate points key strategic objectives as part of normal Board reporting for each in a fully functional, eff ective, purposeful and in the year, on key strategic meeting during the year.
challenging way, on behalf of shareholders.
objectives to provide In addition, at the mid-point of the year, the Board received a more Following that evaluation, the Board agreed opportunities for feedback on formal initiatives strategy update prior to commencement of the areas of focus for FY18.
The second year of progress, and to solicit its strategic planning cycle for the upcoming year.
the cycle involved the Board performing an ongoing input into the annual The non-executive directors keep this under review as part of their internal evaluation of progress against these strategic planning process.
areas of focus and the resulting actions, Risk and assurance as well as agreeing areas of focus for the The Board will continue to Risk reporting during the year continued to evolve following the coming year.
The third year of the cycle, monitor, and seek to further earlier introduction of more focused legal, compliance and risk to be undertaken later in FY19, is intended enhance, the risk and assurance reporting.
The Audit Committee keeps this under review, and to be an interview questionnaire-based processes in the Group, in the management responds to any requests for additional modi ed internal evaluation.
context of the structure and reporting.
During the year, the Audit Committee spent further time considering its oversight of information security and undertook a review of associated reporting to ensure continued eff ective oversight of this area.
Governance 71 Induction and training Board, committee and director evaluation process During the year, the Board appointed Mike Rogers as an independent non-executive September March May Audit and Nomination and November Nomination and The Board director and as the Chairman-designate of Corporate Governance Remuneration Corporate Governance approves the Remuneration Committee.
By the time Committees review their Committee reviews Committee proposes new focus he assumes the Remuneration Committee own performance and its performance and new focus areas areas for Chairman role at the 2018 AGM, Mike will terms of reference terms of reference for 2019 2019 have been a member of the Committee for 12 months, in line with emerging best practice 2017 2018 and the new draft UK Corporate Governance Code, published in December 2017.
In addition, Ruba Borno was appointed as an independent non-executive director with technology information expertise.
January March July January Chairman reviews Nomination and The Board receives Mike Rogers has engaged with senior performance of Corporate Governance a progress report executives and other employees, as part of directors Committee reviews and reviews its and approves the performance a comprehensive business and functional structure of the Board induction in North America and the UK and eff ectiveness review Ireland.
He also participated in the Boards visits to the USA and Brazil during the year.
In March 2018, Ruba Borno commenced a similar The Board has agreed the following areas of focus for the coming year: business and corporate induction.
Highlights Area Focus from the induction programmes include: Board structure and The Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee will continue to review composition Board structure, size and composition, ensuring critical skills and experience Business operations brie ngs, business are appropriately refreshed.
Areas for consideration should include: diversity: overviews and product demonstrations in serving executive experience: geographic representation: other identi ed respect of a number of business areas, Board skills and experience gaps: ongoing succession planning for scheduled including: Credit Services, Consumer Services, director retirements over the coming years: and the optimal size of the Board.
Decision Analytics, the health and insurance Information security As noted in the Audit Committee report, and in light of external events over verticals, as well as a global sales overview: risk reporting and 2018, the Audit Committee Chairman commissioned a review of information and business market and financial overviews.
governance security risk reporting and oversight during the year.
Work will continue over Corporate focused brie ngs on the Groups 2018 to further align reporting with risks, and ensure that an appropriate and history, corporate governance, audit, and clear reporting framework that identi es and adjusts for evolving risks is embedded, which supports the Board as it assesses cyber security risk and investor relations, communications and brand.
the related response of the business.
Other areas covered include remuneration, talent and people: strategy and organisation: Corporate governance As noted elsewhere in this report, the Nomination and Corporate Governance developments Committee has spent a lot of time this year considering various corporate a financial overview, budget and capital governance developments that have the potential to impact the Group.
The strategy: strategic planning, corporate Committee and the Board will maintain its focus on the developments, in development and competition: technology particular making any appropriate changes that may be necessary in relation and information security: legal compliance, to the upcoming new Code.
regulation, government aff airs, risk management: and corporate responsibility.
Board support The Group Corporate Secretariat, under the He is secretary to the Board, its principal Con icts of interest leadership of Charles Brown, the Company committees and the Global Strategic Projects The Companys articles of association allow Secretary, provides administrative and Committee, and is a member and secretary the Board to authorise actual or potential logistical support to the Board.
The Company of the Group Operating Committee.
The authorisation Secretarys responsibilities also include: All directors receive financial and operational procedure involves Group Corporate corporate governance, statutory, listing, information each month, to help them Secretariat issuing guidance and a prospectus and disclosure guidance discharge their duties.
Board papers are questionnaire each August, asking directors and transparency rules compliance circulated at least a week ahead of each to identify any con icts or potential con icts, and reporting Board meeting, to ensure directors have which the Board then considers at its time to review them before meetings.
In addition, directors are shareholder services expected to advise the Company Secretary of Directors have access to independent corporate responsibility.
any actual or potential con icts as soon as professional advice at the Companys expense, they arise, so the Board can consider them at if they consider it appropriate.
No director the next available opportunity.
In the Boards obtained any such advice during the year view, this procedure operated eff ectively ended 31 March 2018. during the year under review.
Experian plc 72 Governance Corporate governance report continued Chairman and Chief Executive Offi cer Board training and visits There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Offi cer.
These responsibilities, which we have formalised in writing, can be found on the Companys The Board as a whole also received the website, www.
com, and are summarised below.
following training and business updates The Chairman, Don Robert, is primarily responsible for the Boards leadership and governance, during the year: ensuring its eff ectiveness, setting agendas, ensuring that directors receive accurate, timely and clear information, and that there is eff ective communication with shareholders.
He facilitates the non-executive directors eff ective contribution to the Board, and ensures constructive relationships between the executive and non-executive directors.
The Chief Executive Offi cer, Brian Cassin, is responsible for the Groups day-to-day business, in line with the strategy, risk pro le, objectives and policies set by the Board and its committees.
He is accountable to the Board for the Groups development and its operations.
Chairmans responsibilities include: Chief Executive Offi cers responsibilities include: Case study Running the Board eff ectively and ensuring that Running the Groups business and developing the Board as a whole plays a full and constructive the Groups strategy and overall commercial part in developing and determining the Groups objectives.
strategy and overall commercial objectives.
Costa Mesa, California, USA Promoting the highest standards of integrity, Implementing, with the executive team, the In September 2017, the Board visited our probity and corporate governance throughout decisions of the Board, its committees and the operational headquarters in Costa Mesa the Group and particularly at Board level.
where senior leaders of the Groups North Ensuring that the Board receives accurate, Maintaining a dialogue with the Chairman on America business briefed the Board on timely and clear information on the Groups the important and strategic issues facing the a number of important areas, including: performance and its issues, challenges Group, and alerting the Chairman to forthcoming Decision Analytics and Fraud: Consumer and opportunities.
complex, contentious or sensitive issues.
Services Direct to Consumer and Ensuring eff ective communication with the Leading the communication programme with Partner Solutions: Health: Credit Services Companys shareholders, including by the Chief shareholders.
Business Information Services and Executive Offi cer, the Chief Financial Offi cer and Consumer Information Services: Political other executive management, and ensuring that and Regulatory matters and Information members of the Board develop an understanding Security.
The Board also received a tour of the views of the Companys major investors.
and demonstrations in our North America DataLab in San Diego, as well as brie ngs Meetings of non-executive directors Senior Independent Director from an external FinTech entrepreneur and In addition to attending Board and committee The Deputy Chairman, George Rose, is also the a cyber security specialist.
meetings, the non-executive directors meet Senior Independent Director.
He is responsible without the executive directors at the end for providing support and guidance to the of each scheduled Board meeting.
The Chairman and for serving as a trusted non-executive directors also meet at least intermediary for the other directors.
He is once a year with the Deputy Chairman, without available to meet shareholders who have the Chairman present, and did so once during concerns that cannot be resolved through the year to discuss matters including the discussion with the Chairman, the Chief Chairmans performance.
Executive Offi cer or the Chief Financial Offi cer, or where such contact is inappropriate.
Independence The Board considers each of the nonNon-executive directors executive directors to be independent in Appointment character and judgment and that there are Brazil no relationships or circumstances that are Non-executive directors are initially appointed Alongside the March 2018 Board and likely to aff ect or could appear to aff ect for three years which may, subject to committee meetings, the Board visited our each directors judgment.
satisfactory performance and election or Serasa Experian DataLab in So Paulo and re-election by the shareholders, be extended received innovation presentations, together by mutual agreement.
They normally serve for with a number of product demonstrations.
a maximum of nine years, through three terms As well as receiving a brie ng from an of three years each.
economist and consumer, talent and regulatory updates, Board members engaged with employees at events.
The Board then travelled to our facility in So Carlos, where they received a comprehensive update on Experians Latin America business together with a tour of the facility.
Governance 73 Relations with shareholders and others London Boston New York Dublin Paris London Boston New York Toronto Frankfurt 19-23 May 24 May 25 May 20 July 8 Sept 16-17 Nov 20 Nov 21 Nov 12 Dec 1 March 1 April 31 March 2017 2018 11 May May 19 July 14 Sept October 9 Nov 25 Jan 22 March Investor roadshows Remuneration engagement Investor and media relations reports provided to the Board AGM Investors and analysts the executive team Private shareholders the Company Relations with shareholders has an ongoing programme of dialogue and Secretary, Charles Brown, oversees and others meetings with institutional investors and communication with private shareholders, Set out below are some of the ways in which analysts, at which they discuss a wide range and ensures direct responses as appropriate the Company interacts with investors and of issues including strategy, performance, in respect of any matters raised by others, and keeps abreast of their views.
management and governance, within the shareholders.
The Company issues a constraints of information already made Shareholder Questions card each year, with Board an investor relations and media report public.
We also have an active programme of the AGM documentation.
Charles ensures is circulated before every Board meeting and engaging with investors through industry that the Company responds to shareholders contains a commentary on the investment conferences and by hosting events with directly, as appropriate, either at or following communitys perception of the Company, members of the senior management team.
media reports, share price performance The announcements of the annual and and analysis.
Website our website is an important channel half-year results and trading updates provide for communicating with shareholders.
All Engagement with investors over the year, opportunities for us to answer questions from material information reported to the regulatory both Roger Davis, as Chairman of the analysts, covering a wide range of topics.
news services is published there, together Remuneration Committee, and our reward Investor roadshows took place during the with copies of annual and half-year results team, consulted with our major investors year in Boston, Frankfurt, London, New York, announcements and trading updates.
and institutional investor bodies in relation Paris and Toronto.
to Experians executive remuneration Investor relations app this contains Annual General Meeting the AGM provides arrangements.
In November 2016 and again information on our financial performance, a valuable opportunity for the Board to in May 2017, we wrote to approximately 25 of together with reports, presentations and news communicate with shareholders and to meet our largest shareholders and to institutional of upcoming events.
them informally before the main business of investor bodies to gather feedback on a the meeting.
All directors, with the exception of limited number of changes being proposed Experian website Paul Walker, attended the 2017 AGM, including to our Directors remuneration policy.
We The Experian website www.
com the Audit, Remuneration, and Nomination and received little feedback on these letters, contains additional information on our Corporate Governance Committee chairmen.
but much of the feedback we did receive corporate governance.
There you will nd: was largely positive.
The 2018 AGM will take place on Wednesday Terms of reference of the principal 18 July 2018 in Dublin.
Shareholders are Following the 2017 AGM, and in response to the Board committees encouraged to attend and to use the outcome of the vote in relation to the Directors opportunity to ask questions.
However, if it is remuneration policy, a series of constructive The schedule of matters reserved to not practical for shareholders to attend, we and useful face-to-face meetings were held the Board encourage them to use proxy voting on the with key shareholders and institutional The Companys memorandum and articles resolutions put forward, all of which with the investor bodies, to discuss the Companys of association exception of procedural resolutions are taken remuneration arrangements and to receive by a poll.
In 2017, voting levels at the AGM were feedback on any potential areas of concern.
Details of AGM proxy voting by shareholders, 74% of the Companys issued share capital, The Company considers the meetings to including votes withheld.
compared with 72% in 2016. have been bene cial to all involved and the Remuneration Committee Chairman, Roger www.
com Davis, and Chairman-designate, Mike Rogers, were in attendance, as well as senior management, the Group Human Resources Director and the Company Secretary.
Experian plc 74 Governance Corporate governance report continued Risk management and internal control The Board is responsible for maintaining and monitoring sound risk Risk management is an essential element of running a global, management and internal control systems and for determining the innovation-driven business like Experian.
It helps to create long-term nature and extent of the principal risks the Company is willing to take shareholder value and to protect our business, people, assets, capital to achieve its strategic objectives.
There is an ongoing process for and reputation.
It operates at all levels throughout the organisation, identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks we face.
across regions, business activities and operational support functions.
This process was in place for the financial year and up to the date of Our approach to risk management encourages clear decisions approval of this Annual Report.
Full details of our risk management about which risks we take and how we manage them, based on an and internal control systems and processes can be found in the Risk understanding of their potential strategic, commercial, financial, management section of this Annual Report.
The speci c processes compliance, legal and reputational implications.
underlying the elements of the Groups risk framework are set out below.
Identify Assess the potential eff ect of each strategic, operational and financial risk on the achievement of our business objectives, and the Groups corresponding risk appetite.
Identify and escalate new, emerging or changing risks, signi cant incidents, signi cant control gaps and risk acceptance.
Consider external factors arising from our operating environment and internal risks arising from the nature of our business, our controls and processes, and our management decisions.
Analyse Produce Boardand Group-level finance reports, including financial summaries, results, forecasts and revenue trends, investor relations analysis and detailed business trading summaries.
Conduct regional-level detailed performance reviews.
Report to regional risk committees, the ERMC and the Audit Committee on the status of principal and emerging risks, the progress of strategic projects and acquisitions, and escalation of signi cant accepted risks.
Report to the Audit Committee by Global Internal Audit on assurance testing and con dential helpline investigation results.
Report to the Audit Committee by Group Compliance on fraud management.
Evaluate Evaluate compliance with policies and standards addressing risk management, compliance, accounting, treasury management, fraud, information security and business continuity.
Follow formal review and approval procedures for major transactions, capital expenditure and revenue expenditure.
Monitor budgetary and performance reviews tied to KPIs and achievement of objectives.
Apply a risk scoring system, based on our assessment of the probability of a risk materialising, and the impact including speed if it does.
Require executive management con rmations of compliance with our corporate governance process.
Mitigate Apply active risk remediation strategies, including internal controls, formal exception processes, insurance and specialised treasury instruments.
Use formal review and approval procedures for signi cant accepted risks.
Monitor Maintain comprehensive risk registers representing the current risk and control environment, using a software solution to provide enhanced monitoring.
Review of controls and follow-ups by management, Global Internal Audit and third parties.
Use Global Internal Audit to independently assess the adequacy and eff ectiveness of the system of internal controls.
Report on risk to the Audit Committee, addressing material and emerging risks, material litigation, information security, business continuity and regulatory compliance.
Utilise the Audit Committee to monitor the Groups risk management and internal control systems.
Review by the Audit Committee of the eff ectiveness of our systems of risk management and internal control: receive an annual report on the controls over relevant risks: and ongoing review of principal risks identi ed by the Groups risk assessment processes.
Governance 75 As risk management and internal control Risk management and internal control systems review systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, they can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material Independent assessment financial misstatement or loss.
For certain Global Internal Audit reports joint arrangements, the Board relies on the Global Internal Audit con dential helpline reports systems of internal control operating within the partners infrastructure and the obligations External auditor's report of the partners boards, relating to the Corporate responsibility independent eff ectiveness of their own systems.
assurance report Review by relevant regulatory bodies The Code requires companies to review the e. g. US Consumer Financial Protection Bureau eff ectiveness of their risk management and Evaluation of external auditor internal control systems, at least annually.
The Audit Committee performs this review Evaluation of Global Internal Audit under delegated authority from the Board.
Following this years review, the Board considers that the information enabled it to Management assurance review the eff ectiveness of the Groups system of internal control in accordance with the Annual executive certi cation of compliance with UK FRC guidance and control adequacy FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Through a combination Risk management reports, including of ongoing and annual Reporting, and that the system has no material litigation reviews, the Board is able signi cant failings or weaknesses.
Compliance reports to review the ongoing Information security reports In addition, and in line with the Code, the Audit eff ectiveness of the Group's Committee monitors our risk management Impairment, going concern and viability reviews risk management and internal control systems and internal control systems and robustly Annual Report and half-yearly financial assesses the principal risks identi ed by our report review risk assessment processes including those Management representation letters that would threaten our business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, and monitors actions taken, where possible, to mitigate them.
Board Audit Committee approved For more on our approach to risk management in the Strategic report see page 51 Annual Global Internal Audit plan External auditor's engagement letter Additional financial reporting External auditor's annual audit plan internal controls Treasury policy review We have detailed policies and procedures to Tax policy review ensure the accuracy and reliability of our Compliance policy review financial reporting and the preparation of Global Delegated Authorities Matrix, which fide fines Group financial statements.
This includes internal approval procedures our comprehensive Group Accounting Manual GAM, which contains the detailed requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards.
The Groups finance team owns the GAM and we have rolled it out across the Group, obliging all of our companies to follow its requirements.
The GAMs aims are to: guide on accounting issues: enable consistent and well-fide ned information for IFRS reporting: provide uniform quantitative and qualitative measures of Group performance: and increase the effi ciency of the Groups reporting process.
