Corporate Gover Corporate Governance finance Statement Statement Introduction the Board and public documents.
It has responsibility for all corporate The Company is committed to high standards of corporate strategic issues, policies set out on pages 10 and 11 and governance.
The Board has considered the principles and corporate governance matters which are all reviewed regularly.
recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide In order to enable them to discharge their responsibilities, all for Investment Companies the AIC Guide.
As confirmed by Directors have full and timely access to relevant information.
At each the Financial Reporting Council, following the AIC Guide enables meeting the Board reviews the Companys investment performance investment company boards to meet their obligations under the UK and considers financial analyses and other reports of an operational Corporate Governance Code the UK Code.
The Board monitors compliance with the Companys that the Company has complied with the current recommendations objectives and is responsible for setting investment and gearing of the AIC Code and thereby the relevant provisions of the UK limits within which the Lead Manager has discretion to act, and thus Code during the year under review and up to the date of this report, supervises the management of the investment portfolio which is except in relation to the UK Codes provisions relating to: contractually delegated to the Manager.
The Board has responsibility the role of the chief executive: for the approval of any unlisted investments.
executive directors remuneration: and the need for an internal audit function.
The following table sets out the Directors meeting attendance in the year under review.
The Board held a separate meeting in April For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, the Board considers these 2018 to consider strategic issues and also met in private session on provisions as not being relevant to the position of the Company, one occasion during the year, without any representation from the being an externally managed investment company.
all of the Companys day-to-day management and administrative Directors attendance functions have been delegated to the Manager.
As a result, the Company has no executive directors, employees or internal Audit and Management Nomination operations.
Therefore, with the exception of the need for an internal Board Engagement Committee Committee audit function which is addressed on page 43, the Company No.
of meetings 6 2 1 has not reported further in respect of these provisions.
The UK Anthony Townsend 5 2 1 Corporate Governance Code published in April 2016 and the Andrew Adcock 6 2 1 associated AIC Code of Governance published in July 2016 applied in the year ended 30 April 2018.
Anja Balfour 6 2 1 Jo Dixon 4 2 1 Copies of both codes may be found on the respective websites: David Stileman 6 2 1 theaic.
Jane Tozer 4 1 0 AIFMD The Company is defined as an Alternative Investment Fund AIF Each Director has signed a terms of appointment letter with the under the AIMFD issued by the European Parliament, which requires Company, in each case including one months notice of termination that all AIFs must appoint a Depositary and an Alternative Investment by either party.
These are available for inspection at the Companys Fund Manager AIFM.
The Board remains fully responsible for all registered office during normal business hours and are also available at annual general meetings.
aspects of the Companys strategy, operations and compliance with regulations.
The Manager is the Companys AIFM.
Directors are able to seek independent professional advice at the Articles of association Companys expense in relation to their duties.
No such advice was The Companys articles of association may only be amended by taken during the year under review.
The Board has direct access special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
to company secretarial advice and services of the Manager which, through the Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that The Board Board and Committee procedures are followed and applicable The Boards responsibilities are outlined on page 45.
More regulations are complied with.
The proceedings at all Board and specifically, the Board is responsible for the effective stewardship of other meetings are fully recorded through a process that allows the Companys affairs and reviews the schedule of matters reserved any Directors concerns to be recorded in the minutes.
The Board for its decision.
These are categorised under strategy, policy, finance, has the power to appoint or remove the Company Secretary risk, investment restrictions, performance, marketing, appointments, in accordance with the terms of the investment management 36 | F&C Global Smaller Companies PLC OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORT agreement.
The powers of the Board relating to the issuance or The Board is, however, firmly of the view that length of service does buying back of the Companys shares are explained on pages 10 not of itself impair a directors ability to act independently: rather, a directors longer perspective adds value to the deliberations of a and 34. well-balanced investment trust company board.
Appointments Under the articles of association of the Company, the number of Conflicts of interest A company director has a statutory obligation to avoid a situation in which Directors on the Board may be no more than twelve.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by he or she has, or potentially could have, a direct or indirect interest that the Board.
All new appointments by the Board are subject to conflicts with the interests of the company a situational conflict.
The election by shareholders at the following annual general meeting Board therefore has procedures in place for the authorisation and review and institutional shareholders are given the opportunity to meet any of situational conflicts relating to the Directors.
Limits can be imposed as newly appointed Director if they wish.
An induction process is in appropriate.
place for new appointees and all Directors are encouraged to attend relevant training courses and seminars.
All other Directors stand for Other than the formal authorisation of the Directors other directorships re-election by shareholders annually.
as situational conflicts, no authorisations have been sought.
These authorisations were reviewed throughout the year at the commencement Board effectiveness of each Board meeting and at the Nomination Committee meeting in In order to review the effectiveness of the Board, the Committees and the June 2018, when each Director abstained from voting in respect of their individual Directors, the Board has carried out an annual self-appraisal own directorships.
Aside from situational conflicts, the Directors must process.
This was facilitated by the completion of a questionnaire and also comply with the statutory rules requiring company directors confidential one-to-one interviews between the Chairman and each to declare any interest in an actual or proposed transaction or Director.
The appraisal of the Chairman was covered as part of the arrangement with the Company.
process and led separately by the Senior Independent Director.
The Board considers the appraisal process to be a constructive means Audit and Management Engagement Committee The Board has established an Audit and Management Engagement of evaluating the contribution of individual Directors and identifying ways to improve the functioning and performance of the Board and Committee, the role and responsibilities of which are set out in its its committees, including assessing any training needs.
There were no report on pages 41 to 44. significant actions arising from the appraisal process.
As the Company is Nomination Committee now in the FTSE 250 Index, the Board appraisal will be carried out with the help of an independent external facilitator at least every three years.
The role of the Nomination Committee is to review and make recommendations to the Board with regard to: Removal of Directors The Company may by special resolution remove any Director before i The structure and size of the Board and its composition the expiration of their period of office and may by ordinary resolution particularly in terms of succession planning and the experience appoint another person who is willing to act to be a Director in their and skills of the individual Directors and diversity across the place.
The provisions under which a Director would automatically Board as a whole: cease to be a Director are set out in the articles of association.
ii tenure policy: iii the criteria for future Board appointments and the methods of Board independence and tenure recruitment, selection and appointment: The Board, which is composed solely of independent non-executive iv the appointment of new Directors and the reappointment Directors, regularly reviews the independence of the individual of those Directors standing for re-election at annual general Directors.
All the Directors have been assessed by the Board as meetings: remaining independent of F&C and of the Company itself: none v the attendance and time commitment of the Directors has a past or current connection with F&C and each remains in fulfilling their duties, including the extent of their other independent in character and judgement with no relationships directorships: or circumstances relating to the Company that are likely to affect vi the question of each Directors independence prior to publication of the Report and Accounts: and that judgement.
This includes Anthony Townsend the Chairman, Andrew Adcock and Jane Tozer, who have each served for over nine vii the authorisation of each Directors situational conflicts of years.
Those Directors serving more than six years are subject to interests in accordance with the provisions of the Companies more rigorous review before being proposed for re-election.
Act 2006 and the policy and procedures established by the Board in relation to these provisions: The Board has a policy that only a minority of the Directors should generally have served for more than nine years.
As noted in the All of the Nomination Committees responsibilities have been carried Chairmans Statement, succession planning is underway.
out during the period under review and to the date of this report.
