OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT Environmental, Social and Governance ESG Policies In setting the Companys ESG policies, the Board has considered the requirements of Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 regarding promoting the success of the Company for the benefit of stakeholders and the EU Non-Financial Reporting Directive EU 2014 95.
The Board anticipates that its disclosures on ESG matters will evolve in future years.
Responsible ownership other organisation with which the Company conducts business.
The Board As an investment vehicle, all the Companys activities are outsourced to third also ensures that adequate procedures are in place, and followed, in parties.
As such, it does not have any physical assets, property, employees or respect of third party appointments, acceptance of gifts and hospitality and operations of its own.
Neither does it provide goods nor services in the normal similar matters.
course of business and does not have customers.
In consequence, it does not directly generate any greenhouse gas or other emissions or pollution and it is Voting on portfolio investments not required to make any statement under the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
The Board expects to be informed by the Manager of any sensitive voting issues involving the Companys investments.
In the absence of explicit The Board supports F&C in its belief that good governance creates value.
instructions from the Board, the Manager is empowered to exercise discretion F&C takes a particular interest in corporate governance and sustainable in the use of the Companys voting rights.
All shareholdings are voted at business practices, and continues to work on systematically incorporating all listed company meetings worldwide where practicable in accordance environmental, social and governance factors into its investment processes.
with F&Cs own corporate governance policy, which is to seek to maximise This is based on the view that companies with strong management focus on shareholder value by constructive use of votes at company meetings and by these areas have the potential to reduce risks facing their business and deliver endeavouring to use its influence as an investor with a principled approach to sustainable performance over the longer term.
Engagement with companies corporate governance.
on significant regulatory and ESG matters, so as to reduce risk, improve In the year under review, F&C engaged with companies held by the Company performance, encourage best practice and underpin long-term investor value and had voted in respect of the Companys holdings at 202 company forms an important part of F&Cs approach towards responsible investment.
meetings on a range of issues.
In addition to corporate culture and business With regard to possible tax evasion by investee companies, the Board believes ethics, key engagement themes during the period focused on management that it is best in the first instance to engage proactively with companies of climate change and natural resource scarcity, as well as on labour to ensure high standards of corporate governance rather than exclude standards, governance and remuneration the latter having been particularly investment opportunities on the basis of tax practices.
F&C will therefore pertinent in the UK where shareholders vote on binding resolutions on engage with the boards of investee companies in an effort to ensure that corporate pay policies.
their tax policies are both prudent and sustainable.
Investee company boards are expected to disclose to shareholders that they are providing appropriate Information on F&Cs engagement and voting at company meetings and where oversight over their tax policies.
to find their statement of compliance with The UK Stewardship Code can be found on page 9.
F&Cs Corporate Governance Guidelines set out expectations of the boards of investee companies in terms of good corporate governance.
This includes Board diversity the affirmation of responsibility for reviewing internal business ethics systems, The Board is composed solely of non-executive Directors and has 50% female and ensuring that there is an effective mechanism for the internal reporting representation.
The Boards approach to the appointment of non-executive of wrongdoing, whether within the investee company itself, or involving other directors is based on its belief in the benefits of having a diverse range of parties, such as suppliers, customers, contractors or business partners.
Under experience, skills, length of service and backgrounds, including gender.
The legislation, which is developing globally, there will be scope for more rigorous Board will always appoint the best person for the job and will not discriminate enforcement of anti-corruption and anti-bribery.
on the grounds of gender, race, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, age or physical ability.
In addition to this, the Board applies a strict anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy insofar as it applies to any directors or employee of F&C or of any Report and Accounts 2018 | 11 Its pleasing to report that the Company achieved the scale of market capitalisation to qualify for inclusion in the FTSE 250 index.
