OVER OVERVIEW VIEW CHAIRMANS ST CHAIRMANS STA ATEMENT TEMENT STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T GOVERNANCE REPOR GOVERNANCE REPORT T AUDITORS REPOR AUDITORS REPORT T FINANCIAL REPOR FINANCIAL REPORT T NOTICE OF MEETING NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMA OTHER INFORMATION TION GOVERNANCE REPORT Report of the Audit and Management Engagement Committee The Audit and Management Engagement Committee the Committee has focused on new regulatory developments throughout the year including MIFID II and related disclosures.
Our focus on cyber-security measures has been maintained.
Role of the Committee Comprehensive papers relating to each of these matters The primary responsibilities of the Committee are to: monitor the were prepared for discussion.
These were debated by the integrity of the financial reporting and statements of the Company: Committee and any recommendations were fully considered if to oversee the audit of the annual accounts, preparation of the there was a judgement to be applied in arriving at conclusions.
half-yearly accounts and the internal control and risk management Recommendations were then made to the Board as appropriate.
processes: and to assess the performance of the Manager and review the fees charged.
The Committee met twice during the year The Board retains ultimate responsibility for all aspects relating to with F&Cs Head of Trust Accounting, Head of Investment Trusts, the external financial statements and other significant published financial Risk Manager and the Lead Manager in attendance.
PwC attended information as is noted in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities the meeting at which the financial statements for the year ended on page 45.
On broader control policy issues, the Committee 30 April 2018 were reviewed and met in private session with the has reviewed and is satisfied with F&Cs Anti-Fraud, Bribery and Committee.
Corruption Strategy and Policy and with the Whistleblowing policy that has been put in place by F&C under which its staff may, in Specifically, the Committee considered, monitored and reviewed the confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial following matters: reporting or other matters.
The necessary arrangements are in place for communication by F&C to this Committee where matters The audited annual results statement and annual report and might impact the Company with appropriate follow up action.
In accounts and the unaudited half-yearly report and accounts, the year under review, there were no such concerns raised with the including advice to the Board as to whether the annual Committee.
The Committee has also considered and agreed the report and accounts taken as a whole are fair, balanced and processes relating to new regulations particularly MIFID II and the understandable: Criminal Finances Act 2017.
The accounting policies of the Company: The Principal Risks faced by the Company and the effectiveness Composition of the Committee of the Companys internal control and risk management During the year, the Committee comprised all the Directors.
Jo environment, including consideration of the assumptions Dixon temporarily stepped down as Chairman of the Committee in underlying the Boards Future Prospects statement on viability: February for reasons of health.
The Committee is currently being The effectiveness of the audit process and the current chaired by Anja Balfour and its terms of reference can be found on independence and objectivity of the external auditor, their the website at www.
The Board recognises reappointment, remuneration and terms of engagement: the requirement for the Committee as a whole to have competence The policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply relevant to the sector in which the Company operates and at least non-audit services and approval of any such services: one member with recent and relevant experience.
All the Committee The need for the Company to have its own internal audit members are independent non-executive Directors.
Anja Balfour, function: Interim Chairman of the Committee, is experienced as audit chair of The ISAE AAF and SSAE16 reports or their equivalent from F&C, other listed companies.
The other members of the Committee have a the Custodian and a due diligence report from the Companys combination of financial, investment and business experience through Share Registrar: the senior posts held throughout their careers.
The majority have a The performance of the Companys third party service providers wide experience of the investment trust sector.
and administrators, other than F&C, and the fees charged in respect of those services: Management of risk The performance of the Manager and their fees: and F&Cs Business Risk department provides regular control report The Committees terms of reference for approval by the Board.
updates to the Committee covering risk and compliance whilst any significant issues of direct relevance to the Company are required to be reported to the Committee and Board immediately.
Report and Accounts 2018 | 41 A key risk radar summary is produced by F&C in consultation with and for publication is reliable.
Control of the risks identified, covering the Board to identify the risks to which the Company is exposed, the financial, operational, compliance and overall risk management, is controls in place and the actions being taken to mitigate them.
The exercised by the Committee through regular reports provided by F&C.
Board has a robust process for considering the resulting risk matrix at The reports cover investment performance, performance attribution, each of its meetings and dynamically reviews the significance of the compliance with agreed and regulatory investment restrictions, risks and the reasons for any changes.
The process evolved during financial analyses, revenue estimates, performance of the third the year to align with BMOs rigorous risk profiling activity.
party administrators of the F&C Savings Plans and other relevant management issues.
The Companys Principal Risks are set out on page 14 with additional information given in note 24 on the Accounts.
The The systems of internal controls are designed to manage rather Committee noted the robustness of the Boards review of than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives and Principal Risks and participated as Board members themselves.
can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against The integration of these risks into the analyses underpinning the material misstatement, or loss or fraud.
Further to the review by Five Year Horizon Statement on viability on page 15 was the Committee, the Board has assessed the effectiveness of the fully considered and the Committee concluded that the Boards Companys internal controls.
The assessment included a review of the statement was soundly based.
The period of five years was also F&C risk management infrastructure and the report on policies and agreed as appropriate for the reasons given in the Statement.
procedures in operation and tests for the year to 31 October 2017 the ISAE AAF Report and subsequent confirmation from F&C Internal controls that there had been no material changes to the control environment The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys systems of in the period to 23 May 2018.
This has been prepared by F&C internal controls, for reviewing their effectiveness and ensuring that risk for all its investment trust clients to the International Standard on management and control processes are embedded in the day-to-day Assurance Engagement ISAE No.
3402 and to the standards of the operations, which are managed by F&C.
The Committee has reviewed Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales Technical and reported to the Board on these controls, which aim to ensure that Release AAF 01 06.
The ISAE AAF Report from independent the assets of the Company are safeguarded, proper accounting records reporting accountants KPMG sets out F&Cs control policies and are maintained, and the financial information used within the business procedures with respect to the management of clients investments Significant Judgements and Issues considered by the Committee for the year ended 30 April 2018 Matter Action Investment Portfolio Valuation Although the Companys portfolio of investments is The Board reviewed the full portfolio valuation twice in the year and the Committee predominantly invested in highly liquid securities quoted on also reviewed the valuation of the unquoted portfolio in detail.
recognised stock exchanges, errors in the valuation could The Committee reviewed the annual audited internal control report from F&C.
This have a material impact on the Companys NAV per share.
report indicated that the relevant systems and controls surrounding daily pricing, cash and holdings reconciliations and security valuation had operated satisfactorily.
Misappropriation of Assets Misappropriation of the Companys investments or cash The Committee reviewed the annual audited internal control reports of F&C balances could have a material impact on its NAV per share.
Neither of these reports indicated any failures of controls over the existence and safe custody of the Companys investments and cash balances.
The Companys Depositary reported quarterly on the safe custody of the Companys investments and the operation of controls over the movement of cash in settlement of investment transactions.
Through these reports the Committee is satisfied that the assets remained protected throughout the year.
Income Recognition Incomplete controls over, or inaccurate recognition of, The Committees review of F&Cs annual audited controls report indicated that income could result in the Company misstating its revenue there were no control failures in the year.
The Committee reviewed and approved receipts and associated tax, with consequences for overall at the interim and final accounts reporting meetings, all dividend receipts performance, payment of dividends to shareholders, and deemed to be capital special in nature by virtue of their payment out of investee compliance with taxation rules.
company restructuring rather than ordinary business operations.
In addition, the Committee reviewed that all special dividends had been correctly treated in accordance with the Companys accounting policy.
42 | F&C Global Smaller Companies PLC OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORT and maintenance of their financial records.
The effectiveness of Reporting Directive EU 2014 95.
It is aware that this area of Nonthese controls is monitored by F&Cs Group Audit and Compliance Financial Reporting matters will evolve further in coming years.
Committee, which receives regular reports from its Internal Audit department.
Procedures are also in place to capture and evaluate Consequently, the Committee recommended to the Board that any failings and weaknesses within F&Cs control environment and the Report and Accounts were in their view, fair, balanced and those extending to any outsourced service providers to ensure that understandable in accordance with accounting standards, regulatory action would be taken to remedy any significant issues.
Any errors or requirements and best practice.
The Independent Auditors report, breaches relating to the Company are reported at each Committee which sets out the unqualified audit opinion, the scope of the audit and Board meeting by F&C.
No failings or weaknesses material to the and the areas of focus, in compliance with applicable auditing overall control environment and financial statements were identified standards, can be found on pages 46 to 50. in the year.
The Committee also reviewed the control reports of the Custodian, the Depositary and the Registrar and were satisfied that Auditor assessment, independence and appointment there were no material exceptions.
The Committee reviews the reappointment of the auditor every year and has been satisfied with the effectiveness of PwCs performance Through the reviews noted above and by direct enquiry of F&C and on the audit just completed.
PwC have confirmed that they are other relevant parties, the Committee and the Board have satisfied independent of the Company and have complied with relevant themselves that there were no material control failures or exceptions auditing standards.
In evaluating PwC, the Committee has taken affecting the Companys operations during the year nor to the date into consideration the standing, skills and experience of the firm of this Report.
From direct observation and indirect enquiry of management, the Committee is satisfied that PwC will continue Based on the processes and controls in place within F&C, including to provide effective independent challenge in carrying out their confirmation by a reputable independent accounting firm that those responsibilities.
The fee for the audit was 32,200, having been controls operated satisfactorily, the Committee has concluded agreed by the Committee.
This compared with 31,500 paid to PwC and the Board has concurred that there is no current need for the last year.
Company to have a separate internal audit function.
At the forthcoming AGM shareholders will vote on the reappointment External audit process and significant issues considered by of PwC for the 2019 audit.
PwC have been the auditor to the the Committee Company since its inception in 1889 and the appointment has not In carrying out its responsibilities, the Committee has considered the been put out to tender notwithstanding their long tenure.
Under planning arrangements, scope, materiality levels and conclusions mandatory audit rotation rules, the Company will be required to put of the external audit for the year.
The table on page 42 describes the external audit out to tender at least every ten years.
Given the the significant judgements and issues considered by the Committee EU regulations and transition rules on firm rotation, PwC will not be in conjunction with PwC in relation to the financial statements for available for re-appointment as auditors beyond the annual general the year and how these issues were addressed.
The Committee meeting following 17 June 2020.
Jeremy Jensens retirement by also included in their review the areas of judgements, estimates rotation as senior statutory auditor will coincide with PwCs final and assumptions referred to in note 2 b xi on the Accounts and audit, which is currently expected to be for the year ended 30 April welcomes this increase in transparency on such issues.
The Board anticipates putting the audit out to tender during the Committee reviewed the disclosure and description of Alternative the latter part of 2018.
Performance Measures provided on page 85 and is satisfied that the disclosure is fair and relevant.
Non-audit services The Committee regards the continued independence of the external Procedures for verifying investment valuation and existence and auditors to be a matter of the highest priority.
The Companys policy recognition of income were the main areas of audit focus and testing.
with regard to the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor ensures that no engagement will be permitted if: The Committee met in June 2018 to discuss the final draft of the the provision of the services would contravene any regulation or Report and Accounts, with representatives of PwC and F&C in ethical standard: attendance.
PwC submitted their Year-End Report and confirmed the auditors are not considered to be expert providers of the that they had no reason not to issue an unqualified audit report in non-audit services: respect of the Report and Accounts.
The Committee established the provision of such services by the auditor creates a conflict of that there were no material issues or findings arising which needed interest for either the Board or the Manager: and to be brought to the attention of the Board.
the services are considered to be likely to inhibit the auditors independence or objectivity as auditors.
The Committee has carefully considered the disclosures made in the Report and Accounts particularly in relation to the EU Non-Financial In particular, the Committee has a policy that the accumulated costs of all non-audit services sought from the auditors in any one year Report and Accounts 2018 | 43 should not exceed 30% of the likely audit fees for that year and not exceed 70% cumulatively over three years.
PwC have not provided or charged for any non-audit services for the year ended 30 April 2018.
Committee evaluation The activities of the Committee were considered as part of the Board appraisal process completed in accordance with standard governance arrangements as summarised on page 37.
Anja Balfour Interim Chairman Audit and Management Engagement Committee 19 June 2018 44 | F&C Global Smaller Companies PLC
