Leadership and effectiveness Nominations Committee Senior leadership succession, Board composition and diversity continue to be priorities.
Gareth Davis Nominations Committee Chairman Succession planning All Nominations Committee members Last year I highlighted continued focus on Board and senior Membership Year of appointment Meetings attended leadership succession as a key priority for the Committee.
1 Gareth Davis Chairman 2011 4 4 Ensuring that the business has the appropriate mix of skills and Tessa Bamford 2011 4 4 experience at Board and senior leadership levels to match the Alan Murray 2013 4 4 development of the Group and the markets in which it operates Darren Shapland 2014 4 4 is crucial to ensuring the Companys long-term success.
From our Nadia Shouraboura 2017 4 4 first meeting in the year, the future composition of the Board was a Jacky Simmonds 2014 4 4 principal area of focus for the Committee.
Over a series of meetings Members who left during the year we undertook a detailed review of the skills and experience of the John Daly 2014 3 3 current Directors and potential additional skills that would benefit Pilar Lpez 2013 4 4 the Board and the Company in the future.
The Committee took into account factors such as the increasing size of the Groups US 1.
Year of appointment as Chairman.
business and the potential value of having more Board members with extensive business experience with companies having a US 2018 focus All or international presence.
Skills and experience in areas such as innovation, distribution, data and technology, customer service, Senior leadership succession e-commerce and disruption were highlighted as areas in which the Board composition Company would benefit from having additional Board experience.
Diversity Our succession planning for Non Executive Directors was well advanced when we announced that John Daly and Pilar Lpez were Review of Committee effectiveness standing down from the Board, which has enabled us to commence a well-informed and structured recruitment process.
As at the date of this report, the process is ongoing and we will update shareholders Dear Shareholder once any appointments are made.
Board and senior leadership succession planning is of critical importance.
It continues to be a priority for the Board and The Committee also reviewed succession plans for other non-Board is something the Nominations Committee keeps under senior leadership roles during the year.
Both I and the Committee continuous review.
are pleased to see that the new Executive Committee members appointed during the year are contributing so well to the success ofthe Company.
How the Committee operates As at 1 October 2018, the Committee was made up of myself and Board composition five Non Executive Directors as set out in the table above.
During the year ended 31 July 2018, John Daly and Pilar Lpez also served as As at the date of this Report, the Board comprises the Chairman, members of the Committee until stepping down as Non Executive three Executive Directors and five Non Executive Directors.
Directors on 31 May 2018 and 31 July 2018 respectively, each as a The biographies of all members of the Board, which outline the skills result of their respective increasing business commitments.
I would and experience they bring to their roles, are set out on pages 52 like to thank John and Pilar for their considerable contributions to the and 53.
The Committee believes that the Board and its Committees Board and the Company whilst they were Directors and wish them continue to have a balance of experience and skills which is well for the future.
appropriate for an international specialist distribution company, which will be further enhanced on conclusion of the recruitment process The Nominations Committee met on four occasions during the referred to above.
Attendance at those meetings is set out in the table above and an overview of the Committees area of responsibility External search advisor is set out on page 54.
The Committees Terms of Reference are Korn Ferry, an external search advisor, has been engaged to assist available at www.
the Nominations Committee with the recruitment of new Non Executive Directors.
Korn Ferry has no other connections with the Company except in relation to other senior executive search mandates.
The Company does not use open advertising to search for suitable candidates for Director positions, as we believe that the optimal way of recruiting for these positions is to use targeted recruitment based on the skills and experience required.
60 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Diversity Objective Status Progress in 2017 18 Valuing our people remains one of Fergusons core values.
To achieve a Achieved As of the date of this report 33 per We believe that well trained, highly engaged associates deliver better minimum 30 for cent of the Board is female 36 per per cent female 2017 18 cent in 2016 17. customer service.
This is one of the Groups drivers of profitable representation on growth, set out in the Group Chief Executives review on page 16, the Boardby 2020. and you will find further information on how we have sustained our commitment to maintaining a well-trained and highly engaged To achieve a Ongoing As at the date of this report 22.2 per minimum 30 cent of the Executive Committee workforce on pages 24 and 25. per cent female and their direct reports are female representation 19.7 per cent in 2016 17.
During the Ferguson is committed to developing a diverse workforce and an amongst the year, the Group Chief Executive, inclusive working environment in all of the global communities where Executive Committee supported by the Board, joined the the Company has a presence, and the Committee will carry on and their direct 30% Club for further information monitoring and reviewing the Companys progress as it continues to reports by 2020. see page 51. deliver improvements in workforce diversity.
We believe that a diverse To only engage Achieved Korn Ferry has been engaged and inclusive organisation that reflects our communities provides us executive search for toconduct a search for new Non with different perspectives that give us our competitive advantage.
firms that have 2017 18 Executive Directors.
Korn Ferry are In order to achieve our objectives, people decisions at Ferguson are signed up to the signatories to the Voluntary Code standard voluntary of Conduct.
No other executive based on merit, where the best candidate is hired and promoted code of conduct search firms were engaged by the within the organisation and associates are encouraged to reach their for executive Nominations Committee during full potential, irrespective of race, colour, religion, gender, age, sexual search firms or US the year.
orientation, marital status, disability or any other characteristic that makes them unique.
To ensure success we are committed to creating an environment free from discrimination and harassment, where Nominations Committee effectiveness review all associates are treated with dignity and respect.
Details of our This year, the review of the effectiveness of the Committee was current gender diversity statistics are set out on page 42 and further conducted by Lintstock within the framework of the  on diversity is detailed on page 25. facilitated Board and Committee effectiveness review detailed The Board takes diversity seriously and has, for the past five years, on page 58.
The performance of the Committee was highly rated met the gender diversity recommendations set out in Lord Davies overall.
Committee members were satisfied with the succession original report, Women on Boards, which were re-affirmed by the planning for Executive and Non Executive Directors.
The review also Hampton-Alexander Review.
The Board has also taken note of the prioritised greater engagement with the succession plans for senior additional recommendations of the Hampton-Alexander Review on management positions.
Monitoring and enhancing processes to the gender diversity of senior leadership and the Parker Reviews improve diversity at all levels continued to be an area of important recommendations on increasing the ethnic diversity of Boards.
This is reflected in the Board Diversity Policy and related objectives summarised above.
We remain supportive of the voluntary approach as an effective way to encourage companies to improve gender diversity in boardrooms Nominations Committee priorities for 2018 19 All and during the year the Board formalised its approach to Board diversity by adopting a Board Diversity Policy.
The Board Diversity A continuing focus on Board composition and succession, Policy reflects the Companys commitment to providing an inclusive and enhanced engagement on succession plans for work environment and codifies the Boards belief that diversity in senior managers.
the boardroom makes business sense as it allows the Board to Continuing to monitor diversity and inclusion.
harness the benefit of differences in skills, experience, background, personality, culture and work style.
The Board Diversity Policy establishes the Nominations Committee as the body responsible for monitoring progress against diversity objectives.
The Board endorsed the diversity objectives detailed in Gareth Davis the table above during the year.
Progress against the objectives is on behalf of the Nominations Committee also detailed in the table.
Gender diversity Board tenure 9 years 1 03 years Female 3 33% 69 years Gender 2 Board of Board tenure Male 67% 36 years 3 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 61
