STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Chairmans Introduction Post year end, Mr Lockett resigned from the Board in January 2019.
In February 2019, Mr Genovese was re-appointed to theBoard as a Non-executive Director.
Mr Genovese previously served on the Board from 2007 to 2014.
The Board believes that Mr Genoveses deep knowledge across commodities, including iron ore, as well as his extensive experience of operating in emerging markets, specifically in Russia and the former USSR, isofsignificant value to the Group.
Steve Lucas Chairman Statement of Compliance In Accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R During the year to 31 December 2018, the Company applied Steve Lucas, Chairman all Main and Supporting Principles, and complied with the provisions of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Governance Code, which is available at www.
Information Pursuant to the EU Takeover Directive Dear Shareholder The Company has provided the additional information required by Rule 7.2.
6 of the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules I am pleased to present our Corporate Governance Report, which Directors interests in shares: appointment and replacement of sets out our governance structure and highlights the governance Directors: powers of the Directors: restrictions on voting rights activity of the Board and its principal committees during the course and rights regarding control of the Company in the Directors of the year.
Report and the Remuneration Report.
The Board remains committed to maintaining good corporate Information Pursuant to the EU Non-financial Reporting governance practices throughout the Ferrexpo Group and is Directive reviewing its existing arrangements in light of the revision of the UK The information required by Rule 7.2.
8A and B of the FCAs Corporate Governance Code in 2018.
The structure, policies and Disclosure and Transparency Rules Board Diversity Policy is procedures we have adopted, which are described in this report, provided in the Nominations Committee Report on page 76. the Directors Report and the reports of the various committees, reflect this commitment, but we recognise the need to keep them under review and to make changes where necessary to ensure that standards are maintained.
The Board of Ferrexpo has constantly managed the risk facing the business.
This includes taking into account the country of operation and all associated counterparty risks.
This year saw a particular focus on charitable donations.
The Board has taken a number of steps to improve the control and oversight in this area, particularly since 2016 as detailed in Principal Risks on page 45 and the Audit Committee Report on page 73.
As noted in the Independent Review Committee Report, the Board has established the Independent Review, which is being conducted to look into matters relating to or arising from the donations made to the Charity by the Group.
The committee is chaired by Mr Lisovenko and its other members are Mr Lucas, Ms Reilly and Mr Nacken.
It is assisted by independent legal advisers in the UK and Ukraine and independent specialist forensic accounting experts BDO.
At the time of writing, the work of the Independent Review Committee and its advisers in the UK and Ukraine remains ongoing.
Given the extensive disclosures on the Blooming Land Charity in this annual report, for ease of reading and to avoid repetition, the following cross references are listed: See Chairmans Statement page 18, Principal Risks page 45, Responsible Business page 59, Independent Review Committee Report page 69, Audit Committee Report page 71, and Note 7 page 121, Note 29 page 155, Note 33 page 161 and Note 34 page 161 to the financial statements.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 64 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED LEADERSHIP Governance Structure SHAREHOLDERS THE BOARD Audit Remuneration Nominations Committee of Corporate Safety and Chief Executive Committee Committee Committee Independent Social Responsibility Officer and Executive 1 Directors CID Committee Committee CSRCommittee Responsibilities Responsible for Responsible for Responsibilities Responsible for Responsible for: include: reviewing and identifying and include: formulating and Execution of BoardMonitoring approving all aspects nominating for Board Ensuring monitoring the approved strategies.
integrity of financial of remuneration for approval candidates compliance with implementation of Delegated authority statements.
Executive Directors to fill Board vacancies, Chapter 11 of the the Groups policy on levels for senior Reviewing internal and members of having due regard Listing Rules and CSR issues as they management.
control and risk the Executive to the need for the Relationship affect operations.
Relationship with appropriate related All material matters external auditor.
As of January 2019, party transactions not reserved for For more information all nominations are on behalf of the entire Board.
For more information CSR section being handled by the Board.
Directors pages 49 to 59 the Board pending Conflicts of Remuneration Report appointment of further interest procedure page 78 For more information Independent Nonunder the 2006 For more information Audit Committee executive Directors Companies Act.
See page 62 Report page 71 to the Committee.
For more information See page 65 For more information Nominations Committee Report page 76 1 The Executive Compliance Committee, the Finance and Risk Management Committee, and the Executive Related Party Matters Committee all report to the Executive Committee.
The Board The Board is responsible for setting the Groups objectives and policies, providing effective leadership within the framework of prudent and effective controls required for a public company.
The Board has a formal schedule setting out the matters requiring Board approval and specifically reserved to it for decision.
These include: approving the Group strategy and budget: annual and long-term capital expenditure plans: contracts for more than a certain monetary amount: monitoring financial performance and critical business issues: approval of major projects and contract awards: approval of key policies and procedures including for dividends, treasury, charitable donations and corporate social responsibility: approval of procedures for the prevention of fraud and bribery: and through the Committee of Independent Directors CID, monitoring and authorising related party transactions.
Certain aspects of the Boards responsibilities have been delegated to the committees shown in the chart above to ensure compliance with the Act, FCA Listing Rules and the Governance Code.
The terms of reference for each of the Audit Committee, Nominations Committee, Remuneration Committee, and CSR Committee are available on the Companys website at http: www.
It is the responsibility of the CEO and the Executive Committee to manage the day-to-day running of the Group.
Role Descriptions The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the CEO has been clearly established in writing and is agreed by the Board.
A summary of the roles of the Chairman, the CEO, the Senior Independent Director, the independent Non-executive Directors and the Company Secretary is set out in the following table.
The table also includes an overview of the role of the Executive Committee and of the CID.
The roles of the Audit and Nominations Committees are set out later in this Corporate Governance Report, the role of the CSR Committee in the Strategic Report on page 50, and the role of the Remuneration Committee in the Remuneration Report on page 79.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 65 Role Description The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness, setting its agenda, ensuring that it Chairman receives accurate, clear and timely information, and ensuring effective communication with shareholders.
The Chairman also ensures that there is a constructive relationship between the Executive and Non-executive Directors.
From time to time the Chairman holds meetings with the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors present.
Mr Lucass other current responsibilities are set out in the biographical notes on page 60.
There has been no increase in those commitments during the reporting period.
The role of the CEO is to provide leadership of the executive team, to develop proposals for the Board to consider, and to CEO oversee and implement Board-approved actions.
Mr Zhevago has no other directorships of quoted companies.
He has other business interests and is a member of the Ukrainian parliament.
Simon Lockett was the Senior Independent Director until January 2019.
The Board is currently recruiting for the Senior vacancy.
In conjunction with the other independent Non-executive Directors, the Senior Independent Director assists in Independent communications and meetings with shareholders concerning corporate governance matters.
He also chaired the Committee Director of Independent Directors.
At least once a year, the Senior Independent Director meets the Non-executive Directors, without the Chairman present, to evaluate the Chairmans performance.
The Senior Independent Director was available to discuss with shareholders any issues that the Chairman had been unable to resolve to shareholders satisfaction.
The Non-executive Directors provide an independent and objective viewpoint to Board discussions and bring experience Non-executive from a variety of industry backgrounds.
Their role is to provide constructive support and challenge to executive management.
Directors Acting either as the Board or as members of its Committees, the Non-executive Directors: approve budgets: discuss and contribute to strategic proposals and agree on corporate strategy: monitor the integrity, consistency and effectiveness of financial information, internal controls and risk management systems: monitor managements execution of strategy against agreed targets and determine their remuneration accordingly see the Remuneration Report on page 86 : and monitor executive succession planning for Board succession planning, see the Nominations Committee Report on page 76.
Company The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for advising the Board on governance issues and Secretary for ensuring, with the Chairman, that information reaches Board members in a timely fashion, so that they are alerted to issues and have time to reflect on them properly before deciding how to address them.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Executive Committee is a key decision-making body of the Group, responsible for managing and taking all material Executive decisions relating to the Group, apart from those set out in the Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board.
It has delegated Committee responsibility from the Board for the execution of Board-approved strategies for the Group, for ensuring that appropriate levels of authority are delegated to senior management, for the review of organisational structures and for the development and implementation of Group policies.
The Executive Committee meets regularly during the year.
The CID is composed of the Senior Independent Director, the Chairman of the Board and the other independent Directors.
Committee of The Committee considers and, if appropriate, authorises on behalf of the Board related party transactions within the terms of Independent Chapter 11 of the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and otherwise ensures compliance with Chapter 11 and Directors with the Relationship Agreement entered into between Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. Mr Zhevago, The Minco Trust and the Company.
The CID holds delegated authority to consider and, if appropriate, approve transactions where there is a risk of a conflict of interest for any member of the Board under the Companies Act 2006.
The CID keeps under review the authorisation and approval process relating to such transactions which have previously been reviewed in detail by the ERPMC see Conflicts of Interest below under Effectiveness and satisfies itself that, as required under the Relationship Agreement, related party transactions have been properly conducted on an arms length basis on normal commercial terms and in compliance with Chapter 11, and that no disclosures have been omitted or misstated in the financial statements.
Board Composition As of 31 December 2018, the Board excluding the Chairman comprised two non-independent Executive Directors and four Nonexecutive Directors, all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent in accordance with Provision B.
This structure ensures that the Executive Directors are subject to appropriate independent and constructive challenge by the Non-executive Directors, and that no single Director can dominate or unduly influence decision making.
Composition of the Board and Committees as of 31 December 2018 is presented in the table below: 1 Board member Role Audit Remuneration Nominations CID CSR S Lucas Non-executive Chairman K Zhevago Chief Executive Officer C Mawe Chief Financial Officer S Lockett Senior Independent Non-executive Director V Lisovenko Independent Non-executive Director B Nacken Independent Non-executive Director M Reilly Independent Non-executive Director 1 The CSR Committee also includes some members of senior management: see the Strategic Report on page 50.
The Board considers that it is of a sufficient size to ensure that the requirements of the business are met without placing undue reliance on any one Director.
Biographical details of the Directors at the date of this report are set out on pages 60 and 61.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 66 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED LEADERSHIP EFFECTIVENESS Board Activity in 2018 Board Balance and Independence Five scheduled Board meetings were held in 2018, all in The composition of the Board is regularly reviewed by both the Switzerland supplemented by other meetings, telephone Nominations Committee and the Board itself.
The Board is conferences and written resolutions as required from time to time.
considered to have maintained, throughout the period of Regular matters discussed at these meetings included: refreshment between 2015 and 2018, a proper balance in oral reports from the Chairmen of the committees meeting terms of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of before the Board meeting, and minutes of earlier meetings of the Company.
As at the date of this report, there is a Chairman, the committees: two Executive Directors and four independent Directors, and the Chief Executive Officers report including production and Board and Committee structure is such that decision making is operations, iron ore market conditions, and updates on the not dominated by a single individual or small group.
position in Ukraine: Chief Financial Officers report including status vs. budget, Controlling Shareholder Relationship Agreement forecasts, cash flow position, and funding update: Kostyantin Zhevago is a beneficiary of The Minco Trust, which Bank F&C: update on attempts to recover funds held at the owns 100% of Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. the majority shareholder in bank following its insolvency: the Company.
Consequently, Mr Zhevago, The Minco Trust and related party matters including Directors interests conflicts : Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. collectively the Controlling Shareholder investor relations report including shareholder feedback : have entered into a Relationship Agreement with the Company strategy, business plan and budget: in order to ensure that the Group is capable of carrying on its formal risk review: business independently, that transactions and relationships compliance matters: between the Group, Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. The Minco Trust and CSR matters, including health and safety, and community Mr Zhevago are at arms length and on normal commercial spending as well as matters relating to Blooming Land : and terms, and that there shall be at all times a majority of Directors Board refreshment succession planning independence independent of Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. The Minco Trust and Committee composition.
Mr Zhevago on the Board the Relationship Agreement.
Under the Relationship Agreement Mr Zhevago would be entitled, Matters reviewed as required included: if he was not the CEO, to appoint himself or another person review of half year or annual results, going concern and viability, as his representative Director.
The Relationship Agreement dividend policy recommendations, investor presentation: terminates if, inter alia, the shareholding of Mr Zhevago and his Board Chairman Director performance evaluation: associates in the Company falls below 24.9%.
This Relationship review of AGM statement, and proxy agency comments Agreement complies fully with the UK Listing Rules.
The Board recommendations: monitors compliance with the Relationship Agreement through annual review of bank relationships within and outside Ukraine: the Committee of Independent Directors see under Conflicts and of Interest below, which reviews the work of the Executive annual review of treasury policy.
Related Party Matters Committee ERPMC both bodies are independent of Mr Zhevago, with the CID reviewing the minutes The Board also held sessions at which the relevant executive of the ERPMC and all related party transactions with regard to heads of department led a more detailed discussion on aspects the Class Tests and the potential need to consult the Sponsor.
of operations, finance, HR and management succession The ERPMC is authorised to approve transactions that are in planning, sales and marketing, and communications.
In the ordinary course of business, without unusual terms: others 2018, this included a presentation by the Chief HR Officer to are referred to the CID.
More generally, the CID keeps under members of the Remuneration Committee to consider the review the independence of the Board and compliance with the implications of changes to the Corporate Governance Code.
Governance Code, as the Relationship Agreement requires.
The Board visited the Groups operations in Horishni Plavni Statement of Compliance with UK Listing Rules, formerly known as Komsomolsk between 3 and 5 October 2018.
4 14 During that time, the Board inspected various parts of the Ferrexpo has entered into a Relationship Agreement with its operations, received various presentations from executive Controlling Shareholder, as required by LR 9.2.
2A R 2 a. management in respect of operations and strategy, and held an Ferrexpo has complied with the independence provisions informal meeting at which many of its standard agenda items contained in the Relationship Agreement during 2018. were covered.
So far as Ferrexpo is aware, the Controlling Shareholder and its associates have also complied with the independence The Board meets for dinner on the evening immediately prior to provisions during 2018. each scheduled Board meeting.
This provides an opportunity for So far as Ferrexpo is aware, the procurement obligation set out Directors to discuss key matters in a more informal setting, and in LR 9.2.
2B R 2 a which requires the Controlling Shareholder therefore assists in promoting an open and constructive to procure the compliance of the non-signing Controlling relationship between members of the Board.
Shareholders in this case, the other beneficiaries of The Minco Trust and their associates with the independence provisions The Board is supported by the Executive Committee which meets has also been complied with during 2018. approximately monthly.
All of the information that is submitted to the Board by management is reviewed and approved by the Executive Committee.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 67 Conflicts of Interest Information Flow The Board has an established procedure see Controlling The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all Directors Shareholder Relationship Agreement above to deal with receive timely and accurate information in order to enable Directors conflicts of interest and the recording, reporting and, them to discharge their obligations effectively.
Working with where appropriate, approval of related party transactions and the Company Secretary, the Chairman ensures that agendas, review of relevant disclosures.
This procedure is in line with briefing notes and reports for each Board meeting are agreed published guidance, the Articles and the provisions in section 175 and distributed to the Board in advance and in sufficient time of the Companies Act 2006 on conflicts of interest.
Schedules of a to allow proper consideration of their contents.
The papers Directors actual or potential conflicts and related party transactions include reports on the Groups operations, and take into account have been compiled based on disclosures made by the Director.
the factors set out in section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 These are updated and reviewed on a regular basis by the Directors duty to promote the success of the Company, and Executive Committee, the ERPMC which is composed of certain such factors are also considered by the Executive Committee members of the Executive Committee and other members of when making any proposals and recommendations to the Board.
senior management not including Mr Zhevago and the Committee Decisions made by the Board are set within the framework of Independent Directors CID.
Any changes to the schedules are of the Directors statutory duty to promote the success of noted, and confirmed as correct, at the next Board meeting.
The the Company for the benefit of its members as a whole.
CID has delegated authority to carefully consider and if deemed appropriate in the circumstances approve on behalf of the Board Minutes of each Board and committee meeting are prepared transactions where there is a risk of a conflict of interests.
This shortly after the meeting and their contents agreed with the procedure operates effectively in identifying potential conflicts and Chairman or relevant Committee Chairman before being ensuring that they are managed appropriately and that conflicted circulated more widely to the Board where appropriate.
Actions individuals are not involved in the relevant decision-making arising from the meetings are recorded and communicated as process.
The Group aims to follow emerging best practice in appropriate, and updates on outstanding actions are discussed this area.
Directors have the right to request that any concerns they have are recorded in the appropriate Committee Training and Professional Development or Board minutes.
The Chairman is responsible for agreeing training and development requirements with each Director to ensure they have the necessary skills and knowledge to continue to contribute effectively to the Boards discussions.
All Directors receive updates given to the Board as a whole on changes and proposed changes in laws and regulations affecting the Group, as and when necessary.
In February 2018, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee had a training session with Deloitte.
Site visits are held for the whole Board annually, so as to ensure that all Directors are familiar with the Groups operations, and Directors may visit the operations of the Group independently to the extent to which they feel this is necessary.
During the year, as in previous years, the Board spent two days visiting the site in Ukraine.
In addition, training may be provided by the Groups advisers in respect of specific areas of interest to the Board, including general economic and market conditions, developments in corporate governance regulations and best practice and any other matters as agreed by the Chairman.
All Directors may take independent professional advice at the expense of the Group in the furtherance of their duties.
Induction On appointment, all Directors are advised of their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a Director of a public listed company.
In addition, an appropriate induction programme is provided to each Director upon appointment, taking into consideration the individual qualifications and experience of the Director.
As Lucio Genovese re-joined the Board it was agreed that no formal programme of induction was required on appointment but Mr Genovese will be updated on relevant matters as required.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 68 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Time Commitment Non-executive Directors would normally expect to spend at least two days a month, on average, on Ferrexpos affairs, and in the case of the Senior Independent Directors, the Committee Chairmen and in particular the Chairman of the Board, considerably more than that.
The attendance of the Directors at Board and Committee meetings during 2018 is shown in the table below.
The Non-executive Directors are required to confirm at least annually that they are able to commit sufficient time to the affairs of the Company, and all of our Non-executive Directors have given this confirmation in respect of 2018.
Board and Committee Attendance in 2018 Board Director Scheduled Audit Rem Nom CID CSR S Lucas 5 5 2 2 5 5 1 4 K Zhevago 5 5 4 4 C Mawe 5 5 V Lisovenko 5 5 5 5 4 4 5 5 S Lockett 5 5 4 5 4 4 2 2 5 5 B Nacken 5 5 5 5 4 4 5 5 4 4 M Reilly 5 5 5 5 4 4 5 5 Performance Evaluation The annual performance evaluation of the Board and its Committees was carried out internally in 20172018 by the Chairmen of these bodies.
The evaluation process involved the completion of questionnaires by Board and Committee members, with responses collated and analysed by the Chairmen with assistance from the Company Secretary.
The Chairman of the Board then discussed the feedback from the questionnaires, and the comments made, with each Director individually before relaying the conclusions to the Board.
There was also an externally facilitated evaluation the Companys second that was conducted between August and November 2018, the report of which was reported to the Board in November.
The evaluation was conducted by External Board Evaluation Ltd and it has no other connections to the Group.
The process consisted of a series of one-to-one interviews.
All the Directors were interviewed along with senior executives of the organisation.
This led to the production of a number of observations and recommendations followed by next step actions and dissemination to non-Board member participants.
The 2018 evaluation concluded that the Board and its Committees continued to work effectively: that the Board was high quality and well engaged and well equipped to deal with challenges faced by the business: and that there is an open culture which responds well to constructive challenge.
Contentious issues are discussed and debated and the CEO encourages full and frank discussion.
The process revealed areas that could be improved.
These included greater interaction between the Board, the Executive Committee and the senior management team: more timely provision of information in order to confront and tackle known issues: improved prioritisation of matters for Board time: and greater Board contribution to the development and testing of strategy.
The Senior Independent Director and the other Non-executive Directors have evaluated, and will continue to monitor, the performance of the Chairman.
