Leadership and effectiveness Evaluating the performance of the Board of Directors Board and Committee effectiveness review 2018 The Board undertakes a formal review of its performance and that of its Committees each year, with an external evaluation every three years.
It is expected that the Board and Committee effectiveness review in 2018 19 will be internally facilitated and that the next  effectiveness review will be conducted during the year ending 31 July 2021.
During the year ended 31 July 2018, the Company engaged the services of Lintstock Limited Lintstock, a London-based corporate advisory firm that provides objective and independent counsel to leading European companies, to conduct an externally facilitated Board and Committee effectiveness review which included feedback on individual Board members.
Lintstock supplies software and services to the Group Company Secretariat for Board evaluation questionnaires and for the management of insider lists but has no other commercial relationship with the Company.
This years Board and Committee effectiveness review included individual Director interviews conducted by Lintstock, who also observed the Board and Committee meetings held in March 2018.
A partner from Lintstock presented their report and facilitated a discussion of the outcome of the review at the May Board meeting.
Overall the Board was considered to be inclusive, diverse and inquisitive, with a good understanding of the Groups culture.
The boardroom atmosphere was collegiate and open, and Board members were seen to be able to express their views candidly in a supportive environment.
The results of the effectiveness review, including suggested areas for development, were discussed by the Board and priority actions for further enhancements to the Boards effectiveness were identified.
Following consideration of the findings of the 2018 Board and Committee effectiveness review, the Directors remain satisfied that the Board and each of the Committees of the Board are operating effectively.
An overview of some of the areas of focus, key findings and improvement actions for the Board identified by the 2018 effectiveness review isdetailed below.
Areas of focus and key findings Improvement actions The Chairman to develop further opportunities Boardroom atmosphere and Director contribution for Non Executive Directors tocontribute to the The review found that the Board dynamics are positive, support direct and robust dialogue and the atmosphere Boardsagenda planning.
in the boardroom was seen as a key strength.
The Group Chief Executive and Executives were seen to have enhanced the ability of the Board to engage in candid discussion and critical thinking.
The Chairman was commended for his effectiveness in encouraging all Directors to contribute to all discussions.
Management to provide enhanced focus Board understanding of market dynamics and stakeholders views on associates, customers, suppliers and the The Boards understanding of the views and requirements in the regions in which the businesss markets in Board presentations.
Company operates was rated highly as was the Boards understanding of the views and The Group Company Secretary to ensure that requirements of major shareholders.
The Board viewed customer service as a key strength the programme for Board visits to the USA of the culture in the Group and identified opportunities to further improve their continues to include opportunities for Directors understanding of customer sentiment.
to engage with US associates see page 55 asan example of how this occurred this year.
The Group Chief Executive to ensure a Board visibility of digital and technological developments, capability and performance continued increase in focus on innovation, The Boards understanding of digital and technological developments relevant to Ferguson was seen as disruption and digital transformation see the beinggood and it was noted that the Board has recently bolstered the Non Executive Director representation in Group CEO review on pages 16 to 20, which thisarea.
The review saw the Board as offering healthy challenge to the Group on its digital preparedness.
provides details of a new priority to accelerate innovation across the Group.
Chairman effectiveness review During the year the Non Executive Directors led by the Senior Independent Director, undertook the performance evaluation of the Chairman.
The evaluation, which took into account the views of the Executive Directors, concluded that the Chairman performed strongly and is highly effective in his role.
Board meetings were considered to be well chaired.
The Chairman continued to devote sufficient time and attention to his role and had made himself available to Directors whenever necessary outside of Board meetings.
Individual Non Executive Director effectiveness review In addition to the effectiveness review undertaken by Lintstock, the Chairman maintains frequent contact with all Directors and constantly monitors whether they are able to devote sufficient time to their respective roles, and he is satisfied that each Director has been able to do so.
The Chairman also has regular meetings, outside of Board and Committee meetings, with the Group Chief Executive and other executives to keep up to date with material developments in the business and discussed Board composition and succession planning at his meetings with shareholders.
During the financial year, each Director attended all scheduled Board meetings.
The Board continues to consider each of the Directors to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to his or her role.
Actions taken following the 2017 effectiveness review Progress against the priorities and action points identified following the  review undertaken in 2017 is outlined on page 57.
58 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
