Leadership and effectiveness Board of Directors The primary role of the Board is to provide effective and entrepreneurial leadership necessary to enable the Groups businessobjectives to be met and to review the overall strategicdevelopment of the Group as a whole.
Gareth Davis John Martin Mike Powell Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer M N D E M D E M T Year of Appointment: 2011 appointed Year of Appointment: 2016 appointed Group Year of Appointment: 2017 Chairman, 2003 appointed to the Board Chief Executive, 2010 appointed to the Board Key strengths and experience: asaNonExecutive Director.
Considerable financial management and Key strengths and experience: Key strengths and experience: operational experience.
Experience of running Extensive international board and general Extensive operational and financial management multi-national businesses with significant US management experience, having served on and experience of running large international operations.
Mr Powell, a chartered management chaired various company boards for many years.
Mr Martin has strong leadership accountant, joined the Company on 1 June 2017 Mr Davis spent 38 years in the tobacco industry capabilities and significant experience in as Group Chief Financial Officer.
From July 2014 and was Chief Executive of Imperial Tobacco Group strategic development and driving improvements until his appointment at Ferguson Mr Powell was plc from its incorporation in 1996 until May 2010. in operational performance.
He joined the Group Finance Director of BBA Aviation plc, one of From 2010 to April 2018 Mr Davis was Chairman Company as Chief Financial Officer and assumed the worlds leading providers of aviation support ofWilliam Hill PLC.
management responsibility for the Groups services.
Before joining BBA he served as CFO Canadian business between 2013 and 2016. of AZ Electronic Materials plc and CFO of Nippon Other principal appointments: Previously he was a partner at Alchemy Partners, Sheet Glass, based in Tokyo.
Prior to that he spent Chairman of DS Smith Plc.
the private equity group, and prior to that was 15 years at Pilkington plc in a variety of operational Chief Financial Officer of Travelex Group, the and finance roles.
international payments business, and Hays Plc.
Other principal appointments: Other principal appointments: Non Executive Director of Low & Bonar plc.
Alan Murray Darren Shapland Nadia Shouraboura Independent Non Executive Director Independent Non Executive Director Independent Non Executive Director A M N R S A N R A N R Year of Appointment: 2013 Year of Appointment: 2014 Year of Appointment: 2017 Key strengths and experience: Key strengths and experience: Key strengths and experience: Considerable international operational experience Considerable commercial, operational, financial Considerable expertise in running complex and extensive executive management experience management and broad public company logistics and supply chain activities, with insight within global businesses.
Mr Murray was, from 2010 experience in major consumer businesses.
in cutting edge technology and deep knowledge until August 2017, a Member of the Supervisory Until September 2016 Mr Shapland was Chairman of e-commerce.
Dr Shouraboura was a Vice Board of HeidelbergCement AG and was previously of Poundland Group plc.
He was a Non Executive President at Amazon.
com, Inc. where she served a Non Executive Director of International Power Director of Ladbrokes plc and was Chairman of its on the senior leadership team.
Prior to that, he spent 19 years Audit Committee until 2015.
Between 2012 and years at Amazon, she founded Hointer Inc. at Hanson plc and was Group Chief Executive 2013, he was Chief Executive Officer of Carpetright aconsultancy that helps retailers create innovative between 2002 and 2007.
From 2005 to 2010, Mr Shapland was Chief in-store experiences.
Prior to her time at Amazon he was a member of the Management Board of Financial Officer of J Sainsbury plc and from 2010 DrShouraboura was Head of System Development HeidelbergCement AG.
Mr Murray is a qualified to 2011, Group Development Director.
He was for Trading at Exelon Power Team, Senior Principal chartered management accountant.
also Chairman of Sainsburys Bank.
Prior to that, at Diamond Management and Technology and Mr Shapland held a variety of senior finance and Co-founder and Vice President, IT at Starlight Other principal appointments: operational positions at Carpetright plc, Superdrug Multimedia Inc. in addition to other technology Non Executive Director of Owens-Illinois, Inc. Stores plc, the Burton Group and Arcadia.
Other principal appointments: Other principal appointments: Chairman of Topps Tiles Plc.
Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Hointer Inc. a Non Executive Director of Cimpress NV and a Member of the Supervisory Board of X5 Retail Group N. V. 52 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Key to Board and Committee Membership A Audit D Disclosure E Executive N Nominations M Major Announcements R Remuneration T Treasury Kevin Murphy Tessa Bamford S Senior Independent Director Chief Executive Officer, USA Independent Non Executive Director Committee Chair E M A N R Year of Appointment: 2017 Year of Appointment: 2011 Key strengths and experience: Key strengths and experience: Strong leadership skills and deep industry Extensive boardroom and City experience.
Mr Murphy has a strong track record Ms Bamford has broad business experience having of driving sustainable profitable growth.
He is held senior advisory roles in both the UK and USA responsible for all of the Groups businesses based across a range of sectors.
She was formerly a in the USA.
From 2007 until his appointment founder and Director of Cantos Communications, as Chief Executive of Ferguson Enterprises on an online corporate communications service 1 August 2017, Mr Murphy was Chief Operating provider 2001 to 2011 and until 30 June 2018 a Officer of Ferguson Enterprises and a member of Non Executive Director of Barratt Developments its senior leadership team.
Previously, she was a Director of J Henry Enterprises as an Operations Manager in 1999 and Schroder & Co, where she worked for 12 years subsequently held several leadership positions in a number of roles and, prior to that, worked in including three years as Vice President of the US corporate finance for Barclays fide Zoete Wedd.
Other principal appointments: Other principal appointments: Consultant at Spencer Stuart.
Graham Middlemiss Appointments and other Company Secretary BoardandCommittee members Each Board member listed on this and the previous Graham was appointed Company Secretary of page served throughout the financial year ended Ferguson plc on 1 August 2015.
He is Secretary to 31 July 2018. the Board and all of the Committees of the Board.
Graham, a solicitor, joined the Group in August In addition, John Daly was a Non Executive 2004 as the General Counsel of its UK business Director and a member of the Audit, Nominations and was Group Deputy Company Secretary from and Remuneration Committees during the year November 2012 to July 2015. until he stepped down from the Board on 31 May 2018.
Pilar Lpez was also a Non Executive Director and a member of the Audit, Nominations Jacky Simmonds and Remuneration Committees throughout the Independent Non Executive Director year, until she stepped down from the Board A N R on31 July 2018.
Year of Appointment: 2014 Why you should vote to re-elect Key strengths and experience: your Board Extensive executive remuneration and human In accordance with the Code, all Directors resources experience within large international will stand for re-election at the 2018 Annual businesses.
Ms Simmonds was Group People General Meeting AGM.
Further details Director of easyJet plc from 2015 until 2017. on the AGM can be found on page 156 and Before joining easyJet plc, she was Group HR atwww.
Director of TUI Travel plc from 2010 until 2015, HR Director for TUI UK from 2007 to 2010 and In line with the findings of the externallya divisional Director of First Choice Holidays facilitated Board and Committee effectiveness PLC until the business was merged with TUI AG review, detailed on page 58, and as evidenced in 2007 to form TUI Travel PLC.
Ms Simmonds by their biographies, the Board contains a broad was also a member of the Supervisory Board of range of experience and skills from a variety TUI Deutschland, GmbH and a Director of PEAK of industries and advisory roles, which fully Adventure Travel Group Limited.
As such, the Board believes that the re-election of each Director Other principal appointments: isin the best interests of the Company.
Group Chief People Officer of VEON Ltd. Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 53
