Accountability Audit Committee Provides independent assessment of the Companys financial affairs andstatements, and oversees the risk process.
Darren Shapland Audit Committee Chairman The Board considers that the Committee has recent and relevant Audit Committee members financial experience in its membership and that each member of Membership Year of appointment Meetings attended the Committee is independent within the definition set out in the Darren Shapland Chairman 2014 4 4 Code.
Members of the Committee between them possess significant Tessa Bamford 2011 4 4 international, commercial, retail, financial and human resource Alan Murray 2013 4 4 skills and expertise which are relevant to an international specialist Nadia Shouraboura 2017 4 4 distribution company.
In addition to me, Alan Murray and Pilar Jacky Simmonds 2014 4 4 Lpez who served as a member of the Committee until stepping down on 31 July 2018 have served as the Chief Financial Officer of Members who left during the year large international businesses during their careers.
This provides John Daly 2014 3 3 the Board with assurance that the Audit Committee meets the Pilar Lpez 2013 3 4 relevant regulatory requirements relating to independence, financial experience and sectoral competence.
The key strengths and 2018 focus experience of each member of the Committee are summarised on pages 52 and 53. Review financial results In addition to the members of the Committee, the Chairman, Group Monitor control environment Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Assess approach to risk Controller and the Head of Internal Audit, together with senior representatives of Deloitte LLP Deloitte, the Companys external Receive reports form internal and external auditors auditors, attended and received papers for each meeting.
Review effectiveness of the Committee A private session for Committee members is held before every Review continuing effectiveness of Group functions that meeting to enable the Committee members to discuss agenda transferred to the USA during 2017 18 items and Audit Committee business without management present.
The Committee also holds private sessions with the Group Chief Financial Officer, Head of Internal Audit and Deloitte Dear Shareholder periodically.
Other senior executives are also invited to attend and I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for provide updates to the Committee as required.
An overview of the Committees principal areas of focus during 2017 18 is provided on 2017 18.
This report provides an insight into the activities of the Committee during the year and how the Committee plays an page 64. oversight role for the Board.
I will be available at the 2018 AGM, to respond to any questions shareholders have on this report or any of Audit Committee effectiveness review the Committees activities.
This year, the Committees effectiveness review was conducted by Lintstock who undertook a survey of Committee members and As at 1 October 2018, the Committee was made up of five Non attendees and conducted follow-up interviews that used the answers Executive Directors as set out in the table above.
During the year to the survey questions as a framework.
Overall the Committee was ended 31 July 2018, John Daly and Pilar Lpez also served as rated as highly effective.
The review identified a few opportunities members of the Committee until stepping down as Non Executive for further improvement and these are reflected in the Committees Directors on 31 May 2018 and 31 July 2018 respectively.
2018 19 priorities, which are outlined below.
How the Committee operates Audit Committee priorities for 2018 19 The Committee met on four occasions during the financial year.
Continued review of cyber security, with a particular focus on Meetings are scheduled to coincide with key dates in the financial reporting cycle.
Attendance at those meetings is set out in the table prioritising areas of protection.
Conduct a benchmarking exercise for Internal Audit and above and an overview of the Committees area of responsibility is set out on page 54.
The Committees Terms of Reference are identify opportunities to enhance the performance of the function.
In 2018 19 the Committee will increase the frequency of its meetings and meet on five occasions in Review and assess the continued effectiveness of the Groups control framework, including enhancing the Committees order to ensure a more even spread of the Committees workload.
oversight of the IT control environment.
62 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Financial reporting and significant financial judgements The Committee considered the issues summarised below as significant in the context of the 2017 18 financial statements.
These were discussed and reviewed with management and the external auditors and the Committee challenged judgements and sought clarification where necessary.
The Committee received a report from the external auditors on the work they had performed to arrive at their conclusions and discussed in detail all material findings contained within the report.
Item Audit Committee review Conclusions Completeness of The Committee reviewed the recognition of supplier rebates which are As a result of the review process, supplier rebates significant to the Group and are an area of inherent risk due to the number and which included consideration recurring item complexity of the arrangements.
In addition, the majority of the supplier rebate of the external audit findings, arrangements cover a calendar year and therefore do not end at the same the Committee concluded that time as the Groups accounting year-end.
Where the rebate arrangements are the level of rebate income and calculated at a flat rate there is limited judgement.
However, for tiered rebates, rebate receivable as at 31 July judgements are required to forecast the expected level of volumes purchased 2018 was properly reflected in the to determine the appropriate rate at which a rebate is earned.
This review consolidated financial statements.
covered the processes and controls in place during the year and the level ofadherence to the Groups accounting policies and procedures.
For further information please see note 1 of the consolidated financial statements on page 102.
Inventory Judgement is applied in determining the appropriate values for slow-moving Following their review, which valuation or obsolete inventory.
The provisions are predominantly system-generated included consideration of the recurring item calculations, comparing inventory on hand against expected future sales external audit findings, the using historic experience as the basis for provisioning, along with the results of Committee concluded that provisions for obsolete and physical stock-counts.
The Committee considered the level of provisions and ensured the policy was consistently applied across the Group in the current and slowmoving inventory are fairly stated in the consolidated previous financial periods.
The Committee also sought the views ofthe auditors.
Nordic business The Committee reviewed the accounting for the disposal of the Nordic business Following the review and disposal including a review of the profit on disposal calculation, the recycling of foreign consideration of the external one-off item exchange in reserves, the separation of the properties and the profit on disposal audit findings, the Committee of properties sold in the year.
The review included information about the concluded that the disposal proceeds received, the assets disposed of, any associated disposal costs and the of the Nordic business had judgements taken in relation to the recycling of foreign exchange in reserves.
been properly reflected in the consolidated financial statements.
For further information please see note 29 of the consolidated financial statements on page 138.
Carrying value of The Committee reviewed the carrying value of the interests in associates The Committee agreed with interests in for impairment, including a review of the assumptions underlying the value managements assessment associates in use calculations and a review of other valuation models.
The Committee that an impairment charge had considered the judgements used to determine the appropriate carrying value.
arisen relating to the Groups one-off item Swiss associate due to reduced For further information see note 15 of the consolidated financial statements expectations of profitability and the onpage 121. temporary suspension of dividends indicated to the market in a number of public announcements.
1 FRC Corporate Reporting Review team request In April 2018, the Company received a letter from the FRCs Corporate Reporting Review team in relation to its regular review and assessment of the quality of corporate reporting in the UK.
The letter requested further information on the Companys approach to judgements and estimates and inventory provision in its 2017 Annual Report and Accounts as well as providing commentary on certain other disclosures.
The points raised in the letter were reviewed by management, the Chairman and the Audit Committee Chairman and discussed with Deloitte and a response to the requests for further information was provided.
The Corporate Reporting Review team subsequently confirmed in writing that, as a result of the response provided, it had closed its enquiries.
The Committee confirms that the points raised were considered in the preparation of the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts and have been appropriately reflected.
We note the inherent limitations of the FRCs review.
The FRC stated that the scope of its review was based on the Companys 2017 Annual Report and Accounts and was conducted by FRC staff who have an understanding of the relevant legal and accounting framework.
The review did not benefit from detailed knowledge of the Companys business or an understanding of the underlying transactions entered into.
The FRCs review only covered specific disclosures and does not provide assurance that the Companys 2017 Annual Report and Accounts are correct in all material respects.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 63 Accountability Audit Committee continued Principal areas of focus The Committee has a rolling programme of agenda items to ensure that relevant matters are properly considered.
Some of the key items which were discussed by the Committee during 2017 18, and how they were presented to the Committee, are summarised below.
Financial results Review of internal controls Detailed reports were presented to the Committee ahead of the The Committee received reports from a number of key areas ofthe full and half-year results announcements.
Reports relevant to the business to gain an appropriate level of assurance.
Inaddition assessment of the Companys financial statements were received to the Internal Audit reports on the control environment, the from the Group Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, Committee received reports from the Group General Counsel Head of Group Financial Reporting, Deloitte, Group General on the implementation of the Groups anti-bribery and corruption Counsel and Group Company Secretary.
Previews of accounting programme and from the Group Head of Risk on the significant matters were also received from the Group Chief Financial Officer risks facing the Group and the mitigating controls in place for and discussed by the Committee well in advance of the review further information on the Committees oversight of risk see andapproval of the half and full-year financial statements.
Reports were also received from the Group Chief Information Officer and Group General Counsel on the strength Internal audit and performance of the Groups information security systems.
Reports presented at each Committee meeting by the Group Head The updates covered progress reports, opportunities for of Internal Audit on the results of audits performed by the Internal enhancement, the nature and level of the cyber security threats Audit function, testing of the internal control environment and facing the Group and analysis provided by an independent progress against any improvement actions previously identified.
The Group Chief Information Briefings at each meeting also covered the performance and Officer and Group Head of Internal Audit reported to the Committee effectiveness of the Internal Audit function with particular focus on on IT controls and assurance activities.
The updates focused on the transfer of Group Internal Audit roles from the UK to the USA theresults of IT general controls testing and improvements to the and progress against areas identified for improvement in the 2017 ITgeneral controls environment.
Further information on the Forward planning Internal Audit functions activity is provided on pages 65 and 66.
The Committee reviewed and approved the plan for and scope Presentations from the Group Chief Financial Officer of the external audit and agreed the fees of the external auditor.
The Committee received presentations from the Group Chief The Internal Audit plan for 2018 19, including the Internal Audit Financial Officer at each meeting on topics that included the budget and resourcing plan, was reviewed by the Committee and Companys financial results, key half-year and year-end accounting approved.
The Internal Audit charter, which sets out the purpose, topics, the operation of the Groups base financial control structure and governance framework for the internal audit function, framework, the structure and strength of the Group finance team was updated and approved.
and the effectiveness of the Companys external auditor.
Presentations from business Chief Financial Officers Presentations from Chief Financial Officers from Group businesses were received by the Committee.
These presentations included the structure and strength of their respective finance teams, the implementation of financial systems and the effectiveness of the financial control environment.
Audit Committee key achievements 2017 18 An overview of the Committees 2017 18 objectives and how the Committee has achieved them is set out below: 2017 18 objectives Achievements Continue to review and monitor the approach to risk management and the Reviews undertaken in March and September of key risks and level of risk driven through changes to the operating model, industry changes their management and technological developments The Groups adequacy of the controls in place to mitigate the Groups principal risks were considered in detail Feedback provided to management as part ofthis review process Continued increase in focus on the Groups approach to information security The Committee has continued to monitor information security and maintained its increased focus on this area Information security programme updates were presented to the Committee at six-monthly intervals Reviews of the IT controls environment were presented to the Committee at six-monthly intervals Continue to monitor finance systems transformation to ensure that the Reports received from management and reviewed by the Committee as well associated projects are effectively completed as reports from internal and external auditors Review and assess the continued effectiveness of the Groups control Group control framework and base financial controls regularly reviewed by framework and base financial controls including their continued effective the Committee operation following the transfer of certain functions from the UK to the USA Regular reports on the control framework and testing of base financial controls received from Internal Audit 64 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Deloitte also provides specific assurance to the Committee on External audit the arrangements and safeguards it has in place to maintain its Auditor reappointment independence and objectivity, including an internal process to The Committee reviews the external auditor appointment and the pre-approve provision of non-audit services and the use of separate need to tender the audit annually.
The Company confirms that it teams where non-audit services are being provided to the Group.
complied with the provisions of the Code and the Competition and This internal process requires all proposed audit and non-audit Markets Authority Order for the financial year under review.
services to receive approval from the lead audit partner before commencing any work and includes assessment of the proposed Following an external tender process, Deloitte was first appointed as the Companys external auditor for the 2015 16 audit and has served services against the Ethical Standard.
as the Companys auditor for three years.
Deloittes reappointment The Committee believes that the safeguards in place are robust was approved by shareholders at the 2017 Annual General and continues to be satisfied with the independence and objectivity Meeting.
Ian Waller has served as lead audit partner since Deloittes of Deloitte.
In line with the Audit Practices Board Ethical Standard 3 When considering the award of non-audit work to the external the lead audit partner is due to be rotated following the 2019 20 audit.
auditor, an assessment is made to consider if it is more effective for For the financial year ending 31 July 2019, the Committee has the work to be carried out by the external auditor who has existing recommended to the Board that Deloitte be reappointed as the external knowledge of the Company and all appointments are made on a auditor and the Directors will be proposing the reappointment of case-by-case basis.
The prior consent of the Committee Chairman Deloitte at the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
The Committee confirms is required before the Companys external auditor is appointed to that the Company complied with the provisions of the Statutory Audit undertake non-audit work where such work is expected to exceed Services Order 2014 during the financial year ended 31 July 2018.
Where the fee for non-audit work is expected to be less than $65,000, the Committee Chairman must be notified that the Assessing auditor effectiveness, auditor independence andobjectivity and non-audit services external auditors are to be engaged to provide a non-audit service but approval is not required in advance.
The external auditor will not be During the year, the lead audit partner, together with other relevant appointed to provide non-audit services where the Chairman or the and appropriate Deloitte partners, attended all the Audit Committee Committee considers it might impair their independence or objectivity meetings.
They provided the Committee with information and advice in carrying out the audit.
At each meeting the Committee reviews any including detailed reports on the financial statements, critical accounting new non-audit engagement of the Companys external auditor and judgements and estimates and the internal control environment.
reviews the level of fees for all non-audit work.
The terms, areas of responsibility and scope of Deloittes 2017 18 Audit and non-audit fees audit were reviewed and approved by the Committee.
During the During the year, Deloitte was appointed to undertake non-audit work.
year, Deloitte provided external audit services for regulatory and statutory reporting.
Deloitte are expected to report to the Fees for non-audit work performed by Deloitte as a percentage of audit fees for the year ended 31 July 2018 were 13 per cent 2017: 23 Committee any material departures from Group accounting policies and procedures that are identified during the course of their audit per cent.
Further disclosure of the non-audit fees incurred during the year ended 31 July 2018, can be found in note 4 to the consolidated work.
Deloittes 2017 18 external audit plan has been successfully completed at the date of this report.
No material items were found financial statements on page 113.
Non-audit services related mainly to entity changes required in preparation for the disposal of Silvan orreported in the financial year.
A S and the disposal of some Nordic property companies and assets.
The Committee conducts an annual review of external auditor It was considered to be in the best interests of the Group to use effectiveness.
The review survey is completed by each operating Deloitte due to efficiencies gained from their existing knowledge business, as well as the Group Finance, Internal Audit, Insurance, of the Company.
In addition, Deloitte were appointed by Lone Star Treasury and Tax teams and the Chief Information Officer.
Funds, a global private equity firm, in relation to their purchase It is designed to take into consideration relevant professional and of Stark Group to provide audit and review assurance on certain regulatory requirements, requires respondents to rate the performance financial statements.
Fees for this work, which are detailed on page of the external auditor against a range of measures, including the 113, were paid by Ferguson and recharged to Lone Star so are not adequacy of planning, sufficiency of resource, thoroughness of review included within the disclosure of non-audit fees paid to the auditor.
and testing, the thoroughness and robustness of audit challenge, The Committee believes that Deloittes continued objectivity and adequacy and application of knowledge of the Group, usefulness independence was unaffected due to the nature and scale of the offeedback and the quality of reporting.
The Committee discussed work undertaken.
auditor effectiveness, taking into account the results of the survey, andprovided feedback to Deloitte.
Internal audit Deloittes performance in 2016 17 was highly rated, and opportunities The scope of activity of internal audit is monitored and reviewed to further enhance their service were discussed and agreed with the at each Committee meeting.
An annual plan was agreed by the Committee.
The Committee was satisfied that Deloitte provided an Committee in July 2018 which covers the activities to July 2019. effective audit service in 2016 17.
A review of the effectiveness of the During the year, the Head of Internal Audit attended all Committee audit for the year ended 31 July 2018 will be conducted during 2018 19. meetings and provided the Committee with a detailed report on internal audit activities which the Committee reviewed and discussed The Company has policies and procedures in place to ensure that in detail.
The Committee considered the matters raised and the the independence and objectivity of the external auditor are not adequacy of managements response to them, including the time impaired.
These include restrictions on the types of services which taken to resolve any such matters.
During 2018, certain Group the external auditor can provide, in line with the Audit Practices Services functions including Internal Audit transferred to the USA, Board Ethical Standards on Auditing.
Details of the services that the reflecting the increasing size and importance to the Group of its external auditors cannot be engaged to perform are provided at largest operation, the US business.
As a consequence, the role of www.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 65 Accountability Audit Committee continued Head of Internal Audit also transferred to the USA and a new Head is of the view that the Company has a well-designed system of of Internal Audit was appointed in November 2017.
These systems can only provide reasonable, but not was made by the Committee and the Head of Internal Audit absolute, assurance that risks are managed to an acceptable level.
continues to report to the Committee Chairman.
In relation to the financial reporting process, at the business level, line Throughout the year the Committee reviewed progress against the management is required to implement base financial and other controls opportunities for improvement identified during last years Internal in line with a clear set of detailed policies relating to financial reporting Audit effectiveness review and satisfied itself that the improvements and other accounting matters and act in accordance with the Group had been implemented.
During the year the new Head of Internal Code of Conduct.
At Group level, the Group finance function oversees Audit presented updates on the effectiveness of the function and the financial reporting process through setting the policies and requiring identified and suggested areas where improvements to the functions a bi-annual self-certification of implementation by the businesses.
At a effectiveness could be made.
The Committee reviewed and discussed further level, assurance functions Internal and External Audits test the new Head of Internal Audits plans for continuing to improve the various aspects of the processes and report to the Committee.
effectiveness of the Internal Audit function, including enhancing inThe Chairman of the Committee reports any matters arising from house IT audit capabilities, implementing an ongoing quality assurance the Committees review to the Board following each meeting.
improvement programme, a slight increase in headcount for more This update covers the way in which the risk management and effective audit coverage, and training and development programmes.
internal control processes are applied and any significant failings or Based on its ongoing review of the function, the Committee was weaknesses in, or exceptions to, these processes.
There were no satisfied with the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function.
significant failings or weaknesses identified.
These processes have been in place throughout the year ended 31 July 2018 and have continued to the date of this report.
Risk Risk management and viability statement Further information on the Companys risk management systems Risk management reports prepared by the Group Head of Risk is set out in the section on Principal risks and their management on pages 44 to 49. were submitted to the Committee in March and September 2018.
These reports summarise submissions from all areas of the business Whistleblowing and fraud which the Executive Committee and senior management have The Groups whistleblowing policy, which supports the Group-wide reviewed.
Risks relating to material joint ventures and associates are Code of Conduct, is monitored by the Committee.
A summary of considered as part of this process.
The six-monthly reports identify the Groups Code of Conduct is available at www.
the significant risks to the Group, the controls in place and highlight The Committee received reports at each Committee meeting the tolerance levels that the Executive Committee and, ultimately, providing details of matters reported through the Groups the Board are prepared to accept.
The Audit Committee reviewed international confidential telephone reporting lines and secure the effectiveness of the Companys overall risk management website reporting facility, which are operated on its behalf by an framework, including the generic procedures for risk identification, independent third party.
All matters reported are investigated by assessment, mitigation, monitoring and reporting and was satisfied the relevant operating company and reported to the Committee, with their effectiveness.
together with details of any corrective action taken.
The Committee The Committee also reviewed managements work in conducting also received reports at Committee meetings providing details of a robust assessment of those risks which would threaten the fraud losses on a half-yearly basis.
future performance or liquidity of the Company, including its Fair, balanced and understandable assessment resilience to the threats of viability posed by certain of those risks At the request of the Board, the Committee assessed whether the in severe but plausible scenarios.
These assessments included the content of the 2017 18 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a stress testing ofa series of cash flow projections to evaluate the whole, was fair, balanced and understandable.
In order to make this impact of a number of unlikely, but realistic, worst-case scenarios.
declaration, a formal process was followed to ensure the Committee The Companys Viability Statement can be found on page 45. has access to all relevant information including a report from Internal controls management detailing the approach taken in the preparation of the During the year, the Committee monitored and reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts to ensure compliance.
The Committee effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems, accounting and all Board members received drafts of the Annual Report and policies and practices, standards of risk management and risk Accounts in sufficient time to allow them to challenge the disclosures management procedures and compliance controls, as well as where necessary.
During this process the Committee also reviewed the Companys statements on internal controls, before they were the use of alternative performance measures in this Annual Report agreedby the Board for this Annual Report and Accounts.
and Accounts and the underlying methodology used, and were satisfied that they enhance understanding of the performance of The Groups internal control systems are designed to manage the business.
The Committee advised the Board it was satisfied rather than eliminate business risk.
Such systems are necessary that, taken as a whole, the 2017 18 Annual Report and Accounts to safeguard shareholders investment and the Companys assets was fair, balanced and understandable and provided the necessary and depend on regular evaluation of the extent of the risks to which information for shareholders to assess the Companys position the Company is exposed.
The Committee receives regular reports and performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors throughout the year to assure itself that the Companys systems responsibilities statement can be found on page 69. comply with the requirements of the Code.
The Committee can confirm that the Companys systems have been in place for the full financial year and up to the date on which the financial statements were approved, that they are effective and that they are regularly Darren Shapland reviewed by the Committee on behalf of the Board.
The Committee on behalf of the Audit Committee 66 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
