STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 71 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Audit Committee Report In accounting for the Charity, a critical judgement relates to control of the Charity.
After detailed analysis, including work carried out by the IRC, the Audit committee considered that the Charity operates independently of Ferrexpo.
The internal control and risk management procedures at Ferrexpo are set out later in this report and the main risks themselves are on pages 38 to 47 of the Strategic Report.
Throughout the year, the Committee has robustly assessed the principal risks facing the business.
The significant issues and judgements considered by the Committee in respect of the 2018 Annual Report are set out on page 73.
In considering these matters, the Committee took into account the regular financial and internal audit reports made to the Board throughout the year, as well as discussing the issues with management and the external auditors at intervals throughout Mary Reilly, Chairman the year.
Detailed disclosure is given in the relevant notes to the financial statements of the significant areas in which estimates and critical judgements had to be made.
In order to satisfy itself that the accounting for these issues was reasonable and appropriate, and that disclosure in the financial statements was suitable and I am pleased to present to you the Report of the Audit Committee clear in each case, the Committee reviewed the papers setting for 2018.
As usual, and in accordance with Provision C. 3.4 of the out the procedures followed by the auditors and the responses Governance Code, the Board asked the Audit Committee to advise of management, and questioned and debated them with the it as to whether the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced CFO, the Group Financial Controller and, if relevant, operational and understandable and provide the information necessary for management, and with the auditors at the Committees meetings.
shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, These discussions were also informed by the Committee business model and strategy.
In providing our advice which is set members own expertise, particularly with regard to the economic out under Financial Reporting on page 75, we were mindful of and financial situation in Ukraine and operating practice in ensuring that the Annual Report and Accounts are read in the other large mining companies.
At the end of this process, the context of the current circumstances facing the Company.
Committee was satisfied with the accounting treatment and disclosure of each issue and with managements exercises This report sets out the following information: of critical judgement as disclosed in Note 4 on page 118.
The composition of the Audit Committee and the balance of skills and experience represented on it.
Mary Reilly The Committees activities in 2018.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Key estimates and critical judgements exercised by the 22 April 2019 Committee.
Ferrexpos systems of internal controls and risk management.
The assessment of the external auditors independence and effectiveness.
The fair, balanced and understandable assessment.
Our Viability Statement is set out in the Strategic Report on page 48.
During the year, the Audit Committee met five times and reviewed the Annual Report and associated preliminary year-end results and the interim results, focusing on key areas of judgement and complexity and accounting policies.
An important matter covered in these meetings was charitable donations made to Blooming Land the Charity.
At every meeting, the Audit Committee reviewed the progress of the implementation of improved controls around the donations to Blooming Land and requested detailed information from the Charity in order to understand how the donations from the Group were utilised to further its CSR policies.
For details of the relationship with the Charity See Chairmans Statement page 18, Principal Risks page 45, Responsible Business page 59, Corporate Governance Report page 63, Independent Review Committee Report page 69, and Note 7 page 121, Note 29 page 155, Note 33 page 161 and Note 34 page 161 to the financial statements.
The Audit Committee and the Board have taken a number of steps to improve the control and oversight of the Charity particularly since 2016.
The Board suspended donations to the Charity in May 2018 as a result of delays in receiving information requested by the Group, and while the Group awaited the outcome of a review into the 2017 audited financial statements of the Charity.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 72 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Audit Committee Report Membership and Meetings During the year, the Audit Committee comprised four independent Non-executive Directors: Mary Reilly Chairman of the Committee, Simon Lockett who resigned from the Board as of 28 January 2019, Vitalii Lisovenko and Bert Nacken.
All members of the Audit Committee and especially Bert Nacken with his long experience of the mining industry are considered to possess appropriate knowledge and skills relevant to the activities of the Group, and Mary Reilly is considered to have recent and relevant financial experience, including of accounts and auditing, due to her career as an audit partner with Deloitte LLP and her experience as a member of the audit committees of other companies.
The Audit Committee met on five occasions during 2018.
The attendance record of the Committee members is shown in the table on page 68.
In addition to its members, other individuals and external advisers, and the Chairman of the Board, may be invited to attend meetings of the Committee at the request of the Committee Chairman.
The Committee regularly meets the external auditors at the end of its scheduled meetings, without Executive Directors or management being present.
Activity During 2018 Key activities of the Audit Committee during 2018 are set out below.
Date Matters discussed Reviewed community support donation disclosures, controls and audit reports.
February Received an update on Blooming Land.
Received an update of the 2017 audit.
Reviewed a presentation on the going concern and long-term viability assessments.
Reviewed an update on Directors Interests and Related Parties.
Reviewed an update of the Audit Committee terms of reference.
Received an update on community support donations including Blooming Land.
May Reviewed Internal Audit recommendations.
Reviewed the Internal Audit Plan.
Reviewed Internal Audit quality survey results.
Reviewed Directors Interests and Related Parties table.
July Reviewed external audit half year results.
Reviewed community support donations including Blooming Land and outstanding matters previously requested by the Board.
November Received an update on Blooming Land.
Considered KPI assessment of external auditors.
Reviewed external audit planning report.
Received an update on Viability Statement.
Reviewed Preliminary Internal Audit Plan 2019.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 73 Key Estimates and Critical Judgements The significant issues and judgements considered by the Committee in respect of the 2018 Annual Report are set out below: Issues Judgements actions taken Operating expenses: nature of the In the absence of conclusive evidence that funds have not been used as intended, the Group has Groups community support judged that it remains appropriate for it to present its community support donations to the Charity donations Financial Note 7 as such in the consolidated financial statements within operating expenses on the basis that all material donations made by the Group have been applied as previously reported by the Charity to the Group.
Related party disclosures - The Board concluded that neither the Group nor the Chief Executive Officer controls or exercises completeness and arms length significant influence over Blooming Land or its sub-funds the Charity pursuant to relevant nature Financial Note 33 accounting standards IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements and IAS 28 Investments in joint ventures and associates or under Chapter 11 of the UK Listing Rules.
The appropriateness of the Groups related party transactions and the completeness and accuracy of the disclosures in Note 33 was reviewed by the Committee of Independent Directors CID.
Taxation: tax legislation in Ukraine Having considered the background of a recent claim made in Ukraine in respect of a tax audit with Financial Note 11 a focus on the Groups cross-border transactions, the Committee shares managements confidence that Ferrexpo will successfully defend its methodology applied to determine the prices between its subsidiaries in the courts in Ukraine.
Property, plant and equipment: The Committee endorses the estimates underlying managements decision to capitalise US$11.8 deferred stripping costs Financial million of pre-production stripping during the financial year 2018 in order to ensure availability of ore Note 13 in future periods.
Inventories: lean and weathered The Committee notes that stocks of lean and weathered ore have continued to increase, but ore Financial Note 16 accepts that it is still the Groups intention to process them once additional processing capacities are available.
Internal Control and Risk Management In relation to Blooming Land, controls included: The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of Board approval of the use of the Charity.
internal control, which includes risk management, and monitoring Board approval of the annual budgeted expenditure.
The system of internal control is Board or CID approval from late 2015 of individual payments to designed to identify, evaluate and manage significant risks the Charity and from September 2017 approval of individual associated with the achievement of the Groups objectives.
payments to the Charity by the Non-executive Directors or a Because of the limitations inherent in any system of internal control, committee of Non-executive Directors.
this system is designed to meet the Groups particular needs and A requirement for all expenditure to be supported by third party the risks to which it is exposed, rather than eliminate risk altogether.
Consequently it can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, A requirement for any independent charities supported by assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Ferrexpo to provide fully audited accounts.
Confirmation by Blooming Land of receipt, application and end The day-to-day responsibility for managing risk and the use of funds for relevant community support purposes for each maintenance of the Groups system of internal control is collectively payment, typically US$500,000.
assumed by the Executive Committee.
Key risk and control Confirmation by Blooming Land, its three Sub-Funds and the issues are reviewed regularly by the Executive Committee, sub-contracted event managers, of compliance with relevant Finance and Risk Management Committee FRMC, CSR local and international legislation.
On behalf of the Board, the Consideration of relevant due diligence on the charities involved, Executive Committee and FRMC have established a process for including third-party checks on the relevant managers and identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced funds.
This process was followed throughout 2018 and Receipt and consideration of reporting by an independent firm up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
The Group has of Ukrainian auditors on the financial statements of Blooming also adopted a risk-based approach in establishing the Groups Land.
system of internal control and in reviewing its effectiveness.
Verification of individual charitable event expenditures on a To assist in managing key internal risks, it has established a sample basis.
number of Group-wide procedures, policies and standards and Attendance at certain charitable events by Ferrexpo and third has set up a framework for reporting matters of significance.
Controls over Community Support Donations The Audit Committee reviewed reporting from the external In 2018, Ferrexpo continued to support communities on a local and auditorsin relation to their procedures on CSR as part of their national basis see Responsible Business section of the Strategic auditof the Group.
Community support activities take place exclusively in Ukraine, and donations were made within a Board-approved framework agreed annually at the time of setting the budget: they are subject to the internal control and approval limits applicable within the individual subsidiaries of the Group, which are set by the Board.
The Board exercises control of the local charitable spending via its CSR Committee, which oversees and directs these activities.
Donations to Blooming Land the Charity were approved to the Board and were not considered part of the remit of the CSR Committee.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 74 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Audit Committee Report Developments in 2018 Investment appraisal underpinned by the budgetary process, The Board had taken a number of steps to improve the control and where capital expenditure limits are applied to delegated oversight of the Charity in 2017.
The following additional controls authority limits.
were introduced in 2018: The Investment Committee an executive sub-committee which meets as required in order to consider and approve capital A Governance Framework for 2018, setting out the respective expenditures within limits delegated by the Executive roles and responsibilities for the Board, the Boards subCommittee and the Board.
committees and management in relation to charitable A budgetary process and authorisation levels to regulate capital donations.
For expenditure beyond specified levels, detailed A decision-making checklist to assist with the assessment of written proposals are submitted to the Investment and funding requests received from Blooming Land and whether to Executive Committees and then, if necessary, to the Board subsequently approve such requests.
A requirement for all expenditure to be supported by third party The Finance and Risk Management Committee FRMC an documentation.
executive sub-committee reviews financial information and A requirement for any independent charities supported by management accounts, and meets regularly.
Clearly defined treasury policy details of which are given in Note A letter requested and received from Blooming Land providing 26 to the financial statements on pages 145 to 152 monitored further details on its activities and explanations for the use of and applied in accordance with pre-set limits for investment and event managers.
management of the Groups liquid resources, including a separate treasury function.
Donations to the Charity were suspended in May 2018 as a result Internal audit by an in-house auditor based in Ukraine see of delays by the Charity in providing requested information to the below who monitors, tests and improves internal controls Group, and while the Group awaited the outcome of a review into operating within the Group at all levels and reports directly to the Charitys 2017 audited financial statements.
Blooming Land the Chairman of the Audit Committee, and to the CFO for line had also failed to implement certain control improvements management purposes.
A standard accounting manual is used by the finance teams throughout the Group, which ensures that information is On 4 February 2019, Ferrexpo announced an independent review gathered and presented in a consistent way that facilitates the into matters relating to the Groups donations to the Charity.
At this production of the consolidated financial statements.
stage, the Independent Review Committee cannot conclude as to A framework of transaction and entity-level controls to prevent the ultimate use of all of the funds by the Charity, however, there and detect material error and loss.
are indications that some could have been misappropriated.
Anti-fraud measures through an internal security department Further work is required before any final conclusions can be drawn.
operating in the Groups key operating subsidiaries.
A whistleblowing policy is in place under which staff may in For further information see Chairmans Statement page 18, confidence, via an independent, secure website, raise concerns Principal Risks page 45, Responsible Business page 59, about financial or other impropriety, which are followed up by Corporate Governance Report page 63, Independent Review internal audit and reported on to the Audit Committee.
Committee Report page 69, and Note 7 page 121, Note 29 page 155, Note 33 page 161 and Note 34 page 161 to the The Board, with assistance from the Audit Committee, regularly financial statements.
reviews the policies and procedures making up the internal control and risk management system, and any significant matters reported Internal Controls General by the Executive Committee.
The risk register, which includes Key elements of the internal control and risk management system details of the controls in place to manage and mitigate identified include: risks, is considered at every scheduled Board and Audit Regular review of risk and identification of key risks at the Committee meeting, with specific risks discussed in detail Executive Committee which are reviewed by the Audit as and when required.
Committee and by the Board.
The Executive Compliance Committee ECC, an executive The Board has delegated its responsibility for reviewing the sub-committee which meets regularly eight times in 2018, is effectiveness of the internal control and risk management system charged, on behalf of the Executive Committee or Audit to the Audit Committee.
In making its assessment, the Audit Committee, as appropriate, with ensuring that systems and Committee considers the reporting provided to it during the year in procedures are in place to comply with laws, regulations and relation to internal control systems and procedures, including the ethical standards.
The ECC is attended by the Group risk register, and may request more detailed investigations into Compliance Officer and, as necessary, by the local compliance specific areas of concern if appropriate.
officers from the operations, who present regular reports and ensure that the ECC is given prior warning of regulatory The Committee and the Board continued to keep the Bank F&C changes and their implications.
The ECC enquires into the situation under review throughout the year see Note 29 to the ownership of potential suppliers deemed to be high risk, and financial statements on page 156. oversees the management of conflicts of interests below Board level and general compliance activities including under the UK Full details of the Groups policy on risk and uncertainties are Bribery Act 2010, the Modern Slavery Act, the Criminal Finances setout in Note 26 to the financial statements on pages 145 to 152.
Act, and the EU General Data Protection Regulation.
Seealso the Principal Risks section of the Strategic Report on Clearly defined organisational and reporting structure and limits pages 38 to 47. of authority for transaction and investment decisions, including any with related parties.
Internal Audit Clearly defined processes for the review and approval of related There is an internal audit function with a Group-wide remit, and the party listings and transactions and appropriate review and Head of Internal Audit, who has mining and international experience, approval from the CID and its delegated management subreports directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and committee the ERPMC.
Additional procedures are in place administratively to the CFO.
locally to ensure the completeness and arms length nature of related party transactions, such as background checks and The Committee reviews at least annually the effectiveness of the tender processes.
internal audit function by assessing outcomes against plan targets, Clearly defined information and financial reporting systems, and is satisfied, following its 2018 assessment, with the rigour of including regular forecasts and an annual budgeting process the audit projects and with managements response to the Head of with reporting against key financial and operational milestones.
An internal audit programme for 2019 was approved by the Audit Committee in November 2018.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 75 An internal audit programme for 2018, approved by the Audit The Committee is satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Annual Committee, focused on the operational risks relating to the sales Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable and that and marketing, fuel management, repair and maintenance, HR, it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess compliance, IT, high wall failure, and fraud risk assessment.
The the Companys position and performance, business model and Committee received a report from the Head of Internal Audit twice strategy and has advised the Board accordingly.
during the year, and reviewed the progress of the internal audit plan with the auditors and the Head of Internal Audit.
The reports The Committee has also advised the Board on the process which include the Head of Internal Audits assessment of the operation has been undertaken in the year to support the longer-term Viability and effectiveness of relevant elements of the Groups internal Statement required under the Governance Code.
The Viability control systems, and therefore form part of the Committees Statement is set out in the Strategic Report on page 48 and a ongoing monitoring and assessment of such systems.
statement setting out the Boards assessment of the Company as a going concern is contained in the Directors Report on page 97 External Audit and Note 2 to the Financial Statements on page 115.
Auditor Independence and Assessment of Audit Process Effectiveness Whistleblowing Policy The Audit Committee and the Board place great emphasis on the The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups independence and objectivity of the Groups external auditors whistleblowing arrangements, and receives regular reports from when performing their role in the Groups reporting to shareholders.
the Head of Internal Audit which detail any new whistleblowing incidents and, where appropriate, steps taken to investigate The effectiveness of the audit process and the overall performance, such incidents.
independence and objectivity of the auditors are reviewed annually at the end of the annual reporting cycle by the Audit Committee, Mary Reilly taking into account the views of management.
The outcome of Chairman of the Audit Committee the March 2018 review was relayed to the relevant partners of Deloitte LLP.
This review takes the form of an assessment using a questionnaire of the auditors performance under various headings: the robustness of the audit, the quality of delivery, and the calibre of the audit team.
The auditors also provide to the Audit Committee information about policies and processes for maintaining independence and monitoring compliance with relevant current requirements, including those regarding the rotation of audit partners and staff, the level of fees that the Group pays in proportion to the overall fee income of the firm, and other regulatory requirements.
The Committee reviewed these arrangements during the year and believes that they are still appropriate.
The Company has complied with the Statutory Audit Services Order issued by the UK Competition and Markets Authority for the financial year ended 31 December 2018.
Non-audit Services The Audit Committee operates policies in respect of the provision of non-audit services and the employment of former employees of the auditors.
These policies ensure that the external auditors are restricted to providing only those services which do not compromise their independence under EU guidance.
The policy on the provision of non-audit services prohibits the use of the auditors for the provision of transaction or payroll accounting, outsourcing of internal audit and valuation of material financial statement amounts.
Any assignment that is proposed to be given to the auditors above a value of US$20,000 must first be approved by the Audit Committee or its Chairman who are routinely notified of all non-audit services.
Fees for audit-related and non-audit-related services performed by the external auditors during 2018 are shown in Note 7 to the financial statements on page 122.
Financial Reporting The Board has asked the Committee to advise whether it considers the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
In providing its advice, the Committee noted that the factual content of the Annual Report and Accounts has been carefully checked internally, and that the document has been reviewed by senior management in order to ensure consistency and overall balance.
The Committee has also conducted its own detailed review of the disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts taking into account its own knowledge of Ferrexpos strategy and performance, the consistency between different sections of the report, the accessibility of the structure and narrative of the report, and the use of key performance indicators.
