Key resources and relationships Serving our customers We provide our suppliers a cost effective route to market and our customers specialist advice on a wide range of products available where and when they are required.
Ourresources and relationships are crucial in serving our customers effectively and ultimately, delivering profitable growth.
and sales managers: and the Presidents Our people Gallery, honouring showroom sales associates which recognises outstanding contributions that support profitable growth 35,000 in the field.
The Bob Wells Leadership associates Award, is presented to a remarkable Ferguson sales associate who consistently demonstrates exceptional sales leadership Our associates are fundamental to the and performance.
They deliver exceptional customer service and develop In the UK, we have several recognition strong and enduring relationships with programmes: the Top 10% Club recognises Micahs journey customers whilst maximising their own top performing sales associates and the effectiveness and helping us to adopt new Micah Harris, Director of Commercial branch of the year award recognises operating models.
One of our Group Values Business, South Plains, USA, is a consistent operational outperformance.
is that We value our people and our Better great example of the opportunities We are in the process of embedding a high Business sustainability framework focuses Ferguson provides for our people to performance culture in Canada and currently on six people related areas which you can grow and develop into future leaders.
have informal regional sales recognition read more about in this section and on We aim to develop a culture where every programmes in place.
We have begun pages 40 to 42. associate can realise their full potential to design a national programme that will in the business.
In 12 years, Micah has Pages 40 to 42 recognise high performers more formally moved from a sales associate in Texas and take into account local needs and to become Director of Commercial Leadership best practice.
Business, where he is responsible for Making our business more successful relies leading the development, communication For our 2018 19 financial year, we are on the effectiveness of our leaders and their and implementation of effective redesigning our Group-wide long-term people.
We have seen a number of external growth strategies.
incentive programme, which will reward and internal succession appointments within our leaders and senior managers for the USA to leadership positions this year, improved trading profit performance in enabling us to broaden the experience, Competitive pay and reward our different businesses.
Our investment knowledge and diversity of our leaders.
Celebrating success through our reward in this programme is overseen by the programmes reinforces the way we do Remuneration Committee.
Every year, across the Group we review our incentive programmes, from and development Associate engagement branch and sales associates through to our In 2017 18, we welcomed 600 college All businesses in the Group measure leaders, to ensure they continue to reward graduates to our business in the USA, associate engagement and take action to high performance as well as driving the 200 more than in 2016 17.
They will join identify improvements locally, regionally and right behaviours that support our corporate 7,600 current associates who have higher nationally.
It is essential for our continued objectives and introduce new incentives or education degrees, approximately 29 per success that associates are able to express re-develop existing ones where appropriate.
Our investment their opinions and views which are listened We adjust measures to suit the type of role in targeted talent management and to by our leaders.
Our associates across or team, but typically incentivise associates development remains a key strategic priority.
all the teams in sales, branches, contact, based on combinations of growth in trading logistics and distribution centres are critical The College of Ferguson centralised training profit, gross profit, average cash-to-cash model has been implemented across the to our success, through the relationships days and net promoter score.
For more they build with all our customers, whether USA to improve participants speed-toinformation on remuneration please see impact by introducing new associates to the big or small.
Our associate engagement pages 70 to 96. scores which, over the past six years, culture and environments representative of Pages 70 to 96 their role and responsibilities.
You can read have consistently exceeded 75 per cent well above industry averages, with an more about this in the case study on page 18.
In the USA, we have a number of well improvement in the score in 2017 18 by established recognition programmes In the UK, individual talent assessments 6.6points in comparison with the prior year.
including the Presidents Club which on the senior management team resulted For more information see the KPIs section recognises our top performing outside in tailored development plans, all aimed onpages 28 and 29. sales associates: the Presidents Circle, atdriving improved business performance.
Pages 28 to 29 recognising top performing sales associates 24 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Health and safety Caring for our associates health and safety is at the heart of the Groups values.
We are committed to ensuring that the safety of our associates and our customers is never compromised.
We have made considerable progress in improving our Health and Safety programmes this year under the leadership of a new Group Vice President of Health and Safety, Hannah Sesay.
Specific changes Rebuilding lives in Oklahoma have been implemented this year to improve In June, Ferguson reopened a branch in Tulsa, Oklahoma just 10 months after it was safety behaviour in the USA which include: devastated by two tornadoes that blew through the City.
As with all natural disasters, Ferguson has robust business continuity plans and notified the branch in advance of the 1 Established an Executive Health weather event.
After ensuring that our associates and customers were safe, our teams andSafety Committee: worked with local leadership to survey the damage and check on the 42 associates who This Committee is responsible for providing work in the area.
oversight and monitoring health and safety issues across the USA, led by While several other area businesses that were hit during the tornado remained closed, ChiefOperating Officer, Alex Hutcherson.
we were committed to looking after our associates and ensured they could find alternate assignments at other local branches while the rebuild was underway.
When the branch 2 Established a major injury review panel: reopened 10 months later, all affected associates returned to that branch.
The panel reviews all accidents that cause a major injury to understand why and how they occurred to minimise the recurring risk.
In our UK business, which has undergone Following the appointment of John Martin 3 Toolbox talks: significant change over the last two years, as Group Chief Executive last year there has A toolbox talk is an informal safety meeting the associate engagement survey scores been a significant change in the composition that focuses on safety topics related to the have remained consistent whilst participation of our Executive Committee.
Whilst we have specific job, such as workplace hazards and has been over 70 per cent for the last few work to do, we are making progress with an safe work practices.
The associate forum which was increase in women to two out of the nine normally short in duration and are generally established to help drive the restructuring members.
Additionally, there was a small conducted prior to the commencement programme has continued to provide increase in the number of women at senior ofawork shift.
support for associates and helped inform management positions across the Group, decision-making.
Formal consultation upthree per cent.
4 Safety moments: processes continue to run in parallel, where All significant meetings across our Group Pages 42 to 43 appropriate, ensuring all our associates can are now starting with a safety moment be reassured that all changes are managed from the associate hosting the meeting.
Our recruitment practices factor in underopenly and fairly.
Safety Moments are short, informal talks represented groups and we insist on about safety issues to keep safe behaviour The Canadian team is concentrating on balanced candidate lists when using front of mind.
building organisational capability in key executive search firms.
In the UK, the skill areas with a focus on identifying government requires certain businesses 5 Safety stand downs: and developing top talent.
For example, to declare their gender pay gap.
The UK When an accident occurs in one location partnering with top tier universities for business has a 4.16 per cent gap in base pay involving a task that is performed at multiple internships and innovative projects.
compared to the UK average of 18.4 per cent.
locations a safety stand down is initiated The team is also building a talent We are deploying strategies now to eliminate across all those locations.
For example, if an development curriculum to provide the core the pay gap entirely.
accident in a pipe yard occurs, all national skills required by our associates to deliver pipe yards are to hold a safety stand down We are in the process of reviewing our exceptional customer service.
where the root cause of, and key learnings Group Diversity Policy which will build from, the accident are shared and actions onour present practices where, like many Diversity and inclusion implemented to minimise the risk of the businesses, we continue to identify and We want access to the best talent accident occurring again.
This happens remove any potential for unconscious bias within 24 hours of notification and all work irrespective of gender, race, sexual in our employment and promotion practices.
The Board has a must cease at that location until the stand For more information on our approach to down has been completed.
50:50 balance of males and females in our diversity see page 61.
We have reviewed Page 61 and updated our Board diversity policy which you can read more about on page 61.
Page 61 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 25 Key resources and relationships 6 Launch of First in Safety campaign: Our customers Our suppliers An internal communications campaign over was launched in 2017 18 targeting all US 43,000 associates with the aim of keeping safety 1 million suppliers front of mind and part of our culture.
customers The UK and Canada have seen improvements in key health and safety Our customers rely on us for high levels of We have 43,000 reputable suppliers metrics.
In the UK, the main focus was to availability on a broad range of products, manufacturing over one million products reduce lost time injuries which we achieved ready for collection or delivery when and around the world.
This gives us access to a by reducing the injury rate by almost half.
Our customers value diverse and broad range of quality products.
In Canada, the focus this year was on high quality and efficient service from local While the product is incredibly important, implementing preventative controls on high relationships, competitive pricing, account an equally essential part of the equation is risk injury causes.
based credit and billing and order accuracy.
the expert knowledge that we bring.
We are They also want flexibility in choosing the Following these initiatives, the business frequently asked by our customers to help most convenient way to do business with is beginning to record improvements them find a suitable product to meet a us, whether in a branch, by phone or in the current health and safety key specific need.
The expert guidance that we online.
These are the basic transactional performance indicators.
offer is based on a broad knowledge of the aspects of our business which need to supplier landscape.
Our logistics network, Pages 40 to 43 be executed consistently.
Additionally, which connects these suppliers to our customers rely onFerguson for a range customers, is a key differentiator.
Ethical behaviour and ofadditional services and advice that we humanrights offer.
For example, outside sales associates Our leading market positions enable We are committed to complying with the oftenvisit customers at their job sites and ourcentral sourcing teams in each region law and to operating under the highest support them when they are bidding for to leverage our scale and negotiate ethical standards.
This protects us from work.
An overview of these services is competitive prices in return for access business disruption: it also strengthens set out on page 1 and in the case study toover one million customers.
our reputation with customers, suppliers examples on pages 2 to 11.
We work with our suppliers to ensure that and other stakeholders.
Our Code of Pages 1 to 11 they are reliable and ethical and that their Conduct is dedicated to helping each of our products are fully compliant with the laws We operate our business responsibly so associates to comply with our values on a and regulations of the countries in which thatour customers can feel confident daily basis and guide them in their decisions we operate.
This provides protection to us that we look after our associates, provide and interactions.
Our Code of Conduct in and our customers in the event of a product safe and high-quality products, operate the USA was updated during 2017 18 and failure or breach of regulation in the supply efficiently and actively contribute to features question and answer sections to chain.
On the rare occasion that a product the communities in which we operate.
provide real life examples of our values is faulty, customers have the confidence of We consult with key customers each year in action.
knowing that we will support them.
to understand their business needs and All of our businesses provide training for their sustainability priorities so that we can Pages 40 to 43 relevant associates on anti-corruption, continually evolveour business to meet anti-trust and modern slavery matters.
Where the market This is typically provided through online Channels to market demand exists, we promote sustainable training material and face-to-face training products andprovide training and advice isalso provided.
Training is provided for tocustomers to support growth in these 2,280 newassociates on induction.
com in the USA can filter their product For information on ethical behaviour in our search to view products with recognised supply chain, please refer to page 40 to 43. national environmental labels.
Our customers interact with us through Pages 40 to 43 Page 42 and 43 multiple sales channels on a 24 7 basis which is often a combination of branches, showrooms, transactional websites, call centres and inside outside sales teams.
We conduct the majority of our business through sales associates or consultants.
A large proportion of the business is still conducted through our branches and our extensive branch network means customers minimise the distance they travel to buy from us and visit several times a week.
The branch network is also an important delivery channel particularly when customers need immediate availability.
26 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information This multi-channel approach allows our We have a clearly defined technology By capitalising on these efficiencies, we are customers to access products and advice strategy and roadmap.
This provides a not only reducing the cost to our customers, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, clear route forward for the development but also reducing our carbon footprint.
of our order and transaction management More than half our carbon footprint is systems.
We are increasing our focus on generated by transport.
We manage our estate very carefully strategic investments which will mean we to ensure the health and safety of our Within the distribution network we have have many order capture channels that feed associates, customers, suppliers and reduced our carbon emissions through into one fulfilment and transaction platform anyother visitors.
Following the connected through cloud-based systems.
implementation of a telematics system, Health and safety risk assessments and Our aim is to provide a seamless experience our US operations began implementing branch audits are carried out regularly for our customers no matter what sales order regenerative braking technology into fleet so that we maintain our equipment and channel they use.
Our associates will spend vehicles.
As in prior years, each of our product racking and are prepared for any less time processing orders and more time businesses has performance targets to potential emergency incident.
Our insurers interacting with our customers, enhancing reduce carbon and the associated costs also support these efforts, undertaking their productivity and customer service for transport and fuel, relative to revenue.
own safety assessments at selected key and relationships.
These emission reduction projects ensure sites each year.
Pages 16 to 20 that we are able to meet our goals for Our buildings generate about 30 per cent environmental performance in addition of the Groups carbon usage.
This includes toour financial goals.
Distribution network electricity and fuels consumed for heating Our branches continue to utilise our or cooling.
Each business has targets to distribution networks to send recyclable reduce carbon and the associated energy 5,900 waste back to distribution centres for consumption, relative to revenue.
Our online fleet vehicles sorting, baling and weighing.
When returned sales channels, available through any products are unable to be resold, they are device, allow our customers to reduce also transported back to our distribution their environmental impact as travel to our To ensure the availability of a wide range centres where we aim to reduce or re-use branches for product advice or product ofproducts to our customers we continue these products to avoid landfill.
toinvest in our extensive distribution network For information about our environmental and large vehicle fleet.
Our customers rely For information about our environmental efficiency efforts and health and safety upon us for prompt and flexible delivery efficiency efforts see page 40 to 43. seepage 40 to 43. options to meet their own needs, such as Pages 40 to 43 specialist vehicles and same day delivery.
Pages 40 to 43 Suppliers deliver to our distribution centres, For information about our health and safety programme see pages 40 to 43. our branches or directly to our customers.
Pages 40 to 43 We predominantly distribute from branches to customers, though increasingly, in large metropolitan areas we are using specialist Technology market distribution centres to centralise final mile logistics and reduce fleet and distribution costs.
21% proportion of Group revenue During the year, we undertook a detailed from e-commerce activities analysis of our entire US supply chain network.
We have identified several We are continually investing in technology opportunities to improve network efficiency Packaging efficiency savings to improve the customer experience, retain which will increase product flow for greater A recent efficiency improvement existing customers and win new ones.
network speed, mitigate double handling, identified within the distribution network Technology investments are aimed at bring the network closer to our customers relates to packaging.
New Packsize improving execution and efficiency in all for same day next day delivery, and support packaging machines allow us to print the areas of our business from warehousing, our e-commerce channel capabilities.
actual dimensions of a package in order fleet, inventory and customer relationship For example, in Perris, California, we are to ensure that each parcel is shipped in management to back-office human building a new distribution centre to serve the most efficient way, minimising waste.
resources and financial management one of the largest plumbing and heating Several of our distribution centres have andreporting systems.
markets in the world and we expect it to had these machines installed, which has befully operational in 2019. resulted in efficiency savings.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 27
