Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 76 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Nominations Committee Report Dear shareholder I am pleased to present the Nominations Committee Report for 2018.
The Committee met formally twice during the year.
At these meetings the Board composition and refreshment of the Board was discussed as well as the Groups Diversity and Inclusion programme.
It was also agreed to undertake an externally facilitated Board performance evaluation for the year to 31 December 2018 for further information see Performance Evaluation on page 68.
During the year, members of the Committee were active in interviewing candidates for various Board roles and in recommending the appointment of Lucio Genovese who joined the Board in February 2019.
The Committee is currently searching for a Non-executive Director to succeed Steve Lucas, Chairman Simon Lockett, who resigned from the Board on 29 January 2019, as the Senior Independent Director.
It is expected that an appointment will be made during 2019.
As a result of Mr Locketts resignation, as of the date of this report, the Committee is currently composed of the Chairman of the Board.
The Nominations Committee remains composed of an Independent Nonexecutive Director and the Chairman of the Board.
Steve Lucas Chairman of the Nominations Committee 22 April 2019 to the Board, and seeks only to engage executive search Membership and Meetings consultants who have signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct The Nominations Committee is chaired by Steve Lucas and its for executive search firms.
The final decisions to make other member was Simon Lockett.
The Nominations Committee appointments to the Board are, however, made on merit against meets at least once a year, as required by its terms of reference, objective criteria, so as to ensure that the strongest possible and met formally twice in 2018 besides holding periodic meetings candidates for the role are recruited.
with search agents and interviews with candidates.
The Committee will continue to ensure that gender and other Appointment Process and Succession Planning diversity is considered when conducting future searches for Board The Committee is aware of the Governance Code recommendation positions, and will take account of the recommendations of the that non-executive membership of the Board should not extend Hampton-Alexander and Parker reviews regarding gender balance beyond nine years in an independent capacity.
and ethnic diversity on boards.
During the year, the Committee discussed and interviewed for Management and Staff Diversity various positions on the Board.
Executive search consultants were As stated under Diversity in the People section of the Strategic used in the search.
After consulting the Nominations Committee Report on page 53, Ferrexpos policy is to employ a diverse about the skills and experience required, the consultants drew workforce.
up a long list of candidates from which a short list was chosen to be invited for interview by the Nominations Committee.
The Gender Diversity Nominations Committee then recommended Lucio Genovese as Currently 29% of the workforce is female.
18% of management the preferred candidate and he was interviewed by other members positions are held by women, and our aim is to increase this figure of the Board before being formally appointed on 12 February 2019. to 24% by 2021.
Efforts to increase the representation of women more generally are expected to be assisted by a recent change in The executive search consultants used in relation to the Ukrainian law to allow women to be employed in certain operational appointment of Lucio Genovese were Odgers Berndtson, which roles from which they were previously excluded.
During the year, has no other connection with the Company.
Ferrexpo Belanovo Mining was very proud to train the first women in Ukraine to be heavy duty truck drivers.
Five women completed Re-election their training programmes and in December 2018 transferred to the Lucio Genovese, who was appointed to the Board on 12 February FPM, FYM and FBM mining departments to be employed as dump 2019, will stand for election by shareholders at the Companys truck drivers.
In accordance with the provisions of the Governance Code, all other Directors will stand for re-election by Additionally, in 2018 some of FPMs community support shareholders at the same meeting.
programmes were aimed at helping women.
Board Diversity Policy Disability The Nominations Committee and the Board recognise the In Ukraine, Ferrexpo is required by law to ensure that registered importance of boardroom diversity in terms of cultural and disabled people make up at least 4% of its workforce.
This professional background, expertise and gender, and believe that requirement was met in 2018. the present composition of the Board is satisfactory according to those criteria, although it is always seeking to improve on existing diversity where possible.
The Committee seeks to apply this policy by ensuring that all available suitable candidates are taken into account when drawing up short lists of candidates for appointment
