28 Fidelity European Values PLC | Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance Statement The Corporate Governance Statement forms part of the Directors International Affairs and as a member of the World Economic Report.
The Company is committed to maintaining high standards Forums Regional Future Council on Europe.
This knowledge is an of corporate governance.
Accordingly, the Board has put in invaluable asset which contributes to the collective skills of the place a framework for corporate governance which it believes is Board and the Board has asked Robin to extend his tenure until appropriate for an investment company.
Corporate Governance Codes Biographical details of all the Directors are on page 24.
The Board follows the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code issued by the Financial Reporting Board Responsibilities and Board Meetings Council the FRC in 2016 and the AICs Code of Corporate The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs Governance the AIC Code issued by the Association of and for promoting the long term success of the Company.
All Investment Companies the AIC in 2016.
The FRC has matters which are not delegated to the Companys Manager confirmed that investment companies which report against under the Management Agreement are reserved for the Boards the AIC Code and which follow the AIC Guide on Corporate decision.
Matters reserved for the Board and considered at Governance will meet their obligations under the UK Code and meetings include decisions on strategy, management, structure, paragraph 9.8.
This Statement, together with capital, share issues, share repurchases, gearing, financial the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 35, set out reporting, risk management, investment performance, share price how the principles have been applied.
discount, corporate governance, Board appointments, and the appointments of the Manager and the Company Secretary.
The The AIC Code and the AIC Guide can be found on the AICs Board also considers shareholder issues including communication website at www.
co. uk and the UK Code can be found on and investor relations.
All Directors are considered to be independent of the Manager Statement of Compliance and considered to be free from any relationship which could The Company has complied with the recommendations of the materially interfere with the exercise of their independent AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Code for the judgement.
The Board follows a procedure of notification of other year under review and up to the date of this report, except in interests that may arise as part of considering any potential relation to the UK Code provisions relating to the role of the chief conflicts and is satisfied that none has arisen in the year under executive, executive directors remuneration, and the need for an review.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Code, the Board considers that these All Directors are able to allocate sufficient time to the Company provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company, as to discharge their responsibilities fully and effectively.
Each it is an externally managed investment company and has no Director is entitled to take independent professional advice, at executive directors, employees or internal operations.
the Companys expense, in the furtherance of their duties.
THE BOARD The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to Board Composition discharge its duties effectively and the table on page 29 The Board, chaired by Vivian Bazalgette, consists of five nongives the attendance record for the meetings held during the executive Directors.
The Directors believe that, between them, reporting year.
The Portfolio Manager and key representatives they have good knowledge and wide experience of business in of the Manager are in attendance at these meetings.
Between Europe and of investment companies, and that the Board has these meetings there is regular contact with the Manager and an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and other meetings are arranged as necessary.
Additionally, Board knowledge of the Company and length of service to discharge Committees and sub-groups meet to pursue matters referred to its duties and provide effective strategic leadership and proper them by the Board and the Chairman is in contact with the other governance of the Company.
Directors regularly without representatives of the Manager being present.
Marion Sears is the Senior Independent Director and fulfils the role of sounding board for the Chairman, intermediary for In addition to the formal Board and Committee meetings, the the other Directors as necessary and she acts as a channel of Board undertakes a two day due diligence trip to Europe every communication for shareholders in the event that contact through other year and the next trip will be in 2019.
On due diligence trips, the Board meets with the management of existing and the Chairman is inappropriate.
potential investee companies alongside the Portfolio Manager.
If the trip is in a city where Fidelity International has an office, As at the date of this report, Robin Niblett had completed then the Board will also meet some of their analysts and nine years on the Board.
The Board considers that he remains representatives, thereby gaining valuable insight.
The Directors independent in judgement and character and free from conflict.
also have meetings with Fidelitys Head of Investment Trusts and In the current European political and economic climate, Robin attend educational days organised by the Manager.
makes a unique contribution to the Board and Company from his position with Chatham House the Royal Institute of 29 Annual Report 2018 | Fidelity European Values PLC Management Regular Audit Engagement Board Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Vivian Bazalgette 5 5 3 3 1 1 Fleur Meijs 5 5 3 3 1 1 Robin Niblett 4 5 3 3 0 1 James Robinson retired on 14 May 2018 3 3 1 1 1 1 Marion Sears 5 5 3 3 1 1 Paul Yates 5 5 3 3 1 1 Robin Niblett missed one Board meeting which was unavoidable.
In his role as Director of the Royal Institute of International Affairs, he had to host and moderate a high-level discussion at short notice with a VIP speaker.
Regular Board Meetings exclude ad hoc meetings for formal approvals.
Figures in the table above indicate those meetings for which each Director was eligible to attend and attended in the year.
Company Secretary Board Evaluation The Board has access to the advice and services of the Company An annual evaluation of the Board, its Directors and its Secretary.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board Committees is undertaken ahead of each AGM.
The evaluation for ensuring Board procedures are followed and that applicable process takes the form of written questionnaires and discussions.
rules and regulations are complied with.
For the year under review, the performance and contribution to the Company of each Director was considered using written Changes to the Board questionnaires.
The performance of the Chairman was evaluated Changes to the Board take place in accordance with the by the other Directors in the Chairmans absence.
In all cases, Companies Act 2006, the Companys Articles of Association it was concluded that all the Directors have been effective and and the AIC Code.
Any proposal for the appointment of new that they continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles.
The Directors is discussed and approved by the whole Board.
As process is considered to be constructive in terms of identifying a consequence, there is no Nomination Committee.
External areas for improving the functioning and performance of the consultants who have no connection with the Company are used Board and action is taken on the basis of these results.
The to identify potential candidates.
tenure of each individual Director is also considered during the evaluation process.
Director Training As a FTSE 350 Company and in accordance with Code B.
6.2 of Upon appointment, each Director is provided with all relevant the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board is required information regarding the Company and receives an induction to carry out an externally facilitated evaluation of the Board every on the investment operation and administration functions of third year.
The next external evaluation will be for the year ending the Company, together with a summary of their duties and 31 December 2020. responsibilities to the Company.
Directors also receive regular briefings from, amongst others, the AIC, the Companys Directors Remuneration and Share Interests Auditor and the Company Secretary, regarding any proposed Details of the Directors remuneration and share interests are developments or changes in law or regulations that could affect disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 33 the Company and or the Directors.
Election and Re-election of Directors BOARD COMMITTEES All newly appointed Directors stand for election by the The Board discharges certain of its corporate governance shareholders at the AGM following their appointment by the responsibilities through two Committees as set out below and Board.
As the Company is a constituent member of the FTSE on page 30.
Written terms of reference of each Committee are 350 Index, all other Directors are subject to annual re-election.
available on the Companys pages of the Managers website at Directors standing for re-election at this years AGM are www.
listed with their details on page 24.
The terms and letters of appointment of Directors are available for inspection at the The Audit Committee registered office of the Company and will be available prior to The Audit Committee is chaired by Fleur Meijs and for the the AGM.
reporting year consisted of all of the Directors.
Vivian Bazalgette stepped down as a member of the Audit Committee at the end of the reporting year following recommendation in the revised 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code that a chairman of a board should not be a member of an audit committee.
Mr Bazalgette will generally be invited to attend future Audit Committee meetings.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 30 Fidelity European Values PLC | Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance Statement continued Full details of the Audit Committee are disclosed in the Report of The Board, assisted by the Manager, has undertaken a rigorous the Audit Committee on pages 36 to 38. risk and controls assessment.
It confirms that there is an effective ongoing process in place to identify, evaluate and manage the The Management Engagement Committee Companys principal business and operational risks, and that it The Management Engagement Committee is chaired by Vivian has been in place throughout the year ended 31 December 2018 Bazalgette and consists of all of the Directors.
It meets at least and up to the date of this report.
This process is in accordance once a year and reports to the Board, making recommendations with the FRCs Risk Management, Internal Control and Related where appropriate.
It is charged with reviewing and monitoring Financial Business Reporting guidance.
the performance of the Manager and for ensuring that the terms of the Companys Management Agreement remains competitive The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit and reasonable for shareholders.
function and has determined that the systems and procedures employed by the Manager, which are subject to inspection by Ahead of the AGM, the Committee has reviewed the the Managers internal and external audit processes, provide performance of the Manager and the fee basis and also that of sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal controls its peers.
The Committee noted the Companys good long term is maintained to safeguard shareholders investments and performance record and the commitment, quality and continuity the Companys assets.
An internal audit function, specific to of the team responsible for the Company and concluded that it the Company, is therefore considered unnecessary.
The Audit was in the interests of shareholders that the appointment of the Committee meets the Managers internal audit representative Manager should continue.
It receives a summary of the Managers externally audited internal controls report on an annual basis.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT Financial Reporting Whistle-Blowing Procedure Set out on page 35 is a statement by the Directors of their Part of the Managers role in ensuring the provision of a good responsibilities in respect of the preparation of the Annual Report service pursuant to the Management Agreement, includes and Financial Statements.
The Auditor has set out its reporting the ability for employees of Fidelity to raise concerns through responsibilities within the Independent Auditors Report on pages a workplace concerns escalation policy whistle-blowing 39 to 43. procedure.
Fidelity has advised the Board that it is committed to providing the highest level of service to its customers and The Board has a responsibility to present a fair, balanced and to applying the highest standards of quality, honesty, integrity understandable assessment of annual, half-yearly and other price and probity.
The aim of the policy is to encourage employees sensitive public reports and reports to regulators, and provides and others working for Fidelity to assist the Company in tackling information required to be presented by statutory requirements.
fraud, corruption and other malpractice within the organisation All such reports are reviewed by the Audit Committee and and in setting standards of ethical conduct.
This policy has been approved by the Board prior to their issue to ensure that this endorsed accordingly by the Board.
Bribery Act 2010 Risk Management and Internal Controls The Company is committed to carrying out business fairly, The Board is responsible for the Companys systems of risk honestly and openly.
The Board recognises the benefits this has management and of internal controls and for reviewing their for reputation and business confidence.
The Board, the Manager, effectiveness.
The review takes place at least once a year.
Such the Managers employees and others acting on the Companys systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk behalf, are expected to demonstrate high standards of behaviour of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide when conducting business.
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the implementation and oversight of the Companys procedures for preventing The Board determines the nature and extent of any risks it is bribery, and the governance framework for training, willing to take in order to achieve its strategic objectives.
It is communication, monitoring, reporting and escalation of responsible for the design, implementation and maintenance compliance together with enforcing actions as appropriate.
The of controls and procedures to safeguard the assets of the Board has adopted a zero tolerance policy in this regard.
Company although these tasks have been delegated on a dayCriminal Finances Act 2017 to-day basis to the Manager.
The system extends to operational The Company is subject to the Criminal Finances Act 2017 and and compliance controls and risk management.
Clear lines of follows a zero tolerance policy to tax evasion and its facilitation.
accountability have been established between the Board and The Directors are fully committed to complying with all legislation the Manager.
The Manager provides regular reports on controls and appropriate guidelines designed to prevent tax evasion and compliance issues to the Audit Committee and the Board.
and the facilitation of tax evasion in the jurisdictions in which In carrying out its review, the Audit Committee has regard to the the Company, its service providers, counterparties and business activities of the Manager, the Managers compliance and risk partners operate.
functions and the work carried out by the Independent Auditor and also includes consideration of internal controls of similar reports issued by the other service providers.
31 Annual Report 2018 | Fidelity European Values PLC Responsibility as Institutional Shareholder Articles of Association The Board has adopted the Managers Principles of Ownership Any changes to the Companys Articles of Association must be in relation to investments.
These Principles include the pursuit made by special resolution.
of an active investment policy through portfolio management decisions, voting on resolutions at general meetings and On behalf of the Board maintaining a continuing dialogue with the management of investee companies.
Fidelity is a signatory to the UK Stewardship Code setting out the responsibilities of institutional shareholders and agents.
Further details of the Managers Principles of Ownership and voting may be found at www.
Vivian Bazalgette Relations with Shareholders Chairman Communication with shareholders is given a high priority by 14 March 2019 the Board and it liaises with the Manager and the Companys broker who are in regular contact with the Companys major institutional investors to canvass shareholder opinion and to communicate its views to shareholders.
All Directors are made aware of shareholders concerns and the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and, where appropriate, other Directors, are available to meet with shareholders to discuss strategy and governance.
The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the Company and receives regular reports from the Manager on meetings attended with shareholders and any concerns raised in such meetings.
The Board aims to provide the maximum opportunity for dialogue between the Company and its shareholders.
If any shareholder wishes to contact a member of the Board directly, they should either email the Company Secretary at investmenttrusts@fil.
com or write to the address provided on page 71.
The Company Secretary will attend to any enquiries promptly and ensure that they are directed to the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director or the Board as a whole, as appropriate.
The Board encourages all shareholders to attend the AGM on 13 May 2019 at which they will have the opportunity to meet and address questions to the Chairman and other members of the Board, the Portfolio Manager and representatives of the Manager.
The Notice of Meeting on pages 65 to 67 sets out the business of the AGM and the special business resolutions are explained more fully on page 27 of the Directors Report.
A separate resolution is proposed on each substantially separate issue including the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The Notice of Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the AGM.
Voting rights in the Companys shares Every person entitled to vote on a show of hands has one vote.
On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy or representative has one vote for every ordinary share held.
At general meetings, all proxy votes are counted and, except where a poll is called, proxy voting is reported for each resolution after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
The proxy voting results are disclosed on the Companys pages of the Managers website at www.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
