36 Fidelity European Values PLC | Annual Report 2018 Report of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present the formal report of the Audit Committee the Auditors independence and objectivity with particular the Committee to shareholders.
regard to the provision of non-audit services: The primary responsibilities of the Committee are to ensure Responsibility for making recommendations on the the integrity of the Companys financial reporting, the appointment, reappointment and removal of the Auditor: appropriateness of the risk management and internal controls processes and the effectiveness of the independent audit Reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys risk process and how this has been assessed for the year ended management and internal controls systems including 31December 2018. financial, operational and compliance controls, considering the scope of the work undertaken by the Managers internal Composition audit department and reviewing the Companys procedures The members of the Committee are myself as Chair and all the for detecting fraud: other Directors, except for Vivian Bazalgette who stepped down as a member of the Committee at the end of the reporting year.
Monitoring the integrity of the Companys half-yearly and This is in line with the recommendation in the 2018 UK Corporate annual financial statements to ensure that they are fair, Governance Code.
He will generally be invited to attend future balanced and understandable: Committee meetings.
All Committee members are considered independent non-executive Directors and collectively have Reviewing the existence and performance of all controls sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to discharge operating in the Company, including review of internal their responsibilities fully.
controls reporting of its service providers: and The Committees performance is evaluated annually as part of Reviewing the relationship with and the performance of third the overall Board evaluation process.
party service providers such as the Registrar, Custodian and Depositary.
Role and Responsibilities The Committees authority and duties are clearly defined in its The Committee, on behalf of the Board, has reviewed the work terms of reference which are available on the Companys pages undertaken by the Managers internal audit team and has of the Managers website at: www.
sufficient reassurance that a sound system of internal controls These duties include: is maintained to safeguard shareholders investments and the Companys assets.
Establishing with the Auditor the nature and scope of the audit, reviewing the Auditors quality control procedures and reporting, the effectiveness of the audit process and Meetings and Business Considered Since the date of the last Annual Report 14 March 2018, the Committee has met three times and the Auditor attended two of these meetings.
The following matters were dealt with and reviewed at each Committee meeting: The Companys risk management and internal controls framework: The Companys compliance with its investment policy limits: The Depositarys oversight report: The Companys revenue and expenses forecasts and its Balance Sheet: and The Committees Terms of Reference.
37 Annual Report 2018 | Fidelity European Values PLC In addition, the following matters were also considered at these meetings: The Half-Yearly Report and Financial Statements and recommendation of its approval to July 2018 the Board The Going Concern Statement Cybercrime and cloud and data centre strategy The Auditors engagement letter and audit plan for the Companys year ending 31 December November 2018 2018 Internal Audit reporting, including review of the Internal Audit plan Review of outsourced third party service providers control reports The potential payment of an interim dividend Cybersecurity March 2019 The Auditors findings from the audit of the Company The Auditors performance, independence and reappointment Compliance with Corporate Governance and regulatory requirements The Annual Report and Financial Statements and recommendation of its approval to the Board The Viability and Going Concern Statements The final dividend payment to be recommended to the Board Annual Report and Financial Statements The Annual Report and Financial Statements are the responsibility of the Board and the Statement of Directors Responsibilities is on page 35.
The Committee advises the Board on the form and content of the Annual Report and Financial Statements, any issues which may arise in relation to these and on any specific areas which require judgement.
The Committee members apply their expertise and knowledge in reviewing disclosures made in order to ensure that the Financial Statements are fair, balanced and understandable.
Significant issues considered by the Committee during the year Summarised below are the most significant issues considered by the Committee in respect of these Financial Statements and how these issues were addressed.
Investment Income is recognised in accordance with accounting policy Note 2 e on page 47.
Recognition of The Manager provided detailed revenue forecasts which the Committee reviewed and sought Investment Income explanations for any significant variances to these forecasts.
The Committee also considered the allocation of special dividends between revenue and capital.
The Committee reviewed the internal audit and compliance monitoring reports received from the Manager to satisfy itself that adequate systems were in place for properly recording the Companys investment income.
Investment income was also tested and reported on by the Auditor.
The valuation of investments including derivatives is in accordance with accounting policy Valuation, existence Notes 2 k and 2 l on page 48.
The Committee took comfort from the Depositarys regular and ownership oversight reports that investment related activities were conducted in accordance with the of investments Companys investment policy.
The Committee received reports from the Manager and the including derivative Depositary that the valuation, existence and ownership of investments had been verified.
In addition, the Committee received confirmation from the Auditor that it had tested the valuation investments of the Companys investments and derivatives by reference to independent sources and had also confirmed the existence and ownership of the investments with the Companys Custodian and that of the derivatives with the Companys counterparties.
The Company confirms that it has complied with the September 2014 Competition and Markets Authority Order in relation to the performance and appointment of the Auditor, as set out on the next page.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 38 Fidelity European Values PLC | Annual Report 2018 Report of the Audit Committee continued Independence and Effectiveness of the Audit Process Ernst & Young LLP acted as the Companys Independent Auditor for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Fees paid to the Auditor for the audit of the Companys Financial Statements are disclosed in Note 5 on page 51.
With regard to the independence of the Auditor, the Committee reviewed: The audit plan for the year, including the audit team and approach to significant risks: The Auditors arrangements for managing any conflicts of interest: The extent of any non-audit services : and The statement by the Auditor that it remains independent within the meaning of the regulations and its professional standards.
There were no non-audit services provided to the Company during the reporting year and as at the date of this report.
With regard to the effectiveness of the audit process, the Committee reviewed: The fulfilment by the Auditor of the agreed audit plan: The audit findings report issued by the Auditor on the audit of the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018: and Feedback from the Manager on the audit of the Company.
The Committee concluded that the Auditor continues to remain independent and the audit process remains effective.
Auditors Appointment and Audit Tenure Ernst & Young LLP was appointed as the Companys Auditor on 12 May 2016 following a formal audit tender process in 2015.
The Committee has reviewed the Auditors independence and the effectiveness of the audit process prior to recommending its reappointment for a further year.
The Auditor is required to rotate audit partners every five years and this is the third year that the audit partner, Matthew Price, has been in place.
The Committee will continue to review the Auditors appointment each year to ensure that the Company continues to receive an optimal level of service.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Companys choice of auditor.
Fleur Meijs Chair of the Audit Committee 14 March 2019
