25 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Corporate Governance Statement This Corporate Governance Statement forms part of the Directors Board Responsibilities and Board Meetings Report.
The Company is committed to maintaining high standards The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs of corporate governance.
Accordingly, the Board has put in and for promoting the long-term success of the Company.
All place a framework for corporate governance which it believes is matters which are not delegated to the Companys Investment appropriate for an investment company.
Managers under the Management Agreements are reserved for the Boards decision.
Matters reserved for the Board Corporate Governance Codes and considered at meetings include decisions on strategy, The Board follows the principles of the UK Corporate Governance management, structure, capital, share issues, share repurchases, Code UK Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council the gearing, financial reporting, risk management, investment FRC in 2016 and the AICs Code of Corporate Governance performance, share price discount, corporate governance, Board the AIC Code issued by the Association of Investment appointments, and the appointments of the Investment Managers Companies AIC in 2016.
The FRC has confirmed that and Company Secretary.
The Board also considers shareholder investment companies which report against the AIC Code and issues including communication and investor relations.
which follow the AIC Guide on Corporate Governance will meet their obligations in relation to the UK Code and paragraph 9.8.
6 Other than as previously disclosed in relation to John Ford, of the Listing Rules.
This statement, together with the Statement of all Directors are independent of the Investment Managers Directors Responsibilities on page 32, set out how the principles and considered to be free from any relationship which could have been applied.
materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board follows a procedure of notification of other The AIC Code and the AIC Guide can be found on the AICs interests that may arise as part of considering any potential website at www.
co. uk and the UK Code can be found on conflicts and is satisfied that none has arisen in the year under the FRCs website at www.
Statement of Compliance All Directors are able to allocate sufficient time to the Company The Company has complied with the recommendations of the to discharge their responsibilities fully and effectively.
Each AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Code for the Director is entitled to take independent professional advice, at year under review and up to the date of this report, except in the Companys expense, in the furtherance of their duties.
relation to the UK Code provisions relating to the role of the chief executive, executive directors remuneration, and the need for an The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, discharge its duties effectively and the table on page 26 gives and as explained in the UK Code, the Board considers that these the attendance record for the meetings held during the reporting provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company, as year.
The Portfolio Manager and key representatives of the it is an externally managed investment company and has no Investment Managers are in attendance at these meetings.
executive directors, employees or internal operations.
Between these meetings there is regular contact with the Investment Managers and other meetings are arranged as THE BOARD necessary.
Additionally, Board Committees and sub-groups Board Composition meet to pursue matters referred to them by the Board and the The Board, chaired by Nicholas Bull, consists of six non-executive Chairman is in contact with the other Directors regularly without Directors and will change to five when John Ford steps down at representatives of the Investment Managers being present.
The Directors believe that, between them, they have good knowledge and wide experience of In addition to the formal Board and Committee meetings, the business in China, the Asia Region and of investment companies, Board undertakes an annual due diligence trip to China.
During and that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills, this trip, the Board meets with the management of existing and experience, independence and knowledge of the Company and potential investee companies alongside the Portfolio Manager.
length of service to discharge its duties and provide effective The Board also meets with Fidelitys research and analysts teams.
strategic leadership and proper governance of the Company.
Further information on the most recent trip can be found in the Chairmans Statement on page 3.
Elisabeth Scott is the Senior Independent Director and fulfils the role of sounding board for the Chairman, intermediary for the other Directors as necessary and she acts as a channel of communication for shareholders in the event that contact through the Chairman is inappropriate.
Biographical details of all Directors are on page 21.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 26 | Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance Statement continued Nomination and Audit and Management Regular Remuneration Risk Engagement Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Nicholas Bull 4 4 1 1 3 3 1 1 David Causer 4 4 1 1 3 3 1 1 John Ford 4 4 0 1 n a n a Peter Pleydell-Bouverie 4 4 1 1 3 3 1 1 Elisabeth Scott 4 4 1 1 3 3 1 1 Vera Hong Wei 4 4 1 1 3 3 1 1 Figures indicate those meetings for which each Director was eligible to attend and attended in the year.
Regular Board meetings exclude ad hoc meetings for formal approvals as well as the annual due diligence visit to China.
Company Secretary an externally facilitated evaluation every third year.
Accordingly The Board has access to the advice and services of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2018, the performance and Secretary.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for contribution of the Chairman and each Director was carried ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable out using an external evaluation company, Lintstock Ltd. which rules and regulations are complied with.
had no connection with the Company or the Managers.
It was concluded that the Chairman and each Director had been Changes to the Board effective and continues to demonstrate commitment to their role.
Changes to the Board take place in accordance with the The Company Secretary, the Portfolio Manager and Fidelitys Companies Act 2006, the Companys Articles of Association and Head of Investment Trusts also participated in the evaluation the AIC Code.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee process in order to provide all-round feedback.
The tenure of is responsible for identifying possible candidates, however, any individual Directors is also considered during the evaluation proposal for a new Director is discussed and approved by the process.
Other than every third year when an external evaluation is Director Training undertaken, the Board evaluation process takes the form of Upon appointment, each Director is provided with all relevant written questionnaires and discussions.
The process is considered information regarding the Company and receives an induction to be constructive in terms of identifying areas for improving the on the investment operations and administration functions of functioning and performance of the Board and its Committees the Company, together with a summary of their duties and and action is taken on the basis of the results.
Directors also receive regular briefings from, amongst others, the AIC, the Companys Directors Remuneration and Share Interests Independent Auditor and the Company Secretary, regarding any Details of the Directors remuneration and share interests are proposed developments or changes in law or regulations that disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 30 affect the Company and or the Directors.
Election and Re-Election of Directors BOARD COMMITTEES All newly appointed Directors stand for election by the The Board has four Committees through which it discharges shareholders at the AGM following their appointment by the certain of its corporate governance responsibilities.
As the Company is a constituent member of the FTSE the Audit and Risk Committee, the Investment Committee, the 350 Index, all other Directors are subject to annual re-election.
Management Engagement Committee and the Nomination and Directors standing for re-election at this years AGM are Remuneration Committee.
Terms of reference of each Committee listed with their details on page 21.
The terms and letters of can be found on the Companys pages of the Managers website appointment of Directors are available for inspection at the at www.
registered office of the Company and will be available prior to the AGM.
Audit and Risk Committee The Audit and Risk Committee is chaired by David Causer and Board Evaluation consists of all of the Directors, except John Ford due to his recent An annual evaluation of the Board, its Directors and its employment with FIL.
Full details are disclosed in the Report of Committees is undertaken ahead of each AGM.
As a FTSE 350 the Audit and Risk Committee on pages 33 to 35.
Company and in accordance with Code B.
6.2 of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board is required to carry out 27 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Investment Committee time involved in carrying out their duties effectively.
It also makes The Investment Committee is chaired by Peter Pleydell-Bouverie itself aware of directors fees of other comparable investment and consists of all of the Directors, except John Ford due to his trust companies.
Details of this can be found in The Remuneration recent employment with FIL.
A representative of the Unlisted Policy on page 29.
Investment Manager, with the requisite investment experience, attends the Committee meetings on an advisory basis.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT Financial Reporting The Committee is charged with reviewing and monitoring the Set out on page 32 is a statement by the Directors of their ongoing performance of the investments, discussing with the responsibilities in respect of the preparation of the Annual Report Investment Managers the strategy for the investment portfolios, and Financial Statements.
The Auditor has set out its reporting reviewing all investments including pre-IPO opportunities, and responsibilities within the Independent Auditors Report on pages reporting to the Board on a periodic basis.
The Committee meets when appropriate or as required by the The Board has a responsibility to present a fair, balanced and Chairman of the Committee.
understandable assessment of annual and half-yearly financial statements, other price sensitive public reports and reports to Management Engagement Committee regulators, and to provide information required by statutory The Management Engagement Committee is chaired by Nicholas requirements.
All such reports are reviewed by the Audit and Risk Bull and consists of all of the Directors, except John Ford due to Committee and approved by the Board prior to their issue to his recent employment with FIL.
It meets at least once a year and ensure that this responsibility is fulfilled.
reports to the Board, making recommendations where appropriate.
Risk Management and Internal Controls The Committee is charged with reviewing and monitoring the The Board is responsible for the Companys systems of risk performance of the Investment Managers and for ensuring that management and internal controls and for reviewing their the terms of the Management Agreements remain competitive effectiveness.
The review takes place at least once a year.
Such and reasonable for shareholders.
systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide Ahead of the AGM, the Committee has reviewed the reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material performance of the Investment Managers and the revised fee misstatement or loss.
basis and concluded that it was in the interests of shareholders that the appointments of the Investment Managers should The Board determines the nature and extent of any risks it is continue.
Details of the current and revised fees are in the willing to take in order to achieve its strategic objectives.
It is Directors Report on page 22.
The revised fee structure is also responsible for the design, implementation and maintenance of detailed in the Chairmans Statement on page 4. controls and procedures to safeguard the assets of the Company although these tasks have been delegated on a day-to-day Nomination and Remuneration Committee basis to the Manager.
The system extends to operational and The Nomination and Remuneration Committee is chaired by compliance controls and risk management.
Clear lines of Elisabeth Scott and consists of all of the Directors.
It meets accountability have been established between the Board and at least once a year and reviews the composition, size and the Manager.
The Manager provides regular reports on controls structure of the Board and makes recommendations to the Board and compliance issues to the Audit and Risk Committee and the as appropriate.
It is charged with nominating new Directors Board.
In carrying out its review, the Audit and Risk Committee for consideration by the Board, and in turn for approval by has regard to the activities of the Manager, the Managers shareholders.
The search for a candidate is carried out against compliance and risk functions and the work carried out by the a set of objective criteria, with due regard for the benefits of Companys Auditor.
The review also includes consideration of diversity on the Board, including gender.
New Directors are similar internal controls reports issued by other service providers.
appointed on the basis of merit.
External consultants may be used to identify potential candidates.
The Board, assisted by the Manager has undertaken a rigorous risk and controls assessment.
It confirms that there is an effective The Committee is responsible for succession planning for ongoing process in place to identify, evaluate and manage the Directors appointments.
Companys principal business and operational risks, and that it has been in place throughout the year ended 31 March 2018 The Committee also considers the election and re-election of and up to the date of this report.
This process is in accordance Directors ahead of each AGM.
For the forthcoming AGM, it has with the FRCs Risk Management, Internal Control and Related considered the performance and contribution to the Company Financial Business Reporting guidance.
of each Director and concluded that each Director has been effective and continues to demonstrate commitment to their role.
The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function Accordingly, the Committee has recommended their continued and has determined that the systems and procedures employed service to the Board.
by the Investment Managers, which are subject to inspection by the Managers internal and external audit processes, The Committee also considers the remuneration of the Directors, provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal and takes into account their roles, the responsibilities and the controls is maintained to safeguard shareholders investments INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 28 | Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance Statement continued and the Companys assets.
An internal audit function, specific aware of shareholders concerns and the Chairman, the Senior to the Company, is therefore considered unnecessary.
The Independent Director and, where appropriate, other Directors Audit and Risk Committee meets the Managers internal audit are available to meet with shareholders to discuss strategy representative at least once a year.
It receives a summary of and governance.
The Board regularly monitors the shareholder the Managers externally audited internal controls report on an profile of the Company and receives regular reports from the annual basis.
Manager on meetings attended with shareholders and any concerns raised in such meetings.
The Board aims to provide the Whistle-Blowing Procedure maximum opportunity for dialogue between the Company and Part of the Investment Managers role in ensuring the provision shareholders.
If any shareholder wishes to contact a member of a good service, pursuant to the Management Agreements, of the Board directly, they should either email the Company include the ability for employees of FIL to raise concerns through Secretary at investmenttrusts@fil.
com or write to the address a workplace concerns escalation policy whistle-blowing provided on page 78.
The Company Secretary will attend to procedure.
FIL has advised the Board that it is committed to any enquiries promptly and ensure that they are directed to the providing the highest level of service to its customers and to Chairman, the Senior Independent Director or the Board as a applying the highest standards of quality, honesty, integrity and whole, as appropriate.
The aim of the policy is to encourage employees and others working for FIL to assist the Company in tackling fraud, The Board encourages all shareholders to attend the AGM on corruption and other malpractice within the organisation and 25 July 2018 at which they will have the opportunity to meet in setting standards of ethical conduct.
This policy has been and address questions to the Chairman and other members endorsed accordingly by the Board.
of the Board, the Portfolio Manager and representatives of the Investment Managers and Manager.
Bribery Act 2010 The Company is committed to carrying out business fairly, The Notice of Meeting on pages 69 to 71 sets out the business honestly and openly.
The Board recognises the benefits this has of the AGM and the special business resolutions are explained to reputation and business confidence.
The Board, the Investment more fully on page 24 of the Directors Report.
A separate Managers, the Managers employees and others acting on the resolution is proposed on each substantially separate issue Companys behalf, are expected to demonstrate high standards including the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The Notice of behaviour when conducting business.
of the AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the Meeting.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the implementation and oversight of the Companys procedures for preventing Voting rights in the Companys shares bribery, and the governance framework for training, Every person entitled to vote on a show of hands has one vote.
communication, monitoring, reporting and escalation of On a poll every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy compliance together with enforcing action as appropriate.
The or representative has one vote for every ordinary share held.
At Board has adopted a zero tolerance policy in this regard.
general meetings all proxy votes are counted and, except where a poll is called, proxy voting is reported for each resolution after Criminal Finances Act 2017 it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
The proxy voting The Board has considered the recent changes made by the results are disclosed on the Companys page of the Managers Criminal Finances Act 2017 which introduced a new corporate website at www.
criminal offence of failing to take reasonable steps to prevent the facilitation of tax evasion.
The Company maintains a zero Articles of Association tolerance policy towards the provision of illegal services, Any changes to the Companys Articles of Association must be including the facilitation of tax evasion.
Responsibility as an Institutional Shareholder On behalf of the Board The Board has adopted the Managers Principles of Ownership in relation to investments.
These Principles include the pursuit On behalf of the Board of an active investment policy through portfolio management decisions, voting on resolutions at general meetings and maintaining a continuing dialogue with the management of Nicholas Bull investee companies.
Fidelity is a signatory to the UK Stewardship Chairman Code setting out the responsibilities of institutional shareholders 11 June 2018 and agents.
Further details of the Managers Principles of Ownership and voting may be found at www.
Relations with Shareholders Communication with shareholders is given a high priority by the Board and it liaises with the Manager and the Companys broker who are in regular contact with the Companys major institutional investors to canvass shareholder opinion and to communicate its views to shareholders.
