33 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Report of the Audit and Risk Committee I am pleased to present the formal report of the Audit and Risk the Auditors independence and objectivity with particular Committee Committee to shareholders.
regard to the provision of non-audit services: The primary responsibilities of the Committee are to ensure Responsibility for making recommendations on the the integrity of the Companys financial reporting, the appointment, reappointment and removal of the Auditor: appropriateness of the risk management and internal controls processes and the effectiveness of the independent audit process Reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys risk and how this has been assessed for the year ended 31 March management and internal control systems including 2018. financial, operational and compliance controls, considering the scope of the work undertaken by the Managers internal Composition audit department and reviewing the Companys procedures The members of the Committee are myself as Chairman, for detecting fraud: Nicholas Bull, Peter Pleydell-Bouverie, Elisabeth Scott and Vera Hong Wei.
Nicholas Bull is a member of the Committee because Monitoring the integrity of the Companys half-yearly and the Board believes it to be appropriate for all independent annual financial statements to ensure they are fair, balanced Directors to have such responsibility.
The Committee considers and understandable: that collectively its members have sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to discharge their responsibilities fully.
Reviewing the existence and performance of all controls operating in the Company, including the review of internal The Committees performance is evaluated annually as part of controls reporting of its service providers: and the overall Board evaluation process.
Reviewing the relationship with and the performance of third Role and Responsibilities party service providers such as the Registrar, Custodian and The Committees authority and duties are clearly defined in its Depositary.
terms of reference which are available on the Companys pages of the Managers website at www.
The Committee, on behalf of the Board, has reviewed the work These duties include: undertaken by the Managers internal audit team and has sufficient reassurance that a sound system of internal controls Establishing with the Auditor the nature and scope of the is maintained to safeguard shareholders investments and the audit, reviewing the Auditors quality control procedures Companys assets.
and reporting, the effectiveness of the audit process and Meetings and Business Considered Since the date of the last Annual Report 9 June 2017, the Committee has met three times and the Auditor attended two of these meetings.
The following matters were reviewed at each Committee meeting: The Companys risk management and internal controls framework: The performance fee calculations: The Companys compliance with its investment policy limits: The fair value process of investments: The Depositarys Oversight Report: The Companys revenue and expenses forecasts and its Balance Sheet: and The Committees Terms of Reference.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 34 | Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2018 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee continued In addition, the following matters were considered at these meetings: The Half-Yearly Report and Financial Statements and recommendation of its approval to November 2017 the Board The Going Concern Statement The Auditors engagement letter and audit plan for the Companys year ending 31 March 2018 February 2018 Impact of a variable management fee proposal on the Companys earnings per share Potential dividend payment for the year ending 31 March 2018 The Auditors findings from the audit of the Company June 2018 The Auditors performance, independence and reappointment Compliance with Corporate Governance and regulatory requirements The Annual Report and Financial Statements and recommendation of its approval to the Board The Viability and Going Concern Statements The final dividend payment to be recommended to the Board Annual Report and Financial Statements The Annual Report and Financial Statements are the responsibility of the Board and the Statement of Directors Responsibilities is on page 32.
The Committee advises the Board on the form and content of the Annual Report and Financial Statements, and on any issues which may arise in relation to these and any specific areas which require judgement.
The Committee members apply their expertise and knowledge in reviewing disclosures made in order to ensure that the Financial Statements are fair, balanced and understandable.
Significant Issues considered by the Audit Committee Summarised below are the most significant issues considered by the Committee in respect of these Financial Statements and how these were addressed.
Investment income is recognised in accordance with accounting policy Note 2 f on page 47.
Recognition of The Manager provided detailed revenue forecasts which the Committee reviewed and sought Investment Income explanations for any significant variances to these forecasts.
The Committee reviewed the internal audit and compliance monitoring reports received from the Manager to satisfy itself that adequate systems were in place for properly recording the Companys investment income.
Investment income was also tested and reported on by the Auditor.
The valuation of investments including derivatives is in accordance with accounting policy Valuation, existence Notes 2 l and 2 m on pages 48 and 49.
The Committee took comfort from the Depositarys and ownership regular oversight reports that investment related activities are conducted in accordance with of investments the Companys investment policy.
The Committee received reports from the Manager and including derivatives Depositary that the valuation, existence and ownership of investments had been verified.
In addition, the Committee received confirmation from the Auditor that it has tested the valuation and other unlisted of the Companys investments and derivatives by reference to independent sources and had investments also confirmed the existence and ownership of the Companys investments with the Companys Custodian and that of the derivatives with the Companys counterparties.
The valuation of the Companys unlisted investments are proposed by the Managers Fair Value Committee FVC and reviewed by the Committee.
It receives reporting from the FVC and determines the proposed valuation methodologies for all unlisted investments.
At each Committee meeting, the Manager reports any performance fee accruals that have been Performance fee included in the Companys NAV and confirm that it has been calculated in accordance with the calculation Management Agreements.
These performance fee accruals are reviewed by the Committee.
It also receives reporting on the work carried out by the Auditor that the Companys performance fee has been calculated in accordance with the terms of the Management Agreements.
The Company confirms that it has complied with the September 2014 Competition and Markets Authority Order as set out below in relation to the performance and appointment of the Auditor.
35 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Financial Reporting Council FRC Auditors Appointment and Audit Tenure During the year, the Company had correspondence with Ernst & Young LLP was appointed as the Companys Auditor the FRCs Conduct Committee in relation to its review of the on 30 November 2015 following a formal audit tender process.
Companys Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017.
The Committee has reviewed the Auditors independence and The Conduct Committee confirmed to us that it had no questions the effectiveness of the audit process prior to recommending its or queries to raise but suggested a small number of areas where reappointment for a further year.
The Auditor is required to rotate they believed shareholders may benefit from improvements audit partners every five years and this is the third year that the to existing disclosures with respect to the use of alternative audit partner, Matthew Price, has been in place.
The Committee performance measures and the disclosures relating to the will continue to review the Auditors appointment each year to Companys unlisted investments.
These comments have been ensure that the Company is receiving an optimal level of service.
considered during the preparation of the Annual Report for the There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Companys year ended 31March2018.
Independence and Effectiveness of the Audit Process David Causer Ernst & Young LLP acted as the Companys Auditor for the year Chairman of the Audit Committee ended 31 March 2018.
Fees paid to the Auditor for the audit of 11 June 2018 the Companys Financial Statements are disclosed in Note 5 on page 51.
With regard to the independence of the Auditor, the Committee reviewed: The audit plan for the year, including the audit team and approach to significant risks: The Auditors arrangements for managing any conflicts of interest: The extent of any non-audit services : and The statement by the Auditor that it remains independent within the meaning of the regulations and their professional standards.
There were no non-audit services provided to the Company during the reporting year and as at the date of this report.
With regard to the effectiveness of the audit process, the Committee reviewed: The fulfilment by the Auditor of the agreed audit plan: The audit findings report issued by the Auditor on the audit of the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2018: and Feedback from the Manager on the audit of the Company.
The Committee concluded that the Auditor continues to remain independent and the audit process remains effective.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
