38 | Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2018 Report of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present the formal report of the Audit Committee Role and Responsibilities of the Audit Committee the Committee to Shareholders.
The Committees authority and duties are defined in its terms of reference, which were reviewed during the year and are The primary responsibilities of the Committee are to ensure available on the Companys pages of the Managers website the integrity of the Companys financial reporting, the www.
The principal activities appropriateness of the risk management and internal controls carried out during the year were: processes and the effectiveness of the independent audit process for the year ended 31 August 2018.
This report details how we Financial reporting: we considered the Companys carry out this role.
financial reports, including the significant accounting issues and the appropriateness of the accounting policies adopted.
Composition and Meetings We considered and are satisfied that, taken as a whole, the The members of the Committee are myself as Chairman, Dean 2018 Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable Buckley and Nigel Foster.
Andy Irvine is not a member of the and provides the information necessary for Shareholders to Committee but is invited to attend the Committee meetings.
All assess the Companys performance, business model and Committee members are independent Non-Executive Directors, strategy: and their skills and experience are set out on page 26.
The Committee considers that collectively the members have sufficient Internal audit: we considered the scope of the internal recent and relevant sector and financial experience to fully audit of the Manager and the subsequent findings from discharge their responsibilities.
this work, receiving regular reports from the internal audit function of the Manager.
The Committee also monitored The Committee met three times during this reporting year.
The progress in the implementation of the Managers internal Committee invites the Companys Auditor and personnel from the audit recommendations: Managers financial, risk and internal audit functions to attend and report to the Committee on relevant matters.
During the year, Risk and internal control: we dedicated a full Committee I also met privately with the Auditor and a representative from meeting to the consideration of the key risks facing the the Managers risk function to give them an opportunity to raise Company and the adequacy and effectiveness of the any issues without management present.
After each Committee internal controls and risk management processes: and meeting, I report to the Board on the main items discussed at the meeting.
External Auditor: we considered the independence, effectiveness and fees of the Auditor, as detailed later in Ahead of each AGM, the Committees performance is evaluated this report.
as part of the overall Board evaluation as reported on page 32.
Significant issues considered by the Committee during the year The Annual Report and Financial Statements are the responsibility of the Board and the Statement of Directors Responsibilities can be found on page 37.
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the form and content of the Annual Report and Financial Statements, any issues which may arise in relation to these and any specific areas which require judgement.
Summarised below are the most significant issues considered by the Committee in respect of these Financial Statements, and how these issues were addressed.
Investment income is recognised in accordance with accounting policy Note 2 e on page 48.
Recognition of The Manager provided detailed revenue forecasts which the Committee reviewed and sought Investment Income explanations for any significant variances to these forecasts.
The Committee also considered the allocation of special dividends between revenue and capital.
The Committee reviewed internal audit and compliance monitoring reports received from the Manager to satisfy itself that adequate systems were in place for properly recording the Companys investment income.
Investment income was also tested and reported on by the Auditor.
39 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity Special Values PLC The valuation of investments including derivatives is in accordance with accounting policy Valuation, existence Notes 2 k and 2 l on pages 49 and 50.
The Committee took comfort from the Depositarys and ownership regular oversight reports that investment related activities were conducted in accordance with of investments the Companys investment policy.
The Committee received reports from the Manager and the including derivatives Depositary that the valuation, existence and ownership of investments had been verified.
In addition, the Committee received confirmation from the Auditor that it had tested the valuation and unlisted of the Companys investments and derivatives by reference to independent sources and had investments also confirmed the existence and ownership of the investments with the Companys Custodian and that of the derivatives with the Companys counterparties.
Unlisted investments are appraised by Fidelitys Fair Value Pricing FFVP Committee in accordance with UK GAAP and International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines.
The Committee receives information from the FFVP Committee and reviews and approves the proposed valuation methodologies for all unlisted investments.
Independence and Effectiveness of the Audit Process Auditors Appointment and Audit Tenure Ernst & Young LLP acted as the Companys Independent Auditor Ernst & Young LLP was appointed as the Companys Auditor on for the year ended 31 August 2018.
Fees paid to the Auditor for 30 November 2015 following a formal audit tender process in the audit of the Companys Financial Statements are disclosed in 2015.
The Committee reviewed the Auditors independence and Note 5 on page 52. the effectiveness of the audit process prior to recommending its reappointment for a further year.
The Auditor is required to rotate With regard to the independence of the Auditor, the Committee audit partners every five years and this is the third year that the reviewed: audit partner, Matthew Price, has been in place.
The Committee will continue to review the Auditors appointment each year to The audit plan for the year, including the audit team and ensure that the Company continues to receive an optimal level approach to significant risks: of service.
There are no contractual obligations that restricts the Companys choice of auditor.
The Auditors arrangements for any conflicts of interest: Sharon Brown The extent of any non-audit services : and Chairman of the Audit Committee 31 October 2018 The statement by the Auditor that it remains independent within the meaning of the regulations and their professional standards.
There were no non-audit services provided to the Company during the reporting year and as at the date of this report.
With regard to the effectiveness of the audit process, the Committee reviewed: The fulfilment by the Auditor of the agreed audit plan: The audit findings report issued by the Auditor on the audit of the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 August 2018: and Feedback from the Manager on the audit of the Company.
The Committee concluded that the Auditor continues to remain independent and the audit process remains effective.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
