30 | Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance Statement Corporate governance is the process by which the board The Corporate Governance Policies and Modus Operandi of of directors of a company look after shareholders interests Fidelity Special Values PLC and by which it endeavours to enhance those interests often The corporate governance of any investment company, while referred to as shareholder value.
Shareholders hold the following the guidelines of the AIC Code, will vary in certain Directors responsible for the stewardship of a companys affairs, respects depending on its own circumstances.
The Board of delegating authority to the Directors to manage the Company on Fidelity Special Values PLC has considered its own circumstances their behalf and holding them accountable for its performance.
and determined its own corporate governance policies and modus operandi.
This report, which forms part of the Directors Report, explains how the Directors of Fidelity Special Values PLC deal with that In this section we have outlined the corporate governance responsibility, authority and accountability.
policies and modus operandi through the following three aspects of corporate governance: Responsibility, Authority and Corporate Governance Codes Accountability.
It is first of all important that Shareholders have The Board follows the principles of the UK Corporate Governance confidence in the Board of Directors, whom they hold responsible Code the UK Code issued by the Financial Reporting and accountable for the Companys affairs.
Council the FRC in 2016 and the AICs Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code issued by the Association of In determining the guidelines for the composition of the Board, Investment Companies the AIC in 2016.
The FRC has the Directors believe that there should be a clear majority of confirmed that investment companies which report against Board members including the Chairman, who are independent the AIC Code and which follow the AIC Guide on Corporate of management, and that within the Board there is understanding Governance will meet their obligations under the UK Code and and experience of investment management, investment company paragraph 9.8.
This statement, together with management, the investment objective of the Company, the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 37, set out marketing, general business experience and finally of Fidelitys how the principles have been applied.
investment philosophy and its operations.
The AIC Code and the AIC Guide can be found on the AICs The Directors recognise that any individual employed by or website at www.
co. uk and the UK Code on the FRCs materially associated with the Manager cannot be regarded as website at www.
Consequently, at any given time there has only ever been one Fidelity member serving as a Director on the Board.
Statement of Compliance Details of the Directors current business associations are set out The Company has complied with the recommendations of the on page 26.
All of the independent Directors are considered AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Code for the to be free from any business or other relationship which could year under review and up to the date of this report, except in materially interfere with the exercise of their independent relation to the UK Code provisions relating to the role of the chief judgement.
In addition, all Directors are able to allocate sufficient executive: executive directors remuneration: and the need for an time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities fully and internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, effectively.
The Board follows a procedure of notification of any and as explained in the UK Code, the Board considers that these interests that may arise as part of considering any potential provisions are not relevant to the position of Fidelity Special conflicts.
Values PLC, as it is an externally managed investment company and has no executive directors, employees or internal operations.
All of the Directors are Non-Executive.
Each Directors individual independence, including that of the Chairman, has been The Corporate Governance of an Investment Trust Company assessed and confirmed, taking into consideration: The corporate governance of most investment companies is different from most other commercial companies in one important integrity, commitment, intelligent challenge: respect: they do not employ their own people as management but instead the services of a fund management company.
This independence of mind and character: affects the way investment companies are governed but not the purpose of their governance.
Given that the Managers business experience and knowledge of investment trusts, of the is not dedicated solely to the interests of investment companies investment business generally and of Fidelity: and their Shareholders, investment company boards must be largely independent of management.
However, it must have financial literacy: knowledge and experience of both fund management and investment company management.
Fidelity Special Values PLC conflicts of interest: and was established and is managed and promoted by its Manager, which is therefore one of the main reasons some Shareholders performance as a Director.
choose to invest in the Companys shares.
It follows that it is an important aspect of the corporate governance of Fidelity Special Values PLC that its Manager should be party to the responsibility, authority and accountability to those investing in their management.
31 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity Special Values PLC Management Regular Nomination Audit Engagement Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Andy Irvine 5 5 1 1 n a 1 1 Sharon Brown 4 5 1 1 3 3 1 1 Dean Buckley 5 5 1 1 3 3 1 1 Nigel Foster 5 5 1 1 3 3 1 1 Nicky McCabe 5 5 1 1 n a n a Figures indicate those meetings for which each Director was eligible to attend and attended in the year.
Regular Board meetings exclude ad hoc meetings for formal approvals.
The Board considers the tenure of each Director annually.
and made by the Directors, including the payment of dividends, A Director may serve more than nine years, provided that the share issue and share repurchase guidelines and the such Director is considered by the Board to continue to be derivatives and gearing policies.
independent and provides experience that remains relevant.
In addition, the Board decided in 2004 that each Director is subject In structuring Board meetings, the Directors try to concentrate to annual re-election by Shareholders.
as much as possible of their regular Board meetings on i investment matters including strategy, investment policy, gearing The Board meets regularly to discharge its duties effectively and and derivatives policies, portfolio and stock reviews, portfolio the table above gives the attendance record for the meetings turnover, monitoring performance etc : and ii Shareholder value held during the reporting year.
matters including monitoring the discount, share issues and share repurchases and the marketing of the Fidelity Platform Responsibility Investors.
The Chairman is responsible for the promotion of a The responsibilities delegated by Shareholders to the Board of culture of openness and debate, for ensuring that the Directors Directors include: receive accurate, timely and clear information and for ensuring that there is adequate time available for the discussion of 1.
The stewardship and monitoring of the affairs of the Company, agenda items, particularly strategic issues.
which includes the management of risk and the monitoring of the controls at work in the Company: The Board meets regularly with the Companys Broker to discuss Shareholder value and investor relation matters.
The promotion of the Companys prosperity so as to meets with the larger Shareholders on a regular basis and endeavour to maximise Shareholder value in the long term, reports back to the Board on those meetings.
The Chairman which includes the responsibility for the appropriateness of also attends some of these meetings.
Key representatives of the the Companys investment objective, investment strategy and Manager attend each Board meeting, enabling the Board to investment performance and for the Companys efforts in discuss business matters further.
seeking to minimise the level and the volatility of the discount or premium at which the shares may sell in relation to the net The Board discharges certain of its corporate governance asset value: and responsibilities through three Committees as set out below and on page 32.
Written terms of reference of each Committee are 3.
Making recommendations to Shareholders for their available on the Companys pages of the Managers website at consideration at Annual General Meetings on matters not www.
delegated to the Board, which include the approval of the annual financial statements, the election and re-election of The Audit Committee Directors and the appointment of the Independent Auditor.
The Audit Committee consists of Sharon Brown as Chairman, Dean Buckley and Nigel Foster.
Full details of the Audit Authority Committee are disclosed in the Report of the Audit Committee on The Board is furnished by Shareholders with the authority to pages 38 and 39. manage the Company on their behalf, in order to discharge the responsibilities outlined above.
The Board, being independent of The Management Engagement Committee the Manager by majority, carries out its duties through Board The Management Engagement Committee is chaired by Andy meetings and Board appointed Committee meetings.
The most Irvine and consists of all the Directors except Nicky McCabe important aspect of Directors duties concerns the management due to her past connection with Fidelity.
It meets at least once a of the Companys portfolio of assets and of the risk profile of its year and reports to the Board, making recommendations where balance sheet.
While the day-to-day investment management is appropriate.
It is charged with reviewing and monitoring the performance of the Manager and for ensuring that the terms of delegated to the Manager, there are certain decisions retained INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 32 | Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance Statement continued the Companys Management Agreement remains competitive on the basis of the results.
As a consequence of this process, and reasonable for Shareholders.
the Board has decided not to undertake an externally facilitated evaluation.
Ahead of the AGM, the Committee has reviewed the performance of the Manager and the fee basis and also that of Accountability its peers.
Following the review of the fee, a new fee arrangement, Given that the Shareholders entrust the Board of Directors with effective from 1 September 2018 is in place, details of which the management of the Companys affairs, it is necessary that are in the Chairmans Statement on page 3.
The Committee the Board accounts for itself to Shareholders.
The process of noted the Companys good long term performance record and accountability involves providing all the necessary information for the commitment, quality and continuity of the team responsible Shareholders to make judgements about the Boards stewardship for the Company, and concluded that it was in the interests and performance through a full and informative annual financial of Shareholders that the appointment of the Manager should report, a half-yearly financial report, the presentation of the continue.
Companys results and future prospects at the AGM and accessibility to the Board at any time via the Company Secretary.
The Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is chaired by Andy Irvine and consists The AGM is the occasion when the Board accounts for itself of all the Directors.
It meets at least once a year and reviews in a public meeting.
It regards any bona fide issue that any the composition, size and structure of the Board.
The Committee Shareholder raises as one that should be put to all Shareholders is responsible for succession planning and it is charged with at the AGM so that all those attending can hear any concerns nominating new Directors for consideration by the Board, and in expressed in an open forum and make their own judgement.
turn for approval by Shareholders.
The AGM provides Shareholders with an opportunity to vote on certain issues that are not ultimately delegated to the Board.
In respect of new Directors, the Board believes that it is important This includes the election and re-election of Directors every year in the search for and recommendation of a candidate to the in addition to the normal matters of approving the financial Board that it is controlled by the independent Directors who form statements, the appointment of the Independent Auditor, the the majority of this Committee.
The Committee carries out its issue of new shares and the repurchase of shares.
Your Board candidate search from the widest possible pool of talent against has an established policy that enables Shareholders to decide a set of objective criteria on the basis of merit, with due regard whether they wish to continue the Companys existence by putting for the benefits of diversity, including gender, on the Board.
a continuation vote before the Shareholders at every third AGM.
The next vote will be at the AGM in 2019.
Upon appointment, each Director is provided with all relevant information regarding the Company and receives an induction Directors Remuneration on the investment operation and administration functions of The level of Directors fees is determined by the Board as a the Company, together with a summary of their duties and whole.
Full details are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration responsibilities.
Directors are encouraged to keep up to date Report on pages 34 and 35. and attend training courses on matters which are directly relevant to their involvement with the Company.
They also receive Senior Independent Director regular briefings from, amongst others, the AIC, the Independent The Board has appointed Sharon Brown as Senior Independent Auditor and the Company Secretary, regarding any proposed Director.
She fulfils the role as a sounding board for the developments or changes in law or regulations that could affect Chairman, an intermediary for the other Non-Executive Directors the Company and or the Directors.
as necessary, and to act as a channel of communication for Shareholders in the event that contact through the Chairman is The Committee also considers the re-election of Directors inappropriate.
It has considered the performance and contribution of each Director and has recommended their The Company Secretary continued service to the Company.
This has been endorsed The Board has access to the advice and services of the Company by the Board which recommends their reappointment by Secretary.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for Shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
The terms and conditions ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable of appointment of Directors are available for inspection at the rules and regulations are complied with.
The Directors also have registered office of the Company and will be available prior to the ability to take independent professional advice, if necessary, the next AGM.
Ahead of each AGM, an evaluation of the Board and its Supply of Information Committees takes place in the form of a written questionnaire The Board meeting papers are the key source of regular and one to one discussions.
The performance of the Chairman information for the Board, the contents of which are determined is evaluated by the other Directors.
The Company Secretary and by the Board and contain sufficient information on the financial Manager also participate in the evaluation process to provide condition of the Company.
The Board receives this information all round feedback to the Board.
The process is considered to in a timely manner and of a quality appropriate to enable it to be constructive in terms of identifying areas for improving the discharge its duties.
functioning and performance of the Board and action is taken 33 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity Special Values PLC Risk Management and Internal Controls Bribery Act 201 0 The Board is responsible for the Companys systems of risk The Company is committed to carrying out business fairly, management and of internal controls and for reviewing their honestly and openly.
The Board recognises the benefits this has effectiveness.
The review takes place at least once a year.
Such to reputation and business confidence.
The Board, the Manager, systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk the Managers employees and others acting on the Companys of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide behalf, are expected to demonstrate high standards of behaviour reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material when conducting business.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the implementation The Board determines the nature and extent of any risks it is and oversight of the Companys procedures for preventing willing to take in order to achieve its strategic objectives.
It is bribery, and the governance framework for training, responsible for the design, implementation and maintenance communication, monitoring, reporting and escalation of of controls and procedures to safeguard the assets of the compliance together with enforcing action as appropriate.
The Company although these tasks have been delegated on a dayBoard has adopted a zero tolerance policy in this regard.
to-day basis to the Manager.
The system extends to operational and compliance controls and risk management.
Clear lines of Criminal Finances Act 201 7 accountability have been established between the Board and The Company is subject to the Criminal Finances Act 2017 and the Manager.
The Manager provides regular reports on controls follows a zero tolerance policy to tax evasion and its facilitation.
and compliance issues to the Audit Committee and the Board.
The Directors are fully committed to complying with all legislation In carrying out its review, the Audit Committee has regard to and appropriate guidelines designed to prevent tax evasion the activities of the Manager, the Managers compliance and and the facilitation of tax evasion in the jurisdictions in which risk functions and the Independent Auditor and also includes the Company, its service providers, counterparties and business consideration of internal controls of similar reports issued by the partners operate.
On behalf of the Board The Board, assisted by the Manager, has undertaken a rigorous risk and controls assessment.
It confirms that this is an effective ongoing process in order to identify, evaluate and manage the Companys principal business and operational risks, and that it has been in place throughout the year ended 31 August 2018 and up to the date of this report.
This process is in accordance with the FRCs Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Andy Irvine Financial and Business Reporting guidance.
Chairman 31 October 2018 The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function and has determined that the systems and procedures employed by the Manager, which are subject to inspection by the Managers internal and external audit processes, provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal controls is maintained to safeguard Shareholders investments and the Companys assets.
An internal audit function, specific to the Company, is therefore considered unnecessary.
The Audit Committee meets the Managers internal audit representative at least once a year.
It receives a summary of the Managers externally audited internal controls report on an annual basis.
Whistle-Blowing Procedure Part of the Managers role in ensuring the provision of a good service pursuant to the Management Agreement, includes the ability for employees of Fidelity to raise concerns through a workplace concerns escalation policy or whistle-blowing procedure.
Fidelity has advised the Board that it is committed to providing the highest level of service to its customers and to applying the highest standards of quality, honesty, integrity and probity.
The aim of the policy is to encourage employees and others working for Fidelity to assist the Company in tackling fraud, corruption and other malpractice within the organisation and in setting standards of ethical conduct.
This policy has been endorsed accordingly by the Board.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
