Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 24 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2018 Governance Audit Committee Report I am pleased to present the Audit Committees Report for the 4.
To recommend the appointment of external year ended 30 September 2018.
Auditors and agree the scope of their work and their remuneration, reviewing their independence and the Role and Composition effectiveness of the audit process.
The Audit Committee Committee comprises all the 5.
To consider any non-audit work to be carried out by Directors of the Company.
The Committee reviews the need for non-audit services in accordance with the Companys The role of the Committee is to ensure that shareholder non-audit services policy, and authorises such on a interests are properly protected in relation to the application case by case basis having given consideration to the of financial reporting and internal control principles and to cost effectiveness of the services and the objectivity assess the effectiveness of the audit.
The Committees role and of the Auditors.
The Auditors carried out no nonresponsibilities are set out in full in its terms of reference which audit work during the year.
are available on the Companys website www.
A summary of the Committees main responsibilities and how it Meetings and business has fulfilled them is set out below.
Representatives of the AIFM, Frostrow, attended each of the The Committee, as a whole, has competence relevant to the Committees meetings and reported as to the proper conduct investment trust sector with Committee members having a of business in accordance with the regulatory environment in range of financial and investment experience.
The requirement which the Company and the AIFM operate.
The Committee for at least one member of the Committee to have recent and also met the Auditors twice during the year and once, relevant experience is satisfied by myself being a chartered following completion of the audit, without representatives of accountant and having spent my career in the audit and the AIFM being present.
The following matters were dealt with at these meetings: The Committee met twice during the financial year.
Typically December 2017: there are three meetings and the third meeting this year took Consideration and review of the annual results and the place in early October, immediately after the financial year Auditors report to the Committee end.
Meeting attendance is shown on page 20.
Approval of the annual report and financial statements Review of the Companys risk management process Responsibilities Review of the Companys anti-bribery and corruption policy As Chairman of the Committee I can confirm that the and the measures put in place by its key service providers Committees main responsibilities during the year were: May 2018: 1.
To review the Companys half year and annual Review of the Committees terms of reference and audit financial statements together with announcements tender guidelines in light of the new ethical standards and other filings relating to the financial performance Consideration and review of the half year report and of the Company and issuance of the Companys financial statements shares.
In particular, the Committee considered Approval of the half year report whether the financial statements were fair, balanced and understandable, allowing shareholders to assess Review of the Companys risk management process the Companys strategy, investment policy, business Review of the relevant internal controls of its key service model, financial performance and financial position at providers each period end.
October 2018: Approval of the Auditors engagement letter and review 2.
To review the risk management and internal control of their plan for the 2018 audit processes of the Company and its key service Review of the Companys risk management process providers.
As part of this review the Committee reviewed the appropriateness of the Companys antiReview of the Companys policy for non-audit services bribery and corruption policy.
During the year the Review of the Companys policies in respect of whistle Committee also reviewed the internal controls in blowing, anti slavery, prevention of the facilitation of tax place at the Companys AIFM, its Portfolio Manager, evasion and anti-bribery and corruption, together with the its Registrar and its Depositary.
procedures for the detection of fraud and cyber security and the measures for these put in place by its key service 3.
To ensure Compliance with Section 1158 of the providers Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The Committee sought confirmation that the Company continues to meet the regulatory requirements.
Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 25 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2018 Governance Audit Committee Report Internal audit Financial Statements Since the company delegates its day to day operations to third The Financial Statements, and the Annual Report as a whole, are parties and has no employees, the Committee again the responsibility of the Board.
The Directors Responsibility determined that there is no requirement for such a function.
Statement is contained on page 32.
The Board looks to the Committee to advise them in relation to the Financial Internal Controls and Risk Management Statements both as regards their form and content, and on any The Directors have identified Strategic Report pages 16 to 18 specific areas requiring judgement.
six main areas of risk: Corporate Strategy, Investment Strategy and Activity, Shareholder Relations and Corporate Reporting Matters Governance, Operational, Financial, Accounting and Legal and Although the Committee did not identify any significant issues Regulatory.
They have set out the actions taken to evaluate as part of its review of the Annual Report and Financial and manage these risks.
The Committee reviews the various Statements, it paid particular attention to: actions taken and satisfies itself that they are sufficient: in Accounting Policies particular the Committee reviews the Companys schedule of The accounting policies, as set out on pages 37 to 39, have key risks at each meeting and requires amendments to both been applied throughout the year.
In light of there being no risks and mitigating actions if necessary.
unusual transactions during the year or other possible reasons, During the year the Committee considered whether Brexit the Committee found no reasons to change any of the policies.
poses potential risks to the Company.
It does not consider that Existence of investments Brexit has affected the risk profile of the Company but will During the year the Committee met with representatives of the continue to monitor developments and reassess the Depositary who provided reassurance concerning the Companys risks accordingly.
safekeeping of the companys investments.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys risk Valuation of Investments management and systems of internal controls and for The Committee reviewed the robustness of the AIFMs reviewing their effectiveness.
In common with the majority of processes in place for recording investment transactions as investment trusts, investment management, accounting, well as ensuring the valuation of investments is in accordance company secretarial and custodial services have been with the adopted accounting policies.
The effectiveness of the internal Recognition of Revenue from Investments controls is assessed on a continuing basis by the AIFM, the The Committee received assurance that all dividends Portfolio Manager and the Depositary.
Each maintains its own receivable, including special dividends, had been accounted systems and the Committee receives regular reports from for appropriately.
The Committee is satisfied that appropriate systems have been in place for the year under review.
Interest in unquoted investment The Committee reviewed the valuation methodology of the Companys partnership interest in Frostrow Capital LLP.
The External Auditors valuation, based upon the average of a discounted multiple of Meetings: revenues and price earnings multiple, was accepted.
This year the nature and scope of the audit together with Going Concern  LLPs audit plan were reviewed by the Having received the Companys financial position, the Committee on 10 October 2018.
Company Committee satisfied itself that it is appropriate for I, together with three other Committee members, met the the Board to present the financial statements on the going Audit Partner, Mr Alex Bertolotti, and his Senior Audit Manager concern basis.
on 19November 2018 to discuss the audit and the draft 2018 Long Term Viability Annual Report and financial statements.
The Committee then The Committee satisfied itself that it is appropriate for the met on 11December 2018 to review the outcome of the audit, Board to make the statement on pages 14 and 15 that they again with Mr Bertolotti and his Senior Audit Manager.
have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able Details of the fees paid to the Auditors for audit services are to continue its operations over the next five years.
set out in note 4 to the Financial Statements on page 39.
FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 26 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2018 Governance Audit Committee Report Independence and Effectiveness: Auditor Tendering In order to fulfil the Committees responsibility regarding the  LLP were appointed as Auditors of independence of the Auditors, the Committee reviewed: the Company in June 2014, which was the last occasion an the senior audit personnel in the audit plan, audit tender was held.
Formal audit tender guidelines have been adopted to govern an audit tender process and these the Auditors arrangements concerning potential will be reviewed annually.
conflicts of interest, the statement by the Auditors that they remain In accordance with legislation requiring the Companys existing independent within the meaning of the regulations and audit partner to rotate after five years, this years audit will be their professional standards, and Mr Alex Bertolottis last audit.
the extent of any non-audit services in line with the Mr Jeremy Jensen will be replacing Mr Bertolotti for the year Companys policy.
In order to consider the effectiveness of the audit process, the In accordance with EU Audit Regulations the Company will Committee reviewed: need to re-tender for new auditors at least every 10 years.
In the the Auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan, meantime, the Committee will continue to carry out an annual assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit process.
A the report arising from the audit itself, and post audit assessment was completed during the year to assess feedback from the AIFM on the conduct of the audit.
the quality of the 2017 audit and concluded that performance The Committee satisfied itself concerning the Auditors was satisfactory and there were no grounds for change.
independence and the effectiveness of the audit process, together with the degree of diligence and professional Auditor Re-appointment scepticism brought to bear.
 LLP have carried out the audit for the The Committee is aware of developments in best practice with years ended 30 September 2014 to 2018 and have been regards to non-audit services and in particular the EU Revised considered to be independent by the Committee.
FRC Ethical Standard that came into effect in 2016.
Having indicated their willingness to continue to act as Auditors The Committee monitors the level of non-audit work carried to the Company for the forthcoming year a resolution out by the Auditors and seeks assurances from the Auditors re-appointing  LLP as Auditors will be that they maintain suitable policies and processes ensuring proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
independence, and monitor compliance with the relevant regulatory requirements on an annual basis.
No non-audit Performance Evaluation work was carried out by the Auditors during the year.
The In October 2018 an external evaluation of the Board was Company operates on the basis whereby the provision of carried out by an independent third party, Linstock.
This non-audit services by the Auditors is permissible where no evaluation also covered the workings of the Committee.
No conflict of interest arises, where the independence of the formal recommendations were required to be reported to the Auditors is not likely to be impinged by undertaking the work Board.
and the quality and objectivity of both the non-audit work and In years when there is no external evaluation the Committee audit work will not be compromised.
In particular, non-audit undertakes an internal evaluation of its performance.
services may be provided by the Auditor if they are inconsequential or would have no direct effect on the Companys financial statements and the audit firm would not place significant reliance on the work for the purposes of the David Hunt, FCA statutory audit.
Chairman of the Audit Committee 17 December 2018
