Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 20 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2018 Governance Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Statement Meeting Attendance The Board has considered the principles and recommendations The table below sets out the number of scheduled Board and of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code by Committee meetings held during the year ended reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for 30September 2018 and the number of meetings attended by Investment Companies the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as each Director.
explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out In addition to the scheduled Board meetings there were six ad in the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code, as hoc Board meetings to consider matters such as the Companys well as setting out additional principles and recommendations authority to allot shares and the approval of regulatory on issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
A further meeting was held in October 2018 in connection with The Board considers that reporting against the principles and business of the year.
recommendations of the AIC Code will provide the best Ad Hoc information to shareholders and the Financial Reporting Audit Board Council has confirmed that by following the AIC Code and the Board Committee Meetings AIC Guide, boards of investment companies will meet their 4 2 6 obligations in relation to the UK Corporate Governance Code Anthony Townsend 4 2 3 and paragraph 9.8.
John Allard 2 1 1 Neil Collins 4 2 5 The AIC Code and the AIC Guide can be viewed on the AICs Kate Cornish-Bowden 4 2 4 website www.
co. uk and the UK Code can be viewed on Simon Hayes 4 2 4 the Financial Reporting Council website www.
David Hunt 4 2 5 Vanessa Renwick 2 1 1 Lorna Tilbian 4 2 1 The Board and Committees Responsibility for effective governance and for the overall All of the Directors attended the Annual General Meeting held on management of the Companys affairs lies with the Board.
The 31January 2018. governance framework of the Company reflects the fact that as resigned as a director on 31 January 2018. an investment company it has no employees and outsources company secretarial, administration, marketing and risk Directors Interests management services toFrostrow and portfolio management The beneficial interests of the Directors in the Company are set to Lindsell Train.
The Boards key responsibilities are to set the strategy, values and standards: to provide leadership within a controls Statement of Compliance framework which enable risks to be assessed and managed: to The Company has complied with the recommendations of the challenge constructively and scrutinise performance of all AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Code, except outsourced activities: and to review regularly the contracts, as set out below: performance and remuneration of the Companys principal service providers.
The UK Code includes certain provisions relating to: The Audit Committees key responsibilities are: to monitor the the role of the chief executive: integrity of the annual report and financial statements: to oversee the risk and control environment and financial executive directors remuneration: and reporting: and to review the performance of the Companys the need for an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Code, and as explained in Copies of the full terms of reference, which clearly define the the UK Code, the Board considers these provisions are not responsibilities of the Audit Committee, can be obtained from relevant to the position of the Company as it is an externally the Company Secretary.
They will be available for inspection at managed investment company.
In particular, all of the the Annual General Meeting, and can be found on the Companys website www.
Companys day-to-day management and administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the The Directors have decided that, given the size of the Board, it Company has no executive directors, employees or internal is unnecessary to form separate remuneration, management operations.
Therefore the Company has not reported further in engagement and nomination Committees: the duties that respect of these provisions.
would ordinarily fall to those Committees are carried out by the Board as a whole.
Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 21 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2018 Governance Corporate Governance Directors Independence including the Chairman, has been imposed.
In view of its nonexecutive nature, the Board considers that it is not appropriate The Board consists of six non-executive Directors, each of for the Directors to be appointed for a specified term, whom is independent of Frostrow and Lindsell Train.
although new Directors will be appointed with the expectation Nomember of the Board has been an employee of the that they will serve for a minimum of three years, subject to Company, Frostrow, Lindsell Train or any of its service shareholder approval.
Accordingly, the Board considers that all the Directors are independent and there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect or could appear to Appointments to the Board affect their judgement.
The rules governing the appointment and replacement of directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Chairman has a seat on the Board of the Companys AIFM Where the Board appoints a new director during the year, that by virtue of the Companys minority partnership interest in director will stand for election by shareholders at the next Frostrow.
It is a non-executive position and therefore the Annual General Meeting.
When considering new Board does not believe that this compromises his appointments, the Board will seek to add persons with independence from the Company.
complementary skills and experience which fill any gaps in the Boards knowledge and who can devote sufficient time to the Board Evaluation Company to carry out their duties effectively.
The Company is In October 2018 an external independent review of the Board, committed to ensuring that any vacancies arising are filled by its committee and individual Directors was carried out by an the most qualified candidates.
The Board recognises the value independent third party, Lintstock.
of diversity in the composition of the Board and accordingly, the Board will ensure that a diverse group of candidates is The Board reviewed the report from Lintstock in December considered for any vacancies.
2018 and the Chairman is leading on implementation of minimal changes recommended by the report that the Board The Board has adopted a Board and Audit Committee considered should be made.
The review concluded that the Composition and Succession Plan the Plan.
The purpose of Board worked in a collegiate, efficient and effective manner the Plan is to ensure that the Board is comprised of members and did not identify any material weaknesses or concerns.
who collectively: The Chairman is satisfied that the structure and operation of i. display the necessary balance of professional skills, the Board continues to be effective and relevant and that there experience, length of service and industry Company is a satisfactory mix of skills, experience, length of service and knowledge: and knowledge of the Company.
The Board has considered the ii.
are fit and proper to direct the Companys business with position of all of the Directors as part of the evaluation prudence and integrity: and provide policy guidance on the process, and believes that it would be in the Companys best structure, size and composition of the Board and its interests to propose them for re-election.
Committee and the identification and selection of suitable The Boards Senior Independent Director is David Hunt, who candidates for appointment to the Board and its may be contacted by Shareholders and other directors as Committee.
This Plan is reviewed by the Board annually and at such other times as circumstances may require.
Policy on Director Tenure Subject to there being no conflict of interest, all Directors are The Board subscribes to the view expressed within the AIC entitled to vote on candidates for the appointment of new Code that long-serving directors should not be prevented Directors and on the recommendation for shareholders from forming part of an independent majority.
It does not approval for the Directors seeking re-election at the Annual consider that a directors tenure necessarily reduces his her General Meeting.
The Chairman will not chair the meeting ability to act independently.
The Boards policy on tenure is when the Board is dealing with the appointment of his that continuity and experience are considered to add successor.
significantly to the strength of the Board and, as such, no limit on the overall length of service of any of the Directors, FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 22 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2018 Governance Corporate Governance Induction Development Board Meetings and Relations with the New appointees to the Board are provided with a full induction Portfolio Manager programme.
The programme covers the Companys The Board is responsible for strategy and reviews the investment strategy, policies and practices.
New directors are continued appropriateness of the Companys investment also given key information on the Companys regulatory and objective, strategy and investment restrictions at each statutory requirements as they arise including information on meeting.
The Board meets regularly throughout the year and the role of the Board, matters reserved for its decision, the representatives from Frostrow and Lindsell Train are in terms of reference for the Board committee, the Companys attendance at each Board meeting.
The Chairman encourages corporate governance practices and procedures and the latest open debate to foster a supportive and co-operative approach financial information.
Directors are encouraged to participate for all participants.
in training courses where appropriate.
The primary focus at regular Board meetings is the review of The Board has formalised arrangements under which the key investment and financial data, revenue and expenses Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, may seek projections, analyses of asset allocation, transactions and independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
performance comparisons, share price and net asset value performance, marketing and shareholder communication The Company has also arranged Directors and Officers strategies, the risks associated with pursuing the investment Liability Insurance which provides cover for legal expenses strategy, peer group information and industry issues.
This was in force for the entire period under review and up to the date of this report.
The Board reviews the discount or premium to net asset value per share of the Companys share price at each Board meeting and considers the effectiveness of the Companys marketing Conflicts of Interest and communication strategies, as well as any In line with the Companies Act 2006, the Board has the power recommendations on share buybacks and issuance.
to sanction any potential conflicts of interest that may arise and impose such limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
A register of The Board has reviewed the Portfolio Managers Statement of interests and external appointments is maintained and is Compliance with the UK Stewardship Code, which is available reviewed at every Board meeting to ensure all details are kept on the FRC website www.
Should a conflict arise, the Board has the authority to request that the director concerned abstains from any Shareholder Relations relevant discussion, or vote where a perceived conflict may Representatives of Frostrow regularly meet institutional arise.
Appropriate authorisation will be sought prior to the shareholders and private client asset managers to discuss appointment of any new director or if any new conflicts or strategy, to understand their issues and concerns and, if potential conflicts arise.
applicable, to discuss corporate governance issues.
The results of such meetings are reported at the following Board meeting.
Exercise of Voting Powers An analysis of the Companys shareholder register is provided The Board has delegated authority to Lindsell Train as to the Directors at each Board meeting.
The Board receives Portfolio Manager to vote the shares owned by the Company marketing reports from Frostrow.
The Board reviews and that are held on its behalf by its Custodian.
considers the marketing plans on a regular basis.
Reports from The Board has instructed that the Portfolio Manager submit the Companys broker are submitted to the Board on investor votes for such shares wherever possible and practicable.
The sentiment and industry issues.
Portfolio Manager may refer to the Board on any matters of a contentious nature.
Shareholder Communications Further details of the Companys voting record can be found in The Company aims to provide shareholders with a full the Portfolio Managers Stewardship Report on the companys understanding of the Companys investment objective, policy website www.
and activities, its performance and the principal investment risks by means of informative annual and half yearly reports.
This is supplemented by the monthly publication through the Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 23 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2018 Governance Corporate Governance London Stock Exchange, of the net asset value of the Nominee companies are encouraged to provide the necessary Companys shares.
authority to underlying shareholders to attend the Companys general meeting.
com is regularly updated with monthly fact sheets and provides useful Annual General Meeting information about the Company, including the Companys financial reports and announcements.
THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION TO BE DISCUSSED AT THE FORTHCOMING ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING IS All substantive communications regarding any major corporate IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE issues are discussed by the Board taking into account ATTENTION.
representations from the AIFM, the Portfolio Manager, the Auditor, legal advisers and the Corporate Stockbroker.
If you are in any doubt about the action you should take, you should seek advice from your stockbroker, bank The Board supports the principle that the AGM be used to manager, solicitor, accountant or other financial adviser communicate with investors.
It is the intention that the full authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act Board will attend the AGM under the chairmanship of the 2000 as amended.
If you have sold or transferred all of Chairman of the Board.
All shareholders are encouraged to your ordinary shares in the Company, you should pass this attend the AGM, where they have given the opportunity to document, together with any other accompanying question the Chairman, the Board and representatives of the documents, including the form of proxy, at once to the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager.
The Portfolio Manager makes purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or a presentation to shareholders covering the investment other agent through whom the sale or transfer was performance and strategy of the Company at each AGM.
effected, for onward transmission to the purchaser or Details of proxy votes received in respect of each resolution transferee.
are made available to shareholders at each General Meeting and are also published on the Companys website Resolutions relating to the following items of special business www.
will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Directors welcome the views of all shareholders and place Resolution 10 Authority to allot shares considerable importance on communications with them.
Resolution 11 Authority to disapply pre-emption rights Shareholders wishing to communicate with the Chairman, or Resolution 12 Authority to sell shares held in Treasury on a non any other member of the Board, may do so by writing to the pre-emptive basis Company Secretary at the offices of Frostrow.
Resolution 13 Authority to buy back shares Significant Holdings and Voting Rights Resolution 14 Authority to hold General Meetings other than Details of the substantial interests in the Companys Shares, the the Annual General Meeting on at least 14 clear voting rights of the shares and the Directors authorities to days notice.
issue and repurchase the Companys shares, are set out in the The full text of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are Directors Report.
contained in the separate Notice of Meeting being sent to Shareholders with this Report and will be available on the Nominee Share Code Companys website www.
Where the Companys shares are held via a nominee company name, the Company undertakes: By order of the Board to provide the nominee company with multiple copies of shareholder communications, so long as an indication of quantities has been provided in advance: and Frostrow Capital LLP to allow investors holding shares through a nominee Company Secretary company to attend general meetings, provided the correct authority from the nominee company is available.
17 December 2018 FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
