Governance Governance framework Shareholders Board of Directors Leadership, strategy, risk, governance, values and standards Our Group Employee Director We are one of the few publicly listed companies that has an employee appointed to its Board and also to the boards of most of its UK operating companies.
This unique aspect of our corporate governance has been a feature ofour Company since our origins in the late Board Safety Audit Nomination Remuneration 1980s.
Our employee directors have evolved Committee Committee Committee Committee with the Company as it has grown, which is one Safety policies Financial Board Remuneration of the reasons that it is an accepted feature of and standards reporting, composition, framework and the organisation amongst UK employees, and oversight internal skills matrix Executive is not regarded as either an alternative to controls, and Directors and conventional industrial relations, nor an artificial external audit succession Senior adjunct to a corporate governance framework.
oversight and planning Executives cyber security packages Executive Since the founding of the Company, the Safety Boardhas been committed to promoting Committee employee involvement at local level.
The Safety appointment of employee directors to the standards, boards of the UK operating companies gives sharing ofbest practice and directors an employee viewpoint on all matters Be Safe affecting the direction and governance of the Programme Group, and allows employee directors to engage with employees at a local level on the strategic direction of the business.
Employee directors are elected by a ballot ofemployees in their respective companies, which is independently supervised.
They take an active role at local level, carrying out safety audits and highlighting to employees the many benefits and assistance provided by the Group.
They have the same responsibilities as any other non-executive director and play as full a Strategy Principal Risks Budget Three-Year Plan role as any director in challenging the senior management team.
The Employee Directors Forum meets at leasttwice a year and one of its functions is tonominate a candidate for the role of Group Employee Director when a vacancy arises.
Lastyear the Employee Directors Forum Chief Executive nominated Jimmy Groombridge, whose Day-to-day management: development of Group strategy and appointment was recommended to the Board commercial objectives: implementation of Board decisions: by the Nomination Committee.
Jimmy was then promotion of high standards of corporate governance elected by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
Every Non-Executive Director brings a different perspective and experience to the Board: our Group Employee Director brings his experience as a frontline employee and helps ensure that the Board takes the views of the workforce into Executive Committee account in its discussions.
Supporting the Chief Executive in the day-to-day running of the Group FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 49
