Corporate governance report Chairmans report Our Values The Board sets out the Groups strategic Activities during theyear aims, monitors the Groups strategic objectives Strategy presentations and and oversees their implementation by the directionoftravel ChiefExecutive.
It provides leadership within Business presentations and aframework of appropriate and effective prospectsdiscussions controls.
The Board is also responsible fortheculture and Values of the Group.
Further development of the Boardsunderstanding and OurValues are: approachto risk appetite Committed to our customers Budget and three-year plan Dedicated to safety Appointment of David Robbie and Supportive of each other Martha Poulter as Non-Executive Wolfhart Hauser Directors, and of Jimmy Groombridge Accountable for performance Executive Chairman as Group Employee Director Setting the highest standards Succession planning and talent Our Values are recognised across the Group management for the Board and and are fundamental to the way we operate.
seniormanagement We see these Values as key to the way we Review of recommendations arising work with our customers, suppliers, I believe firmly that good out of the internal evaluation exercise employees and stakeholders in general.
governance lies at the Wewill not get everything right all of the time, heartof a successful and but we will aim to learn where we make Areas of focus in the future mistakes, and our Board evaluation assists sustainable company.
usin highlighting areas in which improvements Recruitment of a new Chief Executive can be made.
Disciplined growth and bidding Understanding our business Maintain strong cash management Corporate governance does not exist Ongoing development of the inisolation and cannot be reduced to Groupsstrategy compliance with checklists and codes.
Review and implementation of Inorder for the Board to be able to review recommendations arising out of the strategy, to determine our approach to risk externally facilitated Board evaluation andto respond to events, we need to have a thorough understanding of our businesses.
During the year, the Board visited our operations in Chicago and New York.
Thesevisits provided us with an opportunity not only to see our businesses in action, but also to meet our employees and understand their views and opinions on the Group.
Thevisits were combined with in-depth presentations from our divisional managementteams on the risks, opportunities, performance, customer propositions and strategic initiatives of theirbusinesses.
In this section Page Chairmans report 50 Leadership 52 Effectiveness 54 Induction, Development and Evaluation 55 Policies and Compliance 56 Accountability 57 Nomination Committee report 60 Audit Committee report 62 Board Safety Committee report 67 50 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Risk management Board and Committee composition We continued to adopt a risk-based approach In February 2018, David Robbie was Board visit to First Student in establishing the Groups system of internal appointed as a Non-Executive Director, Schaumburg location control and in reviewing its effectiveness.
succeeding Richard Adam as Chair of Overall management of risks is vested theAudit Committee and member of the intheBoard, with the Audit Committee Remuneration Committee.
David has a havingdelegated authority for reviewing wealthof financial, accounting, strategic and theGroups risk management framework.
corporate finance experience and we look forward to working with him.
I would also like More detailed information on the to thank Richard on behalf of the Board for Groupssystem of internal control and hiscommitment and contribution.
riskmanagement can be found in the Principalrisks and uncertainties section on Martha Poulter, whom we had welcomed to page 34 onwards and in this Corporate the Board in May 2017, was appointed to the governance report.
Audit Committee earlier this year.
Engaging with shareholders Finally on 31 May 2018 the Group announced Schaumburg is a 300-plus bus location Engaging with shareholders and being fully that Tim OToole had stepped down from the in a northwest Chicago suburb that aware of their views is one of the key aspects Board and his role as Chief Executive with successfully serves several school of corporate governance.
My fellow Directors immediate effect.
The process to select a districts.
The Board toured the location and I welcome open, meaningful discussion newChief Executive is underway.
Until in September 2017 and spent time in with shareholders, particularly with regard suchtime as a successor is appointed, the maintenance workshop, dispatch togovernance, strategy and remuneration.
theBoard has asked me to perform the and operations offices.
The Board and management have undertaken roleofExecutive Chairman.
Matthew The picture shows the Chairman, a number of activities in this regard during the Gregoryhasbeen appointed Interim Chief theChief Executive and the Group year, many of which are detailed in this Annual Operating Officer and will also continue his Employee Director being greeted by Report and Accounts.
responsibilities as Chief Financial Officer.
Bob Rutkoski, the First Student Area The Board receives regular reports on Diversity General Manager with responsibility investorrelations activities and, in particular, The composition of our Board includes the forthe location.
variety of skills and competences that are TheBoard continues to believe that ongoing needed to add value to our businesses.
engagement with shareholders and other We remain committed to equality of stakeholders is vital to ensuring their views and opportunity, diversity and inclusion at every perspectives are fully understood and taken level, both in the Board and across our wider into consideration.
This will remain a key focus business.
Two of our Non-Executive Directors for the Board.
are women, some are from different ethnic At the Companys forthcoming Annual General backgrounds and one is nominated by the Meeting AGM, all Directors who are able to UKworkforce.
attend will be available, as usual, to meet with Webelieve diverse experiences and attitudes shareholders after the meeting to discuss any help us better understand the needs of our issues they may have.
I look forward to customers and communities, and deliver welcoming as many shareholders as possible morecreative and innovative solutions.
Remuneration Compliance with the Code Wolfhart Hauser There continues to be a great deal of focus The Annual Report and Accounts for Executive Chairman onDirectors remuneration and the way it is the year ended 31 March 2018 have disclosed.
The Remuneration Committee has been prepared in accordance with the ensured that there is a clear line of sight for UK Corporate Governance Code which management between pay and performance was issued in April 2016 the Code in the areas most valued by our shareholders.
bythe Financial Reporting Council and is available to view atwww.
The Board therefore confirms that throughout the year the Company hascomplied with the provisions set outin the Code and looks forward to reporting oncompliance with the new Code to beissued later in the year.
Weexpect todo so in the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ending 31March 2020.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51 Corporate governance report continued Leadership The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership of the Group within a framework of prudent and effective Board visit to Greyhound controls for risk assessment and management.
operations in New York The role of the Board financial results, viability statement The Board is accountable to shareholders andgovernance formanaging the Company in a way which the appointment and removal of Directors promotes its long term success for the benefit and the Company Secretary of the shareholders as a whole.
The Board ensures that an appropriate balance between Board meetings and visits promoting long term growth and delivering The core activities of the Board and its short term objectives is achieved.
Committees are carried out in scheduled In March 2018, the Board toured meetings.
Additional ad-hoc meetings and Greyhounds key passenger sales The Board is primarily responsible for: conference calls are arranged to consider locations in New York City, the largest determining strategic direction and matters which require decisions outside the and most important market in the demonstrating leadership scheduled meetings.
United States, observing Greyhounds focusing on matters that consistently add passenger operations segments as To ensure the Board sees the Groups value for shareholders of the Company, follows: operations in action, the Directors normally bothpresent and future meet at least three times each year at the Port Authority of New York and New Groups sites in the UK and North America.
the governance and stewardship of the Jersey, the largest terminal in the This provides senior management from across Group to provide protection and security United States and Manhattans the Group with the opportunity to present to forthe shareholders assets maingateway, where Greyhounds the Board and its Committees and to meet program to completely renovate the setting the Groups culture, standards and Directors informally.
It also provides the Board ticketing area will greatly enhance values, and ensuring that its obligations to with the opportunity to review operational thecustomer experience: shareholders and other stakeholders are matters on site.
understood and met BoltBus, delivering direct service from In order to carry out its work, the Board has key curbside locations throughout determining the nature and extent of the established a planned programme of agendas New York to Boston, Washington, principal risks the Group is willing to take to ensure all necessary matters are covered D. C. Baltimore, Philadelphia and toachieve its strategic objectives and to allow sufficient time for debate and othermajor cities: and ensuring that management maintains a challenge.
The Board also takes time to review George Washington Bridge Bus system of internal control that provides past decisions where necessary.
At Board Station, a brand new Greyhound assurance of effective and efficient meetings, the Directors receive and consider location launched in September 2017, operations, internal financial controls and papers and presentations from management offering services to Philadelphia, compliance with laws and regulations on relevant topics and senior executives are Boston, Baltimore and Washington, regularly invited to attend meetings for specific The Board is the decision-making body D. C. Located in uptown Manhattan, a items.
Effective review and decision-making is forallmatters of such importance as to be vibrant area undergoing rapid growth supported by providing the Board with significant to the Group as a whole because and community revitalisation, the high-quality, accurate, clear and timely oftheir strategic, financial or reputational facility enjoys many intermodal and information including input from advisers implications or consequences.
Specific key matters have been reserved for The tour demonstrated Greyhounds Board meetings are structured around approval by the Board and these include: enhanced passenger services profile divisional updates: strategy: financial and inNew York, representing significant the Groups strategy operational updates: assessment of risks and and exciting opportunities for customer major acquisitions, mergers or disposals how they should be managed and mitigated: growth, sales and passenger other reporting items for approval, including UK rail franchise bids satisfaction.
UK rail franchise bids: and reports from dealings with regulatory authorities on Committee Chairs, the Group Employee matters of significance Director GED and the Company Secretary.
capital and liquidity matters medium term plan and annual budget Board and Committee membership 52 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Division of responsibilities Our Chief Executive Our Non-Executive Directors The Board has agreed a clear division of promotes the creation and maintenance The NEDs provide a strong independent responsibilities between the Chairman and ofasafe working environment and a element to the Board and a solid foundation theChief Executive, and these roles, as well safety-focused culture across the Group: for good corporate governance.
Although all asthose of other Directors, are clearly defined hedoes the latter by chairing the Executive Directors are equally accountable under the sothat no single individual has unrestricted Safety Committee law for the stewardship of the Companys powers of decision.
affairs, the NEDs fulfil a vital role in corporate leads the Executive Committee in the accountability.
They have responsibility for day-to-day running of the Groups business Roles and responsibilities constructively challenging the strategies Our Chairman develops the Groups business objectives proposed by the Executive Directors, establishes the Groups Values and and strategy, having regard to the interests scrutinising the performance of management standards and sets the tone from the top ofshareholders, customers, employees and in achieving agreed goals and objectives, as other stakeholders promotes the interests of the Company well as playing a leading role in the functioning withspecial regard to planning and of the main Board Committees.
Between ensures the business of the Group is development to secure the Groups them, the current NEDs have the appropriate conducted, and results are delivered, in the futureand sustainable success balance of skills, experience, knowledge and right way independent judgement gained through promotes the Board, ensuring it functions establishes and maintains an organisational experience in a variety of business sectors.
efficiently and in conformity with the highest structure that enables the Groups strategy standards of corporate governance tobe implemented effectively Our Group Employee Director The Board considers that it is extremely ensures Board meetings are effective and leads communication with shareholders beneficial for its employees to be represented open and constructive debate is promoted, ensures at all times that the Companys on the Board so that employee-related issues the views of all Directors are taken into standards are higher than the legal are raised directly.
The GED provides a account and adequate time is available requirements of the countries in which two-way communication between the fordiscussion on all agenda items weoperate Boardand employees.
The GED is ensures that shareholders and the Board establishes a strong senior management nominatedby the Employee Directors of receive accurate, timely, clear and highteam which has the knowledge, skills, ourUK operating companies at the Employee quality information attitude and motivation to achieve the Directors Forum, and serves a maximum of chairs the Nomination Committee Groups business objectives and strategy, three, three-year terms.
and with appropriate succession planning ensures effective induction and The Committees of the Board toensure that this continues in the future developmentof Directors The four principal Committees of the Board develops and maintains an effective areAudit, Board Safety, Nomination and ensures the performance of the Board, its framework of internal controls and risk Remuneration.
Their members are appointed Committees and individual Directors are management by the Board upon the recommendation of formally evaluated annually, with an externally theNomination Committee and membership facilitated evaluation performed at least every ensures the Board is kept appraised in is spread between the NEDs and the GED, three years atimely manner of the issues facing the drawing on each of their relevant skills Group and of events and developments facilitates effective and constructive andexperience.
Committee members are asthey arise relationships and communications between expected to attend each Committee meeting, Non-Executive Directors NEDs and Our Senior Independent Director unless there are exceptional circumstances Executive Directors and senior management acts as a point of contact for shareholders that prevent them from doing so.
Only and other stakeholders to discuss matters ensures effective communication with members of the Committees are entitled ofconcern which would not be appropriate shareholders and other stakeholders, and toattend their meetings, but others may through the normal channels of that their views are understood by the Board attend at the Committees discretion.
communication with the Chairman, provides an appropriate balance of support The Executive Committee ChiefExecutive or Chief Financial Officer and challenge to the Chief Executive in order The Executive Committee supports the to maintain an effective working relationship acts as a sounding board for the Chairman ChiefExecutive in the day-to-day running of and serves as an intermediary for the other the Group.
Its membership is shown on page Directors when necessary 47.
Itnormally meets every month and its mainresponsibilities are: meets with the NEDs without the Chairman being present at least annually and leads the to communicate, review and agree on Board in the ongoing monitoring and annual significant issues and actions: performance evaluation of the Chairman to help to develop, implement and monitor deputises for the Chairman, as necessary strategic and operational plans: to consider the continuing applicability, appropriateness and impact of risks: and to lead the Groups culture and safety programme, supported by the Executive Safety Committee.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 53 Corporate governance report continued Effectiveness Board Committee Chairmanships Effective management and good stewardship of the Group are led by the Board.
A Audit Committee N Nomination Committee R B Remuneration Committee Board Safety Committee The attendance of Directors at Board and Committee meetings and the number of meetings attended in the year ended 31 March 2018 are shown below: Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Board Safety Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings eligible Meetings eligible Meetings eligible Meetings eligible Meetings eligible to Meetings Director to attend attended to attend attended to attend attended to attend attended attend attended Chairman N Wolfhart Hauser 10 10 6 6 Executive Directors Tim OToole 10 10 Matthew Gregory 10 10 Non-Executive Directors 1 A Richard Adam 7 7 3 3 7 7 Warwick Brady 10 10 4 4 2 Jimmy Groombridge 10 9 2 2 Drummond Hall 10 10 8 8 6 6 3 Martha Poulter 10 9 1 1 1 David Robbie A 3 3 1 1 1 1 R Imelda Walsh 10 10 8 8 6 6 3 3 B Jim Winestock 10 9 4 4 6 6 3 3 1 Richard Adam resigned on 2 February 2018 and was replaced by David Robbie as Chair of the Audit Committee and member of the Remuneration Committee.
2 Jimmy Groombridge joined the Board on 26 May 2017 and his first Board Safety Committee meeting was in November 2017.
3 Martha Poulter was appointed to the Board in May 2017 and joined the Audit Committee in January 2018.
Board balance relationships likely to affect, or which with the Directors.
Reasons for nonThe Board at 31 March 2018 was comprised couldappear to affect, their judgement.
attendance are generally prior business and of the Chairman, two Executive Directors, the personal commitments or illness.
Jimmy Groombridge, the GED, is not GED and six NEDs.
The balance of Directors considered by the Board to be independent The Board is satisfied that each of the NEDs is on theBoard ensures that no individual or ashe is an employee of one of the Groups able to devote sufficient time to the Companys small group of Directors can dominate the subsidiaries.
NEDs are advised on appointment decision making process and that the interests of the time required to fulfil the role and are of theminority shareholders are protected.
Commitment asked to confirm that they can make the Biographies of all Directors are set outon All Directors are expected to attend each required commitment.
Board meeting and each Committee meeting for which they are members, save for in During the year, the Chairman met on Board independence exceptional circumstances.
To help enable severaloccasions with the NEDs without the It is the Companys policy that at least half this, scheduled Board and Committee Executive Directors present, allowing for more theBoard should be independent NEDs.
meetings are arranged at least a year in informal discussions on a variety of issues.
The Board carries out a review of the advance to allow Directors to manage other independence of its Directors on an annual commitments.
If a Director is unable to attend basis.
The Board considers each of its a meeting, they receive the papers and other currentNEDs to be independent in character relevant information in advance of the meeting and judgement.
In reaching its determination and have the opportunity to discuss with the ofindependence, the Board has concluded relevant Chair or the Company Secretary any that each provides objective challenge to matters they wish to raise andto follow up management, is willing to stand up and defend onthe decisions taken at the meeting.
The their own beliefs and viewpoints in order to Chairman, Chief Executive and Company support the ultimate aims of the Company Secretary are always available todiscuss andthere are no business or other issues relating to meetings or othermatters 54 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Induction, Development and Evaluation Receiving timely information enables the Directors to discharge their duties on strategic, financial, operational, compliance and governance issues effectively.
Induction and development Evaluation The Senior Independent Director also led On appointment, all new Directors receive The Board undertakes regular evaluations theNEDs in evaluating the performance of acomprehensive and structured induction, ofits own performance as well as that of theChairman, with the Chairman showing tailored to their individual requirements.
itsCommittees providing an opportunity effectiveness in leadership.
Theinduction programme, which is arranged toconsider ways of identifying greater Information and support by Company Secretariat, includes visits to the efficiencies, maximising strengths and The Company Secretary and the Deputy Groups businesses and meetings with senior highlighting areas for further development.
Company Secretary, through the Chairman, managers and advisers, as appropriate.
Following internal reviews in 2015 16 and are responsible for advising the Board on all Theprogramme is designed to facilitate their 2016 17, the Board conducted an externally governance matters and for ensuring that understanding of the Group, the key drivers facilitated review in 2017 18.
The results of Board procedures are followed, applicable ofbusiness performance, the role of the Board theperformance evaluation were presented rules and regulations are complied with and and its Committees, the Companys corporate and discussed at the May 2018 Board meeting that due account is taken of relevant codes governance practices and procedures.
It also and will be disclosed in the 2018 19 Annual ofbest practice.
Company Secretariat is provides them with appropriate training and Report and Accounts.
alsoresponsible for ensuring communication guidance as to their duties, responsibilities flows between the Board and its Committees, andliabilities as a director of a public limited The 2016 17 internal review was led by the and between senior management and company.
During the year, Martha Poulter, Chairman with the support of Company NEDs.
All Directors have access to the Jimmy Groombridge and David Robbie Secretariat.
It was carefully structured and adviceof the Company Secretary and, in weresupported by Company Secretariat pragmatic, designed to bring about a appropriate circumstances, may obtain inthis regard.
genuinedebate on issues that were relevant, independent professional advice at the check onprogress against matters identified In addition, in order to assist Directors in Companys expense.
intheprevious evaluation and assist in theperformance of their duties, there are identifying any potential for improvement All Directors receive detailed papers and procedures in place to provide them with intheCompanys processes.
It entailed the otherrelevant information on the business to appropriate and timely information, including completion of a questionnaire to assess the be conducted at each Board or Committee receiving information between meetings effectiveness of the Board, its Committees meeting well in advance and all Directors have regarding Group business developments and individual Directors, and the preparation direct access to senior management should andfinancial performance.
Thequestionnaire focused on the they wish to receive additional information on All Directors are provided with training oversight responsibilities and effectiveness any of the items for discussion.
The head of opportunities to ensure they are kept up to ofthe Board, the role of the Chairman and each division attends Board meetings on date on relevant legal, regulatory and financial theoperation of the Committees.
It was aregular basis to ensure that the Board is developments orchanges in best practice.
concluded that the dynamics, culture and properly informed about the performance Typical training forDirectors includes effectiveness of the Board had improved and ofthat division and any issues that it faces.
attendance at seminars, forums, conferences that the individual members of the Board Directors are provided between meetings with and working groups as well as receiving remained effective in their ability to discharge relevant information on matters affecting the updates on various legal, regulatory and their duties and responsibilities.
Such updates are carried out by a corporate governance matters.
continued to make a valuable contribution variety of methods, including conference calls whilst demonstrating commitment to their role.
and video conferences of the full Board or To ensure the Board as a whole remains fully informed of the views of shareholders, the Board receives regular reports on shareholder The main areas identified for improvement in the 2016 17 internal review and corresponding sentiment at Board meetings.
actions taken during 2017 18 are detailed in the table below: All NEDs can attend shareholder meetings and Area identified Responsibility Action taken analyst presentations, and shareholders may meet informally with Directors at the AGM.
More time to consider investors expectations, Identified topics added to the succession planning and rolling agenda to become people matters Chairman standing items Provision of supporting papers in a timely manner and Guidelines and template presentation less complex Company Secretary developed and implemented Reinforce the work of the Board Safety Committee Board Safety Committee Rolling agenda developed FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 55 Corporate governance report continued Policies and Compliance The Board considers that the formal Modern slavery and human trafficking between the Chairman and or the Chief procedures for managing conflicts of interest We continue our zero tolerance approach to Executive and the NEDs.
Company Secretariat currently in place have operated effectively slavery and human trafficking, which extends also circulates monthly financial and during the year under review.
to all business dealings and transactions in operational reports as well aspapers and which we are involved, regardless of location updates on relevant issues.
Boardand Election and re-election of Directors or sector.
As part of our contracting processes Committee papers are delivered securely to Directors are required under the Articles with suppliers, we include prohibitions against the Directors using a fully encrypted electronic tosubmit themselves for election by the use of forced, compulsory or trafficked portal system whichenables a faster and more shareholders at the AGM following their labour, or anyone held in slavery or servitude, secure distribution of information.
Also, in whether adults or children.
We have continued accordance with best practice and the Code, The Company Secretary is Michael Hampson, to implement our Code of Conduct on all of our Directors put themselves forward who joined the Group in 2016.
Michael is Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Prevention forre-election by shareholders annually.
secretary to the Remuneration, Nomination and have required our higher risk UK-based and Executive Committees, and his David Robbie, who was appointed on suppliers to provide us with a detailed update deputy, Silvana Glibota-Vigo, is secretary 2February 2018, will therefore retire and on their activities to address the issue in their tothe Audit, Board Safety and Executive submit himselffor election and all other supply chains.
We have included a section on Safety Committees.
Directors willsubmit themselves for modern slavery in our new Group Code of re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Ethics, and have also published our second Conflicts of interest Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking The Directors have a statutory duty under Following the formal performance evaluation Statement on our Group websites.
The theCompanies Act 2006 the 2006 Act to process, the Chairman is content that all statement sets out the steps we took to avoid situations in which they have or can have Directors continue to be effective and address this issue during the previous financial a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or demonstrate commitment to their role.
year, and sets goals for the current one.
We mayconflict with the interests of the Company.
Anti-bribery and corruption will publish an updated statement for the year Thisduty is in addition to the existing duty that The Group has continued to implement its ended 31 March 2018 on our Group websites a Director owes to the Company to disclose compliance programmes and specific policies in due course.
We remain committed to tothe Board any transaction or arrangement around key legislation e. g. UK Bribery Act and strengthening our practices in this area, both under consideration by the Company.
the Modern Slavery Act, as well as refreshing within our own business and across our TheCompanys conflict of interest procedures its programme in response to new legislation supply chains.
are reflected in the Articles of Association and regulation e. g. the UK Criminal Finances theArticles.
In line with the 2006 Act, the Brexit Steering Committee Act.
In addition, the Group has developed a Articles allow the Directors to authorise The Committee, which was formed in 2016 to new Group-wide Code of Ethics which will conflicts and potential conflicts of interest monitor the potential impact of Brexit, met on beimplemented across the operational where appropriate.
The decision to authorise two occasions during the year and reported divisions and support functions during aconflict can only be made by non-conflicted tothe Board via the CFO and the Company 2018 19.
Colleagues in high risk areas Directors.
Directors do not participate in Secretary, where appropriate.
havecontinued to receive training and policy decisions concerning their own remuneration communications to support their ongoing or interests.
awareness of policies upholding our zero The Company Secretary minutes the tolerance position on bribery and corruption, consideration of any conflict or potential including on the giving and receipt of conflict of interest and authorisations appropriate gifts, hospitality or entertainment.
On an ongoing basis, The training is supplemented by a dedicated the Directors inform the Company Secretary of ethics and compliance section on the Group any new, actual or potential conflict of interest intranet.
There is also an externally managed that may arise or if there are any changes in whistleblowing service available across the circumstances that may affect an authorisation Group for colleagues, with a helpline online previously given.
Even when authorisation is and phone-based for the anonymous given, a Director is not absolved from their reporting of inappropriate conduct.
The duty to promote the success of the Company.
anti-bribery steering committee has the primary and day-to-day responsibility to Furthermore, the Articles include provisions ensure that our internal control systems and relating to confidential information, attendance procedures are effective in countering bribery at Board meetings and availability of Board papers to protect a Director from breaching and corruption.
The Group continues to their duty if a conflict of interest arises.
develop its effective systems to counter bribery Theseprovisions will only apply where the and corruption, including the introduction of its circumstance giving rise to the potential integrated risk and compliance online tool to conflict of interest has previously been monitor the use and awareness of policies and authorised by the Directors.
procedures and, to provide management data on compliance risks.
56 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Accountability The Board is responsible for promoting the long term success of the Company for the benefit of shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Board ensures that an appropriate The Board confirms that throughout the year monitoring by the Board of a comprehensive systemof governance is in place throughout ended 31 March 2018 and up to the date of reporting system, including monthly results, the Group.
To discharge this responsibility, approval of this Annual Report and Accounts, periodic short term forecasts, annual theBoard has established a framework for there have been rigorous processes in place budgets and a medium term business plan riskmanagement and internal control which to identify, evaluate and manage the principal well-defined procedures for the identifies, evaluates and manages the principal risks faced by the Group, including those assessment, approval, control and risks associated with the Groups achievement thatwould threaten its business model, monitoring of major investments, with of its business objectives, with a view to futureperformance, solvency or liquidity proposals being subject to rigorous strategic, safeguarding shareholders investment and inaccordance with the Guidance on Risk financial and commercial examination the Groups assets.
Management and Internal Control published by the Financial Reporting Council.
divisions identifying and reviewing their The Board considers the Annual Report principal risks and controls for monitoring andAccounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, To assist in the identification and management and managing risks, which are reviewed by balanced and understandable and provides of the Groups principal risks, the Board has: senior executive management.
The updated the necessary information required for established a risk management framework divisional and Group risk profiles, which are shareholders to assess the Companys reviewed by the Chief Executive and CFO, developed a system of regular reports position and performance, business model are presented to the Executive Committee frommanagement and strategy, and that the business continues prior to being assessed by the Audit to operate as a going concern.
The coreserved specific key matters for its decision Committee ordination and review of the Annual Report authorised the Audit Committee to and Accounts follows a well-established and an established methodology for ranking overseethe risk management framework documented process, which is conducted thelevel of risk in each of its business and the effectiveness of the Groups inparallel with the formal audit process operations and the principal risk issues financialreporting, internal control and undertaken by the external auditor and the associated therewith assurance systems review by the Board and its Committees.
implementation of appropriate strategies established a number of Group-wide todeal with principal risks, including careful Internal control procedures, policies and standards internal monitoring and ensuring external The Board is responsible for determining the set up a framework for reporting matters specialists are consulted where necessary nature and extent of any significant risks the ofsignificance Group is willing to take in order to achieve its a centrally co-ordinated internal audit strategic objectives and for maintaining authorised the Board Safety Committee to programme to verify that policies and soundrisk management and internal control oversee the Groups framework of safety internalcontrol procedures are being systems to ensure that an appropriate culture policies and procedures to manage risk correctly implemented and to identify is embedded throughout the Group.
The anyrisks at an early stage Key elements of the Groups system of Board has established a Group-wide system reviewing and monitoring the confidential internalcontrol which have operated of risk management and internal control that reporting system to allow employees to raise throughout the year are: identifies and enables management and the concerns about possible legal, regulatory, Board to evaluate and manage the Groups a clearly defined organisation structure financial reporting or any other improprieties principal risks with a view to safeguarding the withestablished responsibilities Groups stakeholders.
This system is bespoke regular reports to the Audit Committee a focused business strategy, thus restricting to the Companys particular needs and the onthe adequacy and effectiveness of potential risk exposures risks to which it is exposed and is designed internalcontrols Group financial, treasury, operating, tomanage, rather than eliminate, risk.
a remuneration policy for executives that compliance and administrative policies and Owingto the limitations inherent in any system motivates them, without delivering excessive procedures which incorporate statements of internal control, this system provides robust, benefits or encouraging excessive risk-taking ofrequired behaviour but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The effectiveness of the ongoing review of safety, operating Groups system of internal control is regularly andfinancial performance of the reviewed by the Board.
Groupsbusinesses regular reports to the Board, Board SafetyCommittee and Executive SafetyCommittee on safety matters FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 57 Corporate governance report continued Accountability continued implementation of recommendations and Treasury operations Twice a year the Board is presented with reports on progress to senior management The Board has set a policy for the anupdate for its robust assessment on the and to the Audit Committee.
management of the risks from treasury principal risks facing the Group together with operations and this is set out in more detail arisk map, highlighting any changes made The Group Director of Assurance reports innote 24 to the consolidated financial since the previous update and the reasons regularly to the Chair of the Audit Committee statements.
A Group Treasury Policy has been forany changes.
Each Committee that reports and attends each Audit Committee meeting formulated and adopted to ensure compliance regularly to the Board provides an update on topresent the internal control findings from with best practice and to control and monitor the status of risks considered within its remit.
The Audit effectively the risks attendant upon treasury Biannually, the Groups risk management Committee reviews and discusses the and banking operations.
In addition, the framework is robustly reviewed by the Audit effectiveness of internal audits on an annual treasury committee approves decisions Committee, together with the process for basis with the Group Director of Assurance.
regarding fuel, foreign exchange and other identifying and assessing risks and a detailed This is done by the review of the internal audit matters reserved for its decision.
analysis of the risks identified in the previous plan of work for the year and monitoring six months.
progress against the plan and actions Tax strategy identified by internal audit.
The Group Director We believe we have a responsibility to manage Reviews of internal controls within operating of Assurance meets with the Audit Committee our tax affairs in a way that sustainably units by internal audit have sometimes every time the Committee meets, without benefits the customers and communities that highlighted control weaknesses, which are management present.
We also have a responsibility to discussed with management and, where shareholders to ensure we pay the right appropriate, the Audit Committee, and Financial and business reporting amount of tax and ensure compliance with the remedial action plans are agreed.
Action plans In its reporting to shareholders the Board tax rules in each country in which we operate.
are monitored by internal audit and, in some recognises its responsibility to present a fair, Our Tax Strategy was approved by the Board cases, follow up visits to the operating entity balanced and understandable assessment in March 2018 and is available on our website.
are conducted until such time as the controls ofthe Groups position and prospects.
This The Board receives regular updates on that have been put in place are working responsibility encompasses all published taxation matters through the Audit Committee.
No material losses, contingencies information including, but not limited to: the or uncertainties that would require disclosure year end and half-yearly financial statements: Payments policy in the Annual Report and Accounts have been regulatory news announcements: and other We recognise the importance of good supplier identified during the year by this process.
relationships to the overall success of our business.
We manage dealings with suppliers The Board, in conjunction with management, The quality of the Companys reporting is in a fair, consistent and transparent manner continually reviews and develops the internal ensured by having in place procedures for and the Group has controls in place to control environment.
No significant internal thereview of information by management.
ensurethat all payments are made within the control failings were identified during the year.
There are also strict procedures determining appropriate credit timeframe.
The average Where any gaps are identified, processes are who has authority to release information.
credit period taken for trade purchases is put in place to address them and these are Astatement of the Directors responsibilities 29days 2017: 32 days.
for preparing the financial statements can befound on page 98.
Relations with shareholders The process is designed to provide assurance The Board welcomes the opportunity to by way of cumulative assessment.
It is a The Group adopts a financial reporting and openly and purposefully engage with risk-based approach.
information system that complies with generally shareholders and it recognises the importance accepted accounting practice.
The Group Internal audit of a continuing effective dialogue, whether with Finance Manual details the Groups accounting Internal audit advises management on the institutional shareholders, private or employee policies and procedures with which subsidiaries extent to which systems of internal control are shareholders.
The Board takes responsibility must comply.
Budgets are prepared by adequate and effective to manage business for ensuring that such dialogue takes place.
subsidiary company management which are risk, safeguard the Groups resources, and The Chief Executive and CFO are closely then consolidated into divisional budgets.
ensure compliance with the Groups policies involved in investor relations, and the Group These are subject to review by both senior and legal and regulatory requirements as well Corporate Services Director has day-to-day management and the Executive Directors as advising on ways in which areas of risk can responsibility for such matters.
Feedback followed by formal approval by the Board.
It provides objective assurance fromshareholders and the financial markets Regular forecast updates are completed on risk and controls to senior management, isprovided at scheduled Board meetings and duringthe year and compared against actions the Audit Committee and the Board.
Internal at other times, as appropriate.
Each subsidiary unit prepares a audits work is focused on the Groups principal risks.
The mandate and programme monthly report of operating performance with The Executive Directors are available, through of work of the internal audit department is a commentary on variances against budget the Group Corporate Services Director, to considered and approved by the Audit and the prior year, which is reviewed by senior discuss the concerns of major shareholders at Committee.
Based on the approved internal management.
Similar reports are prepared at any time during the year and the Chairman is audit plan, a number of internal audits took a Group level.
Key performance indicators, available to discuss governance and strategy place across the Groups divisions to facilitate both financial and operational, are monitored with major shareholders.
The Senior improvement of the Groups internal controls on a weekly basis.
In addition, business units Independent Director is available to discuss and findings were reported to relevant participate in strategic reviews, which include matters of concern that would not be operational management and to the Audit consideration of long term financial projections appropriate through normal channels of Committee.
Internal audit follows up on the and the evaluation of business alternatives.
communication, including issues relating to 58 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance theChairmans performance.
Non-Executive As recommended by the Code, all Directors make themselves available to attend resolutionsproposed at the 2017 AGM Board visit to First Transit meetings with shareholders in order to develop werevoted separately and the voting results, operation in Chicago an understanding of their views.
which included all votes cast for, against Midway Airport andthose withheld, together with all proxies The Company responds as necessary to lodged prior to the meeting, were announced requests from individual shareholders on a to the London Stock Exchange and made wide range of issues.
There is regular dialogue available on the Companys website as soon with key institutional shareholders, fund as practicable after the meeting.
As in previous managers and sell-side analysts to discuss years, the Form of Proxy clearly advised that strategy, financial and operating performance avote withheld is not a vote in law and is not throughout the Group.
General presentations used in calculating the votes for or against to shareholders and the wider financial aresolution.
community are made by the Executive Directors following the announcement of This years AGM will be held at 1.30pm trading updates and half and full year results.
onTuesday 17 July 2018 at the Aberdeen Exhibition and Conference Centre, Investors are kept informed of key business ExhibitionAvenue, Bridge of Don, Aberdeen, The Boards visit to Chicago activities, decisions, appointments and other AB23 8BL.
Details of the meeting venue and includedatour of First Transits Midway key announcements on an ongoing basis via the resolutions to be proposed, together with International Airport Car Rental Shuttle the regulatory news service and press explanatory notes, are set out in the Notice of operation.
The purpose of the visit was releases.
AGM which accompanies the Annual Report to provide the Board with a review of firstgroupplc.
com contains all of this and Accounts.
A summary of the business this operation and to discuss major information, together with financial reports, carried out at the AGM will be published on initiatives and the divisions focus on presentations and other information on the the Companys website.
This operation is open all day, every Annual General Meeting dayof the year, and the Board had the The Notice of AGM is circulated to all opportunity to observe our vision and shareholders at least 20 working days prior values in action.
Hosted by the local tosuch meeting.
All shareholders are management team and Chief Operating invitedtoattend the AGM where there is an Officer, Beverly Edwards, the Board opportunity for individual shareholders to toured the operation which, during question the Chairman and, through him, 2017 18, had transported 1.87 million theChairs of the principal Board Committees.
customers safely and reliably between After the AGM, shareholders can meet Midway International Airport and the informally with the Directors.
nearby consolidated rental car facility At the 2017 AGM, the Chairman provided that is shared by ten major rental shareholders with a brief summary of the caragencies.
Companys activities for the previous year.
The operation was proudly Allresolutions at the 2017 AGM were voted congratulated by the Board for its onby way of a poll.
The procedure for outstanding safety performance of votingon a poll follows best practice and zeroaccidents year to date and allows the Company to count all votes, theircommitment to Be Safe.
ratherthan just those of the shareholders attending the meeting.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 59 Corporate governance report continued Nomination Committee report The Committee is primarily responsible for leading the process for appointments to Role and responsibilities theBoard and reviewing the composition Regular review of the structure, size ofthe Committees.
and composition including skills, experience, independence, In terms of how the Committee operates, knowledge and diversity of the Board ifamatter were to concern the Committee and recommendation for change Chair, then he would leave the meeting and the Senior Independent Director would instead Identification and nomination of take the Chair.
The Chief Executive attends candidates to fill Board vacancies, meetings of the Committee upon invitation.
including that of the Senior Committee members take no part in any Independent Director discussions concerning their own Regular review of membership membershipof the Board or appointment as oftheBoard Committees and aChair of a Committee, but are involved in the Wolfhart Hauser recommendation for change recommendations on Committee membership Chair, Nomination Committee changes.
The General Counsel & Company Ensuring that Board and executive Secretary acts as the Committee Secretary.
leadership skills are fully aligned to the Companys long term strategy Activities during the year Oversight of succession planning for During the year, the Committee kept under Directors and other senior executives review the balance of skills, experience, The Committee ensures independence, knowledge and diversity Assessing the time commitment of thatthe right people with including gender, on the Board to ensure candidates to Board positions theright range of skills and theorderly evolution of the membership of the Recommendation of re-appointment Board and its Committees.
In identifying and experience are on the Board.
of any Non-Executive Director at nominating candidates for approval by the theconclusion of their specified Board, the Committee tried to ensure that the termof office right people with the right range of skills and experience are on the Board and in senior Recommendation of appointment management positions in the coming years.
ofthe Group Employee Director uponnomination by the Employee Recruitment of Directors Forum Non-Executive Directors Recommendation of re-election by When considering the recruitment of a new shareholders of any Director Director, the Committee adopts a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure with Formal reporting to the Board, dueregard to diversity.
Prior to making an performance evaluation and terms appointment, the Committee evaluates the ofreference balance of skills, knowledge, independence, The full terms of reference of the experience and diversity on the Board and, Committee can be found on the inlight of this evaluation, prepares a full Companys website.
description of the role and capabilities required.
In identifying suitable candidates, theCommittee: Membership and operation Meetings Other Committee member attended Committees Roles Independent Wolfhart Hauser Chair 6 Company Chairman Yes, on appointment Drummond Hall 6 Senior Independent Director Yes Remuneration Committee Imelda Walsh 6 Chair of Remuneration Committee Yes Board Safety Committee Jim Winestock 6 Chair of Board Safety Committee Yes Audit Committee 60 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance uses open advertising or the services of means that the Board benefits from a diverse external advisers to facilitate the search range of competencies, perspectives and Summary of Committee thoughts, which provides a dynamic considers candidates from different genders Activities during the year environment for decision making.
and a wide range of backgrounds May 2017 Whilst the Board at 31 March 2018 is below its considers candidates on merit and against Jimmy Groombridge recommendation target of 25% female representation at 20%, it for appointment objective criteria ensuring that appointees remains committed to achieving that goal as have sufficient time to devote to the position, soon as practicable.
The Board remains of the in light of other potential significant positions opinion that appointments should be made on engages from time to time with the merit and relevant experience, against the Groupsmajor shareholders on future criteria identified by the Committee.
Future skillsrequirements and experience in appointments to the Board must also respectof potential candidates complement the balance of skills the Board already possesses.
Where the Committee appoints external advisers to facilitate the search, it ensures that The Board recognises the need to create the the firm selected has signed up to the relevant Martha Poulter recommendation conditions that foster talent and encourage for appointment industry codes for example, on diversity and more women and people from diverse has no connection with the Company.
backgrounds to achieve their full potential intheir careers in the Group.
The Board also The appointments of Martha Poulter and welcomes the recommendations of the Jimmy Groombridge took place during this Hampton-Alexander and Parker reports.
financial year but we reported on those in Inthat sense, as part of an overall approach lastyears annual report.
toHR management, a framework has Richard Adam announced he was stepping beendeveloped which includes an Equality, down in September 2017.
The Committee Diversity and Inclusion Policy as well as then began a comprehensive and rigorous practical training materials and support for search, with a candidate profile and position linemanagers to promote its communication November 2017 specification drawn up.
JCA Group, a across the Group.
Further details on the Internal performance evaluation review globalexecutive search firm with no other of results Groups approach to diversity are set out connection with the Company, was engaged intheCorporate responsibility section on Terms of reference annual review to assist with the selection process and page27.
conducted searches to identify suitable, December 2017 Looking ahead to 2018 19 qualified candidates.
A number of interviews Committee composition review In the coming year, we will continue to monitor and meetings were held with shortlisted January 2017 the needs of the Board and its Committees, candidates.
The appointment of David Robbie Board composition review with the aim of ensuring the Groups was then recommended to the Board for Martha Poulter joins Audit Committee succession planning policy is aligned to, approval as he fully met the criteria required.
andevolves to meet, the ongoing business David joined the Board on 2 February 2018 February 2018 objectives and strategic goals of the Group.
and was appointed to chair the Audit David Robbie recommendation for appointment Committee.
Later in the year, David joined the We will also continue with the process to Remuneration Committee, upon the select a new Chief Executive following the Committees recommendation.
departure of Tim OToole on 31 May 2018.
Diversity The Committee and the Board consider diversity as an important factor when reviewing the composition of the Boards.
TheCommittee views diversity in its wider sense, including gender, length of tenure andnationality.
March 2018 The Board consists of Directors with a wide David Robbie joins range of skills and business experience drawn Remuneration Committee from a number of industries, which is vital for bringing both the expertise required and to enable different perspectives to be brought toBoard and Committee discussions.
Furthermore, the Board comprises a range of nationalities, which bring cultural diversity as well as different geographical experiences and viewpoints.
The combination of these factors FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 61 Corporate governance report continued Audit Committee report David Robbie has recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the Code, Role and responsibilities being a chartered accountant and having held Monitor and challenge the integrity a number of senior finance roles.
The other ofthe financial statements of the Committee members have significant current finaland half-yearly results or recent executive experience in the transport Review and challenge the actions and distribution industries, as well as in IT.
andjudgements of management Therange and depth of financial, commercial takinginto account the views of and IT experience in the Committee enable its theexternal auditor members to deal effectively with the matters the Committee is required to address.
Review the Companys internal controls, including financial controls The Group Chairman, the Chief Executive, and risk management systems theCFO, the General Counsel & Company Secretary, the Director of Finance, the Group Approve the internal audit plan and David Robbie Director of Assurance, the Group Financial monitor the role and effectiveness of Chair, Audit Committee Controller and Deloitte LLP Deloitte are the internal audit function normally invited to attend Committee Oversee the Companys relationship meetings, as well as other members of the with the external auditor, including: Board.
The Deputy Company Secretary acts independence and expertise as Committee Secretary.
I am pleased to present engagement terms and fees At the end of each meeting, the Committee myfirst report as Chair effectiveness of the audit process meets with the external auditor and the Group ofthe Audit Committee.
annual audit plan scope and output Director of Assurance, without management policy on the provision of present, to discuss any matters relating to their ThisCommittee acts non-audit services remit and any matters arising from external independently of appointment, re-appointment, and internal audits.
These discussions help management to ensure dismissal or resignation of the shape thought processes and decision thatthe interests of external auditor making, and promote a more rounded viewofthe Group.
review of plans regarding shareholders are properly mandatory competitive Activities during the year protected in relation to tenderingprocess During the year, the Committee has financial reporting, continuedto devote significant time to Reporting formally to the Board, internalcontrol and reviewing the integrity of the Groups financial performance evaluation and terms riskmanagement.
statements, including the significant financial ofreference.
reporting judgements, as well as reviewing The full terms of reference of internal controls, and the effectiveness of theCommittee can be found bothinternal and external audit.
The table on ontheCompanys website.
page 63 provides further information on the years activities.
Looking ahead to 2018 19 In addition to its routine business, the Committee has the following focus areas for2018 19: Plan for the tender of the external auditservice Further develop the structure and effectiveness of the risk management systemand process Membership and operation Meetings Other Committee member attended Committees Roles Independent 1 David Robbie Chair 1 Remuneration Committee Yes Warwick Brady 4 Yes 2 Martha Poulter 1 Yes Jim Winestock 4 Chair of Board Safety Committee Yes Nomination Committee 1 David Robbie was appointed on 2 February 2018.
2 Martha Poulter joined the Committee in January 2018.
62 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Summary of Committee activities during the year May Sep Nov Mar The Committee: 2017 2017 2017 2018 Financial Reporting reviewed the Groups final and half-yearly results, considered the significant accounting policies, principal estimates and accounting judgements used in their preparation, the transparency and clarity of disclosures within them, and compliance with financial reporting standards and governance reviewed the matters which informed the Boards assessment that it was appropriate to prepare accounts on a going concern basis reviewed the process for assessing the long term viability of the Company received reports from management and Deloitte on accounting, financial reporting regulation and taxationissues reviewed reports from Deloitte on its audit in respect of the final and half-yearly results prior to them being approved by the Board reviewed and assessed the process by which the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, was fair, balanced and understandable and provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy Internal control, risk management and internal audit reviewed the structure and effectiveness of the Groups system of risk management and internal control and the disclosures made in the Annual Report and Accounts on this matter reviewed the Groups risk management activities undertaken by the divisions and at Group level in order to identify, measure and assess the Groups principal risks and review the risk appetite statement, developed by management, for recommendation to the Board reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk management framework, and reports arising from the risk management process approved the annual internal audit plan and reviewed reports from the internal audit department relating tocontrol matters, monitored progress against the internal audit plan and any deviations to the plan wereagreed monitored and assessed the Groups insurance arrangements considered reports from the General Counsel & Company Secretary on litigation matters External audit approved the terms of engagement of Deloitte, the fees paid to it and the scope of work carried out by it performed an annual review of the policies on the independence and objectivity of Deloitte, the use of Deloitte for non-audit services and the employment of former employees of Deloitte reviewed the performance and effectiveness of Deloitte in respect of the previous financial year assessed the objectivity and independence of Deloitte received reports on the findings of Deloitte during the half-yearly review and annual audit, and reviewed the recommendations made to management by Deloitte and managements responses reviewed the external audit plan reviewed letters of representation to Deloitte recommended the re-appointment of Deloitte Other matters reviewed its terms of reference and the results of its performance evaluation, including effectiveness received reports from divisional and functional management on a range of financial, operational, risk management, legal and corporate governance matters received reports from the Chief Information Officer on cyber security received reports on matters raised on the confidential whistleblowing system and the process for the investigation of such matters, ensuring that the arrangements in place were appropriate for employees toconfidentially raise concerns about possible legal, regulatory or other improprieties FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 63 Corporate governance report continued Audit Committee report continued Auditor independence The Companys policies on financial risk EUaudit reform legislation and the Statutory andobjectivity management, including the Companys Audit Services for Large Companies Market The independence of the external auditor exposure to liquidity risk, credit risk and Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive isessential to the provision of an objective certainmarket-based risks including foreign Tender Processes and Audit Committee opinion on the true and fair view presented in exchange rates, interest rates and fuel prices, Responsibilities Order 2014. the financial statements.
The external auditors can be found in note 24 to the consolidated The lead audit partner is Mark Mullins.
independence and objectivity are safeguarded financial statements.
by a number of control measures: Audit information Assessing the effectiveness The Directors who held office at 31 May limiting the nature of non-audit services oftheexternal audit process 2018confirm that so far as they each are performed by the external auditor During 2017 18, the effectiveness of the aware, there is no relevant audit information external audit process was reviewed by placing restrictions on the employment by being information needed by the auditor in theCommittee and the findings reported the Group of certain employees of the connection with preparing their audit report, tothe Board.
The review involved an initial external auditor ofwhich the Companys auditor is unaware, assessment of the delivery and performance and each of the Directors has taken all the monitoring the changes in legislation of the external auditor against the external steps that they ought reasonably to have taken relatedto auditor objectivity and audit plan for the year.
An annual assessment as a Director in order to make themselves independence to help ensure the was then carried out by the Committee, taking aware ofany relevant audit information and to Companyremains compliant into account the results of questionnaires establish that the Companys auditor is completed by each of the divisions and Group providing a confidential helpline that awareof that information.
These questionnaires employees can use to report any concerns, covered a variety of topics including: This confirmation is given and should be including those relating to the relationship interpreted in accordance with the provisions between Group employees and the the audit partners and team of section 418 of the 2006 Act.
externalauditor the planning and execution of the audit the rotation of the lead auditor partner Committee effectiveness review approach afterfive years The effectiveness of the Committee was insights and added value provided by the evaluated during the year as part of the Board independent reporting lines from the audit process evaluation process.
Further details can be externalauditor to the Committee and found on page 55.
The review found that the Feedback from the annual assessment was theopportunity to meet the Committee Committee was operating effectively and its shared with the external auditor so that any independently role and remit remained appropriate for the areas for improvement could be followed up.
an annual review by the Committee of current needs of the business.
In order to The Committee concluded that the external thepolicy in place to ensure the objectivity identify opportunities for further improvement, audit process was effective.
and independence of the external auditor members discuss how the Committee is ismaintained Having reviewed the independence, functioning in the private sessions that follow objectivityand performance of the each meeting.
Internal control and externalauditor, the Audit Committee has riskmanagement Significant issues recommended to the Board that Deloitte During the year, the Committee reviewed the The external audit process identifies bere-appointed.
Ordinary resolutions requirements of the Code in relation to the significantissues and accounting estimates re-appointing Deloitte as auditor and assessment and reporting of longer term and judgements which are reviewed by the authorising the Directors to set their viability, risk management and internal control.
These are summarised in the remuneration will be proposed at the The Committee assessed the Groups risk table on page 65.
management methodology, which is used to papers and analysis on the significant issues identify and manage the principal risks, as well External audit tendering and judgements which were discussed in as the reporting and categorisation of Group The current external auditor, Deloitte, was Committee meetings during the year.
The Committee also reviewed the appointed in 1998 following afull tendering Committee also discussed these issues with process for assessing the principal risks that process.
The Committee hasundertaken a the external auditor at the half year and year could threaten the Companys business review of Deloittes performance every year end.
All the significant issues were also areas model, future performance, solvency or since its appointment.
The Committee, which of focus for the external auditor as detailed in liquidity in order to make the long term viability remains satisfied withDeloittes performance, the auditors report on page 157. statement on page 44 and considered the believes that consistency of approach in the appropriate period for which the Company audit is of particular importance as the Group was viable.
Key external audit findings and returns toa leadership position.
It remains the management actions were discussed as well Committees intention to put the external audit as reports on the outcomes of internal audit out to tender during the lead audit partners planned activities.
The operation and five-year tenure, which is due to expire at the effectiveness of the internal audit function were conclusion of the 2019 20 audit.
This means also reviewed, including its focus, plans and that the external audit will be put out to tender resources.
The Committee monitored the in 2019 so that the process is completed progress of action plans to ensure they were bythe conclusion of the 2019 20 audit.
Thisapproach is in accordance with the 64 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Significant issues and judgements How the Audit Committee addressed these issues Carrying value of First Student and Greyhound goodwill and intangible assets Management exercises a significant amount of The Committee has considered and challenged the inputs for the impairment test model.
judgement during the impairment testing process Thecash flow forecasts have been reviewed alongside past performance and committed asitisbased on an estimation of future growth operational changes to the business.
The discount rate has been benchmarked to externally rates, cash flows and a suitable discount rate.
The long term growth rate assumptions have been applied in line with both market data and the macroeconomic environment in the UK and North America.
Sensitivities tothe model inputs have been tested for reasonableness.
Recognising the difficult trading conditions experienced by Greyhound during the year, management recommended that the strategic plans and estimates of future cash flows generated by the division be revised.
Under these revised projections, the calculated value in use of the division resulted in a 277.3m shortfall to the carrying value of assets 2017: 360.4m surplus.
Following the review of managements recommendation and projections, the Committee concluded that there should be an impairment charge of 277.3m on the Greyhound cash-generating unit.
Further detail on impairment testing is provided in notes 4 and 11 in the consolidated financial statements.
North America self-insurance provisions Provisions are measured at managements best The Committee has reviewed the provision and considered the assumptions used to estimate of the likely settlement of all known incidents.
Independent actuarial expert advice on the adequacy of the provisions A valuation of the expense required to settle the against such liabilities is sought on a regular basis and the discount rate has been benchmarked obligation and, where applicable, the discount rate against external data.
The Committee agreed with managements view not to charge the items isused to calculate the expected settlement.
relating to the adverse developments in arriving at adjusted operating profit for the North American divisions in order to avoid distorting year-on-year comparisons for these businesses.
As reported elsewhere, there have been adverse The Committee considered this significant issue at its meeting in May 2018.
Further detail onthe developments on a small number of aged insurance assumptions used in determining the value is provided in note 4 in the consolidated financial claims in North America which mainly relate to the statements.
The impact of these adverse developments was a charge of 32.7m comprising First Student 13.4m, First Transit 15.8m and Greyhound 3.5m.
Pensions The Group participates in a number of defined Management has engaged with external experts and the Committee has considered the benefitpension schemes.
Management exercises assumptions used for estimating the liability.
Sensitivity analysis has been performed on the significant judgement when determining the keyassumptions: discount and inflation rates.
The overall liability has also been assessed assumptions used to value the pension liabilities forreasonableness.
Further detail on pensions is provided in note 36 in the consolidated financial as these are materially sensitive to changes inthe statements.
Revenue recognition Estimates are made on an ongoing basis when The Committee has reviewed the revenue recognition policies.
These policies and their determining the recoverability of amounts due and the application are in line with accounting standards.
Regular forecasts are compiled on the carrying value of related assets and liabilities arising outcome of these types of franchises and contracts to assess the reasonableness of the from franchises and long term service contracts.
Further detail on revenue recognition is provided in note 2 in the consolidated financial statements.
addition, revenue recorded may be subject to manual adjustment to reflect the timing and valuation of revenue recognised, e. g. due to timing of travel or where amounts are unbilled at a period end.
Going Concern and Viability The Group regularly prepares an assessment detailing The Committee reviewed managements funding forecasts and sensitivity analysis and the available resources to support the going concern impact of various possible adverse scenarios.
Following the review, which the Committee carried assumption and the viability statements.
out at its meeting in May 2018, the Committee recommended to the Board the adoption of both the going concern and viability statements for inclusion in this report.
The statements can be found on page 44.
Rail franchises profitability The Committee regularly reviews projected trading for The Committee considered the profitability of rail franchises at various meetings during the all rail franchises to ensure that they remain profitable financial year and in May 2018 reached the conclusion that, with the exception of TPE, over the respective franchise term.
allrailfranchises remained profitable for the duration of the respective franchise terms.
Furtherdetail on rail franchises profitability is provided in notes 4 and 26 in the consolidated financial statements.
TPE onerous contract provision Management prepared updated financial forecasts The Committee considered this significant issue at its meeting in May 2018.
The Committee forthis franchise until the initial end date of 31 March noted that the profitability forecasts for TPE prepared by management were based on a number 2023 and considered whether the TPE franchise was of assumptions, most significantly passenger revenue growth.
The assumptions are based on onerous and if an onerous contract provision should economic and other exogenous factors as well as changes in timetables, capacity and rolling be recorded.
Based on these projections the Committee reviewed managements judgement that the most probable outcome was an onerous contract, as well as managements recommendation of the onerous contract provision charge to the income statement of 106.3m.
Further detail on this provision is provided in notes 4 and 26 in the consolidated financial statements.
Non-GAAP measures The Committee regularly reviews items which The Committee considered the treatment of the adjusting items as set out in note 4 to the management consider appropriate to adjust for in consolidated financial statements and in May 2018 reached the conclusion that this treatment arrivingat Group and divisional results in order to wasappropriate.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 65 Corporate governance report continued Audit Committee report continued Policy on the provision of non-audit services The Committees policy on the use of the external auditor for non-audit services includes the identification of non-audit services that may be provided, those prohibited, and a process through which other non-audit services may be provided.
The policy requires that non-audit services of the external auditor will only be used where the Group benefits in a cost-effective manner and the external auditor maintains the necessary degree of independence and objectivity.
Twice a year the Committee is also provided with a report on all non-audit assignments awarded to the external auditor and a breakdown of non-audit fees incurred.
Details of amounts paid to the external auditor for audit and non-audit services for the year ended 31 March 2018 aresetout in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
The policy, which was reviewed by the Committee in March 2018, is summarised below: Fees for other services Audit fee Fee categories Non permitted Permitted Other permitted Statutory n a services non-audit non-audit andaudit services services related services Projects that are not Projects or Projects or Projects or to be performed by engagements where engagements engagements the external auditor the external auditor whichare not wherethe external because they would is best placed to covered under auditor is best represent a threat to perform the work anyof the other placed to perform the independence of due to their network categories but the work asit is the audit team and knowledge of where the external clearly audit related the business or auditor is best experience and placed to market leadership providethem ina particular area Tax, payroll, HR, Formalities relating Due diligence Review of half-yearly n a Examples of legal, valuation and toshareholder relatedto M&A and other interim other services actuarial services circulars and other financial information Consultations and regulatory reports Management or audits regarding Advice on correct decision-making Professional training acquisitions and accounting consultancy disposals, financial treatment of accounting and proposed Bookkeeping reporting standards transactions andpreparing accounting records Investment circular Reporting on and financial reporting accountant regulatory returns statements engagements Internal control or Employee benefit risk management plans, IT security procedures, and sustainability internalaudit audits outsourcing services Reports required Corporate financial, byregulators restructuring or transaction relatedservices Roles and responsibilities n a Approval needed before work starts Pre-approved Negotiation and CFO aspart of the recommendation approval of the annual audit fee Audit Committee Approval needed Approval needed Review and ifservices likely to ifservices likely to approval cost more than cost more than 125,000 75,000 Consider if tendershould beconducted 66 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Corporate governance report continued Board Safety Committee report The Committee meets at least three times per year and the Deputy Company Secretary acts Role and responsibilities as Committee Secretary.
It is supported by Keep under review the development theExecutive Safety Committee, which is and maintenance of a framework of chaired by the Chief Executive, and meets policies and standards for managing every two months.
safety risks and their impact on the Safety Governance Groups activities The overall structure of FirstGroups safety Assess the impact of safety decisions governance represents a balance between and actions taken by the Group on its delegated decision making to the operating reputation, employees and other company and retaining strategic direction, stakeholders oversight and challenge from the Board.
Monitor and assess the commitment Our approach to safety governance is and behaviour of management towards Jim Winestock characterised by: safety-related risks Chair, Board Safety Committee the Committee overseeing material safety Review safety performance and matters and risks across the Group, as significant safety incidents, considering wellasreviewing targets in respect of the key causes thereof and ensuring safetyperformance: actions are taken and communications made by management to prevent management of the relevant operating It is important for the similar incidents occurring in the future company having primary responsibility for Committee to continuously thedesign and implementation of an Make proposals to the Remuneration review our safety strategy, effectivesafety management system, and Committee regarding appropriate safety accountability for safety performance: and performance objectives for Executive procedures and systems in Directors and certain senior managers the safety function providing advice directly order to improve our safety and through a series of networks across Review the findings of internal or performance.
external reports on the Groups safety, assessing any strategies In May 2017, we commissioned an independent andaction plans developed by review of safety to Arthur D Little.
We report Summary of Committee management inresponse to issues further on the outcome of that review on page raised and, where appropriate, activities during the year 26.
We are pleased that the initial findings  to the demonstrate that FirstGroup has robust and Boardonsuch matters.
mature safety governance and management May 2017 Safety targets review and approval of arrangements.
The full terms of reference of the performance objectives Committee can be found on the For more information on the Groups approach Annual review of terms of reference Companys website.
to safety and activities in the year, see page 26 Review of the Groups safety in the Corporate responsibility section.
management framework and commission of independent assurance review We will also continue with the roll out of the Looking ahead to 2018 19 BeSafe programme in GWR and SWR.
November 2017 We are grateful for the Rail Accident Performance evaluation review of results BeSafe is a highly valuable investment that Investigation Branch RAIB s recommendations First Bus safety presentation to better isalready changing behaviours and culture, for improvements to the tram system in understand the divisions safety risk building on established compliance with safety Croydon and across the UK.
Tram Operations exposures and challenges and the management systems, processes, procedures Limited has learned from the RAIBs analysis actions being taken to address these and practices to achieve the goal of zero harm.
andits own internal reviews and it will continue January 2018 towork hard, with our support and alongside Proactive steps are being taken across the Review of new technologies and its TfL, to follow the RAIBsrecommendations and impact on safety initiatives Group in training, technology and management to make further improvements Review of RAIB report on Croydon to ensure the safety of customers, employees wherenecessary.
tram incident and third parties.
Safety is always front of mind but we must accelerate our progress toward At every meeting Safety performance of the Group, achieving zeroharm.
Membership and operation divisions and operating companies Meetings Other Key safety initiatives Committee member attended Committees Roles Independent Be Safe programme Jim Winestock Chair 3 Audit Committee Yes Reports from the Executive Nomination Committee Safety Committee 1 Jimmy Groombridge 2 Group Employee Director No Ad hoc Imelda Walsh 3 Nomination Committee Yes Lessons learnt and steps taken Chair of Remuneration Committee following significant incidents 1 Jimmy Groombridge was appointed in May 2017 and his first Committee meeting was in November 2017.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 67
