Overview Chairmans Statement Strategic Report Governance Report Auditors Report Financial Report Notice of Meeting Other Information Governance Report Corporate Governance Statement Introduction AIFMD The Board has considered and supports the principles and The Company is defined as an Alternative Investment Fund AIF recommendations of the UK Code published in 2016 and has also under the AIFMD issued by the European Parliament, and which adopted key aspects of the revised version published in 2018.
The has been implemented into UK law.
This requires that all AIFs must Board believes that the Company has applied the principles and has appoint a Depositary and an Alternative Investment Fund Manager complied with the 2016 UK Code during the period under review and AIFM.
The Board remains fully responsible for all aspects of the up to the date of this report except as set out below.
The UK Code Companys strategy, operations and compliance with regulations.
The includes provisions relating to: Manager is the Companys AIFM.
the role of the Chief Executive: Articles of association executive directors remuneration: and The Companys articles of association may only be amended by special the need for an internal audit function.
resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
The Board considers these provisions as not being relevant to the The Board position of the Company, being an externally managed investment The Boards responsibilities are outlined on page 52.
In particular, all of the Companys day to day management the Board is responsible for the effective stewardship of the and administrative functions have been delegated to the Manager.
Companys affairs and reviews the schedule of matters reserved for As a result, the Company has no executive directors, employees or its decision.
These are categorised under strategy, policy, finance, internal operations.
Therefore, with the exception of the need for an risk, investment restrictions, performance, marketing, appointments, internal audit function, which is addressed on pages 48 and 49, the the Board and public documents.
It has responsibility for all corporate Company has not reported further in respects of these provisions.
strategic issues, policies set out on pages 12, 16 and 17 and corporate governance matters which are all reviewed regularly.
The Board is also adhering to the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code published in In order to enable them to discharge their responsibilities, all 2016 and has had regard to the latest version published in February Directors have full and timely access to relevant information.
The latest version of the AIC Code includes a significant meeting the Board reviews the Companys investment performance departure from that of the UK Code, namely the removal of the nine and considers financial analyses and other reports of an operational year limit on chair tenure and the need for disclosure of the tenure nature.
The Board monitors compliance with the Companys objectives policy in relation to that role.
As noted on pages 38 and 43, Simon and is responsible for setting investment and gearing limits within Fraser has served over nine years since appointment to the Board which the Fund Manager has discretion to act, and thus supervises in September 2009 and it was announced in October 2018 that he the management of the investment portfolio which is contractually intends to step down during this year.
The search for his replacement delegated to the Manager.
The Board has the right of veto over the is underway.
The tenure policy relating to the Directors, including the appointment of sub-managers recommended by the Fund Manager.
The Board has responsibility for the approval of all investments in in-house funds managed or advised by BMO GAM and any unlisted Copies of the UK Code and AIC Code can be found on their respective investments with the exception of new private equity investments, websites: www.
responsibility for which has been delegated to BMO GAM.
The following table sets out the Directors meeting attendance in 2018.
The Board held a separate meeting in September 2018 to consider Report and Accounts 2018 | 37 strategic issues and also met regularly in private session during the training courses and seminars.
All the other Directors stand for reyear, without any representation from the Manager.
Each Director has signed a terms of appointment letter with the Board effectiveness Company, in each case including one months notice of termination The 2018 annual appraisal of the Board, the committees and the by either party.
These are available for inspection at the Companys individual Directors has been carried out by the Chairman.
This built registered office during normal business hours and are also available on the objectives identified from the external appraisal for 2016 for at annual general meetings.
which the Chairman was supported by independent consultants, the Board Advisory Partnership LLP, and from the objectives set following Directors attendance in 2018 the internal appraisal in 2017 and during the course of 2018.
The Management process included confidential unattributable one-to-one interviews Audit Nomination Engagement between the Chairman and each Director.
The appraisal of the Board Committee Committee Committee Chairman was covered as part of the process and led separately by No.
of meetings 8 4 3 1 the Senior Independent Director.
The Chairmans report on progress in Simon Fraser 8 4 1 1 2018 was considered by the Board in February 2019 and the status of Sarah Arkle 8 4 n a 1 the objectives set for the current year were reviewed.
These include building on the momentum generated and the positive results Sir Roger Bone 8 4 3 1 delivered under the 150th anniversary promotional campaign and Francesca Ecsery 8 n a 3 1 implementation of the succession planning necessary for refreshment Jeffrey Hewitt 8 4 n a 1 of the Board over the next few years.
The appraisal determined Beatrice Hollond 8 4 n a 1 that the Board continues to be effective, with appropriate skills Edward Knapp 8 4 n a 1 and experience contributed by the Directors, as is the Chairmans Nicholas Moakes 8 n a 3 1 leadership of the Board.
Attends but is not a member of the Audit Committee Two meetings of the Nomination Committee concerned the reappointment of the Chairman, which he did not attend.
Removal of Directors The Company may by special resolution remove any Director before Directors are able to seek independent professional advice at the the expiration of their term of office and may by ordinary resolution Companys expense in relation to their duties.
No such advice was appoint another person who is willing to act to be a Director in their taken during the year under review.
The Board has direct access place.
The provisions under which a Director would automatically to company secretarial advice and services of the Manager which, cease to be a Director are set out in the articles of association.
through the Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that Board and Committee procedures are followed and applicable regulations Independence of Directors are complied with.
The proceedings at all Board and other meetings The Board, which is composed solely of independent non-executive are fully recorded through a process that allows any Directors Directors, regularly reviews the independence of the individual concerns to be recorded in the minutes.
The Board has the power to Directors.
All the Directors have been assessed by the Board as appoint or remove the Company Secretary in accordance with the remaining independent of BMO GAM and of the Company itself: none terms of the investment management agreement.
The powers of the has a past or current connection with BMO GAM and each remains Board relating to the buying back or issuance of the Companys shares independent in character and judgement with no relationships or are explained on pages 17, 35 and 36. circumstances relating to the Company that are likely to affect that judgement.
For these reasons and those set out on page 43, Sir Roger Appointments Bones tenure of 11 years: Simon Frasers tenure of over nine years: Under the articles of association of the Company, the number of and Jeffrey Hewitts tenure of nearly nine years are not considered to Directors on the Board may be no more than fifteen.
Directors may compromise their independence.
be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
All new appointments by the Board are subject to election by Conflicts of interest shareholders at the next annual general meeting and institutional A company director has a statutory obligation to avoid a situation shareholders are given the opportunity to meet any newly appointed in which he or she has, or potentially could have, a direct or Director if they wish.
An induction process is in place for new indirect interest that conflicts with the interests of the company a appointees and all Directors are encouraged to attend relevant situational conflict.
The Board therefore has procedures in place 38 | F&C Investment Trust PLC Overview Chairmans Statement Strategic Report Governance Report Auditors Report Financial Report Notice of Meeting Other Information Governance Report for the authorisation and review of situational conflicts relating to the refreshments.
Those who attended last year were presented with a Directors.
Limits can be imposed as appropriate.
book on the history of FCIT published to mark the anniversary.
Other than the formal authorisation of the Directors other directorships as situational conflicts, no authorisations have been By order of the Board BMO Investment Business Limited sought.
These authorisations were reviewed in January 2019, and each Secretary Director abstained from voting in respect of their own directorships.
11 March 2019 Aside from situational conflicts, the Directors must also comply with the statutory rules requiring company directors to declare any interest in an actual or proposed transaction or arrangement with the Company.
Committees The Board has established an Audit Committee, Management Engagement Committee and Nomination Committee.
The role and responsibilities of these committees are set out in their respective reports.
As the Board has no executive Directors and no employees, and is composed solely of non-executives, it does not have a Remuneration Committee.
Detailed information on the remuneration arrangements for the Directors of the Company can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 46 and in note 5 on the Accounts.
Relations with shareholders and stakeholders Shareholder communication is given a high priority.
In addition to the annual and half-yearly reports that are available to shareholders, monthly factsheets and general information are available on the Companys website at fandcit.
A regular dialogue is maintained with the Companys institutional shareholders and with private client asset managers.
Shareholders and any stakeholder wishing to communicate with the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director or any other member of the Board may do so by writing to the Company, for the attention of the Company Secretary, at the address set out on page 40.
To mark the 150th anniversary in March 2018, FCIT sponsored an informative lecture at the Guildhall in the City of London given by keynote speakers including bestselling author, Professor Yuval Harari.
The lecture also provided the opportunity to hear first-hand from Paul Niven, the Fund Manager, on the history of investing for the last 150 years and Millennials expert Dr Eliza Philby.
The audience included shareholders who had engaged with the Board on investment and general issues over recent years.
All correspondence with shareholders on matters of investment policy, responsible investment and governance are submitted to the following Board meeting for consideration.
All shareholders have the opportunity to meet and question the Board at the AGM, not only during the course of the meeting but also afterwards with Report and Accounts 2018 | 39
