Overview Chairmans Statement Strategic Report Governance Report Auditors Report Financial Report Notice of Meeting Other Information Governance Report Report of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present to you the Report of the Audit Committee for the year ended 31 December 2018.
The Report and Accounts have been reviewed particularly in respect of the further requirements relating to the Strategic Report and to the UK Code of Corporate Governance.
The Committee has also reviewed the Managers preparations for new regulations including GDPR and related disclosures.
Our focus on cyber-security measures has been maintained.
Role of the Committee and the sub-managers and a due diligence report from the The primary responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to ensure the Companys Share Registrars: integrity of the financial reporting and statements of the Company, and The performance of the Companys third-party service providers to oversee: the preparation and audit of the annual accounts: preparation and administrators, other than BMO GAM, and the fees charged of the half yearly accounts and the internal control and risk management in respect of those services: processes.
The Committee met four times during the year with BMO Bank counterparty monitoring and BMO GAMs dealing efficiency GAMs Trust Accountant, Head of Investment Trusts, Risk Managers of BMO and associated costs: GAM and the Fund Manager in attendance.
EY have attended all meetings The Companys trademarks and intellectual property rights: and and have met in private session with the Committee.
The Board Chairman The Committees terms of reference for approval by the Board.
was invited to, and regularly attended, Committee meetings.
Comprehensive papers relating to each of these matters were prepared Specifically, the Committee considered, monitored and reviewed the for discussion.
These were debated by the Committee and any following matters: recommendations were fully considered if there was a judgement to be applied in arriving at conclusions.
Recommendations were then made The audited annual results statement and annual report and to the Board as appropriate.
accounts and the unaudited half-yearly report and accounts, including advice to the Board as to whether the annual report and The Board retains ultimate responsibility for all aspects relating to accounts taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable: external financial statements and other significant published financial The accounting policies of the Company: information as is noted in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Principal Risks faced by the Company and the effectiveness on page 52.
On broader control policy issues, the Committee has of the Companys internal control and risk management reviewed, and is satisfied with BMOs Code of Conduct and their environment, including consideration of the assumptions Criminal Risk Corporate Standard the Standard to which BMO GAM underlying the Boards Principal Risks and Future Prospects and its employees are subject.
The Standard is supported by BMOs statement on viability: Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Operating Directive.
The Committee The effectiveness of the external audit process and the current has also reviewed BMO GAMs Whistleblowing Policy that has been put independence and objectivity of EY: in place under which its directors and staff may, in confidence, raise The appointment, remuneration and terms of engagement of the concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other auditor: matters.
The necessary arrangements are in place for communication The policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply by BMO GAM to this Committee where matters might impact the non-audit services and approval of any such services: Company with appropriate follow-up action.
In 2018 there were no The need for the Company to have its own internal audit function: such concerns raised with the Committee.
The Committee has also The ISAE AAF and SSAE16 reports or their equivalent from BMO considered and agreed the processes relating to new regulations GAM, the Custodian, Depositary, the Private Equity managers particularly GDPR.
Report and Accounts 2018 | 47 Composition of the Committee Internal controls The Board recognises the requirement for the Committee as a whole to The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys systems of have competence relevant to the sector in which the Company operates internal controls, for reviewing their effectiveness and ensuring that and at least one member with recent and relevant experience.
The risk management and control processes are embedded in the dayCommittee comprises five independent non-executive Directors.
I, Jeffrey to-day operations, which are managed by BMO GAM.
The Committee Hewitt, am Chairman of the Committee and a Chartered Accountant and has reviewed and reported to the Board on these controls, which aim was for many years Group Finance Director of Electrocomponents plc, as to ensure that the assets of the Company are safeguarded, proper well as currently or having recently been audit committee chairman of accounting records are maintained and the financial information used other listed companies.
The other members of the Committee have a within the business and for publication is reliable.
Control of the risks combination of financial, investment and business experience through the identified, covering financial, operational, compliance and overall risk senior posts held throughout their careers.
Several have wide experience management, is exercised by the Committee through regular reports of the investment trust sector.
Details of the members can be found on provided by BMO GAM.
The reports cover investment performance, pages 30, 31 and 34 and the Committees terms of reference can be found performance attribution, compliance with agreed and regulatory on the website at fandcit.
investment restrictions, financial analyses, revenue estimates, performance of the third-party administrators of the BMO savings plans Management of risk and on other relevant management issues.
BMO GAMs Business Risk Department provides regular control report updates to the Committee covering risk and compliance whilst any The systems of internal controls are designed to manage rather than significant issues of direct relevance to the Company are required to be eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can reported to the Committee and Board immediately.
only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement, or loss or fraud.
Further to the review by the Committee, A key risk radar summary is produced by BMO GAM in consultation with the Board has assessed the effectiveness of the Companys internal the Board to identify the risks to which the Company is exposed, the controls.
The assessment included a review of the BMO GAM risk controls in place and the actions being taken to mitigate them.
The Board management infrastructure and the report on policies and procedures has a robust process for considering the resulting risk matrix at each of its in operation and tests for the year to 31 October 2018 the ISAE AAF meetings and dynamically reviews the significance of the risks and the Report and subsequent confirmation from BMO that there had been reasons for any changes.
no material changes to the control environment in the period to 11 February 2019.
This had been prepared by BMO GAM for all its investment The Board carried out a separate exercise in October 2018 during which trust clients to the International Standard on Assurance Engagement each Director, the Fund Manager, Head of Investment Trusts and Company ISAE No.
3402 and to the standards of the Institute of Chartered Secretary independently listed what they consider to be the top five risks Accountants in England and Wales Technical Release AAF 01 06.
The that could impact the sustainable success of the Company.
The purpose ISAE AAF Report from independent reporting accountants KPMG sets of the exercise was to identify any new emerging risks and take any out BMO GAMs control policies and procedures with respect to the necessary action to mitigate their potential impact.
The combined list was management of clients investments and maintenance of their financial then reconciled with the risks previously identified within the existing records.
The effectiveness of these controls is monitored by BMO GAMs key risk radar and reviewed as part of the robust assessment of the Group Audit and Compliance Committee, which receives regular reports Companys risk and controls described below.
from its Internal Audit department.
Procedures are also in place to capture and evaluate any failings and weaknesses within BMO GAMs The Companys Principal Risks are set out on page 20 with additional control environment and those extending to any outsourced service information given in note 25 on the Accounts.
The Committee noted providers to ensure that action would be taken to remedy any significant the robustness of the Boards review of Principal Risks and participated issues.
Any errors or breaches relating to the Company are reported as Board members themselves.
The integration of these risks into the at each Committee and Board meeting by BMO GAM.
No failings or analyses underpinning the Ten Year Horizon Statement on viability on weaknesses material to the overall control environment and financial page 21 was fully considered and the Committee concluded that the statements were identified in the year.
The Committee also reviewed Boards statement was soundly based.
The period of ten years was also the control reports of the Custodian, the Depositary, T. Rowe Price and agreed as remaining appropriate for the reasons given in the statement, Barrow, Hanley, Private Equity funds of funds managers and the Share whilst recognising that the period remains longer than that used by many Registrars due diligence report and were satisfied that there were no other companies.
48 | F&C Investment Trust PLC Overview Chairmans Statement Strategic Report Governance Report Auditors Report Financial Report Notice of Meeting Other Information Governance Report Through the reviews noted above and by direct enquiry of BMO GAM External audit process and significant issues considered by and other relevant parties, the Committee and the Board have satisfied the Committee themselves that there were no material control failures or exceptions In carrying out its responsibilities, the Committee has considered the affecting the Companys operations during the year nor to the date of this planning arrangements, scope, materiality levels and conclusions of Report.
The table below describes the significant judgements and issues considered by the Committee in conjunction with Based on the processes and controls in place within BMO GAM, the EY in relation to the financial statements for the year and how these Committee has concluded and the Board has concurred that there is no issues were addressed.
The Committee also included in their review the current need for the Company to have a separate internal audit function.
areas of judgements, estimates and assumptions referred to in note 2 c xii on the Accounts and welcomes this increase in transparency on such issues.
Likewise, the Committee reviewed the disclosure and description of Alternative Performance Measures provided on page 95 and is satisfied that the disclosure is fair and relevant.
Significant Judgements and Issues considered by the Committee in 2018 Matter Action Investment Portfolio Valuation The Companys portfolio of investments comprises The Committee reviewed annual audited internal control reports from BMO GAM, the sub-managers and highly liquid securities quoted on recognised Private Equity funds of funds managers.
These reports indicated that the relevant systems and controls stock exchanges, held directly or through quoted surrounding daily pricing, cash and holdings reconciliations, security valuation and Private Equity funding had open-ended funds, together with illiquid Private operated satisfactorily.
In addition, with regard to Private Equity vehicles, the Committee: discussed controls Equity funds of funds.
The Private Equity vehicles, directly with the managers: reviewed the managers estimated valuations in detail at six monthly intervals: which are subject to signed agreements covering and performed a thorough review and comparison of each Private Equity funds 31 December 2017 or most long-term commitments and funding, hold a recent audited value versus the managers estimated valuation adopted by the Company in its own reporting.
diversity of unquoted investments whose values The review indicated that the Private Equity funds of funds managers estimated valuations could continue are subjective.
to be relied upon as being at fair value in accordance with the Companys accounting policy.
The limited partnership agreement, under which the co-investments and secondaries investments are managed by BMO GAM, was reviewed by the Committee.
The process for valuing the more recent direct private equity valuations was reviewed and agreed by the Committee.
Misappropriation of Assets Misappropriation of the Companys investments or The Committee reviewed the annual audited internal control reports of BMO GAM and the Custodian.
Neither cash balances could have a material impact on its of these reports indicated any failures of controls over the existence and safe custody of the Companys NAV per share.
The Committee reviews regularly the list of banks which the Manager and sub-managers are authorised to place cash and deposits with.
The Companys Depositary reported quarterly on the safe custody of the Companys investments and the operation of controls over the movement of cash in settlement of investment transactions.
Through these reports the Committee is satisfied that the assets remained protected throughout the year.
Income Recognition Incomplete controls over, or inaccurate recognition The Committees review of BMO GAMs annual audited controls report indicated that there were no control of, income could result in the Company misstating failures in the year.
The Committee reviewed that all special dividends had been correctly treated in its revenue receipts and associated tax, with accordance with the Companys accounting policy.
Investment income was tested and reported on by consequences for overall performance, payment BMO GAM.
of dividends to shareholders, and compliance with taxation rules.
Report and Accounts 2018 | 49 Procedures for investment valuation and recognition of income were team.
From direct observation and indirect enquiry of management, the main areas of audit focus and testing.
For the long-held Pantheon the Committee is satisfied that EY will continue to provide effective and HarbourVest unlisted Private Equity investments in particular, the independent challenge in carrying out their responsibilities.
The Committee questioned the funds of funds managers on their processes Committee also considered the evaluation of EYs audit performance in meetings during the year.
The year-end valuation is an estimate based through the Audit Service Quality Review.
This is a formal Audit Service on the September valuations extrapolated to the year-end by adjusting Quality Review process with an independent senior partner at EY.
The for cash flows and any known events as described in notes 2 c ii and level of the audit fee, which amounted to 85,000 excluding VAT 2017: 25 d on the Accounts.
The Committee reviewed prior year experience 87,000, was carefully considered for value and effectiveness.
on the validity of this estimation process by comparing the estimated value with the actual audited values which become known in May June As part of its annual review, the Committee considers the need for of the following year.
The variances were not material.
The process for putting the audit out to tender for reasons of quality or independence.
valuing the more recent direct private equity valuations was reviewed As the Company is required to carry out a tender every ten years, the and agreed by the Committee as being appropriate.
next one will be conducted no later than 2026.
The Committee met in February 2019 to discuss the final draft of the Non-audit services Report and Accounts, with representatives of EY and BMO GAM in The Committee regards the continued independence of the external attendance.
EY submitted their Year-End Report and confirmed that they auditor to be a matter of the highest priority.
The Companys policy had no reason not to issue an unqualified audit opinion in respect of the with regard to the provision of non-audit services by the external Report and Accounts.
The Committee established that there were no auditor ensures that no engagement will be permitted if: material issues or findings arising which needed to be brought to the attention of the Board.
the provision of the services would contravene any regulation or ethical standard: The increased focus on the Strategic Report by investors and regulators the auditors are not considered to be expert providers of the is welcomed by the Committee.
The Committee has carefully considered non-audit services: the disclosures made in the Report and Accounts particularly in relation the provision of such services by the auditor creates a conflict of to the disclosures under section 172 1 of the Act including how wider interest for either the Board or the Manager: and stakeholder interests have been taken into account by the Directors the services are considered to be likely to inhibit the auditors while performing their duties and related disclosures with regard to independence or objectivity as auditors.
The Committee has also had regard to the Non-Financial Reporting requirements in the Act.
It is aware that this area of NonIn particular, the Committee has a policy that the accumulated costs of Financial Reporting matters will evolve further in coming years.
all non-audit services sought from the auditors in any one year should not exceed 30% of the likely audit fees for that year and not exceed The Committee also noted that an independent, objective and skilled 70% cumulatively over three years and any individual service likely to third party had read the Report and Accounts and commented on exceed 5,000 is agreed by the Committee prior to the commencement fairness, balance and comprehension.
The Committee recommended to of the services and are accompanied by terms regarding liability, the Board that the Report and Accounts were in its view, fair, balanced cost and responsibilities.
As set out in note 5 on the accounts, EY and understandable in accordance with accounting standards, regulatory charged 8,000 excluding VAT for non-audit services during the year.
This related to the testing of the Companys contingency planning arrangements.
The Independent Auditors Report which sets out the unqualified audit opinion, the scope of the audit and the areas of focus, in compliance Regulatory compliance with applicable auditing standards, can be found on pages 53 to 59.
The Committee confirms that the Company is in compliance with the requirements of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Auditor assessment, independence and appointment Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes The Committee reviews the reappointment of the auditor every year and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
This order relates to and has been satisfied with the effectiveness of EYs performance on the frequency and governance of tenders for the appointment of the this, their third audit of the Companys accounts.
EY have confirmed that external auditor and the setting of the policy on the provision of nonthey are independent of the Company and have complied with relevant audit services.
In evaluating EY, the Committee has taken into consideration the standing skills and experience of the firm and the audit 50 | F&C Investment Trust PLC Overview Chairmans Statement Strategic Report Governance Report Auditors Report Financial Report Notice of Meeting Other Information Governance Report Review by the Conduct Committee of the Financial Reporting Council FRC We strive to meet the highest standards in reporting to shareholders and aim to be a leader of best practice within the investment trust industry in that regard.
The Conduct Committee of the FRC, which supports continuous improvement in the quality of corporate reporting, has carried out a routine review of the Companys Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Based on their review, the Conduct Committee has informed the Board that they had no questions or queries they wished to raise.
It should be noted that whilst the Conduct Committee does not benefit from a detailed knowledge of the Companys business or an understanding of the underlying transactions entered, their review has nevertheless been conducted by staff of the FRC who have an understanding of the relevant legal and accounting framework.
It is therefore very pleasing to report that no questions or queries have been raised from the review.
Committee evaluation The activities of the Audit Committee were considered as part of the Board appraisal process completed in accordance with standard governance arrangements as noted on page 38.
A full evaluation was undertaken on the effectiveness, roles and responsibilities of the Committee in accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils current guidance.
The evaluation found that the Committee functioned well, with the right balance of membership and skills.
Jeffrey Hewitt Audit Committee Chairman 11 March 2019 Report and Accounts 2018 | 51
