Overview Chairmans Statement Strategic Report Governance Report Auditors Report Financial Report Notice of Meeting Other Information Governance Report Report of the Nomination Committee Role of the Committee As part of the Boards annual setting of objectives, the implementation The primary role of the Nomination Committee is to review and make of a sequence of other directorate changes is expected to follow the recommendations with regard to Board structure, size and composition, appointment of a new chairman and continue over the next few years.
the balance of knowledge, experience, skill ranges and diversity and The final decision on appointing new Directors always rests with the consider succession planning and tenure policy.
All of the Committees Board.
responsibilities have been carried out over the course of 2018 and 2019 to date.
The Committee met on three occasions during the year and Diversity and tenure specifically considered, monitored and reviewed the following matters: The Boards diversity policy, objective and progress in achieving it are set out on page 17.
The search for my replacement as chairman is the structure and size of the Board and its composition particularly being undertaken in accordance with this objective and policy with the in terms of succession planning and the experience and skills of the recruitment process open to a diverse range of candidates by way of individual Directors and diversity across the Board as a whole: advertisement through the search agency platform.
tenure policy: the criteria for future Board appointments and the methods of The Board is also of the view that length of service will not necessarily recruitment, selection and appointment: compromise the independence or contribution of directors of an the recruitment of a new Chairman and the reappointment of those investment trust company or, indeed, its chairman.
This is because Directors standing for re-election at annual general meetings: continuity and experience can add significantly to the strength of the the need for any changes in committee membership: board and where the characteristics and relationships tend to differ the attendance and time commitment of the Directors in fulfilling from those of other companies.
In normal circumstances the Chairman their duties, including the extent of their other directorships: and Directors are expected to serve for a nine-year term, but this may the question of each Directors independence prior to publication of be adjusted for reasons of flexibility and continuity.
the Report and Accounts: and the authorisation of each Directors situational conflicts of interests Committee evaluation in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the policy and The activities of the Nomination Committee were considered as part procedures established by the Board in relation to these provisions.
of the Board appraisal process completed in accordance with standard governance arrangements as summarised on page 38.
The conclusion Composition of the Committee from the process was that the Committee was operating effectively, Committee membership is disclosed on pages 30 and 31 and its terms with the right balance of membership, experience and skills.
of reference can be found on the website at fandcit.
Simon Fraser Succession planning Nomination Committee Chairman No new appointments were made to the Board during the year, but 11 March 2019 this has been under active consideration.
On 31 October 2018 it was announced that I intend to step down as Director and Chairman during the course of 2019.
I was appointed in September 2009 as a NonExecutive Director and as Chairman in May 2010 and will have therefore served nine years in that capacity by the time of the AGM.
The search for my replacement has begun using an independent search platform, Nurole Limited, the services of which are for the sole purpose of recruiting the eventual appointee: no other business relationship exists with that platform.
The search is being led by the Senior Independent Director.
