Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 107 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EFFECTIVENESS CHAIRMANS INDEPENDENCE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENCE The Chairman, Mr Alberto Baillres, is beneficially interested in The Board considers the Directors listed as being independent more than 50% of the share capital of the Company through on pages 104 and 105, to be independent in character and his interest in Industrias Peoles S. A.
B. fide C. V. the Companys judgement.
For each of these Directors, their circumstances controlling shareholder.
Mr Baillres is also the Chairman are assessed by reference to Provision B.
1.1. of the Code and of Peoles and other companies within the BAL Group.
the Board remains satisfied that they are each independent Mr Baillres has been the Chairman of the Company when the standards set out in Code Provision B.
1.1 are taken since its IPO in 2008. into account.
For Ms Brbara Garza Lagera, Mr Charles Jacobs, Ms Georgina Kessel, Dame Judith Macgregor and Mr Baillres was appointed to the Board by Peoles pursuant to Mr Jaime Serra Puche, none of the situations set out in Code the Relationship Agreement, thus at the time of his appointment Provision B.
In making this assessment for was not independent.
Having been responsible for overseeing Mr Alberto Tiburcio, the Board notes that Mr Tiburcio retired the successful development of the Group over many years, the as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Mancera S. C. Board considers that his continued involvement as its Nonthe Mexican firm of EY, the Companys auditor, in June 2013. executive Chairman is very important to the continued success Mr Tiburcio was not involved in the provision of audit or any of the Company.
The Board considers that the continued other services to the Company by Ernst & Young LLP prior to oversight of the Companys strategic and operational integrity his retirement.
Mr Tiburcio is an independent non-executive provided by it being a member of the Peoles Group enhances director of Grupo Nacional Provincial, S. A.
B. and Grupo Palacio the quality of its corporate governance rather than detracts from fide Hierro, S. A.
B. fide C. V. which are companies within the it as explained further on page 100 and, therefore, the Board BAL Group.
Given that he is not involved in executive duties continues to value and endorse Mr Baillres chairmanship of the in any of those companies and has a similar obligation to Company.
Given Mr Baillres experience and understanding of be independent for those two companies as for Fresnillo, Mexican business and its regulatory context, this assessment the Board does not consider that Mr Tiburcios position gains further validity in the current political and social as an independent Non-executive Director of the Company environment in Mexico.
Notwithstanding the expectations of is adversely impacted by those two appointments.
The Board the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board does not believes that Mr Tiburcios experience in Mexican and expect to change this assessment for the foreseeable future.
international business and his experience and knowledge of Mexican and international accounting and audit practice and The performance of the Chairman has been evaluated by corporate governance are particularly valuable to the Board the independent Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior and the Audit Committee, making him eminently qualified Independent Director, every year since 2008 and feedback to be the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
from that review is provided to the Chairman by the Senior Independent Director.
TIME COMMITMENT AND OVERBOARDING The Board is very aware that investors are concerned about The Relationship Agreement continues to provide a all Board members being able to devote sufficient time and foundation for a transparent governance system, which attention to the Companys business and this concern will ensures that the Company benefits from Mr Baillres be triggered a when a directors attendance record at leadership and experience while being able to demonstrate Board and Committee meetings falls below expected levels to other shareholders that the Fresnillo Group is capable of without sufficient justification: and or b where a director is carrying on its business independently of any companies overboarded, in particular, when a Non-executive Director with which he is connected.
In particular, the Relationship holds more than five listed company directorships.
Agreement ensures that transactions and relationships between the Fresnillo Group and its controlling shareholder The Nominations Committee annually reviews the time are at arms length and on competitive commercial terms.
commitments of the Non-executive Directors to the Fresnillo Further information regarding the Relationship Agreement plc Board and devoted significant time and thought to this can be found on page 109. exercise in 2018.
Its philosophy in doing so, was to consider 1 the total workload of each Non-executive Director: and 2 the particular value that each Director brings to the Board.
108 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED In addition, during 2018 the Nominations Committee specifically considered the issue of overboarding and time In assessing the time commitments of each of the commitment in relation to two Directors: Fernando Ruiz and Directors, the Nominations Committee takes into Jaime Serra.
Its assessment is as follows: account the following factors: FERNANDO RUIZ 1.
Public companies vary considerably in the expectations that they place on their non-executive directors.
For the whole of his time on the Fresnillo board, Mr Ruiz It considers that a global company with various lines of has held many other listed company directorships.
These business operating in many countries, should not count directorships are mainly on listed Mexican companies and, the same as a single-product company with operations as explained previously, the Board considers that these primarily in just one country.
Fresnillo plc falls into the directorships are less time consuming and onerous in their latter category and because of the relative commonality demand than UK listed companies because of the size of of its activities, the Board does not consider that it their boards and the frequency of their meetings.
Mr Ruiz needs more than four scheduled Board meetings a attendance record at Board and Committee meetings has year, a factor which is reflected in the relatively low fees been solid and has never been a matter of concern to the that the Company pays its Non-executive Directors.
Nominations Committee or the Board.
This relatively low number of meetings is further Of greater importance to the Nominations Committee is the justified by the degree of governance oversight of value to the Board of Mr Ruiz advice and expertise, particularly the Company.
This comes by virtue of it also being in the area of tax and Government fiscal policy.
The Board are a member of the BAL Group, of which, five of the keen that Mr Ruiz continues to remain a member of the Board, Directors are also members in a primary capacity and albeit given his length of service on the Board, he is no longer two of the Directors are involved in an independent considered to be an Independent Director.
The calendar for Board and Committee meetings is scheduled to align with JAIME SERRA the other meetings of companies, including listed Jaime Serra held six listed company directorships, one more companies within the BAL Group ownership structure.
than allowed by investor policies and missed one board and This ensures that Fresnillo plc Directors who are two committee meetings in 2018.
Mr Serra was a key player in appointed to the boards of other companies within the the original launch of the NAFTA free trade agreement when BAL Group do not have any time conflicts with their he was still in government and his knowledge and expertise has other commitments on BAL Listed Entity boards.
been in great demand, including in an ad hoc unpaid capacity at Government level during the negotiation of the United States Mexico Canada Agreement USMCA, the successor agreement to NAFTA, during 2018.
The Board The Non-executive Directors are required, by their letters considered that it is of huge benefit to Fresnillo to have of appointment, to spend 14 days per annum on Company someone of Mr Serras calibre on the Board given his business.
The BAL Group Directors usually meet with involvement and insight into the political world.
management prior to each Board meeting to extensively review the agenda and papers for the forthcoming meeting with them.
Notwithstanding this, given the overboarding concerns and They also oversee management responses to actions arising the demands of his recent appointment as Chairman of BBVA from the Board meetings.
This time commitment, as well as Bancomer, Mr Serra and the Board agreed that he would not the time required in travelling to the UK for the annual general stand for re-election at the 2019 AGM and he resigned from meeting each year, more than exceeds the time commitment the Board on 25 February 2019. specified in their letters of appointment.
The attendance record at Board meetings of the BAL appointed Directors over the past ten years has been exemplary.
The independent Directors have committee responsibilities which, in conjunction with their Board duties, take up more time than their letters of appointment require.
In addition, the UK-based Directors also travel to and from Mexico for Board and Committee meetings which also significantly increases the time that they spend on their Board duties.
The other listed company directorships of the Fresnillo plc Directors is set out on pages 102 to 105 of this report.
The Board and Committee attendance record of each of the Directors during 2018 is set out on pages 102 to 105 of this report.
