Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 113 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE 2018 During the year, the Board and its Committees have considered the requirements of the 2018 version of the UK Corporate Governance Code the New Code and initiated actions to move the Companys corporate governance towards compliance with the new provisions set out in the New Code.
The key steps taken have included: Reviews of the Boards responsibilities and those of the Board Committees and, where appropriate, amendments to Committee terms of reference to bring them into line with the New Code: A review of the current conflicts of interests procedures operated by the Board: Agreement concerning the mechanisms for Board engagement with employees including the designation of Mr Arturo Fernndez as the Non-executive Director responsible for overseeing those arrangements, and A decision that the Audit Committee should continue to review whistleblowing procedures and reporting on a regular basis but reporting to the Board at least twice per year on this matter from 2019 onwards.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT STAKEHOLDER GROUP GOVERNANCE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ACTIVITIES DURING 2018 EMPLOYEES Board, Audit Committee Review of culture and organisational ethics strategy and reports and HSECR Committee on metrics.
Oversight of whistleblower arrangements and cases.
Evaluation of health and safety performance.
Monitoring the initiative to embed ethics and culture.
Evaluation of the Modern Slavery Statement.
Development of health, safety and diversity and inclusion KPIs for reporting to the Board.
LOCAL COMMUNITIES Board and HSECR Committee Community initiatives are monitored by the Board and AND CIVIL SOCIETY HSECR Committee.
During 2018, the HSECR Committee developed community KPIs.
Evaluation of trends and their business implications.
CONTRACTORS Board, Audit and HSECR Committee oversight of dialogue with contractors HSECR Committees on safety matters.
Reviews of contractor engagement elements of the Anti-Bribery & Corruption programme.
CUSTOMERS Board and Audit Committee The Companys relationship with its sole customer is monitored through the Boards related party oversight processes.
GOVERNMENT Board, Executive Committee, Regular dialogue with Government departments at both BAL, AND REGULATORS HSECR Committee Board and Executive Committee levels during the year reports and Audit Committee on matters such as taxation.
Evaluation of regulatory impacts on health, safety, environment and social matters.
The Executive Committee is responsible for the day-to-day stewardship of all stakeholder relationships and its members report to the Board on the key metrics and initiatives.
The Executive Committee is currently developing a proposal for future employee engagement for the Board to review in compliance with Code Provision 5 of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Stakeholder relationships are included in the bonus metrics for the senior management team.
Further information about the Groups relationship with its suppliers is set out on pages 22 and 23 of the Strategic Report.
