116 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT DEAR SHAREHOLDER During 2018, there have been two main issues for the Earlier in the Corporate Governance Report, reference is made Nominations Committee to consider: the need to replace to our dialogue with shareholders about the time commitment Guy Wilson who retired at the AGM having served ten years and other interests of our Non-executive Directors.
This is a as an independent Non-executive Director and Chairman of matter we have scrutinised closely as a Committee.
We remain the Audit Committee and the search for a new Chief Operating firmly convinced that there is an excellent combination of skills Officer to replace Roberto Diaz, who retired at the beginning and experience around the Board table which will serve the of 2019.
In both tasks, the Nominations Committee made good Board well in the coming months.
We will continue to review progress.
I was pleased that Georgina Kessel agreed to join the such matters each year in the light of the requirements of the Board as an independent Non-executive Director at the 2018 new UK Corporate Governance Code.
AGM and that Alberto Tiburcio, who has served on the Board and Audit Committee since 2016, agreed to take over as Yours faithfully Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Alberto and Georgina are both settling into these new roles very well and I firmly believe Mr Alberto Baillres that the Nominations Committee decisions will, in both cases, Chairman of the Nominations Committee prove to be very successful.
I am also pleased to report that we now have three female Directors on our Board which further demonstrates our commitment to promoting greater diversity on the Board.
At the executive level, the process to replace of Roberto Diaz as Chief Operating Officer has been a long one.
After a long search, we were pleased to confirm the appointment of Andr Sougarret as Chief Operating Officer which was announced in January 2019.
We recognise, as a result of this appointment, that our Executive Committee continues to consist only of men.
We have always maintained a policy of appointing people on the basis of merit but without discrimination and this continues to be the case.
Mr Sougarret was the best of the candidates considered for the job and the Nominations Committee was happy to endorse his appointment.
Where we can, we continue to promote women into senior positions in the Company.
Towards the end of the year, for example, we appointed a new Compliance Officer who is female.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 117 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE COMPOSITION The members of the Nominations Committee are Alberto Baillres Chairman of the Committee, Brbara Garza Lagera and Alberto Tiburcio.
Ms Garza Lagera and Mr Tiburcio are both independent Non-executive Directors and therefore the majority of the members of the Nominations Committee are independent in compliance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
ROLE The Nominations Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the structure, size and composition of the Board and its committees and succession planning for the Directors and other senior executives.
Before making appointments of new Directors, the Committee is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and identifying and nominating suitable candidates.
The Nominations Committee has approved Board Appointments and Board Diversity Policies which provide the framework for the Nominations Committee and the Boards approach to Board appointments.
Attendance Mr Alberto Baillres 3 3 Ms Brbara Garza Lagera 3 3 Mr Alberto Tiburcio 3 3 BOARD APPOINTMENTS POLICY AND PROCESS IN SUMMARY The Nominations Committee and Board are strongly committed to the principle of equality of opportunity when making new appointments to the Board while ensuing that appointments are made on the basis of merit.
The Nominations Committee continues to consider the composition of the Board with a focus on its continued commitment to diversity.
The criteria for determining the composition of the Board and future Board appointments continue to be based on: Relationship Agreement requirements for appointments to the Board by Peoles.
The Companys leading position as a precious metals miner in Mexico.
The Companys inclusion in the FTSE 100 Index.
The specific functions on Board committees which independent Directors will be required to fulfil.
The provisions set out in the current terms of reference of the Nominations Committee.
The Nominations Committee does not use open advertising or retain any external consultants when making new appointments to the Board as it is considered unnecessary considering the Companys contacts within Mexico and further afield.
BOARD DIVERSITY POLICY PROGRESS All Board appointments are made on merit.
The Board recognises and embraces the benefits of having a diverse Board: particularly the value that different perspectives and experience bring to the quality of Board debate and decision-making.
There are certain considerations which are taken into account in considering the composition of the Board such as: background and experience: age: gender: and shareholder perspectives.
The Board believes that setting targets for the number of people from a particular background or gender is not the most effective approach to take.
The Board will therefore look to follow the principles of this policy rather than specified quotas or targets.
Following the recent appointments of Dame Judith Macgregor and Georgina Kessel as independent Non-executive Directors, 50% four out of the eight of the Directors that have been appointed to the Board since 2012 have been women.
This demonstrates the Boards commitment to gender diversity.
With 25% of the current Board composition being female, the Nominations Committee recognises that this does not meet the 33% target for representation of women on the board set by the Hampton-Alexander Review.
Nevertheless, it will continue to keep the gender balance of the Board as a key factor in considering future Board appointments, which at all times will be based on merit.
118 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The Board recognises that very few women are attracted to mining engineering and geology academic programmes in Mexico and, in view of the stage of development of Mexico, the participation of women in the labour force as a whole is still relatively low.
This will take time to rectify but it is changing and the Company is committed to hiring and developing women with educational training in mining engineering, geology, finance and accounting.
A further explanation of the steps that the Company is taking to promote diversity across its businesses is set out in the Sustainability Report on page 69.
Board composition: gender split 2017 2018 Male 10 12 9 12 Female 2 12 3 12 With ten Mexican and two British directors on the Board, the Nominations Committee is satisfied with the ethnic diversity of the Board.
Full versions of the Board Appointments Policy and Process and the Board Diversity Policy and the Group Diversity Policy, can be found on the Companys website www.
ACTIVITY DURING 2018 The Nominations Committee met three times during the year.
BOARD APPOINTMENTS The Nominations Committee is committed to a progressive refreshing of the Board, as recommended by Code Provision B.
2.3 of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Nominations Committee recognised that a further independent Non-executive Director appointment was necessary given that Guy Wilson had reached the nine year deadline for independence set by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Consequently, Mr Guy Wilson retired from the Board at the 2018 AGM and was replaced as an independent Non-executive Director by Georgina Kessel, who brings excellent political and business experience in Mexico and further afield to the Board.
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP The Nominations Committee reviewed the composition and effectiveness of the Board Committees in 2018 in the light of recent changes to the composition of the Board and approved the following changes to the Board Committees which took effect from the 2018 AGM: Alberto Tiburcio was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee in place of Guy Wilson, who retired from the Audit Committee: Charles Jacobs was appointed as an additional member of the Audit Committee: and Judith Macgregor was appointed as an additional member of the HSECR Committee.
EXECUTIVE SUCCESSION PLANNING Each year, the Nominations Committee reviews a schedule of possible successors for all the positions on the Executive Committee Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Vice President of Exploration and Chief Operating Officer.
This review considers both short-term emergency and long-term planning scenarios.
Any actions needed to support the development of potential long-term successors are discussed.
The Nominations Committee also monitors the long-term evolution of the membership of the Board as a whole.
Over the past year, the Nominations Committee has been considering the need to replace Mr Roberto Diaz, the Chief Operating Officer, who retired in early 2019.
Identifying the right successor for this role has been an extended exercise.
It was decided to split the current role into two separate roles, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Projects Officer.
Following an extensive search, which included the consideration of suitable female candidates, the Nominations Committee approved the appointment of Mr Andr Sougarret as Chief Operating Officer with effect from 2 January 2019.
In December 2018, Humberto Garibay was appointed as Chief Projects Officer reporting to the Chief Operating Officer.
OTHER NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE ACTIVITY The Nominations Committee also considered the following matters: Approval of the Nominations Committee Report prior to publication.
Review of the time commitment required from each Director.
The proposed re-election of each of the continuing Directors at the AGM.
A self-evaluation exercise which concluded that the Nominations Committee is functioning well.
The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee are available on the Companys website at www.
The letters of appointment for the Non-executive Directors are made available for inspection at the Companys registered office, during normal business hours.
