22 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT BUILDING RELATIONSHIPS WITH EMPLOYEES LOCAL COMMUNITIES GOVERNMENT CONTRACTORS AND UNIONS AND CIVIL SOCIETY AND REGULATORS AND SUPPLIERS SHAREHOLDERS KEY STAKEHOLDERS ENGAGEMENT STRATEGY Engage union representatives Meet regularly with key stakeholders Engagement with federal authorities Engage contractors with the I Care, Organise conference calls We rely on strong relationships constructively on collective to understand and discuss their and regulators on regulatory issues We Care programme to embed and roadshows.
with our key stakeholders in order bargaining and health & safety issues.
through trade unions such as safety in our culture.
Attend investment forums to gain trust and social acceptance Conduct social, ethical and Conduct Social Impact Assessments CAMIMEX and sustainability Engage contractors to certify and conferences.
for our operations, to maintain our workplace surveys to identify issues to identify potential negative impacts associations such as CESPEDES.
their safety and environmental Annual General Meeting.
licence to operate and to create that matter to employees.
and perception studies to capture Direct engagement with federal, management systems and participate shared value.
To this end, we Operate Health & Safety programmes the expectations of communities.
state and local authorities regarding in government certifications.
engage with the communities in each business unit to foster direct Operate grievance mechanisms mining rights, environmental where we operate, as well as with dialogue between employees and to address the concerns of permitting, etc.
in the regions unions, contractors, partners and management.
Operate the Fresnillo plays fair Consult indigenous communities suppliers.
We also work closely whistleblowing line.
with government and regulators and ensure open communications with investors.
ISSUES THAT MATTER TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS Find out more about the outcomes of our Remuneration.
Operating and Financial engagement initiatives in our Social and Working conditions.
Employment and procurement Mineral waste and hazardous Labour rights.
Transparency regarding lobbying Labour rights.
Managing cyanide, mineral waste Health & Safety.
HOW WE ADDRESS THESE ISSUES Competitive remuneration, training Ensuring that priority is given to local Conduct Environmental Impact Uphold our labour, Health & Safety Stringent viability criteria for and development opportunities to employment and procurement.
Assessments to identify potential and Environmental procedures.
development projects, including retain our talent.
Strengthening regional supply chains impacts and mitigation strategies.
Carry out due diligence procedures rates of return, to ensure adaptability Uphold our labour standards and through participation in mining clusters Foster energy efficiency and supply to verify the ethical profile of new across price cycles.
respect human rights to ensure a in Zacatecas, Sonora and Chihuahua.
Targeted investment and disciplined positive work environment.
Working with community leaders to Observe Responsible Water Provide technical support to help cash management.
Operate a Health and Safety engage municipalities on projects stewardship to secure access, the contractors comply with the Selfmanagement system based on with the Mining Fund.
efficient use of resources, pollution Management Safety programme.
best practices to ensure a safe Managing community investment protection, and cooperation with Monitor security, maintaining clear and healthy workplace.
portfolio in alliance with NGOs.
Train employees to embed ethics Following best practices for land Manage our mineral and hazardous and safety in our culture.
acquisition, resettlements and waste facilities responsibly.
Monitor security situations, maintaining indigenous consultations.
Manage cyanide in compliance clear internal communications and Disclosing our government relations with the International Cyanide close relations with authorities at & lobbying activities and our Management Institute ICMI.
federal, state and local levels.
Participate in the Health, Safety and Environmental certifications of the Mexican authorities.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 23 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EMPLOYEES LOCAL COMMUNITIES GOVERNMENT CONTRACTORS AND UNIONS AND CIVIL SOCIETY AND REGULATORS AND SUPPLIERS SHAREHOLDERS ENGAGEMENT STRATEGY Engage union representatives Meet regularly with key stakeholders Engagement with federal authorities Engage contractors with the I Care, Organise conference calls constructively on collective to understand and discuss their and regulators on regulatory issues We Care programme to embed and roadshows.
bargaining and health & safety issues.
Attend investment forums Conduct social, ethical and Conduct Social Impact Assessments CAMIMEX and sustainability Engage contractors to certify and conferences.
workplace surveys to identify issues to identify potential negative impacts associations such as CESPEDES.
and perception studies to capture Direct engagement with federal, management systems and participate Operate Health & Safety programmes the expectations of communities.
in each business unit to foster direct Operate grievance mechanisms mining rights, environmental dialogue between employees and to address the concerns of permitting, etc.
Operate the Fresnillo plays fair Consult indigenous communities whistleblowing line.
ISSUES THAT MATTER TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS Remuneration.
Operating and Financial Working conditions.
