Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 109 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS THE GOVERNANCE OF FRESNILLOS RELATED PARTY ARRANGEMENTS RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT As far as the Company is aware, such provisions have been Peoles has entered into a relationship agreement with the complied with during the financial year ended 31 December Company the Relationship Agreement to ensure that 2018 by Peoles and or any of its associates.
relationships between the Fresnillo Group and the Peoles Group are conducted at arms length and on normal commercial Peoles has also undertaken not to exercise its voting rights terms.
The Non-independent Directors listed previously have to amend the Articles of Association in a way which would be been appointed to the Board by Peoles pursuant to the inconsistent with the provisions of the agreement.
It has also Relationship Agreement.
agreed to abstain from voting on any resolution to approve a related party transaction as defined in paragraph 11.1.
5 R of The Relationship Agreement complies with the independence the Listing Rules involving any member of the Peoles Group.
provisions set out in Listing Rule 6.1.
The Company has complied with the independence provisions The following diagram summarises the approach taken to included in the Relationship Agreement during the financial year identify and manage related party transactions.
IDENTIFYING DIRECTORS INTERESTS PROCESS HOW THIS IS MANAGED RESPONSIBILITY Monitoring of If a Director is interested in a company which could potentially enter into transactions Directors Directors interests with a Fresnillo plc Group company, the Board will normally consider that interest under its arrangements for authorising conflicts of interest under s175 of Companies Act.
MANAGING A RELATED PARTY TRANSACTION PROPOSED Ongoing monitoring of Directors interests and related parties of the Company TRANSACTION provides the information to determine if a related party approval is required for a proposed transaction, where possible.
PROCESS HOW THIS IS MANAGED RESPONSIBILITY Contract negotiation The Executive Committee will seek to ensure that the best possible terms Fresnillo and verification are achieved for a proposed transaction and that they are verified by industry management benchmarking reports or independent valuation assessment, where possible.
and Executive Committee Financial scrutiny The Audit Committee reviews the key terms of major transactions which are verified, Audit Committee where possible, as to price and quality with external consultants or independent benchmarking.
Independent Under the Relationship Agreement and the Listing Rules, the Independent Directors Independent Director approval must approve any transaction with the Peoles Group and its associates without the Directors non-independent Directors voting.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST At the beginning of each Board meeting, the Company The Group requires that Directors complete a Directors List.
Secretary reminds the Directors of their duties under sections The list sets out details of situations where each Directors 175, 177 and 182 of the Companies Act which relate to the interest may conflict with those of the Company situational disclosure of any conflicts of interest prior to any matter that conflicts.
Each Director has re-submitted their list as at may be discussed by the Board.
31 December 2018 for the Board to consider and authorise any Further information about related party matters considered by the Board new situational conflicts identified in the re-submitted lists.
during the year are set out in the Audit Committee Report on pages 128 and 129.
