98 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE FRESNILLOS APPROACH TO GOVERNANCE The Board takes corporate governance seriously and considers its responsibilities under the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code with care.
With nearly 75% of its share capital owned by Peoles, it is important to understand Fresnillos corporate governance in the context of the Companys relationship with its parent company.
The Board considers this to be a strength rather than a threat because it brings the shareholder perspective into the boardroom and creates an additional level of accountability for the executive team compared to other listed companies.
The framework for corporate governance within Fresnillo plc therefore has three features which are relatively unusual for UK public companies: in particular: A fully non-executive Board: 1 There are no Executive Directors on the Board: however, the Fresnillo Board operates differently from the traditional UK boards which usually have both non-executive and executive directors.
The non-independent and independent Directors on the Board engage with the business of the Board from two different perspectives which enables two levels of scrutiny to be applied to the Boards decision-making.
A fit for purpose Remuneration Committee: The membership of the Remuneration Committee is made up of 2 Non-executive Directors the majority of whom are independent who are able to bring the following perspectives to the working of the Remuneration Committee: an understanding of shareholder expectations: an understanding of the evolving remuneration expectations of investors on the London Stock Exchange: and an understanding of the general approaches to remuneration within the Mexican market.
Having the Chairman of the Company, who is non-executive but not independent, as a member of the Remuneration Committee, enhances the Committees collective ability to take these perspectives into account in its discussions.
Strong governance over related party matters: Fresnillo plc derives synergistic benefits from services provided 3 by Peoles.
Being a part of a group which has common requirements across a number of service areas, provides opportunities for resources to be shared efficiently from a cost point of view.
The key elements of the Boards approach to ensuring that the Companys commercial relationship with its parent company and other related parties are independent and maintained on an arms length basis are described later in this section.
The Audit Committee regularly reviews these arrangements to ensure that they provide the intended benefits to the Company in a transparent and controlled manner.
