110 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD BUSINESS AND ACTIVITIES All meetings of the Board are held in Mexico.
The Board has a well-established programme of meetings.
Board members usually receive Board papers five days prior to meetings in order to enable the Directors adequate time to study and consider the documents.
Members of the Executive Committee, led by the Chief Executive Officer, are present at all of the Board meetings and present all of the papers on operational, stakeholder and financial matters.
The following table sets out the key business of the Board during 2018.
STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE REPORTING FINANCIAL AND UPDATES AND ETHICS CONTROLS Exploration strategy.
Receipt of Board Approval of 2017 Annual Approval of budget and evaluation reports and Report and Accounts.
Update on San Julin action plan.
Approval of Preliminary Review and approval Meeting of independent Announcement.
of dividend policy and Update on Cinega Directors.
Review and approval of Board and Committee Viability Statement.
Review and approval CSR strategy.
of Principal Risks Approval of Interim Report.
Update on the New United and Uncertainties.
Approval of Shared States-Mexico-Canada Approval of Modern Services Agreement.
Approval of Met-Mex Annual strategy lunch.
Review of changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
REGULAR REPORTS AND AGENDA ITEMS Chief Executives Report including Project, Exploration HSCER and Culture Reports.
Risk and Internal Control Report.
Investor Relations and Corporate Communications update.
Legal and Company Secretarial Report including litigation update.
Directors have the right to raise concerns at Board meetings, and can ask for those concerns to be recorded in the Board minutes.
The advice and services of the Company Secretary whose appointment and removal is a matter reserved for the Board are also available to the Directors.
The Group has also established a procedure which enables Directors, in relevant circumstances, to obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
ENSURING THAT THE ANNUAL REPORT IS FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE In relation to the Annual Report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018, there are a number of steps that the Board undertook to ensure that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable: Two weeks prior to the Annual Report being approved by the Board, members of the Audit Committee and other Directors reviewed a current draft enabling them to assess whether the information was consistent with their understanding of the Companys business and the nature and content of discussions at the Board meetings during the year.
Suggested changes put forward by the Directors, based on knowledge obtained through Board and Audit Committee papers and discussion and other interactions with management were taken into account by management in preparing the final version of the Annual Report.
Internal Audit undertook a review exercise of the principal non-financial numbers in the Annual Report which are extracted from the Companys operational records.
The Audit Committee also reviewed the Annual Report and financial statements, taking into account comments made and reports issued by EY and decided to recommend them to the Board for approval.
As a result of the above procedures, the Board considers that, taken as a whole, the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
