Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 111 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BOARD PERFORMANCE EVALUATION In order to evaluate its own effectiveness, the Board undertakes annual appraisals using a combination of externally facilitated and internally-run evaluations over a three-year cycle.
The cycle of the Boards evaluations is summarised as follows: YEAR 1 YEAR 2 YEAR 3 Externally facilitated Follow-up on action plan Focus on outstanding and emerging Board evaluation prepared in response issues arising from the action plan using questionnaires to year 1 evaluation using using  and or interviews  questionnaires questionnaires BOARD EVALUATION IN 2018 2018 was the second year of the three-year evaluation cycle and therefore the Company used an  evaluation to follow up on the external evaluation conducted by Linstock in 2017.
The 2018 evaluation was conducted by the Company Secretary by means of a confidential questionnaire.
The aim of the evaluation was to follow-up on the points raised by Lintstock, review the Boards progress to date and identify further steps for the Board to take.
The questionnaire was consistent with the 2017 approach in seeking the Directors views on the Boards interaction with strategy and operational matters and the Boards processes and interactions.
The Board was presented with the findings of the evaluation at the October Board meeting.
The key points of discussion arising from the 2018 evaluation process and principal actions being taken in response focussed on the following areas: the process for agreeing future strategy: the allocation of time to the discussions about risk: additional information to support the Key Performance Indicator metrics presented to the Board: reporting on community relations: the format of Board papers: and further developments to the process for post-investment reviews.
INDIVIDUAL PERFORMANCE REVIEWS Non-executive Directors occasionally meet the Chairman without executives being present.
The independent Non-executive Directors meet annually in order to evaluate the performance of the Chairman.
On the back of this meeting, the Senior Independent Director discusses the views of the independent Directors with the Chairman.
The Independent Directors held this meeting in 2018 after the February meeting and took the 2017 Board Evaluation review into account in their discussions and feedback to the Chairman.
BOARD DEVELOPMENT Senior management present on the Groups strategic initiatives to provide the Non-executive Directors with more information about the broader context to the Companys activities.
In addition, there is a regular distribution of industry briefings on technical, market and sector issues.
Directors are encouraged to visit the Companys mines to familiarise themselves with the Fresnillo Groups operations: building on mine visits in recent years.
During 2018, a number of the Non-executive Directors made mine visits including to Fresnillo, Saucito, Juanicipio, Herradura and Noche Buena.
Briefings were arranged for all Directors from the Companys legal advisers.
These include presentations which were aimed at familiarising the Directors with their duties and responsibilities as Directors of a UK listed company and changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In addition, the Chairman meets with Directors to discuss any training or development needs.
112 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CASE STUDY BY DAME JUDITH MACGREGOR Visits now to three mines: to Fresnillo, San Julin and GETTING UP TO SPEED Herradura have given me a far better understanding of how we are meeting our goal of creating value through growth WITH FRESNILLO and returns: of the importance of investment in the people, the technology and the skills necessary for our business and the economic and social context around it.
In the Fresnillo mine, it was instructive to see the challenges of maximising extraction from an historic mine.
In San Julin, the start up of a totally new operation in a previously untapped region, and at Herradura, the growing enhancement of production through new technology, especially the use of IT.
Equally impressive on all my trips has been the strong focus on social programmes to help develop the economic, educational and health opportunities in the local communities.
One highlight was seeing students in a remote As British Ambassador to Mexico from 2009 to community develop a robot that could score real goals !
2013, I was well aware of Fresnillos successful and it was great to visit new projects to stimulate enterprise activity as a UK listed company and major gold and water conservation.
There is much still to learn but 18 and silver producer a significant player in our months on and as a member of the Committee for Health work to strengthen bilateral trade and business.
and Safety, Environment and Community Relations, I am definitely better equipped to provide the oversight and But in 2017 as a new Independent Board Director, challenge required of an Independent Director.
a different learning was ahead of me.
This began in London, with a thorough induction on UK Corporate Governance and my role in this, conducted by Fresnillos London lawyers, Head of Legal in Mexico and Company Secretary with invaluable support from the Senior Independent Director.
Mining is a complex industry around a reasonably straightforward This theory came to life and much better understanding, in subsequent meetings with the Chairman, CEO and proposition of extracting valuable fellow members of the Fresnillo Board, plus the chance minerals from the soil.
But its to meet Fresnillo staff and most importantly, to see the Fresnillo mines, which span a large part of Mexico.
Mining economic, social, environmental is a complex industry around a reasonably straightforward and human ramifications are of proposition of extracting valuable minerals from the soil.
But its economic, social, environmental and human course extremely wide ranging.
ramifications are of course extremely wide ranging.
