Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 119 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT DEAR SHAREHOLDER I am delighted to introduce my first Audit Committee Report During the second half of 2018, the Fresnillo Board and the Audit since being appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee in Committee assessed the implications of the 2018 update to the May 2018.
I would like to begin by thanking Guy Wilson, my UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Audit Committee has predecessor, for chairing the Committee from July 2008 until the focused on three particular areas, ahead of the effective date AGM this year, and for his valuable contributions to the Company.
The Board has decided that the I will certainly seek to maintain and develop the important role Audit Committee will continue its role in regularly reviewing that the Audit Committee plays in the overseeing the integrity of whistleblowing reports reviewed by the Honour Commission, the financial reporting, risk and control and assurance activities.
but will then report to the Board on the information it has received and the conclusion of its reviews.
We also intend to review our As we started planning for this latest report, it was pleasing reporting on audit and associated matters in the light of the to see that some issues which had been topics of scrutiny and new requirements of Provision 26 of the new Code.
Finally, we discussion in previous years have become less prominent in our received a summary from management on the steps being taken thinking in 2018, for instance there has been some improvement in this annual report to reflect the requirements of the new Code, in the Companys IT security and data protection.
However, as particularly in relation to stakeholder reporting.
old challenges recede, others remain and new ones emerge.
One major area of discussion during the year, was the ongoing During the year, I visited the Fresnillo and Saucito mines and the dialogue with the Mexican tax authorities about the investigations Juanicipio project.
Also during the year, my fellow Director and that we referred to in the 2017 annual report.
These investigations member of the Audit Committee, Charles Jacobs visited the are routine but ahead of changes of personnel at the Mexican tax Fresnillo and Herradura mines.
In addition to seeing the mine authorities towards the end of the year there was a noticeable operations during my visits, I was able to get to know the different increase in tax audit activity.
I am pleased to report that a number programmes that the Company has developed to support the of the audits were concluded satisfactorily prior to the end of the communities and its sustainability.
Notwithstanding this good progress, there are some audits still ongoing which we will continue to monitor closely.
With the change in the Mexican Government which took place on 1 December 2018, the regulatory environment in Mexico may There are a number of key issues that we discuss with the experience some significant changes over the coming months.
external audit team each year when reviewing the financial This along with the testing economic circumstances that are statements.
This year, we have spent time discussing the expected, may present new challenges in 2019.
I believe the valuation of inventories as an emerging consideration for Audit Committee is well-placed to meet them, if they occur.
the Audit Committee due to the re-estimation of quantities held in leaching pads at Herradura.
This was as a result of new Yours faithfully information obtained from samples taken when a new access road was cut through the pad, following which drill samples Alberto Tiburcio were taken from a larger area of the pad.
This is discussed on Chairman of the Audit Committee page 62 of this report.
A more general concern during the year has been the changing macro-economic environment and its impact on commodity prices.
In turn, these impact a number of our judgement areas including the valuation of the Silverstream arrangements, the estimation of reserves and resources, the going concern assessment and the testing for impairment.
The work undertaken by EY on our 2017 financial statements was the subject of an external review by the FRCs Audit Quality Review team and I am pleased to report that the conclusion from that review was that the quality of the audit is good with only limited improvements needed.
We have evaluated the two specific points raised by the AQRT and have responded accordingly.
During the year, two evaluation exercises were undertaken.
Towards the end of the year, the Audit Committee members and key participants in the Audit Committee meetings completed an internal evaluation questionnaire, the results of which were satisfactory and discussed at our December meeting.
This review resulted in some useful suggestions for further improving the quality of the Committees work see page 129.
We also commissioned Deloitte to undertake an externally facilitated review of our Internal Audit function, which was conducted in the final quarter of the year and the results were discussed at our February 2019 meeting.
The overall conclusion of that review from Deloitte was that the Internal Audit function is performing effectively.
120 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED AUDIT COMMITTEE COMPOSITION The members of the Audit Committee at 31 December 2018 were Alberto Tiburcio Chairman of the Committee, Jaime Serra and Charles Jacobs.
Financial and auditing experience Sector experience Alberto Tiburcio Previously Chairman and CEO of EY Various industries.
Independent board and appointed to the Committee on Mexico.
Experience in national and Audit Committee experience at various 4 May 2016 and appointed Chairman international accounting and audit public companies.
of the Committee on 30 May 2018 practice and corporate governance.
Jaime Serra Previously Secretary of Finance and Political and financial insight through the appointed to the Committee Commerce in the Mexican government.
various roles held in government.
on 16 May 2014 Charles Jacobs Senior Partner and Chairman of An adviser to several UK natural resources appointed to the Committee Linklaters LLP.
on 30 May 2018 Guy Wilson Previously a partner at EY UK with Previously an adviser to several UK natural appointed 1 July 2008, retired international audit, accountancy and resources company boards.
on 30 May 2018 capital transaction experience.
The Chief Financial Officer and representatives from the external auditor and Internal Audit attend all meetings.
The Chief Executive Officer, other members of the Executive Committee and management attend where appropriate and external advisors attend for specific matters if relevant.
THE ROLE AND ACTIVITY OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee met five times during 2018.
Its programme of activity is determined at the beginning of each year and is structured to ensure that it reviews all of the activities set out in its terms of reference.
The Audit Committee has six primary responsibilities and a secondary one for monitoring its own effectiveness.
This report is, therefore, presented under the following headings: FINANCIAL REPORTING INTERNAL AUDIT Overseeing the Companys financial reporting Overseeing the work and findings of the to shareholders.
EXTERNAL AUDIT WHISTLEBLOWING Overseeing the Companys relationship Overseeing the effectiveness of the Companys with its external auditor.
RISK AND INTERNAL RELATED PARTIES Overseeing financial aspects of the relationship CONTROL with related parties.
Overseeing risk, internal control, going concern and viability.
EFFECTIVENESS Monitoring the Audit Committees effectiveness and that of the internal and external audit functions.
The role and duties of the Audit Committee are set out in its terms of reference, a copy of which can be found on the Companys website at www.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 121 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL REPORTING KEY ACTIVITIES DURING THE PAST 12 MONTHS Review of plan for preparing the financial statements and Annual Report for the year ending 31 December 2018. Review of the significant judgements and estimates that impact the financial statements.
Review of the financial statements and Annual Report for the year ending 31 December 2018. Review of the reconciliation of Tax and PTU and monitoring the ongoing dialogue with the Mexican tax authorities on tax matters.
Review of Payments to Government disclosure.
Review of interim financial statements for 2018 and Interim Announcement.
Consideration of new accounting standards, particularly IFRS 9, 15 and 16, and their implications for the Companys financial reporting.
Consideration of whether any changes were required to the existing accounting policies.
SIGNIFICANT JUDGEMENT AREAS The Audit Committee spends time ensuring that there is consistency between the policies and judgements used in preparing both the full-year and half-year financial statements prior to respectively recommending those financial statements to the Board for approval.
In conjunction with management and the external auditor, the Audit Committee considers the principal areas of audit risk and judgements made in relation to the financial statements which should be considered during its review of the financial statements and the external auditors report thereon.
In many cases, these significant judgement areas will be the same as those considered in previous years: however, as the mining cycle progresses these judgement areas will evolve and new ones will need to be considered while others may become less important.
This process may be summarised in the following way: SIGNIFICANT JUDGEMENT PROCESS BY CATEGORY OF RISK COMMITTEES ANNUAL IDENTIFICATION DISCUSSIONS REVIEW OF CONCLUSION ASSESSMENT OF KEY WITH SOURCES OF ON TREATMENT OF KEY AUDIT VARIABLES MANAGEMENT ASSURANCE AND SUITABILITY RISKS TO CONSIDER AND EY OF DISCLOSURE SIGNIFICANT JUDGEMENT AREAS IN 2018 The significant judgement areas prioritised in 2018 are set out below.
In each case, the Audit Committee concluded that the accounting treatment and disclosure in the financial statements is appropriate.
SILVERSTREAM CONTRACT SEE NOTE 13 TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ASSESSMENT OF THE RISK The Silverstream contract represents a large asset on our balance sheet which can, as a result of movements in variables discussed below, give rise to large, albeit non-cash, income or expense amounts in the income statement.
VARIABLES CONSIDERED The Silverstream contract is a derivative financial instrument which must be reflected at fair value at each balance sheet date.
The fair value is most sensitive to the timing and volume of forecast production derived from the reserves and resources and production profile of the Sabinas mine, estimated future silver price and the discount rate applied in the valuation.
SOURCES OF ASSURANCE The Audit Committee discussed with management and EY the inputs into the valuation at the balance sheet date and associated sensitivity analysis.
It also reviewed managements suggested disclosures relating to the Silverstream contract.
It discussed with EY their procedures for their audit of the valuation.
122 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTINUED RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS INCLUDING REVENUE RECOGNITION SEE NOTE 26 TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ASSESSMENT OF THE RISK Fresnillo has a controlling shareholder and as a result has very strong ties both to Peoles and the broader BAL group.
There is a risk that related party relationships could be taken advantage of to manipulate earnings or otherwise distort our financial position.
Furthermore, related party transaction disclosure requirements allow investors to understand the nature and extent of the Companys transactions with related parties and there is a risk that disclosures in the financial statements could be inaccurate or incomplete.
VARIABLES CONSIDERED Every year, the Audit Committee scrutinises the probity of all major related party transactions to ensure that they are entered into transparently and fairly to all shareholders see the section of this report headed Transactions with Related Parties.
SOURCES OF ASSURANCE The Audit Committee considered management reports on the transactions with related parties during the year and for the trading relationship with Met-Mex the basis on which pricing is determined by reference to third party benchmarking reports.
Transfer pricing assessments are also completed by the Groups external adviser,  PwC.
The Audit Committee discussed EYs procedures to ensure that related party transactions are recognised accurately and correctly reported in the relevant disclosures in the Annual Report, to ensure that they are consistent with the information it is presented with during the year.
ESTIMATION OF QUANTITIES IN INVENTORY SEE NOTE 14 TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ASSESSMENT OF THE RISK Inventory from leaching pads accumulates over time during which period the potential recovery of precious metal from that inventory may change.
This may result in an incorrect valuation of the metal held in the leaching pads.
The re-estimation of quantities of ore held in leaching pads at Herradura had to be considered as a result of new information obtained from samples taken when a new access road was cut through the pad, following which drill samples were taken from a larger area of the pad.
VARIABLES CONSIDERED The Audit Committee considered managements basis for the timing and quantification of the updated estimation.
This included i the relevance of the results of the samples taken from one area of the leaching pads to all deposits: ii the justification for the inputs used in the inventory calculation: iii indicators at the prior year end, that could have highlighted the need to perform a re-estimate of recovery rates: and iv whether there is a need to re-evaluate the inventory at other nearby business units.
SOURCES OF ASSURANCE The Audit Committee has discussed the answers given to EY and their specialists by the operational management team in response to enquiries concerning this matter.
MINERAL RESERVES AND RESOURCES SEE PAGES 245 TO 247 ASSESSMENT OF THE RISK Reserves and resources are a primary driver of Fresnillos market valuation and a significant input into calculations of depreciation and assessments of impairment.
Inaccuracies in the estimation of reserves and resources would lead to broad implications across the Annual Report and Accounts.
VARIABLES CONSIDERED The estimation of mineral reserves and resources requires significant judgement, not only in respect of mineral physically in place but also metal price and cost assumptions used to determine the cut-off grade for identifying economically viable ore bodies.
There is also judgment in developing and maintaining the mine plans which estimate the timing and quantities of related production.
SOURCES OF ASSURANCE The Audit Committee took into account the report by SRK Consulting the Companys independent reserves and resources auditor on the reserves and resources excluding Silverstream as presented to the Board in February 2019.
The Audit Committee also considered EYs evaluation of the competence and objectivity of SRK.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 123 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TAXATION AND PTU SEE NOTE 10 TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ASSESSMENT OF THE RISK The taxation of mining companies in Mexico has been the subject of much attention and governmental action in Mexico.
In accordance with the Mexican legislation, local companies also pay employee profit sharing PTU equivalent to approximately 10% of the taxable income of each fiscal year.
There is a risk that deductions taken when calculating tax and PTU charges may be challenged, and that any resulting exposures to payable taxation and PTU may not have been provided for appropriately.
In addition, certain tax assets and liabilities are denominated in Mexican pesos and are revalued in US dollars during the period, resulting in foreign exchange gains or losses which need to be taken into account when assessing the tax charge for the period and the deferred taxes computation.
VARIABLES CONSIDERED The Audit Committee reviews the status and potential outcomes of tax audits and significant adjustments applied to accounting profit in determining profit subject to taxation or PTU for each subsidiary which are clearly set out in papers prepared by management.
SOURCES OF ASSURANCE Throughout the year the Audit Committee received updates on the status of tax inspections.
The Audit Committee reviewed managements supporting memoranda on the consolidation of tax and PTU and sought EYs views on the same.
It ascertained the degree to which such judgements and adjustments are supported by internal and or external subject matter experts and ensured that these explanations correspond with information it was presented with during the year prior to approving the relevant disclosures in the Annual Report.
ENSURING THAT THE ANNUAL REPORT IS FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE The Audit Committee supports the Board in ensuring that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
The approach taken by the Board in relation to the Annual Report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 is described on page 110 of the Corporate Governance Report.
The Audit Committee also: reviews the Annual Report and financial statements, taking into account comments made and reports issued by EY and then decides whether to recommend them to the Board for approval: and discusses with Internal Audit any issues arising from the review that they undertake of the principal non-financial numbers in the Annual Report which are extracted from the Companys operational records.
124 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED EXTERNAL AUDIT KEY ACTIVITIES DURING THE PAST 12 MONTHS Review of letter from EY providing their observations and opportunities arising from the 2017 audit process and management responses to same.
Discussion with EY of the findings from their review of the interim results for the period ended 30 June 2018. Review of 2018 half-year representation letter given to EY.
Review and approval of the external audit plan, fees and terms of audit engagement.
Review of Financial Reporting Council FRC Report on EY as a firm in respect of 2017 annual reports.
Consideration of the independence, objectivity and qualifications of EY as external auditor.
Review of policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor and approvals.
Review of the Audit Quality Review team report on EYs audit of the 2017 financial statements.
Review of the results of the hard close audit for the ten months to 31 October 2018. Review EYs report following completion of the audit for the year ended 31 December 2018. Review of the representation letter given to EY for the 2018 full-year audit.
Review effectiveness of the 2018 full-year audit process.
Recommendation to the Board of the reappointment of EY as auditor at the 2019 AGM.
During 2018, the members of the Audit Committee met twice with representatives from EY without management present and once with management without representatives of EY present, to ensure that there are no issues in the relationship between management and the external auditor which it should address.
APPOINTMENT OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR In February 2018, the Audit Committee considered and recommended the re-appointment of the external auditor, EY, to the Board prior to the Companys Annual General Meeting.
This recommendation took into account the commitments made by EY during the tender exercise which was conducted during 2016 and was outlined in the Audit Committee Report for 2016.
EY was first appointed as the Companys external auditor in 2008 and reappointed following this tender exercise in 2016.
The Audit Partner is Daniel Trotman and he has been the Audit Partner for four years.
EVALUATION OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR The Audit Committee reviewed the FRCs Audit Quality Review AQR on EY as a firm and the specific report on EYs audit of the 2017 financial statements.
The conclusion from that review was that the quality of the audit was good with only limited improvements needed.
The Audit Committee has evaluated the two specific points raised by the AQR and discussed them with EY.
It does not consider these points to be significant and the Chairman of the Audit Committee has responded to the communications received from the FRC.
In February 2019, based on the above criteria, and following detailed discussions with management, the Audit Committee evaluated the performance of EY in 2018 and concluded that it was appropriate to recommend the reappointment of EY as external auditor at the 2019 Annual General Meeting.
QUALITY AND INDEPENDENCE OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR AND NON-AUDIT SERVICES POLICY The Audit Committee is mindful of its responsibility to ensure that the external auditor maintains its independence and objectivity and is appropriately qualified with sufficient resources and expertise to fulfil the role.
The Audit Committee specifically reviewed, and is satisfied with, the independence of EY as the external auditor based on disclosures provided by EY in accordance with UK Ethical Standards for the audit profession.
The Audit Committee reviewed its policy for the provision of non-audit services to the Fresnillo Group by the external auditor the Policy during the year having previously updated it in 2016.
No further changes were made to the Policy in 2018.
The current policy permits the engagement of the external auditor to provide statutory audit services, certain assurance, and due diligence services where fees are less than US$5,000 to be pre-approved.
Any engagement of the external auditor to provide permitted services above US$5,000 is subject to the specific approval of the Audit Committee.
During 2018, the Audit Committee authorised EY to provide research into transfer pricing methodologies US$30,000, in accordance with the Policy on the basis that this piece of work was not deemed by the Audit Committee to compromise EYs independence.
As at the date of this report, this work has not yet been awarded to EY.
Details of the fees paid to EY during the year as shown in note 27 to the financial statements.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 125 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RISK AND INTERNAL CONTROL KEY ACTIVITIES DURING THE PAST 12 MONTHS RISK Half-yearly reviews of the risk matrix and Key Risk Indicators KRIs.
Half-yearly reviews of the Principal Risks and Uncertainties.
INTERNAL CONTROL Quarterly review of internal control monitoring reports to the Board.
Consideration of plan for the year-end review of the system of internal controls.
Annual review of the system of internal controls.
FINANCIAL Annual treasury policy review and investment of cash balances.
NON-FINANCIAL Regular reviews of the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Programme ABAC.
Regular reports on legal matters including land titles and litigation.
Regular reviews of IT governance, IT strategy, cyber security and data protection.
Annual review of compliance with mining licence conditions.
GOING CONCERN Half-yearly reviews of the Going Concern Statement and supporting papers.
VIABILITY Review of the process for preparing the Viability Statement including scenario planning assumptions and supporting paper.
Review of the draft Viability Statement prior to submission to Board for approval.
RISK Management continues to build on the existing risk management framework, seeking to enhance risk governance and management across the business in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In order to support the Board in monitoring the normal risk management activities, the Audit Committee reviewed managements activities in relation to: quarterly reporting to the Board on the effectiveness of current controls: promoting the ownership of risk mitigation and associated controls among the process owners at the business unit level being the first line of defence through their periodic reporting on the effectiveness of controls: and ensuring that the Groups corporate values and control culture are embedded throughout the organisation.
These efforts have resulted in a transparent analysis of the operational, financial and executive management controls for each of the risks that have been identified by management in its risk universe.
A quarterly report is prepared for the Board which comments on any significant variations in KRIs and managements conclusion on the likely effect on the relevant risk ratings and or any modifications in the related controls.
This is reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to its submission to the Board.
During 2018, the Audit Committee and Board formally reviewed the Principal Risks and Uncertainties of the Group prior to the publication of both the interim and full-year reports.
Further details of the risk management system are set out on pages 28 to 29.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Companys objectives and policies on financial risk management including information on the Companys exposures to market risk, such as foreign currency, commodity price, interest rate, inflation rate and equity price risks: credit risk and liquidity risk can be found in note 30 to the financial statements.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY In the current year the Audit Committee continued to receive updates on the Groups IT strategy, its linkage to the Groups overall business strategy and the financial implications of that strategy for the business plan.
The Audit Committee has also focused on the related risks of cyber security.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that progress has been made during the year in each of these areas.
INTERNAL CONTROL The Audit Committee assists the Board in monitoring the effectiveness of the Companys internal control environment.
This monitoring includes oversight of all material controls including financial, operational, regulatory and compliance.
During 2018, the Audit Committee has continued to review the quarterly internal control monitoring document which was introduced in 2016 and which is prepared and submitted to the Board at each of its regular meetings.
This document specifically reports on developments in the Key Risk Indicators and internal controls and the key findings from the quarterly Internal Audit reports.
126 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED RISK AND INTERNAL CONTROL CONTINUED During 2018, the Internal Audit team facilitated a roadshow of meetings with management at each of the Business Units to discuss the differences between Internal Audits assessment of the Groups internal controls and those of the management teams themselves.
This exercise promoted a better understanding of the importance of the Groups internal procedures in mitigating risk and enhancing internal controls.
The process agreed by the Audit Committee to monitor the Groups system of internal controls is focused on improving the understanding of how the various sources of assurance such as operational management, financial management, executive management and Internal Audit interact in the review and execution of material controls identifying and addressing any gaps in the control framework.
To this end, the Audit Committee, with the assistance of the risk function and management, has assessed its approach to monitoring the ongoing effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
The progress to date was reviewed by the Audit Committee in February 2019.
Further control exceptions identified in the current year include those relating to health and safety procedures, handling of explosives, further improving the monitoring of tailings deposits and procedures in relation to permits.
These issues are not pervasive throughout the Groups operations but each issue has occurred at least at one of the Groups operating areas and plans for remediation have been approved and these are being progressed.
On the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Board agreed that the following statement be made about the review of the system of internal control in the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board has, through the Executive Committee and the Audit Committee at its February 2019 meeting, reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
As a result of this review, the Board considers that the measures that have been or are planned to be implemented complement Fresnillos risk management framework and are appropriate to the Groups circumstances.
The Board is committed to the continued development of its internal control regime with a view to achieving and maintaining best practice levels of risk management and internal control for international mining companies listed on the London Stock Exchange.
GOING CONCERN The Directors must satisfy themselves as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern for a minimum of 12 months from the approval of the financial statements.
The Audit Committee supported the Board in this assessment by considering whether the Company has adequate liquid resources to meet its obligations as they fall due.
In February 2019, the Audit Committee reviewed the Group budget and cash flow forecasts for the period to December 2020, taking into account the Companys anticipated production profiles at each mine, budgeted capital and exploration expenditure and the sensitivity of the cashflow forecasts to movements in metal prices, including stress testing those forecasts to identify the levels to which metals prices must fall to put pressure on working capital levels.
The Audit Committee also considered EYs report on this assessment and on the reasonableness of assumptions therein, including their consistency with assumptions and estimates used elsewhere in the preparation of the financial statements.
The Audit Committee also challenged management on the feasibility of the mitigating actions and the potential speed of their implementation.
As a result of the procedures performed, the Audit Committee satisfied itself that the going concern basis of preparation is appropriate and the financial statements appropriately reflect the conclusions on going concern.
VIABILITY ASSESSMENT The executive team has developed a comprehensive approach for the preparation of the Viability Statement, which was first used in the Companys annual report for the year ended 31 December 2015.
This process has been reviewed each year since and incrementally developed.
The key steps in this process are explained within the Viability Statement.
The Audit Committee reviewed the methodology that the executive team adopted in preparing the Viability Statement at its meeting in December 2018 and then reviewed the output from that process at its meeting in February 2019.
Given that the five-year period of assessment for the purposes of the Viability Statement, the potential impact of the repayment of the US$800 million Senior Notes in 2023, was also taken into account for the first time.
The Boards Going Concern Statement and longer-term Viability Statement are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 42 and 43.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 127 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERNAL AUDIT KEY ACTIVITIES DURING THE PAST 12 MONTHS ANNUALLY Review of the Internal Audit Plan and its resourcing for the following year.
TWICE A YEAR Meeting between the Audit Committee and Internal Audit without management present.
QUARTERLY Review of significant Internal Audit findings including progress on the most significant points from previous audits based on the audits conducted during the most recent quarter.
The Head of Internal Audit and Deputy Director, Internal Audit attend all meetings of the Audit Committee.
The Internal Audit team seeks to complete audits of all the operating risks across all of the Fresnillo Groups mining assets on a regular basis.
During the year, the Audit Committee received specific input from Internal Audit to focus on three particular areas: 1.
New mines: Following the emphasis on auditing the Companys new mines which was initiated in 2016, Internal Audit completed its examination to ensure that proper procedures were implemented from the beginning in those new operations and to ascertain whether there were any lessons to be learned.
This work was fundamental to refine methodologies and working arrangements between multiple disciplines to provide enhanced transparency to management about operational and financial performance throughout the process of building and commissioning new mines.
Red flags: At each meeting during the year, the Audit Committee focused on the progress made by management in dealing with red flag items, being the most serious control weaknesses, raised during Internal Audit visits to ensure that the management responses to remediation are appropriate and timely progress in reducing the number of red flags over time.
IT issues: including cyber security : During 2017, the Audit Committee received presentations from the Head of IT setting out the Group IT Strategy for the year and demonstrating how this supports the overall Group Strategy.
The Audit Committee noted good progress in establishing appropriate procedures and systems for dealing with cyber security threats.
An initial phase of work supported by PwC has now been completed and a second phase of implementation work, facilitated by Deloitte is progressing well.
In addition, the Audit Committee also monitored the quality of the dialogue between Internal Audit and the Executive Committee in reviewing internal audit findings and agreeing action plans with appropriate levels of operational buy-in to deal with the points raised.
The Audit Committee met with the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer several times during the year to review the outstanding points and is satisfied with the progress achieved through this dialogue.
The Internal Audit Plan for 2019 was reviewed at the Audit Committee meeting in October 2018 and was approved.
When reviewing the Internal Audit Plan for the year, the Audit Committee also considered the personnel available within the Internal Audit team, their expertise and experience, to resource their increasing workload.
For 2019, the Audit Committee requested that the Internal Audit team consider whether any additional financially-focussed audits should be considered in addition to the operational audits that are currently undertaken within the plan.
The members of the Audit Committee evaluate the performance of the Internal Audit team annually and in 2018 this process was facilitated externally by Deloitte.
The findings of the evaluation were presented to the Audit Committee, and a summary of it was also presented to the Board in February 2019.
Deloittes overall view was that the Internal Audit function is performing in an effective manner.
The Audit Committee will review their detailed recommendations with Internal Audit at its upcoming meetings.
128 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED WHISTLEBLOWING KEY ACTIVITIES DURING THE PAST 12 MONTHS Review of whistleblowing cases considered by Honour Commission at each meeting of the Audit Committee.
Fresnillo plc has a whistleblowing line available for all stakeholders, including employees, third parties and the general public.
Information regarding this whistleblowing mechanism is widely circulated with access available via our website in the Ethics and Culture Code of Conduct section.
The purpose of the whistleblowing line is to encourage employees and others to raise good faith concerns about misconduct that goes or appears to go against the Companys internal Code of Conduct and our institutional values.
The Fresnillo Plays Fair whistleblower hotline allows stakeholders to anonymously report via an independent third party violations of the Groups Code of Conduct.
The results are assessed by an independent third party and processed for review by the Honour Commission, which comprises the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, the Compliance Officer, the Director of Internal Audit, the Vice President of Exploration and the Head of Legal.
The whistleblowing reports are reviewed on a quarterly basis by Audit Committee.
These arrangements have been established for some time and the Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that appropriate investigation of all whistleblowing incidents is undertaken in a timely manner.
In 2018, there were a total of 60 reports, a 30% increase over 2017.
The Audit Committee continues to view this increase being as a result of the Companys efforts to promote a greater understanding of the benefits of reporting issues and considers that this indicates that employees recognise that such reports are valued and investigations are rigorously evaluated.
In 2018, 65% of the reports were concluded in the year with the remainder, having been raised in the latter part of the year, still under investigation.
Further details on the whistleblowing report activity in 2018 is set out in the Sustainability Report on page 71.
During 2018, the Audit Committee was satisfied that all matters had been or are being properly investigated with appropriate action taken.
The Audit Committee considers that current level of issues raised is good evidence that the programme is being taken seriously across the Group and is operating satisfactorily.
The Board and the Audit Committee have considered whether responsibility for overseeing the whistleblower arrangements should transfer to the Board itself, in line with the recommendations of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Both the Board and the Audit Committee consider that the Committees current oversight of the whistleblower arrangements works well and, therefore, this responsibility will remain with the Audit Committee: however the Chairman of the Audit Committee will report formally to the Board concerning the Audit Committees reviews of the whistleblower line at least twice a year in future.
RELATED PARTIES KEY ACTIVITIES DURING THE PAST 12 MONTHS Review of related parties list.
Conclusion of the renewal of the Shared Services Agreement Review of insurance programme including the role of related parties in the insurance programme.
Review of Met-Mex treatment charge and refining charge rates for 2018.
Peoles owns just under 75% of the issued share capital of the Company see page 115 and therefore has and will continue to have a significant level of influence over the affairs and operations of Fresnillo.
Being part of the same Group also provides an opportunity for synergistic benefits to be achieved operationally and administratively by combining the resourcing of common services that can be shared between Peoles and Fresnillo.
The principal arrangements between the Company and related parties are: Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 129 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RELATED PARTIES CONTINUED THE SHARED SERVICES The Shared Services Agreement is an agreement between the Company and Peoles under AGREEMENT which 24 categories of services are provided to the Company by Peoles.
The Shared Services Agreement was renewed for five years with effect from 1 January 2018.
In order to ensure that Fresnillo is charged appropriately for services rendered by Peoles under the Shared Services Agreement, management has regular meetings with Peoles to discuss its performance against the Key Performance Indicators KPIs for each of the different categories of service where issues of non-compliance are addressed and remediation agreed.
In addition, Internal Audit conducts reviews of approximately one third of the services provided each year to ensure that these services are provided in accordance with the agreed KPIs.
As a result, all services are reviewed by Internal Audit over a three-year cycle.
As described in the 2017 Annual Report, the Audit Committee concluded that the new five-year Shared Services Agreement was reasonable in all respects and recommended that the independent Non-executive Directors approve signing of the Shared Services Agreement by the Company, which they did at the Board meeting in February 2018.
THE MET-MEX AGREEMENT During the year, the Audit Committee considered the proposed charges in respect of the Met-Mex arrangements for 2018 comparing proposed prices to comparable prices charged by Met-Mex to independent customers and to those of other smelters taking account of ore composition and transport costs to validate that they are reasonable.
Based on the satisfactory outcome of the Audit Committees review of the proposed prices, the Audit Committee recommended to the Board that the independent Directors approve the proposed charges for 2018 under the Met-Mex arrangements, which they did at the Board meeting in October 2018.
OTHER AGREEMENTS There are other dealings with related parties in the ordinary course of business e. g. insurance brokerage which, although not requiring approval by independent Directors, will from timeto-time be reviewed by the Audit Committee to ensure that the arrangements are on a reasonable arms-length basis.
EFFECTIVENESS KEY ACTIVITIES DURING THE PAST 12 MONTHS Audit Committee evaluation activities.
Annual review of the terms of reference of the Audit Committee in order to ensure that they remain up-to-date.
Since the inception of the Audit Committee, there has been a continuing programme of evaluation which has embraced the activities of the Committee itself as well as the performances respectively of the external auditor and the Internal Audit function.
At least once every three years, these reviews have been externally facilitated with internal evaluation exercises undertaken during the intervening years.
Following the 2017 external evaluation of the Committee by Lintstock LLP, an internal review of the Audit Committee was conducted by the Company Secretary used a questionnaire-based approach.
The output from that review was considered satisfactory and at the meeting of the Audit Committee in December 2018 a number of specific steps were discussed, mostly focussed on further improving the time efficiency of the Committees discussions and developing certain aspects of the reports provided to the Committee.
Members of the Audit Committee take responsibility for updating their knowledge of accounting and audit issues as well as relevant regulatory issues.
They also ensure that they develop a good understanding of the Companys operations.
During 2018, both Alberto Tiburcio and Charles Jacobs visited a number of the Groups mines.
In addition to the usual briefings and updates that they attend, they also hosted a meeting of Audit Committee Chairs of other UK-listed resources companies to discuss current audit and accounting issues being considered across the mining sector.
The terms of reference of the Committee were reviewed to take account of the requirements of the new UK Corporate Governance Code and these were approved by the Board in February 2019.
