114 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board continually monitors the interests of the Companys The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer also minority shareholders in order to ensure that those interests meet with analysts, hold conference calls after production are being properly respected, and that they are aligned as far reports and engage with shareholders by participating in the as possible with those of the majority shareholders.
major roadshows after the preliminary and half-yearly results are announced.
They are joined by other members of the Executive The Company has an office in London where the Head of Committee for some of these visits.
This is done to give the Investor Relations is based.
During 2018, the Group maintained investors and analysts the chance to discuss the results of a strong communications and investor relations programme, the Group whilst also giving them an opportunity to raise any as detailed in the table below.
queries or concerns they may have.
The table below outlines some examples of the discussion points at such meetings and the response from the Company.
2018 INVESTOR RELATIONS AND INDUSTRY ACTIVITIES Progress at the Fresnillo mine Clear explanation of the decisive plan to stabilise the mines JANUARY Publication of the 4Q 2017 ore grade and throughput while outlining the reasons for progressing at a slower than anticipated pace.
production report FEBRUARY Economic outlook for the mining industry in Mexico MARCH Roadshow following the preliminary Articulate the market conditions seen in Mexico with special results announcement and emphasis on the mining industry.
Additionally provide relevant updates following the election of the new Mexican President.
presentation: UK and USA APRIL Publication of the 1Q 2018 Performance at our operating mines Production Report followed Provide a clear update on the performance of all operating by investor conference calls mines including the infill drilling programme at Fresnillo and Saucito to enhance the accuracy of the geological model.
MAY Annual General Meeting BAML Global Metals and Projects progress Mining Conference Keep the market up to date with progress at the Pyrites plant project and the commissioning of second line of the DLP at JUNE Herradura.
JULY Publication of the 2Q 2018 Juanicipio Production Report Updates on the progress of this joint venture project including principal statistics where available, the completion of the Feasibility study and the expected timing for its subsequent Publication of the half-year results AUGUST approval.
and UK roadshow SEPTEMBER Denver Gold Forum Exchange rate effects HSBC EEMEA and LATAM Clear and detailed articulation of the different exchange rate Conference effects on production costs in conjunction with other line items in the income statement, including the charge for taxation.
OCTOBER Publication of the 3Q 2018 Production Report followed Costs by investor conference calls Detailed breakdown of cost metrics on a year-by-year basis highlighting and clarifying variations: cost inflation deflation NOVEMBER by component.
Goldman Sachs Global Natural Resources Conference JP Morgan Best of British Capital allocation: Capex versus dividends Conference Reiteration of the Companys unchanged dividend policy of balancing quality growth with returns across the cycle.
DECEMBER The Head of Investor Relations in London is tasked with maintaining existing relations with analysts and major shareholders on a day-to-day basis, which is done by way of telephone calls and meetings.
The Company also attends a full programme of mining conferences in order to meet with current and prospective investors.
Contact with investors in Mexico is maintained through the Investor Relations Office in Mexico City.
The Chief Financial Officer gives a report at each Board meeting on communications and shareholder activity.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 115 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GEOGRAPHICAL SHAREHOLDER BASE The following graph IPO in 2008 until January 2019 demonstrates the Companys global appeal to independent investors with a significant shift from a predominantly UK shareholder base to a much more globally diverse shareholder base.
60 50 40 30 20 10 0 IPO Feb 11 Feb 12 Feb 13 Feb 14 Feb 15 Feb 16 Feb 17 Feb 18 Feb 19 United Kingdom North America Europe Rest of World MAJOR INTERESTS IN SHARES As at 25 February 2019, the Company had been advised of the following notifiable interests whether directly or indirectly held in its voting rights: Number of voting rights % Industrias Peoles S. A.
B. fide C. V. 552,595,191 74.99 BlackRock Inc. 46,029,078 6.25 First Eagle Investment Management LLC.
37,243,673 5.05 2018 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE OWN SHARES At the 2018 Annual General Meeting, all resolutions put to The Company was authorised by a shareholders resolution shareholders were passed by a majority.
Prior to the AGM, the passed at the Annual General Meeting held in May 2018 to Company consulted with a number of shareholders in relation purchase up to 10% of its issued Ordinary Share capital.
Any to the resolutions to re-elect the Directors.
In accordance with shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury UK Listing Rules applicable to companies with a controlling shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon shareholder, the resolutions relating to the re-election of the completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount independent Non-executive Directors required approval by of the Companys issued and authorised share capital.
This a majority of votes cast by independent shareholders as well authority will expire at the forthcoming Annual General as all the shareholders of the Company.
Meeting and a resolution to renew the authority for a further year will be proposed.
No shares were purchased by the Further to the Code provisions, details of proxy voting are Company during the year.
presented at the AGM and final figures are announced to the London Stock Exchange and uploaded to the Companys website as soon practicable after the AGM.
The Corporate Governance Report which is set out on pages 98 to 129 has been approved by the Board of Directors of 2019 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Fresnillo plc The Companys eleventh Annual General Meeting will be Signed on behalf of the Board held on 21 May 2019 at 12.00 noon at The Royal Aeronautical Society, 4 Hamilton Place, London, W1J 7BQ.
The business Charles Jacobs of the Annual General Meeting AGM will be conducted in Senior Independent Director accordance with paragraphs 36 and 38 of the Guidance on 25 February 2019 Board Effectiveness published by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2018.
In planning the business of each AGM, the Board takes account of institutional shareholder guidelines on pre-emption rights, share buy-backs and shareholder rights in relation to general meetings when drafting the usual resolutions dealing with those matters.
In each case, resolutions are presented to the AGM to give the Board flexibility to respond to market developments.
