Corporate governance Report of the Risk and Compliance Committee Dear shareholders On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the report ofthe Risk and Compliance Committee for the year ended 31December 2018.
The Companys approach to risk and risk management, together with the principal risks that face the Group, is set out on pages 38 to 44 of this report.
The Committee has monitored the Groups risk management and governance framework andI am pleased with the progress made over the year in themanagement, and reporting, of the key risks facing the Group particularly in relation to marketplace funding, Committee members portfolio risk management and operational risk.
Eric Daniels Chair Committee composition, skills and experience Geeta Gopalan Independent Non-Executive Director The Committee was formally established by the Board prior to Hendrik Nelis Non-Executive Director the IPO in September 2018.
Geeta Gopalan and Hendrik Nelis join me as the other members of the Committee.
We confirm that we have complied with the 2016 Code recommendations that the Committee comprises a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee members have awealth of risk management experience, including strong representation in financial services.
Further details of their experience is set out on pages 48 and 49 of this report.
Strong governance, risk As the Risk and Compliance Committee has only been management and controls established for a short time, we have not conducted a formal performance evaluation but we plan to do so during 2019. are vital to the long-term Wewill report on this in the 2019 Annual Report and Accounts.
sustainability of Prior to the IPO and formal establishment of the Committee, Iwas Chair of the combined Funding Circle Holdings Limited FundingCircle.
Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee which assisted the Board with its consideration of all aspects of risk management across the Group and the Groups compliance with its legal and regulatory requirements.
Role of the Committee The main purpose of the Committee is to review and makerecommendations to the Board in connection with theGroups risk strategy and its attitude to and appetite forrisk and to monitor and review the Groups compliance with the Enterprise Risk Management Framework ERMF.
Inaddition, the Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for reviewing and monitoring the Groups compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and policies and the effectiveness and appropriateness of the Groups corporate governance framework.
The key responsibilities of the Committee are summarised onpage 52 of the Corporate Governance Report and further details on the Committees roles and responsibilities can befound in our Terms of Reference on our website at: corporate.
The Committee reports regularly to the Board on its activities and makes recommendations, all of which have been accepted during the year.
63 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Report of the Risk and Compliance Committee continued received an independently validated report of the Funding Governance and operating rhythm of the Committee Circle UK stress testing model in October 2017.
A further The Committee will meet as often as it deems necessary with at report will be provided to the Committee in 2019. least three scheduled meetings a year.
We met on one occasion in 2018 following the IPO and have had one further formal meeting Regulatory, reputation and conduct risk since the year end.
There were also three meetings of the The Committee received regular reports on regulatory, reputation Funding Circle Holdings Limited Audit, Risk and Compliance and conduct risk and continued to monitor ongoing regulatory Committee in 2018 prior to the IPO.
A summary of the key change including the consultation by the Financial Conduct areas of focus for 2018 is set out below.
Authority in relation to the industry in the UK and progress on regulation in the Groups European geographies.
A key area of All members of the Committee have attended meetings held focus was on positive customer outcomes and transparency, since the IPO, together with by invitation the Chief Risk Officer particularly in the UK retail market, in light ofincreasing and the General Counsel and other members of the senior uncertainty in the political and macroeconomic environment.
management team where it was deemed appropriate.
Iam satisfied that the Committee received information on a timely Operational risk basis and that the meetings were scheduled adequately to The Committee received regular reports on key operational allow members to have an informed discussion debate.
risks facing the business such as information security, As Funding Circle Ltd FCL is authorised and regulated by technology, client money UK specific and financial crime.
the Financial Conduct Authority, it has its own Risk and The Committee also oversaw improvements in the control Compliance Committee and Audit Committee, both chaired environment with key operational risk performance indicators byFCLs independent Director who is not on the Board, trending in the positive direction.
The Committee reviewed the Matthew King.
The FCL Risk and Compliance Committee Groups operational risk appetite on an ongoing basis and this meets at the same time as the Committee and Matthew King area will continue to be an area of focus in 2019. has attended all meetings.
Other principal activities of the Committee have been: Key areas of focus for the Committee in 2018 - review of the Enterprise Risk Management Framework andrelevant Group policies: The Committee has considered a wide range of risks facing the Group, both existing and emerging, across all key areas - review of results of the risk management assessment ofrisk management.
Certain risks have been identified which process and ongoing risk reports including risk appetite: required further detailed consideration.
A summary of these - review of internal risk controls further details of which are matters is set out below and includes the key considerations covered in the Corporate Governance Report : and and conclusions of the Committee.
- review of the compliance programme and the compliance Marketplace funding and risk monitoring and testing plan.
The Committee closely monitored marketplace funding riskgiven the broader impact it has on delivering business In respect of the Groups approach to risk and compliance performance.
The Committee received regular reports of the management, the Committee also reviewed the capability, Groups marketplace funding key performance indicators, as resources, remit and authority levels of the Risk and well as developments to the Groups marketplace funding Compliance functions and is satisfied that the Risk and governance framework.
The Committee oversaw some Compliance functions are adequately resourced and improvements in managing marketplace funding risk in 2018 sufficiently independent with appropriate authority and such as improved reporting and ongoing efforts to diversify standing within the Group.
This will remain an area offocus for the Committee in 2019.
Committee focus for 2019 During 2019, the Committees focus will continue to be Portfolio risk management onreviewing the Groups risk strategy and risk management The Committee monitored credit risk performance against the capabilities, as well as closely monitoring any emerging Groups risk appetite metrics and policies.
Whilst the Group is riskshaving the potential to increase in size and affect the not directly exposed to credit losses, the Committee monitored performance of the Group.
The Committee will continue to the credit quality of the Groups lending portfolio to ensure that monitor the political environment, the exit of the UK from the investors returns were adequately protected.
Credit performance European Union and the global economic environment and and portfolio returns have been strong in the US, Germany and will continue to review the Groups contingency planning the Netherlands.
In the UK, some weaknesses have been identified designed to respond and mitigate the impact of any adverse and the Committee oversaw the tightening of lending criteria macroeconomic conditions.
in 2018 to ensure credit performance measures are in line with credit risk appetite.
This will remain an area of focus in 2019.
Economic environment Eric Daniels The Global CRO provided reports on early warning signals Chair of the Risk and Compliance Committee 7 March 2019 ofapossible recession and potential implications to the credit portfolio performance in each geography.
The Committee received detailed stress testing reports and associated plans on the potential impact on the UK portfolio in the context of ahard Brexit scenario.
The Committee also requested and 64 Funding Circle Holdings plc
