CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED THE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT This is my first year as chair of the Audit Committee and I am grateful for the support I have received, which has allowed me to settle rapidly into the role.
In 2018, the committee continued to oversee the quality and integrity of the Groups financial reporting, financial control andcompliance processes, with areas of particular focus including the use of Alternative Performance Measures, compliance with laws and regulations and financial results presentation.
The adoption of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 in 2018, as wellas the preparation for the implementation of IFRS 16 in 2019 and related disclosures, were also reviewed.
Committee membership The Audit Committee consists of four independent non-executive directors.
The chief executive officer JOHN RAMSAY and chairman of the board also attend meetings when Audit Committee Chairman invited by the chairman.
John Ramsay, who was appointed to the board and as chair of the Audit Committee membership during 2018 Committee with effect from 1 January 2018, is the Member since member with recent relevant financial experience.
John Ramsay Chairman January 2018 Part of the induction process and on-going John Daly May 2015 development for all directors seeks to ensure that Steve Mogford May 2016 committee members have knowledge relevant to the Paul Spence January 2013 sector in which the company operates.
Details of Mr Ramsays further induction programme are set out on Regular attendees include the chief financial officer, the Group page 83.
The board is satisfied that Mr Ramsay as well financial controller, the Group director of risk and internal audit, and representatives of the Groups external auditor.
as the other members, taken together, bring There were four scheduled meetings held during the year ended 31 significant and relevant experience gained at senior December 2018.
Members attendance is shown on page 81. management level and that the committees composition during the year met the requirements of Main activities of the Audit Committee both the Code and DTR7.1.
Their skills and during the year % experience are set out on pages 74 and 75.
Responsibilities The committee ensures that there is effective governance of the Groups financial reporting and internal controls to ensure the integrity of its financial statements and the adequacy of related disclosures, and assists the board in relation to its consideration of whether or not the annual report ofthe Group is fair, balanced and understandable.
The committee also has oversight of the performance of both the internal audit function and the externalauditor.
Effectiveness of financial controls and risk management procedures 30% Financial reporting 30% Internal audit 20% External audit and non-audit services 15% Whistleblowing fraud allegations 5% Links to strategic priorities 98 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 During the year, the terms of reference of the Audit At the end of each meeting, a private session is held Committee were reviewed.
The terms are available at by the Audit Committee with representatives of the g4s.
The terms of reference will be Groups external auditor or with the Group director reviewed again in 2019. of risk and internal audit, without members of the executive management team being present.
The committee has an annual agenda, which includes standing items that the committee considers regularly, After each meeting, the chairman of the committee as well as specific matters that require the reports to the board on the matters which have committees attention.
SIGNIFICANT JUDGMENTS AND ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The primary judgments and issues considered by the committee in respect of the 2018 financial statements, and how these were addressed, were: ONEROUS CONTRACT PROVISIONS Description Action taken The Group delivers certain long-term outsourcing The committee discussed the process for the contracts that are complex in nature.
Some of those identification and assessment of onerous contracts contracts may evolve to become loss making, such and reviewed in respect of material low margin that net unavoidable losses are expected over their contracts as well as for each onerous contract, the life.
In such a situation the net present value of critical assumptions made by management, and estimated future losses needs to be determined in enquired about the robustness of the assumptions, order to calculate an appropriate onerous contract the sensitivities to changes in the assumptions and provision.
The identification and measurement of such thedisclosure provided in relation to the key provisions require significant judgment, given the materialjudgments.
extended time periods often involved and the The committee also reviewed the disclosure provided number of variables that may impact on future losses.
in relation to these contracts.
In particular, judgment is required in assessing the Conclusion future expected revenue and costs, including determining the expected impact of any profit The Audit Committee was satisfied that the level of improvement plans, the level of any related lifecycle provisions and the related disclosures as at funds and the estimated costs for the remaining life of 31December 2018 were appropriate.
the contract, and an appropriate discount rate to apply to future cash flows.
Details of the outcome of the assessment of contract provisions are set out in the Chief Financial Officers Review on page 52.
COMPLIANCE WITH FOREIGN OWNERSHIP RESTRICTIONS AND CONSOLIDATION OF UNDERTAKINGS Description Action taken In markets where foreign ownership restrictions The committee received reports in relation to FORs FORs apply, the Group seeks to ensure that it in a number of countries, which provided an update complies with foreign ownership laws and regulations on relevant changes in law and regulations, their and relevant accounting standards IFRS10.
potential impact on the Group, and, where relevant, Professional advisors are typically retained to help reviewed mitigation plans.
During the year, the establish and maintain contractual ownership committee also reviewed the impact of changes in structures, which comply with local laws and certain shareholder agreements and the accounting regulations relating to foreign ownership.
When restrictions apply to direct share Conclusion ownership, the Group typically seeks to exercise The committee was satisfied with the Groups influence or control through arrangements, including processes and approach to foreign ownership and shareholder agreements.
Changes in FORs can limit the Groups ability to do This will remain an area of focus to ensure that the business or invest in certain markets and may, in committee remains abreast of changes in laws, certain circumstances, result in a loss of regulations and the relevant accounting standards.
Consolidation of any of these entities would be at risk if the Groupsability to enforce its rights of control were to be undermined by changes or different interpretations to FORs.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 99 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Accounts pages 40 to 42 in relation to APMs.
The Description committee assessed whether the Groups accounting The Group uses Adjusted PBITA and other policies were being applied consistently from year to alternative performance measures APMs for the year, and considered whether specific items were purposes of consistent internal and external reporting, being identified in line with Group policies and that given that management views these measures as these items included both debits and credits as being more representative of the normal course of appropriate.
business and more comparable period to period.
Adjusted PBITA excludes strategic restructuring costs, The committee also reviewed information from amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets management tosatisfy itself that changes in and specific and other separately disclosed items estimatesrelated to items that wereclassified as which the Group believes should be disclosed specific items were treated consistently asspecific separately by virtue of their size, nature or incidence items, for both increases and decreases.
see page 42 for further details.
Judgment is required when defining those items to be disclosed separately Conclusion and when applying the classification criteria to each The committee was satisfied that the Groups periods results.
Further details on separately disclosed definition of APMs, and in particular in relation to items are set out in note 8. specific and other separately disclosed items, had been applied correctly and that the designation of Action taken specific items was subject to objective and balanced The Audit Committee reviewed guidance issued by criteria.
The committee noted the enhanced the Financial Reporting Council FRC and the disclosure and explanation on APMs and considered European Securities and Markets Authority ESMA that these give a meaningful and balanced view of the together with managements response to the results operations of the Group.
of the FRC review of the 2016 Integrated Report and Accounts and enhanced disclosures that were included in the 2017 and 2018 Integrated Report and GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT TESTING Description impairment charge to goodwill as being required see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements.
The The total value of the Groups goodwill as at full methodology and results of the Groups 31 December 2018 was 1.9bn 1.9bn at impairment testing, including an analysis of the 31 December 2017, a significant proportion of which sensitivity of goodwill to the key assumptions, are was generated by the merger of the security services provided in note 18. businesses of Group 4 Falck and Securicor in 2004, which was accounted for as an acquisition of Action taken Securicor by Group 4 Falck.
The Audit Committee reviewed the methodology for The Group tests goodwill for impairment on an the reassessment of cash generating units as well as annual basis or more frequently if there are indications the methodology for and results of the impairment that an impairment may have occurred.
The tests prepared by management.
impairment analysis consists of the estimation of the The Audit Committee reviewed the assumptions recoverable amount of goodwill supported by the used in relation to long-term growth, the resulting Groups cash generating units.
This analysis requires headroom and the sensitivities applied by significant judgment, primarily in relation to the management.
In addition, these results were achievability of long-term business plans and future considered against alternative valuation bases such as cash flows.
Such achievability is dependent on reference to disposal values, less costs to sell, for circumstances both within and outside managements similar assets in similar locations, both within the control, in relation to the discount rates adjusted to Group and external to the Group.
reflect risks specific to individual assets used, and in relation to the macro economic assumptions and Finally, the Audit Committee considered the related modelling assumptions underlying the adequacy of the disclosures provided, particularly in valuation process.
respect of cash generating units where changes in key assumptions could give rise to an impairment.
For 2018, the Group reassessed cash generating units used to determine the level at which goodwill is Conclusion assessed for impairment in light of the changes to the Groups segments at 1 January 2018 when Cash The committee was satisfied with the carrying value Solutions businesses were separated to form a new of goodwill and related disclosures as at 31 reporting segment.
The result of the annual review of December 2018. the carrying value of goodwill did not identify any 100 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 TAXATION made in each of the relevant jurisdictions in the Description future.
Deferred tax assets can be affected by changes The Group operates in around 90 countries and is in legislation and in tax rates.
therefore subject to numerous reviews by individual tax authorities in the ordinary course of business.
In Action taken some countries, tax legislation is not consistently The Audit Committee reviewed the Groups tax applied and under some complex contractual strategy, including the tax report and tax risk structures, the responsibility for tax arising is not management processes, and the board approved the always clear.
Judgments and estimates are required to tax policy, which complies with the UK Confederation determine the appropriate level of tax provisions and of British Industrys seven tax principles.
any required disclosure around contingent tax liabilities at each period end.
The committee also reviewed information prepared by management in relation to existing or potential tax Provisions for tax liabilities are established for existing exposures, the adequacy of the provisions recorded, matters under dispute with local tax authorities, as their treatment and disclosure in the financial well as for matters which it is considered may be statements and emerging matters arising from the disputed by them, where it is probable that a future OECDs Base Erosion and Profit Shifting framework.
In some instances, tax reviews may result in claims being raised by tax authorities.
Any The committee reviewed information prepared by claims are handled by thelocal legal entity in the first management supporting the recoverability of deferred instance.
More complex cases arereviewed by the tax assets, considered the period of time under which Group tax function and provisions are made, based these assets would be recovered and made enquiries on the best estimate of thelikelyoutcome.
of the external auditor on the appropriateness of the Groups tax position.
The Group recognises deferred tax assets in respect of temporary timing differences, mainly in relation to Conclusion pension arrangements, fixed assets and carried forward losses.
At 31 December 2018, total deferred The committee was satisfied with the Groups tax assets were 248m 2017: 242m.
Recognising approach to tax, with the assessment of recoverability such assets requires an assessment of their likely of deferred tax assets and with the accounting recovery through utilisation, which includes an treatment and disclosure in respect of tax exposures.
assessment of the taxable profits expected to be LAWS AND REGULATIONS Description Action taken The Group operates in many jurisdictions globally, During the year the committee received regular with complex and diverse regulatory frameworks.
As updates on significant areas of exposure to claims a result, the Group faces many associated risks, andareas where labour laws and regulations are including litigation including class actions: bribery and complex and there is therefore an inherent risk to corruption: obtaining and retaining operating licences: thejudgment made when determining how to ensure complying with local tax regulations: changes to and compliance with those laws and regulations.
In light of application of employment and employee the quantum of the California class action settlement, remuneration legislation: complying with human rights a review of on-going labour litigation across the legislation: and new or changed restrictions on foreign Group was carried out and the level of provisioning ownership.
Furthermore, the Group may face new or required was confirmed with management.
changing regulations which may require modification Conclusion of its processes and staff training.
Not being compliant with applicable laws and regulations can have far The committee was satisfied that the provisions reaching consequences, including higher costs from booked at 31 December 2018 were appropriate.
The claims and litigation: inability to operate in certain committee was satisfied that the enhanced disclosure jurisdictions: loss of management control: and damage around the judgments made in relation to contingent to the Groups reputation.
liabilities was clear and appropriate.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 101 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED RISK OF ACCOUNTING ERRORS AND MANAGEMENT OVERRIDE OF INTERNAL CONTROLS Description Action taken The Group operates in around 90 countries and has The committee oversaw the progress made in around 600 legal entities, with a significant number of embedding the Groups Minimum Financial Controls local financial systems and processes.
This leads to an and received regular updates on the overall control inherently diverse set of processes and controls that environment of the Group, including results of internal rely on local capabilities for implementation and audits, training and up-skilling of capabilities across the maintenance of control.
As set out on page 66, the Group, as well as regular reports from the external Group has adopted a  model to auditor and the Groups whistleblowing process.
control and manage risks across the Group.
The committee also considered progress made in Over the course of the last five years the Group has reducing reliance on manual controls, by developing made significant investment in strengthening capability and integrating financial and operational systems in finance, internal audit and risk, and has introduced across the Group.
additional internal controls and enhanced Group Conclusion oversight to mitigate these risks.
These include monthly reviews of the quality of earnings, a The committee acknowledged the progress made in comprehensive internal audit plan and a regular cycle relation to the strengthening of controls and the plans of reviews of local business unit or country balance in place to reduce the number of systems and reliance sheets and controls.
on manual controls across the Group, but noted that, although good progress has been made to date, significant work remains to be done.
Viability statement Fair, balanced and understandable At the February 2019 meeting, the committee One of the key compliance requirements in respect reviewed a paper prepared by management which of a groups financial statements is for the annual examined the longer-term solvency and viability of the report, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and Group.
The committee tested the underlying understandable.
Guidelines on APMs were issued by assumptions and analysis performed by management, the ESMA and have been applicable since July 2016. reviewed assurance work carried out and considered In addition, the FRC issued a Frequently Asked the appropriateness of the timeframe of the Questions guidance document and published the assessment.
The committee also considered the work results of its thematic review on this matter in being performed in relation to the review of November 2017.
Attention was also paid to guidance separation options for the global cash division and on disclosure of judgments and estimates and other acknowledged that any decisions that may be made key areas of interest set out in the FRCs Annual during 2019 as a result of this review might be review of corporate governance and reporting expected to lead to a stronger Group.
The Thecommittee was satisfied that the three-year committee considered each of the above in assessing period covered by the viability statement remains whether the Groups annual report was fair, balanced appropriate in that it aligns with the Groups regular and understandable.
business planning period, over which management has The committee reviewed a paper setting out the a reasonable level of confidence in its projections approach taken by management in the preparation of reflecting the life cycle of the majority of the Groups the annual report to ensure it met the requirements contracts, and takes account of the limited visibility on of the FRCs Code and the ESMA guidance, including material bidding opportunities in the pipeline beyond the reasons for and clear explanation of the nonthat period.
The committee also reviewed and GAAP measures used by the Group in reporting its challenged the outcome of the stress testing of results for the year.
The paper described the process projections by management.
and procedures followed and detailed the steps taken The committee recommended to the board that the in each of the sections of the annual report to ensure directors confirm that they have a reasonable that the information presented was complete and expectation that the Group will be able to continue accurate.
This paper also described the review inoperation and meet its liabilities as they fall due processes carried out internally to ensure that the over the three-year period of the assessment, as set annual report is fair, balanced and understandable.
In out on page 89. addition, an external verification exercise was carried out to confirm that the information contained in the annual report is supported either by factual evidence, or by confirmation from management where such information is a statement of belief or intent.
The committee was satisfied with the work performed and advised the board that the annual report, taken as a whole, presents a fair, balanced and understandable view of the business and its performance for the year under review.
102 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Internal control riskassessment.
Since 2013, the Group has had a heightened focus External audit onimproving its systems of internal control and risk Following an audit tender process during 2014 management for financial reporting.
The main features  LLP PwC was appointed of these control systems include clearly defined as the Groups new external auditor for the 2015 reporting lines and authorisation procedures, a financial year.
PwC was subsequently reappointed at comprehensive budgeting and monthly reporting the 2018 AGM to hold office until the next AGM.
system, written policies and procedures and the use Richard Hughes has been lead audit partner since the of a single global consolidation system for internal beginning of 2015. management reporting, budgeting and planning as wellas for external reporting.
During the year, the committee reviewed PwCs Group audit plan including the scope to be The system is designed to ensure the integrity of undertaken as well as their reports on external audit financial reporting and the committees responsibility findings, with particular focus on the areas set out is to ensure that these internal controls remain above.
The committee had private sessions with the effective.
The committee does this primarily through external auditor both during the year and at the end receiving reports from management, from the internal of a number of Audit Committee meetings, and audit function and from the external auditor.
approved the fee for the external audit.
The The committee received an update on initiatives committee also considered and approved the being implemented by the Group to continue its representation letter to be issued to the auditor.
progress in strengthening internal controls and In addition, PwC updated the committee on current reviewed progress made.
During 2018 Group Internal trends in the auditing market, including the Audit followed a targeted audit plan for those areas Competition and Markets Authoritys market study of where control issues had beenidentified.
the audit sector and the Kingman review of the FRC.
Further details on internal controls are set out on page 66.
The Audit Committee confirmed to the Non-audit services board that it is satisfied that progress continues to be To ensure that the independence of the external made in improving the Groups risk management and audit is not compromised, the committee has a internal control processes and procedures and that policyin place covering the non-audit services that these are appropriate and effective.
However, can be provided by the external auditor, the relevant strengthening of the internal control environment approval process for certain services, and detailing remains a key area of focus for the Group.
those services which the auditor is prohibited As such, in January 2019 the Group reviewed and fromproviding.
The new Group In essence, the external auditor is prohibited from Financial Controls are a more comprehensive suite of providing services that could create a conflict of controls that are expected to provide a higher degree interest, result in the audit firm auditing its own of transparency to management, enabling a more work, or result in the performance of management effective control environment and decision making.
Examples of non-permitted services are actuarial services, book-keeping services, internal audit Internal audit services and legalservices.
During 2018, the internal audit function continued to The committee has pre-approved certain services provide support and guidance to business units to which can be provided by the auditor subject to improve awareness of and compliance with Minimum specified fee limits, above which further approval is Financial Controls.
All other services would require prior In addition internal audit also assessed the approval by the committee.
The Audit Committee effectiveness of a broader set of mandated controls reviewed its policy on the provision of non-audit including HR core standards on screening, health and services by the external auditor in 2018 and safety, driver and firearms controls, payroll and IT.
A concluded that no changes needed to be made.
risk-based approach was used to determine coverage Thecommittee will monitor any future changes for HR core standards and human rights.
The goal whichmay be required in light of the results of the remains to focus local management on the most on-going audit sector reviews.
material control issues specific to their local Details of the fees paid for audit services, audit related environment.
services and non-audit services can be found in note The Group finance function and regional audit 10 to the consolidated financial statements.
committees alsoprovided support to assist in driving improvements whereappropriate.
In 2019, internal audits will continue to test the operational effectiveness of the Groups standards and controls.
This will include assessing compliance with the Group Financial Controls, which were relaunched in January.
Precise coverage in each country will continue to be determined through Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 103 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Effectiveness of the external auditor CMA Order Compliance A combination of formal and informal processes is The G4S group audit was put out to tender in used in the assessment of the effectiveness of the 2014, following which PwC was appointed with effect external audit process.
A formal questionnaire is completed at the end of The committee confirms that the company has theaudit by members of the Audit Committee, the complied with the Audit Services for Large Group Finance department and the finance directors Companies Mandatory Use of CompetitiveTender of significant operations across the Group.
The results Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities of those questionnaires are reviewed by the Audit Order 2014.
The assessment of the external audit for Committee performance 2018 concluded that it remained effective and that the external auditor is independent.
The auditor, Again this year, the assessment of the committees PwC, has written to the Audit Committee confirming performance, conducted with assistance from that, in its opinion, it was independent for the period Lintstock, concluded that the performance of the through to 12 March2019.
committee was rated highly overall, in particular in assessing the system of internal controls as well as in Regulators and our financial report reviewing and assessing the work of the external As previously reported, in 2017 the Group received auditors.
The committees oversight of the Groups aletter from the FRC confirming that the Annual whistleblowing arrangements was also positively rated.
Report for the year ended 31 December 2016 had In addition the good relationship and communication been subject to a review by its Conduct Committee, between the Audit Committee and key individuals in which is responsible for reviewing and investigating the company, such as the chief financial officer and the annual accounts, directors and strategic reports the Group financial controller was commended again ofUK public companies for compliance with relevant in 2018. reporting requirements and with a view to stimulating improvements in the quality of corporate reporting.
In 2019, the committee will continue to focus on the Such reviews are based on the annual report and progress of Group Financial Controls and the quality accounts and are conducted by staff of the Conduct of the Groups financialreporting.
Committee who have an understanding of the relevant legal and accounting framework but do not benefit from detailed knowledge of the business or JOHN RAMSAY anunderstanding of the underlying transactions Audit Committee Chairman enteredinto.
As a result of the correspondence with the FRC as part of its review, changes were made in the 2017 Integrated Report and Accounts, among other things, to improve reporting on Alternative Performance Measures and the commentary on IFRS measures in the Strategic Report.
These changes have been maintained and, where possible enhanced, in the 2018 Integrated Report and Accounts.
Enhanced disclosure and explanations can be found on pages 40 to 42.
Subsequent to the issue of the 2017 Integrated Report and Accounts, the FRC confirmed that their enquiries into the 2016 Integrated Report and Accounts were closed.
104 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018
