Corporate governance Report of the Audit Committee Dear shareholders On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our first Audit Committee Report for the year ended 31 December 2018.
The Funding Circle Holdings plc Audit Committee was formally established by the Board prior to the IPO in September 2018.
Iwas appointed as Chair on my appointment as a Director of the Group in November 2018.
Eric Daniels and Ed Wray join me as the other members of the Committee.
The Committee members are all independent Non-Executive Directors and between them have extensive experience in banking and financial services as well as in technology and high growth Committee members companies.
Further detail on the Committee members skillsand experience is documented in their biographies on Geeta Gopalan Chair page 48.
The Board is satisfied that the Committee meets the Eric Daniels Independent Non-Executive Director requirement to have recent and relevant financial experience as recommended under provision C. 3.1 of the 2016 Code.
Ed Wray Independent Non-Executive Director The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for overseeing the financial and corporate reporting and internal financial controls of the Group, for reviewing the Groups internal control systems, for reviewing and overseeing the Groups procedures for detecting and preventing bribery, fraud, money laundering and other financial crime, for managing both internal The Committees primary and external audit procedures and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the external auditors of the Group.
responsibility is to assist It is our intention to meet at least three times per year.
Since the formation of the Committee in September 2018, it has met on the Board through the one occasion in 2018 and on one occasion in 2019.
There were also three meetings of the Funding Circle Holdings Limited oversight and monitoring Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee in 2018 prior to the of financial reporting and IPO and formation of the Committee.
A summary of the matters discussed at the meetings of the Committee in 2018 is set out keeping under review the in the following report.
adequacy and effectiveness External auditors  LLP PwC were appointed as of the Groups internal theCompanys external auditors in 2015.
The Committee hasreviewed the effectiveness and independence of PwC financial controls.
andhas recommended to the Board that they are reappointed.
Annual evaluation As the Audit Committee has only been established for a short time, we have not conducted a formal performance evaluation but we plan to do so during 2019.
We will report on this in the 2019 Annual Report and Accounts.
We are pleased with the progress we have made since the IPO and we will continue to work with the management team and the Board to ensure our governance framework and control processes operate effectively to support the delivery of the Groups strategy.
59 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Report of the Audit Committee continued Role of the Committee The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for - review and approval of the internal audit plan for 2019: overseeing the financial and corporate reporting and internal - review and approval of external audit plan and fees for the financial controls of the Group and for managing both internal 2018 financial year, including independence, objectivity and and external audit procedures.
effectiveness of the external auditors: The key responsibilities of the Committee are summarised - review of the ongoing effectiveness of the Groups internal onpage 51 of the Corporate Governance Report and further controls and risk management systems: details on the Committees roles and responsibilities can befound in our Terms of Reference on our website at: - review and approval of the Groups non-audit services fees corporate.
and policy: - review of the adequacy and security of the Group's Meetings whistleblowing arrangements and whistleblowing update.
All members of the Committee attended all meetings together with the CFO, representatives of the external and internal auditors - review of significant audit and accounting judgements, and, where it was deemed appropriate, members of the senior including viability statement and going concern assessment: management team.
The Committee received information on a - review and approval of the Group's 2018 Annual Report and timely basis and meetings werescheduled adequately to allow Accounts and preliminary announcement: and members to have an informed debate.
- recommendation on reappointment of external auditors.
In addition to attendance at the Committee meetings, the Committee also met with the external auditors and internal Significant issues considered in relation to the auditors without Executive Management present.
I also have financial statements direct and frequent confidential communication with our The Committee assessed the quality, appropriateness and external audit partner and internal auditors.
adherence to the Groups accounting policies and principles.
Itreviewed whether the accounting estimates and judgements Activities of the Committee made by management were appropriate.
The significant issues The key matters considered at the meetings of the Committee andaccounting judgements considered by the Committee in during the year included: respect of the year ended 31 December 2018 are set out below.
Reporting issue Audit Committee action Principal risks and viability The Committee reviewed reports from management that set outits view on the longer-term viability of the Group.
These As a listed company, the Directors must satisfy themselves, included reviewing: and make a statement in the Annual Report, on the viability of the Group.
The period over which the Directors have - the Groups long-term forecasts and its cash and liquidity: determined this assessment is three years.
- the Groups principal risks as set out on pages 39 to 44: and - outcomes of stress testing after applying severe but plausible scenarios aligned to the principal risks.
Having challenged and considered the outcomes of managements assessment the Committee concluded to recommend the viability statement to the Board for approval.
Goodwill The Committee reviewed a paper from management which set out the key assumptions underpinning the value in use assessment The Group is required to annually assess any goodwill and the level of headroom and sensitivity to those assumptions.
The Group holds goodwill in respect oftheprevious acquisitions of Zencap in Europe and The Groups external auditors also provided their view of the Endurance Lending Network in the US.
For each of these geographies there was significant After due challenge and discussion, the Committee concluded headroom over their carrying value.
that there remained sufficient levels of headroom over the carrying values of these geographies.
Share-based payments The Committee received and reviewed various reports from management during the year that set out the basis of those The calculation of the fair value of share awards involves a calculations undertaken by external valuers.
Prior to IPO, there was no publicly available share price and therefore the Group was required to Taking into account the papers received and with the benefit of obtain separate valuations of the business in order to calculate hindsight on the Groups valuation following the IPO in October 2018, fair value for IFRS purposes.
the Committee concluded that the valuations used for share awards during the year remained appropriate.
This involves a number of assumptions and judgements.
Following the IPO, the Group is able to use the share price as the starting point for valuing new awards.
"60 Funding Circle Holdings plc Corporate governance Reporting issue Audit Committee action Expected credit losses ""ECLs"" The Committee received and reviewed information from management during the year on the levels of ECL and the The calculation of the ECL provision, where the Group associated provisioning."
hasprovided certain institutional investors with financial guarantees, requires estimation as to the expected level The Committee also received the views and analysis from the ofborrower defaults using both historical trends and external auditors.
Taking each of these into account, the Committee concluded that the approach to provisioning and the associated disclosures for ECLs were reasonable.
Exceptional items The Committee received a paper from management setting out analysis for the IPO costs together with their accounting treatment The costs associated with the IPO have been treated as with costs associated allocated between the primary raise and exceptional items in line with the Groups accounting policy secondary raise.
The Committee also received the views of the external auditors on the items that management had included within these costs.
The Committee considered the appropriateness of presenting these items separately from other costs and the allocation.
It noted that the disclosure as exceptional was consistent with the Groups accounting policy as well as other listed companies following IPOs.
Accordingly it concluded that the amounts and this presentation were appropriate.
Alternative performance measures APMs The members of the Committee, also being Board Members, received management and operational information about the Groups The Group uses APMs in its segment reporting of segment underlying performance which included these key measures.
adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA.
These measures are defined within the segmental information note.
The Group also obtained the view of the use of these measures from the external auditors.
The Group uses these measures as they provide an alternative interpretation of the underlying performance of the business The Committee considered the appropriateness of these measures and how it is managed.
They also provide a closer approximation in providing meaningful information about the underlying performance to cash generation which is key in a fast-growing business.
of the business and concluded that these additional measures should be used to report externally, assuring itself that these are Additionally, they are measures that the external analysts not being given undue prominence.
use to assess the Groups performance.
Fair, balanced and understandable reporting At the request of the Board, the Committee has assessed the information contained within this Annual Report.
The Board is required to report as to whether the contents of this 2018 Annual Report and Accounts, when taken as a This assessment included discussions with management on the whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
underlying financial processes, and confirmation from the CFO and his team and the Groups Head of Investor Relations and Communications that the information contained within the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committee also discussed the contents of the Annual Report with the external auditors.
Having considered all of the available information including previously published information about the business, such as the IPO Prospectus, it has concluded that, in its judgement, the Annual Report and Accounts, when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
61 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Report of the Audit Committee continued PwC was first appointed as the external auditors of the Company Internal controls and risk management in 2015.
The current lead audit partner, Brian Henderson, has The Committee, in conjunction withthe Risk and Compliance been in place for four years.
Committee, is responsible forreviewing the risk management systems and internal controls to ensure that they remain effective The Committee has reviewed the quality of PwCs audit plan and that any identified weaknesses are appropriately dealt with.
and its assessment of managements judgements during the year and is satisfied that the audit process was effective.
It will During the year the Committee and, prior to September2018, undertake a more formal assessment of their effectiveness the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee assessed the during 2019, which will be the first year-end audit post-IPO.
findings of reviews into internal controls, fraud and misconduct risk, alongside management responses.
The Committee also A resolution recommending the appointment of PwC as considered the effectiveness of systems for internal control, external auditors of the Company will be put to shareholders financial reporting and risk management including a review at the Companys first Annual General Meeting in June 2019. ofall material financial, operational and compliance controls.
In accordance with the 2016 Code and EU legislation, the Committee intends to put the external audit out to tender Internal audit atleast every ten years post-IPO.
The Group uses KPMG, which are accountable to the Committee, as its outsourced Internal Audit function.
Their work focuses The Committee confirms that the Group is in compliance with on areas of key business risk, significant processes and current The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market areas of concern to define their audit plan.
The internal audit Investigation Mandatory use of Competitive Tender Processes plan for 2019 was approved by the Audit Committee in and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
November 2018 and covers a broad range of processes andcontrols across the business including: Non-audit services The engagement of the external audit firm to provide non-audit - information and cyber security: services to the Group can impact on the independence - investor and borrower communications: assessment, and the Company has, therefore, adopted a policy which requires Audit Committee approval for non-audit services.
- compliance with regulatory frameworks including client money requirement: and Fees paid to PwC for non-audit services are presented at each Audit Committee meeting.
- financial and non-financial risk oversight.
During the year ended 31 December 2018, PwC were engaged Actions arising from the audits are monitored through to to provide non-audit services relating to the following: completion and reported to the Audit Committee to ensure they are appropriately addressed.
Description m The Audit Committee will review the effectiveness of the Assurance-related work 0.1 Internal Audit function after its first full year of operation Tax compliance services non-EU 0.1 across the Group.
Reporting accountant 2.0 Whistleblowing During the year, 2.0 million of non-audit services were provided The Board adopted a revised whistleblowing policy in by PwC in the role of reporting accountant as part of the IPO.
The Company provides employees with access PwC is prohibited from providing certain non-audit services to atelephone service run by an independent organisation including but not limited to internal audit work, valuations work toenable employees to report on an anonymous basis.
and tax-related work within the EU.
Further details on audit and TheCommittee is responsible for reviewing the whistleblowing non-audit fees are shown in note 5 to the financial statements.
policy and process, and both the Committee and the Board receive whistleblowing updates at each meeting as well as PwC has confirmed to the Committee during the year that, reports on any concerns raised.
After due challenge, along despite the level of non-audit fees, it remained independent.
with some suggestions for further improvement, the Committee concluded that the policy and procedures remain effective.
"Geeta Gopalan External auditors Chair of the Audit Committee The Committee is responsible for overseeing the 7 March 2019 Groupsrelationship with its external auditors,  LLP ""PwC""."
This includes theongoing assessment of the auditors independence andthe effectiveness of the external audit process, the resultsofwhich inform the Committees recommendation tothe Board as to the auditors appointment subject to shareholder approval or otherwise.
