Corporate governance Composition, succession and evaluation As at the date of this report, the Board comprised the Chair, Board induction and training the Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Directors, All new Directors receive a comprehensive induction plan including the Senior Independent Director.
The current onjoining the Board.
This includes the following: Directors served throughout all of 2018, except for Cath Keers - overview of Funding Circle through meetings with members and Geeta Gopalan who were appointed in May 2018 and of the Global Leadership Team: November 2018, respectively.
- overview by the Chairman on the Board structure, Committees The 2016 Code recommends that at least half of the Board, and roles and responsibilities and an overview of the Board excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent calendar, key dates and Board documentation by the Non-Executive Directors.
Circumstances likely to impair, Company Secretary: orwhich could appear to impair, a Directors independence include whether a Director participates in the Companys - overview of key customers borrowers and investors share option plan.
As an early stage private company, which andpartners: did not pay Directors fees, the Company has historically granted - training on public company duties: and options to certain Non-Executive Directors under the Companys share option plan.
Although the options granted will continue - meeting with internal and external auditors and key advisers to vest and be held by those Non-Executive Directors following as appropriate.
admission, no further options will be granted to Non-Executive The Board is committed to the training and development Directors under any of the Companys share option plans.
The Company Secretary is TheBoard does not consider that the historical granting of responsible for helping the Chairman regularly review and options to Non-Executive Directors, or the continued vesting organise appropriate training for the Directors.
In order for of options already granted, under the existing share option ourDirectors, particularly the Non-Executive Directors, to plan impairs the independence of those Directors concerned discharge their responsibilities, it is essential they have a and considers that all Non-Executive Directors other than detailed understanding of our business.
All Directors have Hendrik Nelis and Neil Rimer are independent in character and theopportunity to visit the Companys offices and operations.
judgement and are free from any business or other relationships They have continuous access to the knowledge and expertise which could materially affect the exercise of their judgement.
ofsenior management and regularly receive its input at Board Additionally, the Directors, both individually and collectively, meetings.
All Directors are required to undertake relevant have the range of skills, knowledge, diversity of experience compliance training and receive training on public company and dedication necessary to lead the Group and have the duties and relevant regulations.
requisite strategic and commercial experience to contribute tothe leadership of Funding Circle.
Board evaluation and succession planning As the Nomination Committee has only been established for a Appointment and election short time, a formal performance evaluation has not yet been The Non-Executive Directors are expected to devote sufficient conducted.
It is intended that an internal performance evaluation time to the Companys affairs to fulfil their duties as Directors.
will be conducted in 2019 and reported in the Companys 2019 Their letter of appointment states that the nature of the role Annual Report and Accounts.
Succession planning will also be makes it impossible to be specific about the maximum time a key focus of the Nomination Committee in 2019. commitment.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors has confirmed that they continue to be able to devote sufficient time to discharge their duties effectively as Directors of the Company.
The Nomination Committee reviews the other directorships and commitments held by the Directors and issatisfied that this is the case.
The Board considers all Directors to be effective and committed to their roles.
The Board has decided to comply with provision B.
7.1 of the 2016 Code and accordingly all members of the Board will be offering themselves for re-election at the Companys future Annual General Meetings.
