Corporate governance Audit, risk and internal control The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee responsibility Members of the Global Leadership Team are responsible for for overseeing the financial and corporate reporting and the application of the ERMF, for implementing and monitoring internal financial controls of the Company and its subsidiaries.
the operation of the systems of internal control and for providing This includes reviewing the content of the Annual Report and assurance to the Audit Committee, the Risk and Compliance Accounts and advising the Board on whether, taken as a whole, Committee and the Board.
Risk management and compliance it is fair, balanced and understandable.
You can find details constitute the second line of defence.
The Risk Management ofthis process and the focus of the review and of the Audit function is accountable for the quantitative and qualitative Committees role, activities and relationship with the external oversight and challenge of the identification, measurement, auditors on page 60 of the Audit Committee Report.
monitoring and reporting of principal risks and for developing the ERMF.
The Compliance function supports and advises the Responsibility for preparing the Annual Report business on the identification, measurement and management andAccounts of its regulatory and conduct risks.
It is accountable for maintaining the compliance standards and framework within The Board is responsible for maintaining adequate accounting which the Group operates, and monitoring and reporting on records and seeks to ensure compliance with statutory and itscompliance risk profile.
The third line of defence is Internal regulatory obligations.
An explanation from the Directors Audit, which is currently outsourced to KPMG.
This function about their responsibility for preparing the financial statements provides independent and objective assessment on the in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities is on page 83. robustness of the ERMF and the appropriateness and The Companys external auditors explain their responsibilities effectiveness of internal controls to the Audit Committee, on page 89. theRisk and Compliance Committee and the Board.
Risk management and internal control systems Remuneration The Board is responsible for promoting the long-term The Board has delegated responsibility to the Remuneration successof the Company for the benefit of shareholders, Committee for the remuneration arrangements of the Groups aswell as taking account of other stakeholders including Executive Directors and Chairman.
It also recommends and employees and customers.
This includes ensuring that an monitors the remuneration level and structure for the Global appropriate system of risk governance is in place throughout Leadership Team.
Youcan find out more about this in the theGroup.
To discharge this responsibility, the Board has Directors Remuneration Report starting on page 65. established frameworks for risk management and internal control using a Three Lines of Defence model and reserves foritself the setting of the Groups risk appetite.
The Board oversees the Groups risk management and internalcontrol system and is responsible for reviewing its effectiveness.
In preparation for the IPO, the Board carried out arobust assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, which are described in more detail on pages 39 to 44 of the Strategic Report, the Report of the Risk and Compliance Committee and the Report of the Audit Committee.
The Board retains ultimate responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and risk management but has delegated in-depth monitoring of the establishment and operation of prudent and effective controls in order to assess and manage risks associated with the Groups operations to the Risk and Compliance Committee and Audit Committee.
The Risk and Compliance Committee also monitors compliance with the Group Enterprise Risk Management Framework ERMF.
More information on the ERMF is provided on pages 36 and 38.
