Corporate governance Report of the Nomination Committee Dear shareholders On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our firstNomination Committee Report for the year ended 31December 2018.
Committee composition, skills and experience The Committee was formally established by the Board prior tothe IPO in September 2018.
Bob Steel and Cath Keers joinme as the other members of the Committee.
We confirm that we have complied with the 2016 Code recommendation that the Committee comprises a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
Committee members Andrew Learoyd Chair Role of the Committee Bob Steel Senior Independent Director The Committee assists the Board in reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board.
It is also responsible for Cath Keers Independent Non-Executive Director ensuring plans are in place for orderly succession to both Board and Global Leadership Team positions, and making appropriate recommendations to the Board for appointments to the Board.
The key responsibilities of the Committee are summarised onpage 51 ofthe Corporate Governance Report and further details on theCommittees roles and responsibilities can The main focus of the befound in ourTerms of Reference on our website at: corporate.
Committee will be to Operating rhythm of the Committee oversee succession The Committee will meet at least once a year and on an ad hoc basis as required throughout the year.
Although we did planning for the Board and not meet formally in 2018, the first formal Committee meeting took place on 29 January 2019.
The meeting focused on the senior management and to role, and key areas of focus, of the Committee for 2019, as set out below.
We are satisfied that we have a good balance of ensure there is a diverse skills and experience on the Board to support the Companys future development and, accordingly, recommend to the Board and appropriate balance that each Director stand for election at the forthcoming AGM.
Key focus of the Committee for 2019 In 2019, the key areas of focus for the newly formed Committee will be: - developing plans for orderly succession to both the Boardand the Global Leadership Team, keeping in mindtheimportance of a diverse pipeline: - keeping the balance of skills, experience, independence andknowledge of the Board as a whole this was carefully considered at the time of the IPO and the Committee is satisfied with the current balance of the Board but, as set out below, a further internal review will be carried out in 2019 to consider the composition and diversity of the Boardand how effectively the Directors are working together to achieve the Boards objectives: and - promoting diversity the Committee recognises the emphasis in the New Code ondiversity and it intends to take an active role in setting and meeting diversity objectives and strategies for the Company as a whole and in monitoring the impact ofdiversity initiatives.
57 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Report of the Nomination Committee continued Board induction and training All new Directors receive a comprehensive induction plan on joining the Board.
Further details of this are set out on page 55 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Diversity and inclusion The Company is committed to creating an inclusive culture, free from discrimination of any kind, and this extends to Board appointments.
The Board recognises the benefits of diversity, including gender diversity, on the Board, although it believes that all appointments should be made on merit, whilst ensuring that there is an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the Board.
See the gender breakdown of the Board and the Global Leadership Team on page 27.
We have published the UK's gender pay gap report on our website.
This also sets out our aims to achieve high levels of diversity across the Company.
Further details of our diversity and inclusion initiatives are set out on page 27.
Board appointments During the year and in preparation for the IPO the Board appointed two Non-Executive Directors, Cath Keers and GeetaGopalan, selected primarily on the basis of their industry and public company skills, knowledge and experience, but alsoto promote greater diversity on the Board.
An external recruitment consultant, Heidrick & Struggles, was appointed which did a thorough review of available candidates, taking into account the required skills, knowledge and experience the Board had identified and the Companys diversity objectives.
As part of the process, an assessment of the candidates skills was undertaken and interviews were held with members of the Board and the Global Leadership Team on a one-on-one basis prior to appointment.
The Committee is satisfied that the recruitment consultant used has no other connection with the Company and that the advice it received is independent.
Annual evaluation As the Committee has only been established for a short time, we have not conducted a formal performance evaluation but we plan to do so during 2019.
We will report on this in the 2019Annual Report and Accounts.
Andrew Learoyd Chair of the Nomination Committee 7 March 2019 58 Funding Circle Holdings plc
