Corporate governance Board leadership and Company purpose An experienced and effective leadership team Andrew Learoyd Samir Desai CBE R N Chairman of the Board Co-founder, Chief Executive Officer Samir co-founded Funding Circle in 2010.
He Andrew spent 23 years working in investment was previously a management consultant at banking as a research analyst in corporate theBoston Consulting Group and an investment finance, equity capital markets and finally executive at Olivant, a private equity firm that asCOO of the Equities Division in Europe of invests in financial services businesses in Goldman Sachs.
He retired as a Managing Europe, the Middle East and Asia.
In 2015, Directorof Goldman Sachs in 2006: since then Samirwas awarded a CBE for services to hehas been involved as an angel investor, financial services.
Non-Executive Director and consultant to severalstart-up businesses.
He became involved with Funding Circle at the outset when he met three ambitious young entrepreneurs with no office and no coffee but an idea to change the worldofbanking.
Board Committees A Audit Committee R Remuneration Committee N Nomination Committee Risk and Compliance RC Committee Committee Chair Cath Keers Hendrik Nelis R N RC Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Cath currently serves as Chair of Ustwo Fampany Hendrik joined Accel in 2004 and invests in Limited, an independent digital product, games bothearly and late-stage internet and software and venture business, and as non-executive companies.
Before joining Accel, Hendrik was at director at Sage group plc and TalkTalk Telecom Perry Capital, a $10 billion hedge fund, where he Group plc.
She is also an adviser to a number of invested in public communications, media and small businesses predominantly in technology.
technology companies and Goldman Sachs.
Cath has recently held non-executive roles at Having started his career at Hewlett-Packard, theRoyal Mail, Home Retail Group, LV and Hendrik founded E-motion, a venture-backed Telefonica Europe.
She previously held a number software company.
He is an active member of of commercial roles including marketing and the World Economic Forum and serves on the business development at Sky TV, Avon and Selection Committee of the WEF Technology Next, latterly Marketing Director and Customer Pioneers Programme.
Hendrik serves as manager, Director at O2, the mobile network, and partner and or director at a number of Accel Chairman of Tesco Mobile, O2s joint venture entities, as well as a director or supervisory with Tesco.
board member of several other companies.
48 Funding Circle Holdings plc Corporate governance Sean Glithero Eric Daniels Geeta Gopalan A RC A RC Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director As Global CFO, Sean serves on the Funding Eric currently holds a range of business Geeta has over 25 years of experience of Circle Board and is responsible for all aspects appointments which include as an advisor, a financial services and retail banking, particularly offinance including internal audit, tax, treasury, non-executive director, a trustee or a board payments and digital innovation.
Geeta was procurement and investor relations.
He also advises several innovative formerly Executive Chair of Monitise Europe.
Among the many roles in her financial services Prior to joining Funding Circle in 2017, Sean career, Geeta was Director of Payment Services served as a Director and Chief Financial Officer Eric was previously Group Chief Executive Officer with HBOS plc and previously Managing Director, of Auto Trader Group and helped it undertake of the Lloyds Banking Group, the FTSE 100 UK Retail Bank and Business Development Head aninitial public offering and join the FTSE 250. listed banking group, retiring in 2011.
Prior to EME at Citigroup.
Sean qualified as a chartered accountant with joining Lloyds in 2001, he spent 25 years with Ernst & Young, working within both the audit Citigroup in a range of management positions.
Geeta serves as Non-Executive Director andcorporate finance departments.
ofCYBG plc, Ultra Electronic Holdings and Eric holds a Master of Science in Management WizinkBank SA, of which she is chair of from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology theaudit and risk committee.
and a Bachelor of Arts in History from CornellUniversity.
Neil Rimer Bob Steel Ed Wray N A R Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Neil is a co-founder and partner of Index Bob is a partner at Perella Weinberg Partners.
Ed co-founded Betfair in 1999 with Andrew Ventures.
Before starting Index Ventures, he Bob was New York Citys Deputy Mayor for Black and was Chief Executive until 2003, when spent four years with Montgomery Securities Economic Development, where he was responsible he moved to Australia to set up the companys inSan Francisco.
Neil is currently a Director for the Bloomberg Administrations economic joint venture.
He became Chairman in 2006. orobserver on various boards of companies development strategy and job creation efforts.
Betfair floated on the London Stock Exchange based in the UK, Europe and US including As CEO of Wachovia Corporation in 2008, Bob in2010, valued at 1.4 billion.
Prior to setting up Prodigy Investments Limited, Raisin GmbH, oversaw the sale of the bank to Wells Fargo & Co. Betfair, Ed spent eight years at J. P. Morgan & Co. PeatGmbH and Pitch Software GmbH.
and served on the Wells Fargo board of directors.
as a Vice President inthe debt capital markets Heisalso a Director of Human Rights Watch.
Bob has also served as the Undersecretary for and derivatives area.
Domestic Finance of the United States Treasury, Neil was previously a Director of Photobox Ed also serves as a director for a number of the Vice Chairman of Goldman Sachs and a Holdco Limited, Supercell Oy and companies in the UK.
Bob is director of Cadence Bancorp, LLC.
Chairman of the Aspen Institutes Board of Trustees and has served as Chairman of Dukes Board of Trustees, Senior Fellow at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government, member of the FDIC Advisory Committee on Economic Inclusion, Chairman of The After-School Corporation, and Co-Founder of SeaChange Capital Partners.
49 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Board leadership and Company purpose continued The Board has a collective objective of promoting the long-term Purpose, values and culture success of the Company for its shareholders and we provide We consider our employees and culture fundamental to dedicated leadership in the development and promotion of thesuccess of our business.
Our team consists of a talented theGroups strategy and monitoring of its implementation on an group of individuals who have strong alignment with our ongoing basis.
A key part of the Boards role is ensuring that mission and share the same drive and passion as our customers.
the Group has the appropriate people, financial and other We believe that creating the right culture is crucial for both resources to achieve its aims.
Along with the standing attracting and retaining talent.
All permanent employees hold Committees, we are responsible for ensuring an appropriate options and or shares in the business, which ensures they are system of governance is in operation throughout the Group.
aligned with our mission, vision and objectives.
We have Thisincludes a robust system of internal controls and a developed a strong and engaging culture in each of our offices, soundrisk management framework.
as well as a set of five core values that represent who we are and how our team behaves as described in the Strategic Board gender diversity Report on page 26.
The Board regularly receives reports onpeople-related matters and results from the culture surveys Female 20% and the individual Directors spend time with employees, for example by participating from time to time in global quarterly Male 80% meetings and town halls.
Matters reserved to the Board and role oftheCommittees Board meetings are planned around the key events in 20 80 Qthecorporate calendar, including the half-yearly and final results and the Annual General Meeting AGM and a strategy meeting is held each year.
The Board also receives a monthly Board composition management report.
During the year, the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have regularly met without Executive Executive 20% Directors present and the Chairman regularly gathers the views 80% of the Non-Executive Directors outside formal Board meetings.
Non-Executive The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval and delegated other specific responsibilities to the Committees.
The matters reserved to the Board and its Committees include: 20 80 Q - Group strategy, which is reviewed by the Board andmanagement regularly during the year: - the Groups annual operating budget: Board tenure - major investments, acquisitions and capital projects: 1 year 20% - internal controls and risk management: 60% 13 years - material contracts and expenditure: 20% 5 years - certain shareholder communications: - Board membership and other appointments: - corporate governance matters: and 20 60 20 Q - remuneration of Directors and the Global Leadership Team.
50 Funding Circle Holdings plc Corporate governance Each Board Committee has written Terms of Reference defining its role and responsibilities as summarised in the table below.
Further details regarding the role and activities of each of the Board Committees can be found in the Committee reports.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board and Board Committees Terms of Reference are also available on the Groups corporate website: corporate.
Nomination Committee Key objectives Principal responsibilities Reviewing the structure, size and composition - Leads the process for Board appointments and makes recommendations ofthe Board, reviewing succession planning to the Board andmaking recommendations on appointments - Reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and makes tothe Board.
recommendations to the Board about any changes Membership - Considers plans and makes recommendations to the Board for orderly Andrew Learoyd Chair succession for appointments to the Board and senior management Bob Steel - Keeps the Executive and Non-Executive leadership needs of the Group Cath Keers under review Nomination Committee Report page 57 - Evaluates the combination of skills, knowledge, experience, independence and diversity on the Board - Reviews the results of the Board performance evaluation process, where they relate to the composition of the Board - Makes recommendations to the Board about the re-election of Directors Audit Committee Key objectives Principal responsibilities Overseeing the financial and corporate - Monitors the integrity of the Companys financial statements reportingand internal financial controls of the - Reviews and reports to the Board on significant financial reporting issues Group, managing internal and external audit and judgements procedures and reviewing and overseeing the Groups procedures in relation to whistleblowing, - Assesses the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting procedures bribery, fraud, money laundering and other - Monitors and keeps under review the adequacy and effectiveness of the financial crime.
Groups internal financial controls and in conjunction with the Risk and Membership Compliance Committee internal control systems Geeta Gopalan Chair - Reviews and approves the role and mandate of the Groups Internal Audit Ed Wray function and monitors and reviews the effectiveness of its work Eric Daniels - Oversees the relationship of the Company with the external auditors, Audit Committee Report page 59 recommends their appointment and reviews their effectiveness, fees, terms of reference and independence 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Board leadership and Company purpose continued Matters reserved to the Board and role of the Committees continued Risk and Compliance Committee Key objectives Principal responsibilities Reviewing and making recommendations to the - Assesses the emerging and current principal risk exposure of the Company Board in relation to the Groups risk management and the Group and advises the Board on those risk exposures and future and compliance systems and compliance with the risk strategy Group Enterprise Risk Management Framework, - Advises the Board on the Companys overall risk appetite, tolerance the Groups compliance with legal and regulatory andstrategy requirements and policies and the effectiveness and appropriateness of the Groups corporate - Reviews the Companys capability to identify and manage new risk types governance framework.
- Monitors and keeps under review the adequacy and effectiveness of the Membership Groups internal risk management systems Eric Daniels Chair - Considers and approves the remit of the Risk Management and Hendrik Nelis Compliance functions, in conjunction with the Audit Committee Geeta Gopalan - Provides advice and challenge necessary to embed and maintain Risk and Compliance Committee Report page 63 asupportive risk and compliance culture throughout the Group - Monitors and keeps under review the policies and overall process for identifying and assessing strategic, operational, credit and reputational and conduct risks and managing their impact on the Company and Group - Considers and approves the annual risk and compliance monitoring and testing plans Remuneration Committee Key objectives Principal responsibilities Determining the remuneration of the Directors - Considers, monitors and reviews the ongoing appropriateness and and senior employees of the Group and relevance of the remuneration policy including its level and structure determining the policy for the Executive Directors and consults with significant shareholders and other stakeholders as well as monitoring and reviewing its ongoing asappropriate appropriateness and relevance.
- Promotes long-term shareholdings by Executive Directors that support Membership alignment with long-term shareholder interests Cath Keers Chair - Considers, determines and approves the provisions of the service agreements Andrew Learoyd of the Executive Directors and ensures that any payments that may be Ed Wray made under such provisions are fair to the individual and the Company Directors remuneration report page 65 - Reviews workforce remuneration and related policies and the alignment of incentives and rewards with culture and takes these into account when determining the remuneration of the Executive Directors - Agrees the policy for authorising claims for expenses from the Directors - Reviews the design of any new share incentive schemes for approval bythe Board and, as required, the Companys shareholders Disclosure Committee In addition, the Board has delegated to the Disclosure Committee responsibility for overseeing the disclosure of information byFunding Circle to meet its obligations under the Market Abuse Regulations, the FCAs Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Disclosure Committee comprises the Chair of the Board, the Chair of the Audit Committee, the CEO, theCFO, the CRO and the Global General Counsel.
Day-to-day management of the Group, including the implementation of the Groups business plan and strategy, is delegated by the Board to the Global Leadership Team, chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, Samir Desai.
The Global Leadership Team is responsible for managing the business, delivering the strategy, managing risk, ensuring regulatory compliance, establishing financial and operational targets and monitoring performance against those targets.
52 Funding Circle Holdings plc Corporate governance In addition, at each Board meeting the standing agenda includes: Board activity The Board held a number of meetings during 2018, both before - approval of minutes circulated to all Directors in advance and after the IPO.
In 2018, following the IPO and the formal for comment and review of outstanding actions: establishment of the Board Committees, two Board meetings - corporate governance and Committee reports: and two Committee meetings were held and all Directors and Committee members were present at all meetings all except one - investor relations and communications including quarterly being present in person.
In total, prior to the date of this report, shareholder analysis reports : fiveBoard meetings and eight Board Committee meetings - report from the CEO, including key developments in the have been held since the IPO.
The Company Secretary or her Groups business: and Deputyattended all meetings.
In addition, more than 10 Board meetings were held prior to the IPO before the Company was - financial and operational review.
required to comply with the 2016 Code.
Agendas and accompanying papers are distributed to the Board The table below sets out attendance at Board and Committee and Committee members well in advance of each Board or meetings in 2018 following the IPO.
These include reports from Executive Directors, other members of senior management and external Risk and Post-IPO Board Audit Compliance Remuneration Nomination advisers.
All Directors have direct access to senior management should they require additional information on any of the items No.
of meetings 2 1 1 to be discussed.
Andrew Learoyd Chairman 2 The Board and the Audit Committee receive further regular and specific reports to allow the monitoring of the adequacy Samir Desai 2 ofthe Companys systems of internal controls described in Sean Glithero 2 more detail in the Audit Committee Report on page 59.
Eric Daniels 2 1 1 1 Geeta Gopalan 1 1 1 Shareholder and stakeholder engagement Cath Keers 2 The Board believes that engaging regularly with the Companys Hendrik Nelis 2 1 shareholders is vital to the Groups success.
The Group aims Neil Rimer 2 to maintain an active dialogue with its shareholders, including institutional shareholders, to discuss issues relating to the Bob Steel 2 performance of the Group.
Communicating and engaging Ed Wray 2 1 withshareholders means the Board can express clearly its strategy and performance and receive regular feedback.
Appointed 1 November 2018 attended October Board meeting but not as a Director.
gives the Company the opportunity torespond to questions The Board and Board Committee meeting schedule for 2019 has and suggestions.
been approved by the Board and the Board will meet formally at The Non-Executive Directors are available to discuss any matter least six times per year with an additional Board strategy session.
shareholders might wish to raise and to attend meetings with Ad hoc meetings may be called as and when appropriate.
shareholders and analysts, as required.
Investor relations The activities undertaken by the Board in 2018 since admission activity is a standing item on the Boards agenda and ensuring were intended to promote the success of the Company.
The a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders is a matter reserved meetings held focused on the following main themes: to the Board.
Our Senior Independent Director, Bob Steel, serves as an Theme 1 C orporate governance and the role additional point of contact for shareholders should they feel ofthe Board following IPO that any concerns are not being addressed properly through the normal channels.
He may be contacted through the Company Secretary.
Theme 2 The Groups funding strategy The Companys Annual General Meeting AGM will take place on 5 June 2019 at 65 Fleet Street, London, EC4Y 1HS.
The Chairman, and the Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration and Theme 3 Marketing strategy Risk and Compliance Committees, will be present to answer questions put to them by shareholders.
Electronic proxy voting will be available to shareholders through both our Registrar's website and the CREST service.
Voting at the AGM will be Theme 4 A pproval of 2019 budget and review conducted by way of a poll and the results will be announced ofmanagementaccounts through the Regulatory News Service and made available on the Companys website.
Theme 5 T ech and product developments, We discuss other stakeholders, in addition to shareholders, including a review of cyber and within our Strategic Report.
information security 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2018
