Corporate governance Division of responsibilities There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the CEO which has been set out in writing and approved by the Board and these responsibilities, as well as the role of the Senior Independent Director and other members of the Board, are set out below: The Board Chairman Chief Executive Officer Senior Independent Director Responsible for: Responsible for: Role is to: - the leadership and overall - leadership of the Global - be available to shareholders effectiveness of the Board and for Leadership Team in the executive ifthey have concerns, which upholding high standards of management of the Group.
contact through the normal corporate governance throughout channels of the Chair, CEO or - the development of the Groups the Group and particularly at other Executive Directors has strategy, annual budget and Board level.
business plans and commercial - setting the Board agendas objectives with the Board.
- attend sufficient meetings withthe Company Secretary and withand listen to the view - setting an example and CEO and the recommendation of ofmajor shareholders.
communicating to the Groups an annual Board and Committee employees the expectations - provide a sounding board forthe meeting schedule.
ofthe Board in relation to the Chair and act as an intermediary - promoting a culture of openness Groups culture, values for shareholders when necessary.
and debate, in particular by andbehaviour.
- meet other Non-Executive facilitating the effective contribution - ensuring appropriate, timely and Directors without the Chair of Non-Executive Directors, and accurate information is disclosed present once a year to appraise ensuring constructive relations to the market.
between Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
- managing the Group's risk profile in line with the extent of risk - ensuring effective communication identified as acceptable by the with shareholders and discussing Board and ensuring appropriate governance, remuneration and internal controls are in place.
Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Directors Company Secretary Responsible for: Responsible for: Responsible for: - all aspects offinance including - providing objective and constructive - being available to all Directors to internal audit, tax, treasury challenge to management.
procurement and investor - assisting with the development - providing governance advice.
- ensuring compliance with the - working with the CEO to develop - scrutinising and monitoring Boards procedures and with and implement the Groups financialand operational applicable rules and regulations.
performance and the Groups - ensuring effective financial riskmanagement framework.
