CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK The board oversees the Groups NOMINATION COMMITTEE governance framework, reviews Role and responsibilities and approves the strategy, monitors managements Review board composition performance against agreed Lead the process for new board and committee appointments targets and ensuresappropriate Review board succession planning processes controlsare in place and operating effectively.
See page 90 The board ensures leadership through effective oversight and review.
Executive decisions, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE and development and implementation of strategy are Role and responsibilities delegated tomanagement.
Review and approve the companys CSR strategy or recommend policies to ensure CSR remains an integral part of the Groups The board fulfils a number of its strategy responsibilities directly see the list of matters reserved to the Monitor compliance with CSR policies throughout the Group board on page 79 andothers and the integration of CSR processes within the Groups risk through its committees.
management and approval processes See page 93 BOARD RISK COMMITTEE Role and responsibilities Role and responsibilities Review and approve the Advise the board on the Groups overall risk appetite and companys strategy tolerance Monitor managements Oversee the companys risk management framework and review performance against agreed its effectiveness targets Review major contracts and projects Review, approve and GROUP RISK See page 96 promote the companys AND values and standards INTERNAL Review its own performance AUDIT AUDIT COMMITTEE on a yearly basis FUNCTION Role and responsibilities Oversee the financial reporting process and ensure the integrity of the companys financial statements Monitor internal audit Approve external audit scope and fee, review and monitor CHIEF EXECUTIVE external auditors independence OFFICER See page 98 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Role and responsibilities Approve remuneration of chairman of the board, the executive GROUP EXECUTIVE directors, other members of the executive committee and the COMMITTEE company secretary of the board Monitor level and structure of remuneration of other senior management of the Group See page 105 78 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 MATTERS RESERVED TO THE BOARD The board is responsible for a number of specific matters in the following areas: Strategy and management Material contracts Delegation of authority Structure and capital Major acquisitions and disposals Corporate governance matters Financial reporting and controls Communication with shareholders Tax and treasury policies Risk appetite, risk management and Board membership and other Other matters such as settling internal controls appointments materiallitigation The work of the boards committees is described below in this report and the terms of reference of each of the committees are available on the companys website at g4s.
KEY ROLES IN OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK To ensure a clear division of responsibilities Chairman of the board Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Leads the board, promoting good Responsible for developing and Manages financial risks in accordance corporate governance and ensuring implementing the Groups strategy with the risk appetite set by the board board compliance with regulatory andplans and implements effective internal requirements financial control processes across the Responsible for the overall management Group Ensures board effectiveness on all and promotion of the Group aspects of its role Responsible for financial Manages the Groups risk profile in planningto support the companys Promotes a culture of challenge, accordance with the risk appetite set by strategicobjectives debate, openness and support the board Leads the Groups finance, internal Ensures NEDs receive a comprehensive Ensures effective communication audit, procurement, information induction, on going training to support between the board and the business technology, tax and treasury functions the performance of their duties and timely and clear information Provides regular financial reporting to theboard Maintains regular contact with major shareholders and conveys their views to the board Senior Independent Director Independent non-executive Company Secretary directors NEDs Acts as a sounding board for the Secretary to the board and its chairman and as an intermediary for the committees Provide constructive challenge and other directors when needed support Responsible for advising the board Maintains a balanced understanding of through the chairman on all governance, Monitor managements performance the views of major shareholders regulatory and legislative matters against agreed targets Maintains regular and effective Ensures all directors have access to Satisfy themselves on the integrity of communication with other directors theadvice and services of the company financial information and that financial secretariat, and external advice controls and systems of risk management Leads the yearly appraisal of the ifnecessary are robust and effective chairmans performance Responsible for ensuring compliance Determine appropriate levels of Chairs the Nomination Committee with board procedures and processes remuneration for executive directors when it is considering issues directly affecting the chairman Supports the chairman and chief Key role in appointing directors and in executive officer in preparing and board succession planning organising induction programmes forNEDs Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 79 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED BOARD BALANCE AND DIVERSITY The Groups workforce reflects the wide range of The boards policy promotes diversity in terms countries, cultures and environments in which the of gender, ethnicity, nationality, skills, personal Group operates.
Most board members have international experience, which is very important in a The Group has long recognised that diversity Group like G4S, with operations in over 90 countries.
canenhance decision making and performance andtherefore it actively promotes diversity within Experience of a variety of industries, a mix of both theorganisation.
long-serving and new members, gender diversity as well as five nationalities represented on the board, all More information about the Groups approach to contribute to greatly enrich debate in the boardroom, diversity is set out on pages 22 and 23. and bring fresh perspectives and understanding.
Mindful of its obligations under both DTR7.2.
8A and The board also considers diversity as part of its annual Code Provision B.
2.4, the board adopted, earlier review of talent management and succession plans for this year, a formal board diversity policy to capture the board and senior management team.
its approach to diversity and set out the principles it follows in considering board appointments, board As part of this review, gender diversity, as well as composition, and succession planning.
initiatives in place or being developed to promote greater representation of women and an increase in The board diversity policy is available at g4s.
com cultural and ethnic diversity across the Groups global investors and further information on how the board leaders are also discussed.
applies the principles set out in the policy is set out in the report of the Nomination Committee on pages 90 and 91.
Board balance Geographical experience Industry experience Non-executive directors 80% Africa Business services Executive directors 20% Asia Pacific Energy utilities Gender Male 70% Finance Europe Female 30% Board tenure 2018 Latin America FMCG 2 years or less 20% 2 yrs 4 yrs 30% Logistics Middle East & 4 yrs 6 yrs 30% India 6 yrs 8 yrs 20% North America Manufacturing operations Technology UK & Ireland Pharmaceutical biotechnology 80 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Board composition Director re-election As at the date of this report, the board The companys articles of association require that comprises 10members: the non-executive all continuing directors are subject to election by chairman JohnConnolly, seven other nonshareholders at the next annual general meeting executivedirectors andtwo executive directors.
following their appointment and that they submit themselves for re-election at each annual general The names of the directors serving as at 31 December meeting, in accordance with the Codes provision 2018 and their biographical details are set out on pages on re-election of directors.
With the exception of 74 and 75.
John Daly who will step down at the end of the 2019 All these directors served throughout the year AGM, all the continuing directors intend to stand for under review, apart from Clare Spottiswoode, a election or re-election, as the case may be, at the non-executive director who retired from the board companys upcoming AGM.
on 15 May 2018, and Elisabeth Fleuriot, who was Potential conflicts appointed to the board on 18 June2018.
Each of the directors has disclosed to the board any Independence situations which apply to them as a result of which The board considers all the non-executive directors they have or may have an interest which conflicts or to be independent and to bring objective oversight may conflict with the interests of the company.
accordance with the companys articles of association, the board has authorised such matters.
Should a The board acknowledges the recommended term director become aware that they may have an within the Code and is mindful of the need for interest in an existing transaction with G4S, they planned and orderly succession whenever possible.
should notify the board in writing or declare it at the Therefore clear records of the tenure and skill-set next meeting.
The company has procedures in place for each non-executive director are maintained.
In for managing such situations.
The affected director will addition, a review is undertaken by the Nomination not vote on a matter in which they have an interest Committee at least once a year.
and the board may impose additional conditions if deemed appropriate.
The board reviews such matters on a regular basis.
Board composition, roles and attendance as at 31 December 2018 Meetings attended Chairman Board Nomination CSR Risk Audit Remuneration 1 John Connolly 9 10 2 2 n a 5 6 n a n a Executive Directors Chief Executive Officer Ashley Almanza 10 10 n a n a 6 6 n a n a Chief Financial Officer 2 Tim Weller 10 10 n a n a 5 6 n a n a Non-Executive Directors 3 John Daly 9 10 n a n a n a 4 4 3 3 4 Elisabeth Fleuriot 5 6 n a 4 4 n a n a 2 2 Winnie Fok 9 10 6 6 3 3 5 Steve Mogford Senior Independent Director 10 10 2 2 5 6 4 4 n a 6 John Ramsay 9 10 n a 6 6 n a 4 4 n a Paul Spence 10 10 n a 6 6 6 6 4 4 n a 7 Clare Spottiswoode 4 4 n a 2 2 n a n a 1 1 Barbara Thoralfsson 10 10 2 2 n a n a n a 3 3 There were seven scheduled board meetings and three additional meetings during the year.
Four meetings of the CSR Committee and the Risk Committee were scheduled during the year and two additional meetings for each committee also took place.
Mr Connolly was unable to attend one board meeting and one Risk Committee meeting due to a temporary indisposition.
Mr Weller was unable to attend one unscheduled meeting of the Risk Committee due to a prior conflicting engagement.
Prior to the meeting, hehad signified his approval of the matters being discussed to the committee chairman.
Mr Daly was unable to attend one unscheduled board meeting due to a prior conflicting engagement.
Prior to the meeting, he had provided comments and feedback on matters to be discussed to the chairman of the board.
Ms Fleuriot was appointed to the board and as chair of the CSR Committee and member of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 18June 2018.
She was unable to attend one board meeting due to a conflicting engagement made prior to her joining the board 5.
Mr Mogford was unable to attend one meeting of the Risk Committee due to a prior conflicting commitment.
Prior to the meeting, he had signified his approval of the matters being discussed to the committee chairman.
Mr Ramsay was unable to attend one board meeting due to a conflicting engagement made prior to joining the board.
Ms Spottiswoode retired from the board and as chair of the CSR Committee on15 May 2018.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 81 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board meetings 2018 BOARD ACTIVITIES IN FOCUS Seven scheduled board meetings and three additional meetings took place during the year ended Held a two-day strategy forum with the Group 31 December 2018.
Each year, one of these meetings Executive Committee, inOctober is an extended two-day meeting at which, in addition Approved the launch of the review of to normal board business, the board and executive separation options for the Cash Solutions committee review the Group strategy.
business Prior to each board meeting, comprehensive papers Appointed one new non-executive director are circulated to the directors addressing not only Discussed succession plans for board members the regular agenda items on which the executives will report, but also details of any matters requiring Approved half-year results and year-end results approval or decisions, such as significant transactions Received regular reports from the chair of the or other matters reserved to the board.
nomination, CSR, risk, audit and remuneration At each meeting, the board receives regularreports committees and in-depth presentations from line and functional Reviewed and approved the Group Business executives and the board makes visits to business Ethics Policy, Market Abuse Regime framework, sites from time to time.
Group treasury policy and Group tax strategy After meetings of the board committees, the Approved the Groups slavery and human respective chairs report to the board on the matters trafficking statement considered by each committee.
Monitored and reviewed developments in After each board meeting the chairman holds ameeting corporate governance and reporting attended solely by the non-executive directors.
Conducted visits to a G4S cash centre and G4S There are seven board meetings scheduled for2019 managed custodial facilities in the UK, as well as including a two-day board and strategymeeting.
to Group operations in Northern Europe see below Took part in various engagements with shareholders and investors during the year see page 86 Reviewed the 2018 AGM proxy voting figures TWO-DAY STRATEGY SESSION AT G4S DENMARK SAFETY, SECURITY AND SERVICE EXCELLENCE In October 2018, the board and Group executive team held a two-day strategy session at the Groups Danish headquarters, located just outside Copenhagen.
The board and Group executive team met with the Danish senior management team as well as a number of employees focused on research and development and innovation.
The board received an in-depth presentation on the business model adopted by the Danish business.
By placing the customer at the heart of their offering and involving the customer every step of the way, the team ensures the development of integrated security solutions which generatetangible value for customers and promote greater and closer collaboration.
VALUES: A demonstration of drone technology took place at which Innovation and Teamwork the board and executive team learnt more about how such technology was being deployed to support and supplement other security solutions.
In addition, the board and executive team had the opportunity of meeting the Danish senior management teaminformally.
82 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 INDUCTION, INFORMATION AND DEVELOPMENT A tailored induction is provided to new directors joining the their awareness of the different elements of the business.
The induction is designed to ensure new directors have the addition, non-executive directors learnabout the Groups business necessary understanding of their role and how they can maximise and meet employees and management through sitevisits.
It is therefore tailored to individual needs and In 2018, induction programmes were run for two non-executive those of the role they will fulfil on theboard.
directors, namely Mr Ramsay who joined the board on 1 January To build on the induction programme, directors receive further 2018 and chairs the Audit Committee and Ms Fleuriotwho joined briefings both to help in their own development and to enhance the board on 18 June 2018 and chairs the CSRCommittee.
Continued induction Audit Committeechair In addition to the steps set out one page 76 of the 2017 Integrated Report and Accounts, MrRamsays induction also included several site visits, which were arranged throughout the year, including to two G4S run custodial facilities as well as the Groups largest cash centre in the UK.
Mr Ramsay also attended a regional audit committee, thus gaining a better understanding of management processes, focus on controls and approach to judgmental areas.
Tailored induction CSR Committeechair Upon joining the board on 18 June 2018, a four step induction programme was prepared for Elisabeth Fleuriot, who also took on the role of chair of the CSR Committee.
Step 1 focused on promoting a good understanding of the Step 3 was designed to provide a deeper knowledge of corporate company and the role and duties associated with the role social responsibility matters from a G4S perspective.
Ms Fleuriot of board director in the context of a UK quoted company.
met with her predecessor Access to information about the company, group structure, Ms Spottiswoode, as well as the Group Corporate Affairs Director, management team, board governance, minutes of board and the main executive sponsor for CSR matters.
In addition, focused committee meetings and risk management, briefing ondirectors sessions with members of the senior management team with duties and other regulatory and legalmatters was provided.
responsibilities or particular knowledge of CSR matters took place.
Step 2 sought to help Ms Fleuriot develop an understanding These included a session with the Head of Government Relations of the companys business, markets and main relationships.
A series of meetings were also organised with the Group Over four days, Ms Fleuriot had individual sessions with Director who has particular responsibility for the Groups health members of the group executive team and senior managers.
Such meetings included focused sessions Areas covered included strategy, investor relations, governance, with the Group Health & Safety Director who appraised Ms finance, legal and human resources.
Fleuriot of the companys goal of zero-harm and related initiatives.
Ms Fleuriot also met with the Head of Employee Relations, Diversity and Inclusion, to gain abetter understanding of employee relations and engagement methods, as well as the Groups approach to diversity and inclusion.
Step 4 consisted of site visits and Ms Fleuriot together with other members of the CSR Committee visited the Gatwick Immigration Removal Centres in December 2018.
Additionalsite visits are due to be arranged during the first half of 2019.
BOARD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME Our board development programme focuses on promoting a greater April UK cash centre visit awareness and understanding of our business and wider market issues as well A group consisting of about half of the members of the board met with the as developing trends or topical issues relevant to their role as director of a management team of the cash centre and UK cash business and received a UK quoted company with a secondary listing in Copenhagen.
presentation on cash cycle management and outsourcing.
Directors then Site visits, which allow directors to meet with local management and toured the facility and watched a demonstration of vehicle security and front-line staff, are organised once or twice a year.
Some visits will involve protective solutions for cash transportation.
the entire board, such as the visit to the Groups operations in Denmark.
Others involve smaller groups, for example our CSR Committee visited a UK October Denmark business visit custodial facility during the year and another group of directors visited our The two-day strategy session was held in Denmark see case study opposite.
largest cash centre in the UK.
Meeting operational staff and local management This gave the board an opportunity to see the new products and services is helpful both to gain a better understanding of challenges they face but also being developed by the Danish R&D teams.
when reviewing succession planning below board level.
In addition, all non-executive directors are encouraged to visit our overseas December UK immigration removal centre businesses, if they happen to be travelling for other purposes.
The CSR Committee members visited Brook House, a G4S managed During the year regular updates were also provided at board and immigration removal centre see page 94. committee meetings on developing trends andUK corporate governance changes which would needto be reflected in the Groups corporate .
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 83 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED BOARD AND COMMITTEES PERFORMANCE REVIEW In accordance with guidance from the Code, board The process was entirely confidential and designed and committees performance are assessed yearly to ensure open and valuable feedback was provided.
with thesupport of an external facilitator.
At least Stage 2 once every three years, the board conducts a fully externally facilitated exercise which was last carried The Lintstock team compiled a report based on out in 2017.
In 2018, the board and committee views gathered through replies to the questionnaires.
evaluations were carried out by Oliver Ziehn of Lintstock also reported on theperformance of Lintstock.
Oliver Ziehn and Lintstock have no other each of the directors and separately on that of connection with the company.
The exercise consisted of tailored questionnaires Stage 3 sent to board members as well as a number of other The reports, conclusions and recommendations were internal and external stakeholders.
The responses considered and discussed by the board and each to the questionnaires were then compiled and of the boards committees when reviewing their analysedby Lintstock before they were shared with performance, and informed the planning for the board the board andeach committee for consideration at and committees priorities in 2019. meetings which took placein December.
As part of this process, the individual director Stage 1 reviews were used as the basis for the chairmans The process started in September, with the individual discussion with each of the directors development of tailored questionnaires in about their performance and any training and collaboration with the chairman of the board and development needs.
The results of the board each committee chair.
review were also considered as part of the review of the  by the Nomination In late October, each of the directors, company Committee in December.
secretary, Group HR Director, Group Corporate Affairs Director, Director of Risk and Internal Audit, The report on the chairman was used to inform the Group Financial Controller, Director of Compensation discussion amongst the non-executive directors led by and Benefits, other regular board committee the senior independent director about the chairmans attendees and external participants includingaudit performance, without the chairman being present.
partners from PwC the Groups external auditor The senior independent director also sought the and Deloitte the Groups remuneration consultant views of the executive directors.
BOARD REVIEW OUTCOME Board Committees The conclusions of this years review confirmed The effectiveness of the committees of the board that the board operates effectively, with the was also reviewed and the results of the evaluation board dynamics enhanced by recent additions to were also positive, with committees perceived to be the board.
Other areas which received positive running efficiently and making effective decisions.
feedback included the boards relationship with the Further information about the results of each chief executive officer, time management of board committee review and how these results inform the meetings and board support.
following years plan can be found in each of the A number of areas for further work were also board committee reports.
These included greater focus on Chairman succession planning, monitoring the implementation of strategy and the use of technology, gaining The chairmans performance continued to be highly a better understanding of certain stakeholders rated, in particular in managing individual directors views, particularly those of customers, continued input.
His relationship with the chief executive officer focus on corporate culture and directors was also highly rated.
84 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 BOARD ACTION PLAN 2019 The board action plan for 2019 was informed among otherthings by the results of the board evaluation process and will include: Board oversight on execution of the strategy Maintaining the application of technology in thebusiness Board and management succession planning Development of board members including interaction with executives Monitoring the effectiveness and performance of theorganisation Implementing changes to the Groups corporate governance structure to comply with the New Code and reporting requirements Continued focus on corporate culture Maintaining an understanding of the Groups stakeholders, including customers, employees and shareholders Stakeholders The boards engagement with the Groups stakeholders helps frame the Groups strategic direction, informs the boards decision making process and overall supports the boards duty to promote the success of the company as set out in Section 172 of the Companies Act2006.
Our formal engagement process for CSR matters is set out below.
Other stakeholders engagement activities are describedoverleaf.
CSR Materiality Assessment To ensure that G4S approach to CSR remains focused on the areas that are most relevant to the business and its stakeholders, a  of ethical and sustainability issues is undertaken every two years.
The most recent assessment, completed in December 2017 confirms three core CSR priority areas during 2018 and 2019: 1.
Anti-Bribery and Corruption Working in partnership with independent experts, we reviewed and identified issues and trends which may have the potential to have an impact on our business, our stakeholders and the wider security industry.
Together with our partners, we conducted a series of interviews with the executive and non-executive members of G4S senior management team and a broad range of external stakeholders, including sustainability analysts, industry bodies, customers, suppliers, and NGOs.
We sought views and opinions on which issues present the greatest risk or opportunity to , .
The findings reinforce the importance that G4S ethics, culture and values, and our employees personal standards andbehaviourhave in preventing issues and poor performance across the core priorities and other CSR matters.
Our next CSR materiality assessment is due in 2019.
Health, safety and protection of employees Human rights Ethics and people under G4S care Environment Ethics & values Economic Anti-bribery & corruption Geopolitical Labour relations Governance & Employment compliance Employee standards & behaviours Valuing & developing employees Secure & stable Diversity & inclusion Employee recruitment & communities screening Government relationships Data protection & information security Customer trust & delivery Risk management Promoting industry standards Economic & tax contribution Technology & innovation Responsible supply chain Climate change Environmental management LOW IMPACT ON G4S HIGH Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 85 IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS HIGH CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED ENGAGING TO DELIVER VALUE Engagement activities with the Groups key stakeholders, what matters to each group and how we respond, are detailed on pages 16 and 17.
This section focuses on how our board engages with stakeholder groups.
KEY STAKEHOLDERS HOW THE BOARD ENGAGES As part of its decision making process, the board takes into consideration a broad range of issues which are SOCIETY reported to the board through a variety of means.
Our employees touch the lives of During the year under review, the board received regular updates on corporate governance reform and others every day, broader societal issues that were considered by the Financial Reporting Council and UK government.
providing crucial The board reviewed and approved a number of policies including the Business Ethics Policy g4s.
com ethics services to help as well as the tax strategy g4s.
keep society safe The Audit Committee reviewed the potential impact of Brexit on the Group and the Company.
The CSR Committee sought to understand whether certain societal trends, such as the MeToo movement were reflected in the reports coming through whistleblowing and other reporting channels.
The chief executive officer, chief financial officer and chairman attend a number ofmeetings with customers.
CUSTOMERS Through The chief executive officer and other senior executives provide customer feedback and information to the understanding our board during the year.
customers needs The board receives insights into customer constraints and requirements as part of its consideration of large we can offer value contract bids or renewal.
added, innovative, The board also reviews customers changing expectations or needs as part of its strategy session every year.
cost effective security solutions and A number of major contracts were reviewed by the Risk Committee.
The primary means used by the board for communicating with all company shareholders are the annual SHAREHOLDERS report, annual results and half-year results announcements and the AGM.
The company actively seeks The section of the website dedicated to investor relations is also a useful tool, facilitating communication to engage with with institutional and private investors.
com investors and includes material shared shareholders on withinstitutional shareholders and analysts atcompanymeetings.
The board receives reports on investor relations at each scheduled meeting.
Analyst and investor meetings and presentations Presentations as well as analyst and investor meetings are held following the release of the companys annual results and half-year results announcements.
These are alsostreamed via live webcast for those unable toattendin person.
After each such event, the presentation is made available inthe Investor Relations section of the website.
Other shareholder meetings Each year, the chairman, director of investor relations and company secretary meet with major shareholders as part of an annual round of governance meetings.
The chairman reports on those meetings to the board.
The chief executive officer and the chief financial officer also have contact via one-on-one meetings, group meetings and telephone conference calls with current and potential shareholders as well as with analysts.
These meetings tend to be focusedprimarily on the Groups trading performance andthe implementationofits strategy.
In addition, the senior independent director and the chairman of the Remuneration Committee also met withsome shareholders.
Annual general meeting The companys annual general meeting is an important opportunity for communication between the board and shareholders, particularly private shareholders.
The next annual general meeting is due to take place on 16 May 2019, at the Holiday Inn in Sutton, and details of the meeting and the resolutions to be proposed are set out in the Notice of Meeting available to download from the Groups website.
It is intended that all the directors other than Winnie Fok who has a conflicting engagement will attend and be available to answer questions from shareholders.
The meeting will be informed of the number of proxy votes cast and the final results of votes on the resolutions will be published subsequently on the website.
86 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 KEY STAKEHOLDERS HOW THE BOARD ENGAGES The boards engagement with the Groups 546,000 employees is facilitated through a variety of EMPLOYEES .
With 546,000 colleagues, G4S is one of the worlds Board visits and other engagements largest private sector Throughout the year, board members had a number of opportunities to meet both front-line employers.
Our success employees and managers in a number of geographies through various board visits.
Board members met is underpinned by the with staff working in UK custodial facilities as well as in immigration removal centres.
Further details way we lead and engage can be found on page 94.
The board also met employees in the Cash Solutions division at the Groups with our people.
In October the boards visit to G4S operations in Denmark afforded an opportunity for board members to meet the senior management team in Denmark, as well as employees focusing on integrated security solutions.
Further details of the boards trip to the Danish businessare on page 82.
The board met with the members of the group executive team in October for a two-day strategy session.
The chairman visited the headquarters of the North Americanbusiness at the beginning of the year and provided anupdateto the board.
Health and Safety The board received regular health and safety reports.
Specific briefings were also provided to the board in relation to serious incidents such as the incident in Kabul, Afghanistan, which resulted in five ofourcolleagues losing their lives.
Surveys and other forms of engagement The results of the employee surveys, as well as those of focus groups are reported and discussed by theboard.
The Remuneration Committee and the board reviewed and approved the Gender Pay Gap report.
The Group CFO is the executive with responsibility for management of the group procurement SUPPLIERS function.
With a supplier base of about 40,000 suppliers of varying sizes spread across the 90 countries We have a responsible the Group operates in, engaging with suppliers takes place in many differentways.
purchasing policy consistent with our One of the main ways in which the board considers key suppliers is as part of large contract bid or business ethics.
Supplier management initiatives are also discussed as part of the annual review and approval by the board of the Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement.
The Treasury Policy which sets out the Groups approach to managing its bank and other suppliers of financial servicesto the Group is also reviewed and approved by the board.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 87 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED page 66 sets out some of the key features of the RISK MANAGEMENT AND Groups risk management process which was in INTERNAL CONTROL place throughout the year under review.
The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Groups systems of risk management and During the year, the Risk Committee reviewed the internal control and for reviewing their Groups risk appetite, which was considered and effectiveness each year.
The main features of these approved by the board.
Further information on the control systems include clearly defined reporting work of the Risk Committee in relation to the risk lines and authorisation procedures, a management framework, including the Groups risk comprehensive budgeting and monthly reporting appetite, can be found in the report of the Risk system, written policies and procedures and the Committee on page 96. use of a single global consolidation system for Whilst further improvement has been made in internal management reporting, budgeting and theeffective performance of internal controls planning as well as external reporting.
While the during the year, given the number of countries in Audit Committee has primary responsibility in this which the Group operates and the variety of regard on the boards behalf, a separate committee systems used there is still opportunity for of the board, the Risk Committee, was set up in improvement in the operational effectiveness of 2013 as part of the Groups heightened focus on mandated controls and this will continue to be an improving systems of internal control and risk area of focus during 2019. management.
The Audit Committee has confirmed that, The board, through the Risk Committee, has although it is satisfied that the Groups risk carried out a robust assessment of the principal management and internal control processes are risks facing the company and of how those risks appropriate and effective, given the decentralised might affect the prospects of the Group.
The nature of the Group and the number of internal principal risks, their possible impact and the controls and processes which are manual, the need mitigating actions taken, are set out on pages 67 to for continued focus on enhancing the internal 71.
Through the Audit Committee, the board control environment remains.
The work of the conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee in this respect can be found in systems of internal control during the year.
The the Audit Committee report on page 98.
The systems are designed to manage rather than board has reviewed the Groups risk management eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business and internal control systems for the year to objectives, and can only provide reasonable and 31 December 2018 by considering reports from not absolute assurance against material the Audit Committee and the Risk Committee misstatement or loss.
The enterprise risk and hasalso taken account of events since management governance model, described on 31 December 2018.
FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE The preparation of the Integrated Report and Accounts is coordinated by the finance, investor relations and company secretariat teams with group-wide support and input from other areas of the business.
Comprehensive reviews were undertaken at regular intervals throughout the process by senior management and other contributing personnel within the Group.
The preparation process was reviewed by the Audit Committee and the board has reviewed a paper prepared by management setting outthe governanceprocess relating to the preparation of the Integrated Report andAccounts.
The board has separately considered the disclosures in the Integrated Report and Accounts and has concluded that they are fair, balanced and understandable.
The statement required to be given by the directors by Code provision C. 1.1 can be found on page 131.
88 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 VIABILITY In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK The correlation of demand for security services Corporate Governance Code 2016, the directors with the global economy: and have assessed the viability of the Group over a three The impact of the Groups on-going year period, aligned with that of the Groups .
up rolling planning cycle, taking into account the The analysis of the viability of the Group has been Groups current position, the potential impact of the performed following a two-stage approach principal risks documented on pages 67 to 71 and the considering firstly the assessment ofthe Group's Group's business model.
Extension of viability testing prospects, followed by an assessment of the beyond three years is seen by the Group as being of Group'sviability.
limited value because of the following factors: The majority of the Groups contracts are less than three years in duration: ASSESSMENT OF PROSPECTS The Groups prospects are assessed primarily through three-year strategic plan and considering the risks to its bottom-up strategic planning process.
In 2013 achievement of that plan.
These plans were reviewed the overall strategy for the Group was refreshed and refined by regional management and then by the comprehensively and the board has monitored progress group executive committee before being reviewed by closely against this strategy as well as the risks to its the board in October 2018.
The key assumptions in success.
The portfolio management programme has the financial forecasts, reflecting the overall strategy, created a focused Group with two principal business include: segments: Secure Solutions and Cash Solutions, which A continued demand for security services and a resulted in the establishment ofthe Global Cash growing demand for technology-enabled and Solutions division on 1 January 2018.
In December integrated security, as set out on page 10 of the 2018, the Group announced that it was reviewing strategic report: options for the separation of the Groups Cash An ability to continue to drive through our Solutions businesses from the Group and the rationale productivity programmes to drive efficiency and for this is set out on page 3 of the strategicreport.
operational improvement and to flex the cost Nevertheless, this viability analysis addresses the Group base, as set out on pages 30 to 31: and as it is currently constituted anddoes not consider the potential impact of a cashseparation.
Continued delivery of operating cash flow conversion in line with our targets as set out on The 2018 planning process commenced in May with pages 32 and 33. each country and business unit updating its rolling ASSESSMENT OF VIABILITY The output of the strategic plan was used as the c. Potential working capital deterioration leading to baseline for analysing covenant headroom under operating cash flow being below expectation different scenarios.
This analysis included assessing the during the viability period: sensitivity of the financial performance of the Group d. Potential claims in respect of major contracts to changes in trading conditions, the capital needs of resulting in material settlement payments: and the business, as well as the potential impact of the principal residualrisks.
e. Litigation or class action claims resulting in material legal costs and settlement payments.
The vast majority of the Groups risks exist at an individual country level and are individually immaterial.
The directors consider that this stress test assessment The principal residual risks described on pages 67 to of the Groups prospects is reasonable in the 71 are an aggregate view of individual risks captured circumstances.
The directors have alsoconsidered the in country, region and group functional risk registers.
debt maturities in 2019 to 2021 as indicated on page These wide-ranging risks are highly unlikely to 47 under the stress test scenarios and concluded that crystallise simultaneously and it is therefore unlikely the Group would be able to meet its maturities as that such risks would have a material impact on the they fall due with the existing facilities currently in Groups financial position.
Nevertheless, the Group place, albeit with significantly lower levels of liquidity has sensitised its three-year financial projections for than are typically available to the Group, unless the following risks: further debt capital market issuance takes place.
In recent years the Group has had good access to the a.
Potential loss of certain of the Groups debt capital markets and the directors expect that topcustomers: such access will continue to be available, which b.
Potential adverse changes in foreign ownership mitigates the risk of tightening liquidity over the next legislation resulting in cessation of material three years in a stress test scenario.
businesslines: VIABILITY STATEMENT Based on this assessment, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three financial years to 31 December 2021.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 89 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE During the year, the work of the Nomination Committee was focused on refreshing the board and reviewing its composition as well as laying the foundations to ensure that the attributes, skills and experience needed to ensure the board continues to be effective, as the business enters a period of change, are clearlyunderstood.
Responsibilities The Nomination Committees remit covers broadly five areas, namely, board composition, making recommendations to the board on appointments with JOHN CONNOLLY, a view to maintaining a balance of skills and Nomination Committee Chairman experience on the board and its committees, succession planning, board performance evaluation Committee membership during 2018 and annual reporting.
Member since The committees terms of reference are available John Connolly Chairman June 2012 atg4s.
Steve Mogford May 2016 Barbara Thoralfsson July 2016 Board composition The Nomination Committee meets on an ad hoc basis, when the Following the announcement in December 2017 that need arises.
In 2018, the committee met twice.
In addition a number Clare Spottiswoode would step down from the board of decisions were made by written resolution.
Members attendance at committee meetings is shown and as chair of the CSR Committee at the conclusion on page 81. of the AGM on 15 May 2018, the Nomination Committee initiated the recruitment process for the Main activities of the Nomination appointment of a new non-executive director to Committee during the year % succeed Ms Spottiswoode.
The Zygos Partnership Zygos was appointed to assist the committee with the recruitment.
Zygos was providedwith a candidate specification setting out the requirements for the role and the preferred attributes of potential candidates.
In selecting the candidates, consideration was given to the skills and competencies required for the role, including an interest in, and enthusiasm for, the CSR agenda and a strong corporate conscience.
The ability to make a broad contribution tothe board was also key.
In addition, consideration was given to the need to Recruitment of NEDs 50% Independence and extending terms of appointment 20% enhance board diversity and to continue to attract Reviewing board committee membership 15% individuals with relevant skills and strong international Succession planning 15% experience, as well as corporate culture and fit.
Shortlisted candidates were interviewed by the Link to strategic priorities chairman, other members of the Nomination Committee, and the CEO.
Zygos now part of Russell Reynolds has no connection with the company other than as provider of recruitment consultancy services to the Nomination Committee.
90 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 The process resulted in Elisabeth Fleuriot joining the Independence and re-election to the board board as non-executive director and chair of the CSR During 2018, the committee considered the terms of Committee on 18 June 2018.
In addition, she was appointment of five directors which were due to appointed as a member of the Remuneration expire either during the year or early in 2019.
Information about the induction these directors Steve Mogford and Barbara programme undertaken by Elisabeth is provided on Thoralfsson had been appointed in 2016 and were page 83. coming to the end of their initial two-year term.
In May 2018 the Nomination Committee considered Following the announcement in March 2019 that John the extension of their term of appointment and, Daly would step down from the board and as chair of concluded that they had successfully developed a the Remuneration Committee at the conclusion of deeper understanding of the business and made the companys 2019 AGM on, a recruitment process active contributions to the board.
At the same has been initiated for a new non-executive director to meeting, the term of appointment of the chairman, succeed him.
Russell Reynolds, which has no John Connolly, who had been appointed in June 2012, connection with the company other than as provider was also considered.
In light of his length of service, of recruitment consultancy services to the committee, taking account of provision B.
2.3 of the Code, a was appointed to assist with the recruitment.
rigorous review of his contribution to the board was carried out and it was concluded that the chairman Directors length of service continued to lead the board effectively.
As part of its annual review of board composition, the Nomination Committee reviews the directors length Messrs Connolly and Mogford and Ms Thoralfsson did of service.
In line with our Remuneration Policy, not participate in the committees deliberations executive directors have a rolling service contract, regarding their respective term of appointment.
whereas non-executive directors are appointed for an The matter of the extension of two directors terms initial term of two years.
of appointment was considered later in the year.
The The table below sets out the date of appointment term of appointment of Winnie Fok, who was and where applicable unexpired term remaining for appointed to the board in October 2010 and first current members of theboard.
elected at the 2011 annual general meeting was due to expire in September 2018.
That of Paul Spence c Director Date of appointment Unexpired term Executive directors a Ashley Almanza 1 May 2013 n a b Tim Weller 1 April 2013 n a Non-executive directors John Connolly 8 June 2012 16 months John Daly 5 June 2015 3 months Elisabeth Fleuriot 18 June 2018 16 months Winnie Fok 1 October 2010 18 months Steve Mogford 27 May 2016 15 months John Ramsay 1 January 2018 10 months Paul Spence 1 January 2013 20 months Barbara Thoralfsson 1 July 2016 17 months a. Ashley Almanza was appointed to the board on 1 May 2013 as chief financial officer and took on the role of chief executive officer on 1 June 2013. b. Tim Weller joined the board on 1 April 2013 as a non-executive director until 24October 2016, when he became chief financial officer c. Unexpired term calculated on the basis of the current two-year term for non-executive directors.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 91 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED was due to expire in January 2019.
In relation to The Nomination Committee seeks assistance from Winnie Fok, in evaluating her contribution to the executive search agencies which are signatories of the board, the committee noted that the combination of Voluntary Code of Conduct to help ensure the most Winnies position and experience relating to the diverse talent pools are reached and an approach in Groups Chinese and Asian markets combined with line with best practice is adopted.
her general business experience and expertise Diversity is also expresly included in the specification remained valuable to the board in supporting the provided to search agencies for each recruitment.
development of the business in its fastest growing Consideration is also given to diversity when market.
As for Paul Spence, the committee noted that his government and large outsourcing contracts reviewing board composition and the result of the annual board performance evaluation.
In doing so, the experience as well as his experience and knowledge of the US, one of the Groups largest markets, committee took account of the results of the third Hampton-Alexander review into gender diversity on remained very relevant to the business.
The in-depth knowledge he had gained as chair of the Risk boards of FTSE 350 companies published, as well as Committee since January 2016 and as chair of the the recommendations of the Parker review on Audit Committee during 2017 was also noted.
The committee recommended to the board that the Committees composition appointments of Messrs Mogford, Spence, Connolly The composition of board committees was reviewed and Mses Thoralfsson and Fok be extended for a at the time of the appointment of Elisabeth Fleuriot in further two-year term.
June, and her experience as a current serving member The committee was satisfied that the non-executive on the remuneration committee of another quoted directors continue to remain independent and company was thought to naturally lend itself to her committed to their role as directors of the company.
joining the Remuneration Committee in addition to With regard to Winnie Fok specifically, both the chairing the CSR Committee.
The review concluded committee and the board are satisfied that she will that the committees composition remained effective continue to remain independent when her tenure and will be further reviewed during the firsthalf exceeds nine years, for the reasons set out above.
The board further believes that her knowledge and experience of the business will provide helpful Committee performance continuity at a time of great change for the Group.
The performance of the Nomination Committee was The committee and the board are mindful of the reviewed as part of the process undertaken by each need to refresh the board however, and will keep the of the board committees, with assistance from matter under review as a part of the overall board Lintstock.
Although considered to be effective, the committee acknowledged the need for greater focus and a more Succession planning structured approach to succession planning for the At its December meeting, the Nomination board and executive team.
The committee will also Committee reviewed the board directors' length of support the work of the board in taking a more active tenure, board committees composition as well as the interest in talent management to ensure initiatives are current skills and experience available on the board.
in place to develop the pipeline and to promote The committee also considered what further skills or diversity and inclusion in appointments to the board, experience may be useful to enable the board to executive team and senior management.
support the developing needs of the Group.
The results of the board evaluation were also considered.
Reviewing these various parameters helps inform future board recruitment.
Diversity Diversity is a matter for the board as a whole and is an integral partof succession planning and recruitment for the board and senior management team.
The boards approach to diversity is set out onpage 80.
92 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 THE CSR COMMITTEE This is my first report, having joined the board in June 2018 and taking over as chair of the CSR Committee from my predecessor Clare Spottiswoode.
I would like to thank Clare, for her dedication and focus on ensuring the integration of CSR as part of the Groups overall strategy during her tenure.
A lot of good work has been done, but there remains scope to embed CSR further throughout the organisation and I am committed to ensuring that we continue to take a holistic and integrated approach in this regard.
There are few businesses in the world which have as wide a geographic footprint, scale and diversity of workforce as G4S, with service offerings touching the lives of millions of people.
Of crucial importance to me and to our Group is our continued drive to improve health and safety, and during 2019 our committee will continue to support our goal of ELISABETH FLEURIOT, zero harm.
We operate in countries where the political and CSR Committee Chair social environment is challenging, so we need to make sure we Committee membership during 2018 operate in line with our corporate culture and values to ensure Member since the integrity of our organisation, the safety of our employees and 1 Clare Spottiswoode Chair January 2012 those in our care and, the sustainability of our business.
2 Elisabeth Fleuriot Chair June 2018 Responsibilities Winnie Kin Wah Fok January 2012 The Group takes a holistic approach to corporate and John Ramsay January 2018 social responsibility and is mindful of our societal Paul Spence January 2013 impact.
Our 546,000 employees deliver services in 1.
Clare Spottiswoode retired as a director on 15 May 2018. complex and challenging environments and contribute 2.
Elisabeth Fleuriot joined the board and was appointed chair of the to creating a safer and more connected society in CSR Committee on 18 June 2018. which millions of people live and work.
The CSR Other regular attendees include the Regional President for the Africa Committee was established in 2011 to review and region, the Group Corporate Affairs Director and the Group HR Director.
monitor the Groups CSR approach, which includes There were four scheduled meetings and two additional meetings developing policies on various CSR-related matters during 2018.
Members attendance at committee meetings is shown for consideration by the board and to review and on page 81. monitor how the Group performs against relevant Main activities of the CSR policies.
It oversees reporting on CSR matters and Committee during the year % progress made during the year.
Over the last seven years, this holistic and integrated approach to CSR has been promoted successfully throughout the Group and during the course of 2018, the committee reviewed and considered amending its terms of reference accordingly.
However, in light of the New Code, which came into force in early 2019, it was agreed that amending the terms of reference would be deferred to 2019.
Further details of the committees responsibilities can be found in the committees terms of reference which are available at g4s.
Current issues 45% Health and safety 25% CSR reporting 15% Values culture ethics whistleblowing 15% Link to strategic priorities Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 93 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Health and safety Strategic Health Authority and of the Financial Ombudsman Services Limited.
The CSR Committee The safety of our employees and those in our care is met with Kate Lampard on three occasions to discuss of paramount importance.
As part of its normal cycle progress, findings and recommendations.
Members of of work, the committee received regular health and the committee also visited Brook House and met with safety reports, including updates on on-going detainees, detainee custody officers and team leaders initiatives, details of future plans and summaries of as well as the senior management team.
The committee monitored the global Brook House, the committee was provided with an programmes raising awareness across the spectrum of update on the action plan and initiatives to capture health and safety risks as well as those focused on and share best practice across other similar facilities.
In addressing and eliminating specific recurring incidents.
December 2018, G4S published the full report from In addition, particular focus was given to health and Verita, as well as the action plan and progress to date.
safety challenges faced in custodial facilities and a The CSR Committee continues to receive regular presentation on these aspects was received.
updates about the operational improvement plans The CSR Committee supports the Groups goal of implemented following the allegations and the findings zero harm.
However sadly, in 2018, 24 employees and recommendations of the Verita investigation.
lost their lives in work related incidents.
There has been a clear reduction in road traffic related deaths as HMP Birmingham a result of improved vehicle management and training.
Following a major disturbance at HMP Birmingham in In addition, following the embedding of High Potential December 2016, the inner city remand prison faced Incident reporting across the Group, there is numerous challenges in returning to normal operation improved visibility of incidents and compliance issues as a result of issues including drug usage by prisoners and efforts are continuing to ensure consistency in and increasingly high levels of violence towards staff reporting such incidents.
The CSR Committee was appraised of measures being taken following the Specific issues incidents of 2016 to ensure the prison was fully operational, bearing in mind that the nature, age, Brook House condition and location of HMP Birmingham made it a During 2018, the CSR Committee received regular particularly challenging environment.
updates relating to Brook House Immigration Removal Centre following allegations regarding the In August 2018, G4S agreed with the UK Ministry of conduct and behaviour of a number of staff at the Justice MoJ that Her Majestys Prison and Probation facility, which had come to light in late August 2017.
"Service HMPPS would ""step-in"" and take over the As part of these update sessions, the committee management of the prison by appointing a Governor provided oversight and challenge to the management and providing additional resources."
This status remains team responsible for this part of the business.
in place at the time of this report.
"In parallel and as previously reported, the CSR The CSR Committee led an internal review to assess Committee commissioned Verita, a specialist the factors which led to the situation at the prison consultancy, to carry out an independent review to and ultimately to the ""step-in"" by HMPPS and identify understand the extent and root causes of the issues any lessons that could be learnt and shared across the which had arisen at Brook House."
The review broader G4S custodial estate.
The committee will examined G4S management, operational and staffing continue to monitor the actions arising from the arrangements and the practices and behaviour of review.
It also assessed how G4S oversees the care and welfare of detainees, including mental health issues, self-harm, violence prevention, use of force and proper reporting of incidents.
The review was led by Kate Lampard CBE, a former barrister and vice chair of the South of England 94 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Culture and values Committee performance Mindful that our values are integral to everything we The assessment of the committees performance, do, the CSR Committee oversees the culture and conducted as part of the overall board review process values programme which is focused on embedding with assistance from Lintstock, concluded that the our values across the Group, to ensure that our committee continued to provide challenge and good culture and values are consistently reflected in oversight over the Groups CSR strategy and the behaviours and actions in all parts of the business.
implementation of the global whistleblowing and case Values training is provided to new employees as part management system.
This had resulted in the of the induction process and also to existing managers committee receiving a good level of information on and front-line staff.
During the year, the committee reviewed the In addition to the positive enhancements to enhanced communication to all employees in respect whistleblowing systems and processes, the committee of the whistleblowing facility, Speak Out, intended to believes there are further opportunities for the Group create a culture in which people feel confident to in identifying and understanding the early warning report and raise ethical concerns.
Data relating to signs of potential issues within the business and in whistleblowing trends and the usage of Speak Out is sharing best practice and learnings from incidents to presented to the committee at each meeting and the prevent them recurring.
committee supports the initiative to promote and In 2019, in light of progress made since its creation in encourage the use of Speak Out.
2011 and the New Code, the committee will review In addition, the committee has been keen to gain a the scope of its remit and activities and reflect any better understanding of challenges faced by the changes in its terms of reference.
Group in some geographies to ensure our culture and The committee will also continue to support the values are consistently applied.
Reports on current communication of the Groups values and situations and limitations in certain territories where whistleblowing arrangements to enhance the the Group operates were discussed, with the environment for G4S employees and the people in committee seeking to provide constructive challenge our care and to support the various initiatives to and support to management initiatives to enhance the achieve our goal of zero harm.
application of our culture and values in these geographies.
Integrated CSR reporting In 2017, G4S set out to produce its first fully integrated annual report and accounts.
Business leaders and governing bodies continue to promote integrated thinking and management in business practice and reporting.
G4S has embraced this forward-thinking approach to highlight the Groups integrated and holistic approach to corporate social responsibility.
In light of the success of the 2017 integrated annual report, which was highly commended for most effective integration of ESG at the UK IR Society awards and at the 2018 PwC Building Public Trust awards, the committee agreed that the fully integrated reporting approach will continue as best practice.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 95 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED THE RISK COMMITTEE Robust risk management processes and systems are essential to ensure sustainable performance for all our stakeholders, and it is the role of the Risk Committee to oversee the substantive assessment of the principal risks facing the Group.
Throughout 2018 the committee reviewed the principal risks andassessed the processes and controls in place to mitigate those risks.
Responsibilities Formed in 2013, the Risk Committee advises the board on the Groups overall risk appetite, reviews and approves the Groups risk management strategy, advises the Audit Committee and the board on risk exposures and reviews the level of risk within the PAUL SPENCE, Group.
The Risk Committee also assesses the Risk Committee Chairman effectiveness of the Groups risk management systems and reports thereon to the Audit Committee.
Committee membership during 2018 Member since The committees composition ensures that a broad Paul Spence Chairman January 2013 set of skills and experience comes together to Ashley Almanza May 2013 consider how the Group manages risk in the business.
Further details can be found in the committees terms John Connolly January 2013 of reference available at g4s.
Steve Mogford January 2018 Tim Weller April 2013 Risk governance Other regular attendees include the Group Director of Risk and As part of its continued focus on risk governance, the Internal Audit.
committee reviewed the governance processes and There were four scheduled meetings and two unscheduled meetings held during the year ended 31 December 2018.
Members controls in place, including the risk and control matrix attendance at committee meetings is shown on page 81. and the assurance resources available, to ensure appropriate risk governance across the Group.
This Main activities of the Risk review also included approval of the Groups risk Committee during the year % management policy, which defines G4S' strategic approach to risk management.
The committee also reviewed both the process and results of control self-assessments CSAs completed by business units across the Group on a regular basis.
The CSAs, which cover many of the control standards addressing the Groups high inherent risks, are seen as a positive way in which to ensure that key controls specified by the Group to reduce such risks, are embedded and compliance enhanced.
During the process, regional functional leaders review and challenge the results of business unit self assessments.
The internal audit Risk governance internal control 30% function also performs tests to identify and correct Contract risk ranagement 30% any potential discrepancy between the results of In depth review of speci c high risk contracts projects 25% CSAs and its findings.
The committee also reviewed Committee governance and reporting 15% the Groups risk appetite and recommended its Links to strategic priorities approval by the board.
96 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 The committee has delegated authority from the The committee also reported to the Audit Committee to confirm that it was satisfied that board to review and approve the acceptance and execution of those major contracts that require theGroups risk management processes wereappropriate.
boardapproval due to their size or level of risk, as defined in the risk management policy.
During the Principal risks year under review, the Risk Committee considered several major contract bids, both during scheduled During the year, the Risk Committee received regular meetings and during additional meetings held updates on the progress of mitigating the Groups specifically for this purpose.
principal risks set out on pages 67 to 71.
In addition, the committee continues to have Presentations on cyber security, GDPR, geopolitical particular oversight for the project developing lean and people risks covering the inherent risks, order-to-cash processes through the development mitigations in place and management of the residual and implementation of a standard IT system for the risk, were also received.
This also included a review of manned security operations, Project Javelin.
The risk management best practice and improvements.
committee receives regular reports on this project Further details of the significant risks and uncertainties and oversaw the launch of the pilot project in Ireland facing the business are set out on pages 67 to 71. in the last quarter of 2017 and is overseeing the implementation of the project in the UK.
Further Major contracts and projects information about this project is set out on page 30.
Contract risk management continues to remain a key area of focus for the company and the committee, Committee performance which undertakes a review of a major contract at The assessment of the committees performance, each of its meetings.
Managers from the relevant conducted with assistance from Lintstock, concluded business attend the meeting to present an overview that the committee had good oversight of the of the particular contract due for review.
These companys controls over significant risks and in sessions tend to focus on the key risks relating to that relation to the Groups overall risk management particular contract, whether operational, strategic, strategy and policy.
relating to people or otherwise.
Management reports on how such identified risks are mitigated, and on The review also concluded that there was good how assurance is obtained that controls are in place alignment of the Group's risk management policies and operate effectively.
The level of residual risk is with the Group's overall strategy.
The assessment also discussed where relevant.
These sessions give the highlighted the committees desire for 2019 to focus committee the opportunity to gain a better on mitigating and eliminating operationalrisks.
understanding of the particular risks associated with Another key area of focus identified for 2019 was to these large contracts and to interact with those who review the effectiveness of our compliance processes manage such risks on a day-to-day basis.
in relation to labour laws.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 97
