Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 57 Financial Statements 2018 Audit Committee report and discuss any issues meriting their Committee Chairs attention.
The table overleaf summarises annual statement the key activities during the financial year.
I am pleased to be reporting to you as The Committee also continues to meet Chair of the Audit Committee following my with internal and external audit teams, appointment to the Board on 1 September without Executive management present.
2017 and subsequent appointment as During the financial year, the Risk and Chair of the Audit Committee following Internal Audit team focused on delivering Andrew Jenner stepping down on its agreed calendar of audit reviews under 10 November 2017.
I would like to its rolling three-year internal audit plan express my thanks to Andrew for the and on providing commercial and risk smooth handover provided.
management support across the Group The Committee is further comprised of at the request of the Committee, the two independent non-executive directors.
Executive Board and senior management.
Additional details on the Committees Additionally, the newly appointed Director members can be found on pages 50 of Risk and Internal Audit presented his and 51.
The Chairman of the Board, initial review of the Risk and Internal Audit Chief Executive and Finance Director function and operations to the Committee.
attend Committee meetings by invitation, The risks of the Group are reviewed by the together with the Director of Risk & Executive Risk Committee, which reports Internal Audit and the Director of Group to the Executive Board and the plc Board.
The General Counsel and More information about the Groups The Committee continued Company Secretary or his nominee act as principal risks, its long-term viability and secretary to the Committee.
My financial to monitor and review its risk management and internal control background and membership of the systems can be found in the Principal risks developments in corporate Institute of Chartered Accountants section on pages 22 to 25. governance, the integrity satisfies the 2016 Code requirement that Policies and review mechanisms governing the Committees membership must have of the financial statements the provision of material non-audit recent and relevant financial experience.
and the effectiveness of services, and safeguarding the objectivity During the financial year, the Group the risk management and and independence of the external auditor, appointed a new Director of Risk & remained in force throughout the financial internal controls.
The policy specifies: the types of to monitor and review developments in non-audit services for which the use of Jeremy Townsend corporate governance, the integrity of the the external auditor is pre-approved Audit Committee Chair financial statements and the adequacy ie approval has been given in advance and effectiveness of the risk management as a matter of policy : the services for and internal control framework of the which specific approval from the Group, as it continues to grow each of its Committee is required before the auditor businesses.
The Committee considers is contracted: and the services from which that the 2018 Annual Report and Financial the external auditor is excluded.
In respect Statements are fair, balanced and of pre-approved services, a financial understandable in terms of the form and threshold is in place, applicable to content of the strategic, governance and individual and aggregated services in any financial information presented therein.
Furthermore, should the total value of non-audit service engagements exceed Remit and activities a defined percentage of the total Group The Committee meets at least three audit fee for the previous financial year, times a year, this number being deemed the Committee shall consider and give appropriate to the Committees role specific prior approval for any subsequent and responsibilities.
The Committees non-audit service engagements.
delegated authorities and calendar of As disclosed in note 6 to the financial prioritised work have not changed statements, the incumbent external substantially from those disclosed in auditor,  LLP previous years.
The terms of reference PwC, provided non-audit services in of the Committee are available on the relation to the rights issue during the Groups website www.
financial year, in addition to non-audit The key responsibilities of the Committee related advice and services covering are: delegated responsibility from the general corporate matters.
The non-audit Board for financial reporting: monitoring services in relation to the rights issue external audit, internal audit, risk and comprised the review and the issuing of controls: and reviewing instances of an opinion on the Groups working capital whistleblowing and the Groups forecasts and statement on behalf of the procedures for detecting fraud.
They were selected as their The authorities and calendar of work knowledge and understanding of the remain in line with the requirements of the structure and operations of the Group 2016 Code.
At each meeting, Committee allowed this workstream to be completed members take time, in the absence of more efficiently and effectively.
executive directors, to review separately 58 Galliford Try plc Audit Committee report continued Each year, the Committee assesses the Future IFRS developments: during the Goodwill impairment review: during effectiveness of the external audit process, year, the Committee considered the the year, the Committee considered which includes discussing feedback from implementation of new accounting the judgments made in relation to the the members of the Committee and key standards with respect to their impact valuation methodology adopted by senior management within the Group.
on the Groups results and financial management and the model inputs used, PwC has been an auditor of the Group statements.
This included IFRS 15 as well as the sensitivities used by since its initial appointment in 2001 and Revenue from Contracts and IFRS 9 management and the related disclosures.
retained this appointment following a Financial Instruments, for which impact Disclosure of significant transactions: competitive tender completed in 2014. assessment projects were completed and the Committee has given particular The Committee intends to tender the presented.
The Committee also consideration to the presentation of engagement of the Groups auditors in considered, reviewed and approved the individually significant transactions, and 2018 19 in line with the guidance of the Groups proposed internal accounting areas where alternative performance UK Corporate Governance Code.
policies to reflect the requirements of measures are required, to ensure that the the new standards, which were adopted by financial statements give a fair, balanced The Committee reviewed the integrity the Group on 1 July 2018.
Further detail and understandable view of the Groups of the Groups financial statements and on the impact of the adoption of IFRS 15 performance, and that statutory measures all formal announcements relating to can be found in note 1. are equally clear and prominent.
This Going concern and viability: the Reconciliations of alternative performance included an assessment of each critical Committee assessed the available bank measures to their statutory equivalent accounting policy, as set out in note 1, facilities and the associated covenants measures are detailed in note 36. as well as review and debate over the and sensitivities.
The Committee also following areas of significance.
considered other commercial and Contract revenue and provisions: economic risks to the Groups going in conjunction with the annual audit, concern status and longer-term viability, Jeremy Townsend the Committee reviewed a paper setting including cash recovery sensitivities Audit Committee Chair out key judgments in respect of revenue in respect of the legacy joint venture recognition and contract provisions, in infrastructure projects.
The Committee relation to individually significant long-term reported to the Board on its findings.
Construction contracts, including the legacy Construction contracts.
Calendar of 2017 18 Committee activities and areas of focus September 2017 February 2018 May 2018 Committee review of 2016 17 full year Committee review of 2017 18 half year Review of risk and internal audit, results, including external auditor results, including external auditor and whistleblowing report presentation, going concern review presentation, going concern review Approval of external audit plan and approval of fair, balanced and and approval of fair, balanced and Impact of rights issue on Earnings understandable process understandable process Per Share EPS Risk, internal audit and Approval of non-audit work on Impact assessment of new accountancy whistleblowing reports rights issue standards and approval of the Review of 2016 UK Corporate Impact assessment of new accountancy associated Groups proposed Governance Code standards Financial Instruments, internal accounting policies Revenue Recognition and Leases Review of Terms of Reference and Risk, internal audit and Non-Audit Fee Policy whistleblowing reports Non-executive directors review without executive directors present
