54 Galliford Try plc Governance review Board and Committee meeting attendance All Board meetings were led by the Chairman with the General Counsel and Company Secretary in attendance.
The Senior Independent Director separately led a meeting of the non-executive directors to assess the performance of the Chairman, without him present.
2017 18 Board and Committee attendance table Audit Nomination Remuneration Number of meetings attended scheduled Board Committee Committee Committee Peter Ventress Chairman 8 8 by invitation 2 2 3 3 Peter Truscott Chief Executive 8 8 by invitation by invitation by invitation Graham Prothero Finance Director 8 8 by invitation n a n a Terry Miller Senior Independent Director 8 8 3 3 2 2 3 3 Gavin Slark Non-executive Director 8 8 3 3 2 2 3 3 1 Jeremy Townsend Non-executive Director 7 7 3 3 2 2 2 2 Kevin Corbett General Counsel and Company Secretary 8 8 3 3 2 2 3 3 2 Andrew Jenner Former Director 2 3 1 1 n a 2 2 3 Ishbel Macpherson Former Director 2 3 1 1 n a 2 2 1 Jeremy Townsend joined the Board on 1 September 2017.
2 Andrew Jenner stepped down from the Board on 10 November 2017.
Andrew Jenner was unable to attend one Board meeting during the year but made alternative arrangements with the Chairman to provide input on the business of the meeting.
3 Ishbel Macpherson stepped down from the Board on 10 November 2017.
2017 18 Board focus In addition to the items below, standing items on Board agendas include health, safety, environment and sustainability, directors conflicts of interest, previous minutes and matters arising.
Items also include Chief Executive and Finance Director reports, which cover progress towards strategy, financial forecasts, results to date, operational reviews, trading environment updates, and Group Services updates covering HR, secretariat, legal and governance, communications, IT and investor relations reports, which include analyst reviews, share price monitoring and top-line movements in the share register.
The Board also held rights issue and project meetings, as required, as well as its annual strategy away day in October 2017 where, in addition to adviser presentations, it reviewed business strategies with business management in attendance, received a financial update and reviewed the Groups corporate structure.
2017 July September October November December Site visit Conservatoire, Adviser presentations Investor relations Health, safety, environment Presentation Health, safety, Birmingham City University & sustainability review environment & sustainability Full year results Auditor appointment Presentation Building and Economic update Presentation Annual Report Group strategy Infrastructure Communications AGM Annual corporate Market conditions review Presentation 2017 18 Project updates governance review Group budget Gender Pay Report Dividend policy Presentation risk review Corporate governance Review of internal controls Board evaluation review update and risk management Insurance renewal Notice of AGM 2017 Annual Report 2018 February April May Presentations HR and IT Site visit Linden Homes Results of Board Abbey Farm Site, Swindon performance evaluation Half year results Presentation Linden Homes Corporate Governance Interim dividend update Project updates Project updates 2018 Annual Report design Risk update GDPR update Audit rotation planning Pension scheme UK Corporate funding review Governance Code Annual Report 2018 Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 55 Financial Statements 2018 In line with the 2016 Code, the duties of the Chairman and Chief Compliance statement Executive are clearly specified to ensure the proper division of The Board believes that high standards of corporate governance responsibilities and balance of power.
Copies of the respective are integral to the delivery of its strategy, providing the means role descriptions of the Chairman and Chief Executive are by which the Board may manage the expectations of shareholders available on the Groups website www.
The 2016 Code is the The key responsibilities of the Chairman include leadership of governance code to which the Group is subject, and which sets and communication with the Board, value setting, shareholder out principles relating to the good governance of companies.
liaison, governance and performance evaluation and appraisal.
The Group complied with all the provisions of the 2016 The key responsibilities of the Chief Executive include developing Code during the financial year.
The 2016 Code is available Group strategy, operational performance and executive at www.
management, including chairing the Groups Executive Board.
The Group remains compliant with the Financial Conduct Terry Miller was the Groups Senior Independent Director Authoritys Listing Rule 9.8.
6 and Disclosure Guidance and throughout the year and was available to shareholders during Transparency Rule 7.2.
Related information can be found that time.
Terry Miller was not contacted in that capacity by in the Directors Report on pages 73 to 75. shareholders during the financial year.
The Group has complied with sections 414CA and 414CB as well Other than the changes referenced, the roles and responsibilities as 414C of the Companies Act 2006 following the introduction of each of the non-executive directors, which are detailed in their of the Companies, Partnerships and Groups Accounts and individual letters of appointment, have not changed from the Non-Financial Reporting Regulations 2016.
Relevant information previous financial year.
These include: to effectively participate, can be found throughout the Strategic Report and Governance advise and provide guidance to the Board: to uphold standards section of this Annual Report and refer to the summary table on of integrity and values: to develop and monitor strategy: to page 49 in the Strategic Report highlighting where non-financial structure, challenge and scrutinise management performance information can be found within this Annual Report.
against agreed objectives: to be satisfied as to the integrity of financial information and robust financial controls and systems Board and Executive Board composition in place: to assist in determining appropriate remuneration and Biographical summaries for each of the directors as at succession planning: and ensure the views of shareholders 30 June 2018, their respective responsibilities and their are taken into account in decision-making and policy setting.
external directorships are set out on pages 50 and 51.
The letters of appointment are available for inspection on request at the Companys registered office and will be available In line with the 2016 Code, all directors will stand for immediately prior to the 2018 AGM.
The timely provision of re-election at the 2018 AGM.
Marisa Cassoni will also stand quality information in advance of all Board and Committee for re-appointment at the 2018 AGM.
The performance of meetings, and the provision of independent professional advice, the directors continues to be effective and commitment to continued throughout the financial year.
The Board continues to their respective roles is clearly demonstrated.
benefit from its established reporting mechanisms, designed to ensure crucial management and project-specific information How the Board operates and significant Group-wide developments are reported quickly The Board is led by the Chairman who is responsible for the and accurately facilitating prompt approval of further actions.
Boards effectiveness in all aspects of the role, including acting as Throughout the year, the Board also received regular Group, an adviser to the Chief Executive on strategic matters, facilitating business and business unit specific presentations, covering a culture of openness, debate and support among Board members all key aspects of the Groups operations.
In addition, at each and ensuring effective communications are maintained with Board meeting, a report from the Companys corporate brokers, shareholders.
As at 30 June 2018, the Board further comprised Peel Hunt, regarding the market sector, the relative performance of three independent non-executive directors, the Chief of the Groups share price, movements by top 20 shareholders Executive and the Finance Director.
and relevant comments by market analysts, along with any shareholder feedback, is provided to ensure the Board has a The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success full understanding of the views of major shareholders.
of the Company including its relationships and engagement with all shareholders and operates via a formal schedule of All directors have access to the advice and services of the matters reserved for its decision.
The Board also operates an General Counsel and Company Secretary.
No director sought established framework of delegated financial, commercial and independent advice during the financial year.
operational matters to management: such delegations being reviewed annually.
A summary of the matters reserved for the The Board receives regular presentations from the businesses Board and the matters delegated to management is set out in on operational matters, assisting Board members to stay the table below.
up-to-date with sector-relevant issues, and receives updates from advisers on pertinent matters as and when required.
Matters reserved Matters delegated Board members are encouraged to undertake their own for the Board to management continuing professional development.
Group values and standards Operational management of Group The Group maintained appropriate Directors and Officers Group strategy, business plans Implementation of Group policies Liability Insurance on behalf of the directors and General Counsel and annual budgets and Company Secretary throughout the financial year.
In addition, Acquisitions, disposals and Allocation of Group resources individual qualifying third-party indemnities are provided to the contracts over a prescribed value directors and General Counsel and Company Secretary, which Material joint ventures Contracts of a prescribed value comply with the provisions of section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, and were in force throughout the year and up to the date Approval of Group policies Management succession planning of signing the Annual Report.
Material changes to Risk management Group share capital Board evaluation: 2017 update and 2018 evaluation Group borrowing facilities The 2017 Board evaluation found that the Board and its Approval of circulars and Committees were operating effectively.
The findings were financial reports presented to the May 2017 Board meeting and actions were agreed by the Board to address the recommendations of the evaluation.
The table overleaf summarises the substantive recommendations made and actions undertaken during the financial year to address them.
56 Galliford Try plc Governance review continued The Executive Board receives and considers regular performance 2017 Board and operational reports and presentations from business evaluation recommendations Actions taken during the year management.
The Assistant Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Executive Board and the minutes of Executive Board Board and The format of Board and Committee papers meetings are included in the Board pack.
Committee papers was reviewed during the financial year, with improvements made to the length and The Executive Board meets at least 10 times a year and additional quality of papers.
meetings are convened when necessary to consider and authorise Embed and develop There were a number of changes to the composition specific operational or project matters.
The Executive Board Board relationships of the Board during the financial year which focuses on long-term strategic issues and matters of Group-wide have resulted in new relationships being formed.
policy, with health, safety and sustainability, business ethics and The Board is continuing its efforts to ensure that customer service as the first agenda items at every meeting, strong and effective working relationships are highlighting the importance of such matters to the Group.
Executive responsibility for operational matters of each business Additional site visit An additional site visit was added to the Board has been generally devolved to the divisional Executive Boards meeting calendar to further enhance the Boards of each business, which hold at least 10 meetings per annum.
knowledge of operations as well as engagement The Chief Executive, Finance Director and General Counsel and with management.
Company Secretary also regularly attend the business Executive Board meetings.
Following the annual internal performance evaluation of the Board and its Committees in April 2018, it was found that the Governance policies directors continue to perform to the levels expected of them and demonstrate commitment to their roles, including devoting The Group continues to operate a suite of governance and risk such time as is necessary to discharge their responsibilities in management policies, procedures and training programmes, full as directors.
The Chairman met with each of the non-executive all of which address obligations arising under relevant legislation.
directors to discuss the findings and recommendations.
The The Group Corporate and Finance Manuals, which summarise findings of the evaluation were presented to, and approved by, the policies, procedures and authority matrices by which the the Board in May 2018, with recommendations to be addressed central functions and businesses operate, were subject to over the forthcoming financial year by the Board.
ongoing update and refresh during the financial year.
Overall, the evaluation confirmed that the Board and its Shareholder relations Committees are operating effectively and have the appropriate As part of its strong governance and engagement with balance of skills, knowledge and experience to draw on, with shareholders, facilitating effective communications and recommendations being made, among other matters, in relation maintaining relationships with all shareholders and interested to increased flexibility around business presentations, the parties remains a key focus for the Company.
The Board, incorporation of an office visit, strategy discussions and risk.
and in particular the Chief Executive and Finance Director, continue to organise meetings with existing and prospective In line with the 2016 Code, an externally facilitated performance institutional shareholders.
evaluation of the Board and its Committees will be carried out during the next financial year.
The Board as a whole continues to engage actively with institutional shareholders in line with the UK Stewardship Diversity Code, whether on key matters of specific relevance to the In 2013, the Board stated its commitment to addressing the Group and its operations, such as matters of governance, expectations of the Davies Report, Women on Boards, where strategy or remuneration, or more general market themes.
As at 30 June 2018, women held 17% Specific reports regarding shareholder views are provided of Board positions.
Following the appointment of Marisa Cassoni to the Board for analysis and discussion.
Separately, the Senior on 1 September 2018, women held 29% of Board positions.
Independent Director and other non-executive directors are available to attend meetings with shareholders and address Strategies to improve diversity at all levels in the workforce have any significant concerns shareholders may have.
continued further on the work undertaken in 2017 to ensure each division has the right culture, procedures and policies in place.
The Companys AGM, held in November each year, continues to This involves a variety of inclusive initiatives, such as gender be a popular means for private shareholders to receive updates on neutral recruitment, supporting diversity programmes and the Group performance, provides an opportunity to put questions to promotion of agile working to make the Company more attractive the Board and for the Board to listen to shareholder suggestions to a wider group of employees.
These programmes help to address and concerns.
All directors of the Company were in attendance at the findings arising from both the 2017 Hampton-Alexander the 2017 AGM.
Arrangements for the meeting, including notice Review on gender diversity and the 2017 Sir John Parker report period and voting arrangements, followed the requirements of into ethnic diversity.
the 2016 Code and related best practice.
Further diversity disclosures can be found in the Strategic Report Reporting, risk, internal audit and controls on page 44.
The Governance review commencing on page 52 details the Executive Board report specific actions undertaken by the Group during the financial year, including those with a risk management focus.
The Boards Membership of the Executive Board is detailed on pages approach to risk and internal audit, including its systems in 50 and 51. relation to the preparation of consolidated accounts, and the The Chief Executive is responsible for the effective leadership material controls of the Groups established internal control of the senior executive management and chairs the Executive framework, are disclosed in the Principal risks section on Board which, in addition to the Chief Executive, consists of the pages 22 to 25.
Finance Director, the General Counsel and Company Secretary, There were no significant internal control failings or weaknesses the two Divisional Chairs of Linden Homes, the Chief Executive during the year.
Any matters of non-compliance with the of Construction & Investments, and the Chief Executive of provisions of the Group Corporate and Finance Manuals have Partnerships & Regeneration.
The Executive Board is responsible been rectified either during the financial year or by the date of this for the operational management of the Group under terms of Annual Report.
A separate programme of 15 internal audits was reference delegated by the Board, which include responsibility also completed across the Groups operations, and progress for making recommendations to the Board on all items included in checks were completed against previous recommendations.
the formal schedule of matters reserved for Board authorisation.
