Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 59 Financial Statements 2018 Nomination Committee report The principal task of the Committee during Committee Chairs the financial year has been overseeing the annual statement process for the appointment of Marisa I am pleased to report on the Committees Cassoni and to continue the development, activities during the financial year and am monitoring and oversight of the previously delighted to welcome new Non-executive agreed succession planning processes and Director Marisa Cassoni to the Board of the further implementation of the range Directors with effect from 1 September of inclusive and diversity-supporting 2018.
Upon joining the Board, Marisa initiatives.
The Committee received became a member of the Audit, Nomination updates twice during the year on both and Remuneration Committees and will the ongoing succession-planning and become Chair of the Remuneration talent-mapping process at various levels Committee after the Groups half year within the Group, together with the results in February 2019, following the individuals identified, and any stepping down of the current Interim development requirements necessary Chair Terry Miller.
Terry will continue to to ensure effective succession.
As a be a member of the Audit, Nomination result of this work, there is a greater and Remuneration Committees.
understanding of the succession process and development plans in place for key A formal, thorough and transparent positions where necessary.
Succession appointment process was undertaken for planning, development and leadership Marisa, which included consulting with requirements will continue to be the The Zygos Partnership search consultants subject of direct focus and engagement The Committee has overseen and formal interviews of the shortlisted by the Committee for the coming financial candidates with the non-executive and the appointment of the new year.
The Committee is also committed executive directors.
Following interviews Non-executive Director to embedding inclusion and diversity at and a review of the skills, experience, Board and Executive level and generally Marisa Cassoni and has diversity and expertise of the Board, the throughout the Group.
Activities include a Committee recommended the appointment continued to monitor, range of initiatives with direct participation of Marisa to the Board which, after due develop and embed a variety from management to help address its consideration, was approved.
Upon joining gender pay gap, action plans to target of initiatives to further the Board, Marisa undertook a formal inclusivity and diversity, and access to induction process, enabling her to gain a strengthen the work on agile working arrangements to ensure deeper understanding of the Company succession planning, the Company provides a supportive and and introducing her to key management flexible culture, environment and working diversity initiatives and personnel and external advisers.
We are practices to suit everybodys needs.
In so extremely pleased that Marisa has joined related processes.
doing, it aims to continue to attract and us and look forward to her contribution to retain the best candidates and ensure the the Board and its Committees.
Peter Ventress full development of all its employees Nomination Committee Chair across the Company.
Composition and remit Membership of the Committee is detailed At the financial year end, the Committee on pages 50 and 51.
I became chair of comprised a majority of independent the Committee from 1 September 2017 non-executive directors, complying with and the General Counsel and Company provision B.
Secretary acts as secretary to the External consultant The Zygos Partnership, Committee.
As stated above, Marisa which was consulted on a new Board joined the Committee with effect from appointment during the financial year, 1 September 2018. has no other connection with the Group.
The terms of reference of the Committee During the financial year, the Committee can be found on the Groups website prioritised the calendar of key activities www.
The authorities and areas of focus as set out below.
delegated to the Committee by the Board are similar to previous years and comprise, Calendar of 2017 18 Committee activities and among other matters: areas of focus reviewing the size, structure and December Succession planning composition of the Board: 2017 May 2018 Succession planning evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge, diversity and experience Non-executive directors of the Board, including the impact of appointment review and new appointments: Committee board membership overseeing and recommending the Non-executive directors recruitment of any new directors: appointment update ensuring appointments are appropriately Terms of reference review made against objective criteria: and and approval keeping the leadership and succession Peter Ventress requirements of the Group under Nomination Committee Chair active review.
