CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority require listed companies to disclose, in relation to section 1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code, how they have applied its principles and whether they have complied with its provisions throughout the accounting period.
The UK Corporate Governance Code can be found at www.
This statement, together with the remuneration report on pages 22 to 31, explains how the Company has applied the principles and complied with the provisions set out in the Code.
The board operates through monthly meetings which senior executives attend on a regular basis.
The board operates primarily through its monthly meetings and is responsible for leading and controlling the Group and monitoring executive management.
It considers all issues relating to strategy, management and future direction of the Company.
The board has a schedule of matters reserved to it for decision that is regularly updated: these include decisions on the Groups strategy, financial plans, major capital expenditure and dividend policy.
The board is updated about operational decisions through the monthly meetings.
It meets at least nine times a year.
In 2017 18 the board had ten scheduled meetings, each of which was attended by all members of the board.
Terms of reference for the board committees as set out below are available on the Companys website.
The Company maintains an appropriate level of director and officer liability insurance cover and has agreed to indemnify the directors against certain liabilities as discussed in the directors report on page 13.
A review of the performance of the Groups main business activities is included in the strategic review.
The board presents this review, together with the directors report on pages 13 to 17, to give a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
The board The board comprises the non-executive chairman, the CEO, the group finance director and three further non-executive directors.
It is chaired by the chairman, N J Donaldson.
The senior independent director is C J Myatt.
His principal responsibilities include: to be available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of the chairman, the CEO or the group finance director has failed to resolve, or for which such contact is not appropriate to ensure that the performance evaluation of the chairman is conducted effectively The three non-executive directors have a breadth of successful commercial and professional experience and are considered by the board to be independent of the Group.
The Code states that the board should identify each non-executive director it considers to be independent, and the Code then lists various circumstances which may appear relevant to its determination.
This includes amongst others if the non-executive director has served on the board for more than nine years.
At Games Workshop the board has had to confront one of these circumstances as the non-executive chairman, N J Donaldson, and one of the non-executive directors, C J Myatt, have served for more than nine years.
In making this assessment as to independence, the board has taken into account the personal attributes of each director in relation to the current and future needs of the board.
In the opinion of the board, independence like judgement and wisdom is not an attribute which can be measured by reference to a checklist.
It is rather an attribute which the members of the board can observe being demonstrated by a director in his actions and interactions with other members of the board as it faces the various issues which are placed before it.
Independence is the absence of complacency, lazy thinking and acceptance of the status quo.
Regarding the specific Code circumstance of service of over nine years, the boards position is as follows: The nine year rule is a helpful guide to the risk of directors becoming stale.
The board considers this risk periodically, but has not yet found it to be an issue at Games Workshop.
If it did, it would react accordingly.
At present the board feels that the requirement for members of the board to have a real understanding of, and empathy with, the Games Workshop Hobby to be a point in favour of retaining the experience which the board currently has.
Based upon its assessment, which focuses on each directors attitude towards making his best contribution to the progress of the Company, the board considers that both N J Donaldson and C J Myatt are independent.
All directors bring an independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance, resources including key appointments and standards of conduct.
The board considers that it has been supplied with sufficient timely and accurate information to enable it to discharge its duties.
18 Games Workshop Group PLC The board continued All members of the board have access to the services and advice of the company secretary.
There is a procedure for directors to take independent professional advice at the Company's expense where relevant to the execution of their duties.
The executive directors attach great importance to ensuring that the non-executive directors are provided with accurate, timely and clear information on the Group.
In addition, the non-executive directors are actively encouraged to update continually their knowledge of and familiarity with the Group and the issues affecting it, so as to enable them to fulfil effectively their roles on both the board and its committees.
The board has established a process for the ongoing assessment of its own performance and that of its committees.
The board has completed an internal review process to determine and define the role that the board performs: an internal assessment has been undertaken to review the boards performance against those objectives and this will continue in 2018 19.
This will be an iterative process which will inform the boards development agenda on a regular basis.
Board committees The board has three principal committees, all with written terms of reference which are published on the Companys website and which are available on application to the company secretary at the Companys registered office.
The company secretary serves as secretary to all three committees.
The chairmen of the audit, the City and the remuneration and nomination committees will be available to answer questions at the Companys AGM.
Audit committee The audit committee comprises the three non-executive directors and the chairman of the Company under the chairmanship of C J Myatt, who is a chartered management accountant and has significant relevant financial and accounting knowledge and experience.
The audit committees terms of reference include monitoring the appropriateness of accounting policies, financial reporting, internal control and risk assessment and keeping under review the scope, results and effectiveness of the external and internal audits and the independence of the Companys external auditors.
Significant issues considered by the audit committee The committee had four meetings during the year which were attended by all members of the committee.
It has an agenda linked to the events in the Groups financial calendar.
The external auditors met with the committee without management being present and the chairman and members of the committee have direct contact with the audit partner as required.
During the year the committee: reviewed the half-year and full-year results received and considered, as part of the review of the annual financial statements, reports from the external auditors in respect of the auditors audit plan for the year and the results of the annual audit.
These reports included the scope of the annual audit, the approach adopted by the auditors to address and conclude upon key estimates and other key audit areas, the basis on which the auditors assess materiality, the terms of engagement for the auditors and an ongoing assessment of the impact of future accounting developments on the Group considered whether the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable.
In doing so, the committee reviewed and discussed with management the content and appropriateness of the information included within the 2018 annual report.
This provided the committee with the supporting detail to ensure that it was in a position to report to the board that the 2018 annual report taken as a whole was fair, balanced and understandable.
This was on the basis that the business description, business model and strategy agreed with its own understanding of the Group, and the balance in the reporting of performance reflected both positive and negative issues and reflected the Groups activities during the year considered the effectiveness and independence of the external auditors and made a recommendation to the board regarding the reappointment of  LLP as external auditors reviewed the Companys policy on non-audit fees and ensured appropriate safeguards are in place considered and agreed the internal audit work programme and received regular reports on the key issues arising from its implementation during the year reviewed reports on the key business risks, including a review of the internal control processes used to identify, monitor and mitigate the principal risks and uncertainties The committee received, reviewed and challenged reports from management and the external auditors setting out the significant issues in relation to the 2018 annual report and made their own assessment.
These issues were discussed and challenged with management during the year.
They were also discussed with the auditors at the time the committee reviewed and agreed the auditors Group audit plan and at the conclusion of the audit of the financial statements.
The issues that were discussed were: Inventory valuation: the committee considered and agreed that the inventory provisions were appropriate given the robust formulaic process applied and the level of risk.
Capitalisation of product development costs: the committee reviewed the accounting for and disclosure of development costs.
The committee concluded that the accounting and disclosure was appropriate but that management should continue to monitor this closely in the context of product release cycles and underlying sales trends.
19 Games Workshop Group PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Significant issues considered by the audit committee continued The committee reviews the independence of the external auditors by assessing the arrangements for the day to day management of the audit relationship as well as reviewing the auditors report which describes their procedures for identifying and reporting conflicts of interest.
To maintain the auditors independence, the committee has also established the policy that the primary role of the external auditors is to perform services directly related to their audit responsibilities.
Non-audit fees paid to the auditors amounted to 50,000 in the year: this relates to the verification of retail turnover certificates for certain stores, performance of a cyber security review and advice in relation to executive remuneration policy.
The Group uses other advisers for taxation advice and other services.
The audit fees are disclosed in note 8.
The committee calls upon the external auditors, the internal auditors and the executive directors to attend formal meetings as required.
These meetings are held at least three times a year.
The external and internal auditors are given the opportunity to raise any matters or concerns they may have in the absence of the executive directors at separate meetings with the audit committee or its chairman.
The audit committee considers the re-appointment of the external auditors each year, as well as remuneration and other terms of engagement.
 LLP have acted as external auditors of the Group since the 2005 year end.
Andrew Lyon is the audit partner and he was appointed during 2014 15 and will rotate after five years.
In 2014 15 the external audit was put out to tender and the committee agreed that  should remain as auditors.
There are no contractual obligations which restrict the choice of external auditors.
Whistleblowing The audit committee is responsible for the review of the Companys procedures for responding to the allegations of whistleblowers and the arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible financial reporting irregularities.
City committee The City committee comprises the non-executive directors and is chaired by N J Donaldson.
It normally meets at least twice a year and is responsible for corporate governance, investor relations, City presentations and liaison with City advisers.
The City committee held two meetings during the year, each of which was attended by all members of the committee.
Remuneration and nomination committee The remuneration and nomination committee comprises the non-executive directors and is chaired by E ODonnell.
It normally meets at least twice a year and is responsible for making recommendations to the board on remuneration policy for all executive directors including determining specific remuneration packages, terms of employment and performance incentive arrangements.
It is also responsible for nominating, for approval by the board, candidates for appointment to the board.
The procedures and guidelines used by the remuneration and nomination committee in determining remuneration are outlined in the separate remuneration report.
The remuneration and nomination committee held two meetings in the year, which were attended by all members of the committee.
The committee meets without the executive directors at least annually to appraise the executive directors performance.
Appointments to the board On 20 June 2018, J R A Brewis was appointed to the board as a non-executive director, effective from that date.
Following the Companys recruitment procedures, the board determined that J R A Brewis would be a suitable and valuable addition to the board.
Open advertising and an external search company was used in respect of this appointment.
Newly appointed directors are given training appropriate to the level of their previous experience.
Non-executive directors meet regularly with members of the executive and other staff within the Group.
In addition, site visits ensure that the non-executive directors gain first hand experience of developments within the Group Any director appointed during the year is required, under the provisions of the Companys articles of association, to retire and seek election by the shareholders at the next AGM.
Internal control The directors recognise that they have overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investment and the Groups assets, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is designed to manage risks that may prevent the Group from achieving its business objectives, rather than to eliminate these risks.
However, even the most effective system can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The directors have established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, which has been in place from the start of the year until the date of approval of this report.
This process is regularly reviewed by the board throughout the year.
The effectiveness of the Group's system of internal control is continuously reviewed by the board.
The review covers all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
The monitoring of control procedures is achieved through regular review by the group finance director, reporting to the board.
This review process considers whether significant risks have been identified, evaluated and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
Regular reporting by senior management ensures that, as far as possible, the controls and safeguards are being operated appropriately.
This process is considered by the audit committee, alongside the external auditors reports.
20 Games Workshop Group PLC Internal control continued The Group has continued its programme of internal audit reviews during the year.
The audit committee agrees an annual internal audit plan, focusing on business specific issues.
Actions agreed by management, in response to recommendations made, are followed up.
The board, with advice from the audit committee, has completed its annual review of the system of internal control and is satisfied that it has acted appropriately and in accordance with that guidance.
During the course of its review of the system of internal control, the board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary actions is not considered appropriate.
Communication with shareholders The Company attaches great importance to its AGM, which it considers to be the primary platform of communication between the Company and its shareholders.
On a continuing basis the Company encourages two way communication with its institutional and private shareholders and responds promptly to queries received verbally, in writing or directly through its investor relations website investor.
The CEO and group finance director are available to meet with shareholders to discuss any issues which shareholders may have.
Any issues arising at such meetings are reported to and considered by the board.
Remuneration report The Companys policy on executive remuneration and details of the executive directors salaries, profit share and pensions, and fees for the non-executive directors are set out in the board report on remuneration on pages 22 to 31.
Conflicts of interests The Companys articles of association take account of certain provisions of the Companies Act 2006 relating to directors conflicts of interests.
These provisions permit the board to consider, and if thought fit, to authorise situations where a director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company.
The board has adopted procedures for the approval of such conflicts.
The boards powers to authorise conflicts are operating effectively and the procedures are being followed.
Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The Company has complied with all of the provisions set out in section 1 of the Code.
By order of the board R F Tongue Group finance director and company secretary 30 July 2018 21 Games Workshop Group PLC
