52 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT LEADERSHIP The Boards Role The two charts below show the length of time our NEDs have The Board is responsible for ensuring our long-term success.
served on the Board and the number of Board members with It approves our strategy and corporate goals and monitors experience of particular relevance to Genus.
ourperformance against them: determines that we have the necessary resources, systems and controls to achieve our NON-EXECUTIVE TENURE ON THE BOARD objectives: and sets the culture and standards of behaviour wewant to see throughout Genus.
10 years 1 69 years 1 The Board is also responsible for other critical decisions.
36 years 2 These include approving the corporate budget: ensuring we have the right funding: approving material contracts, 03 years 3 acquisitions and investments: and reporting to shareholders.
The Boards Composition A BROAD BASE OF RELEVANT EXPERIENCE We have further strengthened the Board with the appointment of two additional independent Non-Executive Directors International 7 business NEDs, Lesley Knox joined 1 June 2018 and Professor Finance 4 IanCharles joined 1 July 2018.
At the date of this report, Scienti c theBoard therefore comprised seven independent NEDs, 3 Biotech including the Chairman, and two Executive Directors the Food 1 Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
This gives us industry a majority of independent Directors on the Board.
Professor Duncan Maskell will retire at the Annual General Meeting The Board comprises both well-established and newer NEDs, AGM on 15 November 2018, reducing the number of as we have broadened the Boards skills and experience independent NEDs by one.
through Non-Executive appointments over recent years.
Board Roles and Responsibilities To ensure we have clear responsibilities at the top of the Company, the Board has set out well-defined roles for the Chairman and Chief Executive.
These, along with the responsibilities of our other Directors, are summarised in the table below.
Title Individual Responsibilities Chairman Bob Lawson Bobs primary responsibility is to lead the Board and ensure it operates effectively.
He achieves this in part through promoting an open culture, which allows people to challenge the status quo, and holding meetings with the NEDs without the Executives present.
Bob is also responsible for the Boards communications with shareholders.
Chief Executive Karim Bitar Karim is responsible for devising and implementing our strategy and for managing our day-to-day operations.
He is accountable to the Board for the Groups development, in line with its strategy, taking into account the risks, objectives and policies set out by the Board and its Committees.
Group Finance Stephen Wilson Stephen is responsible for helping the Chief Executive to devise and Director implement the strategy, and for managing the Groups financial and operational performance.
Senior Nigel Turner Nigel provides a sounding board for the Chair and is an alternative line Independent NED of communication between the Chair and other Directors.
He leads meetings of the NEDs, without the Chair present, to appraise the Chairs performance, and consults with shareholders in the absence of the Chair and Chief Executive.
NEDs Lysanne Gray The NEDs constructively challenge, oversee and help to progress Duncan Maskell the execution of our strategy, the management of the Group and the Lykele van der Broek management of our governance structures, within the risk and control Lesley Knox framework set by the Board.
Ian Charles Genus plc | Annual Report 2018 S TR ATE G I C C OR P OR AT E F I NAN C I AL AD D I T I O final 53 R E P OR T G O V E R NAN C E S TAT EM EN T S IN F OR M AT I ON Asaresult, the Board has an appropriate blend of different Almost all of our Directors have held leadership positions in areas of expertise, long-standing knowledge of the Group and international companies, with several having run businesses its markets, and fresher perspectives.
This helps to ensure the overseas.
Several of our Directors, including the Chair of the Board provides even-handed oversight, works in a constructive Audit Committee, have significant financial experience, while and focused manner and has the capabilities to manage others have strong backgrounds in scientific research or in thechallenges of a complex and evolving global business leading science-based businesses.
When recruiting NEDs, we consider diversity in its broadest sense while ensuring the Board has the skills it The Board believes that all of the NEDs are independent in needs.
More information about our approach can be found in character and judgement, and that there are no relationships the Nomination Committee report on pages 59 to 61. orcircumstances that are likely to affect or could appear to affect their judgement.
Following the performance evaluation described on page 50, the Board also confirms that all the AN INDEPENDENT BOARD Directors continue to be effective and to demonstrate Executive Directors 2 commitment to their roles.
Independent Non-Executive Chairman 1 Independent Non-Executive Directors 6 As required by the Code, all the Directors will offer themselves for election at the next AGM.
Details can be found in the Notice of AGM at the end of this report.
If re-elected to the Board at the AGM, Nigel Turner will reach the 11th anniversary of his original appointment as a NED in January 2019.
Following an internal review, the Board is satisfied that Nigel remains independent and that he has no connection with the Groups operational activities.
Board and Committee Structure BOARD COMMITTEES The diagram below shows the Board and the Committees that report to it.
AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Executive Committees Information about the GELT and the Ensures the integrity of our Determines remuneration Reviews the Boards financial reporting, evaluates for our Executive Directors structure, size and R&D PMT can be found on pages 46 to our risk management and and senior management, composition and 47 and page 51 respectively.
internal control system, to support our growth proposes candidates and oversees the internal strategy and deliver for appointment and external auditors value for stakeholders to the Board GENUS PLC BOARD GELT R&D PMT Leads our strategic Gives us a comprehensive view of delivery and ensures organisational alignment, our R&D programme and involves our business engagement and efficient execution units in prioritising our R&D initiatives Board Committees The table below shows Board Committee membership: OTHER TEAMS REPORTING TO THE BOARD Committee Director Audit Nomination Remuneration The Committee Chairs oversee and lead the Committees Bob Lawson C M activities, within their terms of reference, and are responsible Karim Bitar M for their effective operation.
More information about the roles Nigel Turner M M C and work of the Board Committees can be found in their statements on pages 59 to 88, and in their terms of reference Lysanne Gray C M M on our website at www.
Duncan Maskell M M M Lykele van der Broek M M M Lesley Knox M M M Ian Charles M M M M Committee member C Committee Chair Genus plc | Annual Report 2018 54 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT LEADERSHIP Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings The table below shows how many Board and Committee meetings each Director attended during the year.
Director Board Nomination Audit Remuneration Non-Executive Chair of the Board 1 Bob Lawson 8 3 5 5 Executive Directors 1 1 Karim Bitar 8 3 5 5 1 1 1 Stephen Wilson 8 3 5 5 Non-Executive Directors Nigel Turner 7 2 5 5 Lysanne Gray 8 3 5 5 Duncan Maskell 8 3 5 5 Lykele van der Broek 8 3 5 5 Lesley Knox appointed 1 June 2018 1 Notes: Maximum number of Board and Committee meetings a Director could have attended: Board 8, Nomination 3, Audit 5 and Remuneration 5.
Ian Charles joined the Board after the year end and is therefore not included in the table above.
Information Flow to the Board The diagram below sets out our process for providing information to the Directors, ahead of the scheduled Board meetings.
Thisensures our Directors are well-informed and can contribute effectively to Board discussions.
The Chairman A week before the Board meetings Decisions and The updated list of sets the agenda meeting, the take place at actions agreed actions becomes for the meeting, agenda and Board least eight times at the meeting part of the agenda with input papers are sent to per year.
are monitored for the next from the Chief the Directors by the Group Boardmeeting.
Executive and the using a secure General Counsel.
Genus plc | Annual Report 2018 S TR ATE G I C C OR P OR AT E F I NAN C I AL AD D I T I O final 55 R E P OR T G O V E R NAN C E S TAT EM EN T S IN F OR M AT I ON ACCOUNTABILITY Risk Management Quality and Integrity of Our People The Board is responsible for our risk management system, We strive to operate with high integrity in everything we do.
which is designed to identify, evaluate and prioritise the risks Our control environment depends on high-quality people and uncertainties we face.
The Board sets our risk appetite, who maintain our ethical standards.
We ensure our peoples monitors the Groups risk exposure for our principal risks and ability and integrity through our recruitment standards, ensures appropriate executive ownership for all risks.
This training and consistent performance management.
The ongoing risk management process for the Groups significant Board is informed of appointments to our most senior risks has been in place for the year under review and up to the management positions.
date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Our principal risks and how we mitigate them are summarised on Information and Financial Reporting Systems pages 12 and 13.
We create detailed operational budgets for the year ahead, along with five-year strategic plans, which the Board To further assist its understanding of risk, the Board continued reviews and approves.
We then monitor our performance its programme of visits to our local operations and received throughout the year, so we can address any issues.
The regular political, economic and industry risk updates from the information we consider includes our monthly financial relevant business groups.
results, key performance indicators and variances, updated full-year forecasts and key business risks.
The Board performed its annual risk review in May 2018.
This involved a fresh review of the types and levels of risk facing The main internal control and risk management processes Genus, as it executes its strategy, and was designed to relating to our preparation of consolidated accounts are our identify and evaluate any new or emerging risks and ascertain Group-wide accounting policies and procedures, segregation whether the risk register covered all relevant risks.
of duties, system access controls, a robust consolidation and reporting system, various levels of management review Internal Control and centrally defined process control points and The key elements of our internal control system are set out reconciliation processes.
An internal control system cannot completely eliminate the risks we face or ensure we do not have a material Investment Appraisal misstatement or loss.
We control our capital expenditure through our budget process and by having clear authorisation levels, above Management Structure which our businesses must submit detailed written The Board sets formal authorisation levels and other controls proposals to the Board for approval.
that allow it to delegate authority to run our businesses to the Chief Executive, GELT and their management teams.
We carry out due diligence for business acquisitions and Our management supplements these controls by setting the material licences, and conduct post-completion reviews of operating standards that each subsidiary needs for its major projects, to ensure we identify areas for improvement business and location.
and correct any areas of underperformance or overspend.
GELT regularly reviews our performance against strategy, budget and a defined set of operational key performance indicators.
The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, and the Group Financial Controller also hold monthly reviews with each business unit.
Genus plc | Annual Report 2018 56 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT ACCOUNTABILITY Independent Audit Our internal audit activities are provided by in-house and external resources, under the leadership of our Head of Risk Management and Internal Audit.
During the year, Internal Audit completed a risk-based audit programme agreed by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee reviews the results of these audits and the subsequent actions we take, which we also communicate to the external auditor.
All business units complete risk and control selfassessments twice a year.
Internal Audit, as part of its workprogramme, performs independent reviews of these assessments to identify any deficiencies in our controls and how we should address them.
The external auditor also provides observations on the control environment as part of its audit work.
The results are communicated to senior management and the Audit Committee.
Review of the Effectiveness of Internal Controls The Board, with the help of the Audit Committee, reviewed the effectiveness of our internal control system, as well as our financial, operational and compliance controls and our risk management.
The review considered our internal control self-assessment process, which is designed to assess compliance with our minimum control standards, theindependent internal audit programme, and the reports management prepared when the Board approved theinterim and final results and financial statements.
It also assessed: whether we had identified, evaluated, managed and controlled significant risks: and whether any significant weaknesses had arisen, and if so, whether we had addressed them.
The assessment also took into account any risk or control issues we identified through our divisional business reviews, Board and GELT meetings, and insurers reviews.
We have an internal control continuous improvement workprogramme and routinely identify opportunities to strengthen our control environment and improve our risk management capabilities.
However, the Board has not identified or been told of any material weaknesses in our internal controls.
Genus plc | Annual Report 2018 S TR ATE G I C C OR P OR AT E F I NAN C I AL AD D I T I O final 57 R E P OR T G O V E R NAN C E S TAT EM EN T S IN F OR M AT I ON RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS AND OTHERSTAKEHOLDERS The Group has a wide range of stakeholders and looks to Shareholder Engagement actively engage with them, to keep them updated about our Investor Relations Calendar business and our progress and to ensure we understand their Type of priorities.
Some of this engagement is carried out directly at Date communication Location Board level, while other engagement occurs during the course September 2017 Preliminary results London of running the business, which the Board keeps informed announcement and about through reports from management.
presentation Shareholders September 2017 Preliminary results London, All Investors investor roadshow Basingstoke, AGM all resolutions passed with votes in favour ranging Edinburgh from 88.21% to 99.99% November 2017 AGM and trading London Annual report update Website live webcasts preliminary and interim results February 2018 Interim results London ongoing updates to CSR, with updated case studies announcement and presentation Institutional Investors February and Interim results London, Edinburgh See shareholder engagement below March 2018 investor roadshow Employees June 2018 Capital Markets Day London Your Voice survey response rate increased to 82%.
Various through Investor calls and London, Further information on the results of the Your Voice survey year meetings Basingstoke, are on page 37 New York CEO video update, manager-led updates and updates via intranet following results announcements Leadership calls and quarterly manager briefings We have a programme of announcements, presentations, Intranet regular updates on business developments meetings and other events for institutional shareholders, andresults asshown in the table above.
Board annual site visits, meeting with the local teams Chairmans Award opportunity for teams to present Our Chief Executive and Group Finance Director regularly projects that meet Genuss values meet institutional investors, to discuss our strategy and progress, and to understand how investors view our Customers business.
The Chairman also attends certain meetings.
Board annual customer site visits this year the Chairman Thesemeetings usually take place after we release our and the CEO visited Russia in May, meeting with a number interimand preliminary results.
of customers and potential customers in Moscow, and customers and employees in Belgorod During the year, our investor relations programme included meetings in the locations set out in our investor relations Community calendar.
The Board sets time aside during its meetings to As a Group we aim to act responsibility at all times.
We have discuss feedback from shareholder meetings, including feedback developed plans to engage with our communities in an obtained by independent brokers and our advisers.
This allows all appropriate fashion, which have included: supporting Women Directors to understand major shareholders views.
in Dairy: the initiation of university internships: and graduate programmes.
We have also: supported charities close to local businesses: and opened a gallery for our Ruthin stud to school groups and members of the public, to encourage a greater understanding of agricultural processes Further information on the initiatives can be seen at www.
com responsibility case-studies Genus plc | Annual Report 2018 58 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS AND OTHERSTAKEHOLDERS In June 2018, we held a Capital Markets Day.
This was introduced by the Chair of the Board and included presentations from the Chief Executive, Group Finance 29 Director, the three Chief Operating Officers and the Chief Scientific Officer.
These presentations covered: Non-holding institutions and potential investors met the long-term drivers of our business and the competitive landscape: the strategies of the porcine, dairy and beef business units: our financial performance and our investment in R&D, intellectual property, people and technology transformation: 63.2% our pioneering R&D programmes, including: fide Novo Genetics, our world-leading Holstein breeding Proportion of shares held by institutions met during year programme: the successful launch of Sexcel and IntelliGen: and our progress with the gene editing and PRRSv programmes: how we are driving genetic improvement for large 20 integrated pork producers and progressive dairy farmers Number of top 25 shareholders met 8 of top 10 globally, and across the beef value chain: and our approach to delivering sustainable profit growth and investing to strengthen our position.
The presentations are available on the Investor section of our website, www.
Key Themes Discussed in Shareholder Meetings Our meetings with shareholders during the year covered awide range of topics.
The common themes included: Genuss operational and financial performance: market conditions and our initiatives to address them: strategic progress across the Group: R&D progress and our increased spending to accelerate theprogramme: capturing a share of the value we deliver to customers: the integration of the Hermitage merger: the progress of the PRRSv development and regulatory programme and the opportunity for PRRSv resistant pigs:and updates on the GSS litigation.
Genus plc | Annual Report 2018 S TR ATE G I C C OR P OR AT E F I NAN C I AL AD D I T I O final 59 R E P OR T G O V E R NAN C E S TAT EM EN T S IN F OR M AT I ON NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT EFFECTIVENESS Committee Composition and Governance Introduction Chair Members The Nomination Committee has a critical role in Bob Lawson Nigel Turner ensuring the Company has an effective and wellbalanced Board.
It reviews the Boards structure, size Duncan Maskell and composition and manages appointments to the Lykele van der Broek Board.
This year, the Committee continued to focus on succession planning for the Board, by reviewing Lysanne Gray the Directors skills and experience and identifying Karim Bitar areas to consider for future appointments.
1 Lesley Knox Bob Lawson 1 Ian Charles Chair of the Nomination Committee 5 September 2018 1 Lesley Knox and Ian Charles were appointed on 1 June and 1 July 2018 respectively.
The Committees biographies, along with information on Genuss other Board members, can be found on pages 44 to45.
Committee Roles and Responsibilities The Committee is responsible for: making recommendations to the Board on the structure, size and composition of the Board and its Committees: evaluating the balance of skills, experience, independence, knowledge and diversity on the Board: succession planning for the Non-Executive and Executive Directors and other senior executives: and identifying and recommending suitable candidates to become Directors, based on merit.
The Committee has written terms of reference, which set out the authority delegated to it by the Board.
These are available from our website: www.
Focus Areas for 2018 and 2019 During the year, the Committee continued to focus on the following priorities: succession planning for the Directors and in particular Duncan Maskell, the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director: the ongoing review of the Boards diversity: and the ongoing review of the Boards mix of skills, to identify any gaps that need to be filled.
Given their importance, these will remain the Committees focus areas for 2019.
The Committees Main Activities During the Year The Committee met three times in the year, primarily to discuss the Boards current skills and experience and succession planning.
Genus plc | Annual Report 2018 60 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT EFFECTIVENESS Succession Planning Process The Committee has a formal three-phase succession planning process: Assessment Approach Execution The Committee reviews the Boards The Committee applies engagement The Committee identifies the current skills and experiences across rules for succession planning, including: desired skills for any new Nona range of relevant areas ensuring succession planning is Executive Director, for use in filling This results in a skills matrix see inline with the Committees terms any future vacancies on the Board.
below, which identifies the skills of reference: Potential internal candidates for coverage across all Board members.
considering the need to replace promotion to Executive Director Potential skills gaps are identified, so theskills of any departing areidentified.
they can be incorporated into future Non-Executive Director: and succession planning at Board and filling any missing skills required for Executive level.
Areas for ongoing Board upskilling Job specifications for the Nonare identified and discussed.
Executives and Executives are kept upto date.
The Committee continued to apply this process during the Appointments year.
This work underpinned the recruitment of two NonThe Chair leads the process for making appointments to the Executive Directors, as described under Appointments below.
During the year, we identified the need to appoint an additional Non-Executive Director, to add further depth to the Board Skills Matrix Boards skills and experience, and a Non-Executive Director The table below shows the key experience and skills the with scientific experience following Duncan Maskells decision Committee has identified as desirable and indicates their to retire after the next AGM.
For the first of these roles, we sought a candidate with: Majority of experience in investment banking, preferably including Directors mergers and acquisitions or corporate finance: with Medium to High strong connections in the City: General Experience and Skills Experience Board experience, as either an Executive or Non-Executive: and Board and corporate governance experience as a Remuneration Committee member or chair.
Strategy For the second role, our primary requirement was strong Finance, banking and capital markets scientific experience in the sector or a related sector.
We also Risk, culture change and change management favoured candidates with: commercial experience, outside scientific academia: and Politics, public affairs, regulation and international experience or experience of living or working communications in more than one country.
Human resources To reach the widest possible candidate pool, we engaged Specific Experience and Skills Egon Zender, an executive search firm, which has also Science and biotechnology provided the business with occasional executive coaching services, and provided a clear recruitment brief, as well as Food sector seeking referrals from the Board.
The Chairman identified International business candidates for interview, who were presented to the Committee and Executive Directors.
Following a one-to-one US market interview process, the Committee received feedback on each EMEA market candidate.
Candidates were assessed consistently throughout the process, against the role specification.
Asian market Latin American market Lesley Knox and Ian Charles were the outstanding candidates for these roles and the Committee was pleased to recommend their appointment to the Board.
Lesley Knox and Ian Charles joined the Board on 1 June and 1 July 2018 respectively.
They both joined after the skills analysis was completed and therefore their experience is not included in the above table.
Genus plc | Annual Report 2018 S TR ATE G I C C OR P OR AT E F I NAN C I AL AD D I T I O final 61 R E P OR T G O V E R NAN C E S TAT EM EN T S IN F OR M AT I ON Diversity Policy Board Induction and Training Genus will continue to make all Board appointments based A good induction is a key part of ensuring new Board on individual merit, while recognising and embracing the members can fully contribute, so we get the most benefit benefits of Board diversity.
A diverse Board has members from their experience.
with different skills, backgrounds, regional and industry experiences, races, genders and other qualities.
By bringing Our induction programme has three main elements: these differences to bear in its discussions and decisionhelping our Board members to conduct themselves making, a diverse Board can help Genus to maintain its effectively, through a course run by Spencer Stuart, one of competitive advantage.
Diversity also links directly to our the worlds leading global executive search and leadership values, not only by being people-focused and responsible, consulting firms: but by encouraging new ideas which deliver for our customers ensuring our Directors understand the legal and regulatory and ultimately drive our results.
Our Board diversity policy aspects of being a Board member: and therefore aims to ensure that we consider diversity in its an introduction to our business, through site visits and broadest sense.
meetings with our management teams.
The Board, with the support of the Nomination Committee, will: Committee Effectiveness consider all aspects of diversity when reviewing the Alongside the Board evaluation process described on page 50, Boards composition and when conducting the annual we reviewed the performance of the Nomination Committee.
Board effectiveness evaluation: This identified a number of important strengths, including the encourage development of internal high-calibre people to Committee using its time effectively and having an appropriate help develop a pipeline of potential Executive Directors: range of skills and experience.
Areas of focus for the coming consider a wide pool of candidates for appointment as year are to continue the Committees ongoing review of Non-Executive Directors, including those with little succession planning, ensuring that it is aligned with the company board experience: Boards strategy and any skills gaps.
ensure a significant portion of the long list for NonExecutive Director positions are women: Service Contracts and Letters of Appointment consider candidates against objective criteria and with Copies of service contracts and letters of appointment regard to the benefits of Board diversity: and between the Directors and the Company will be available only engage executive search firms who have signed for inspection at the Companys registered office during up to the voluntary Code of Conduct on gender diversity normal business hours until the conclusion of the AGM on and best practice.
15 November 2018, and at the AGM from at least 15 minutes prior to the meeting until its conclusion.
The Board complied with the policy throughout the period, including during the recruitment process for the two new Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee reviewed the policy during the year and concluded that it remained appropriate.
More information about diversity across Genus can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 37 to 38.
