72 GSK Annual Report 2018 Leadership and effectiveness Corporate governance framework The Board has established a corporate governance framework with clearly defined responsibilities and accountabilities.
The framework is designed to safeguard and enhance long-term shareholder value and to provide a platform to realise the Groups strategy through GSKs long-term priorities of Innovation, Performance and Trust, that is consistent with its culture, values and expectations.
Our internal control and risk management arrangements, described on pages 87 to 88 and 34 to 36, are an integral part of our governance framework.
For the Board to operate effectively and to give full consideration to key matters, Board Committees have been established as set out below.
Board Chief Nominations Audit & Risk Remuneration Science Corporate Executive Committee Committee Committee Committee Responsibility Officer Committee Corporate Executive Read more Read more Read more Read more Read more on page 77 on page 79 on page 96 on page 91 on page 92 Team See GSK.
com for terms of reference for each Board Committee.
Scheduled Board and Committee attendance during 2018 Corporate Board Nominations Audit & Risk Remuneration Science Responsibility Total number of scheduled meetings 6 6 6 5 3 5 Members Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended Philip Hampton 6 6 Emma Walmsley 6 Simon Dingemans 6 Dr Hal Barron 6 Vindi Banga 6 6 6 5 Dr Vivienne Cox 6 5 4 Lynn Elsenhans 6 6 6 5 Dr Laurie Glimcher 6 6 3 Dr Jesse Goodman 6 3 5 Judy Lewent 6 6 6 5 3 Urs Rohner 6 5 Sir Patrick Vallance Stepped down on 31 March 2018 2 2 Professor Sir Roy Anderson Retired on 3 May 2018 3 3 2 2 2 2 Number of ad-hoc meetings 37 3 6 6 3 1 For Directors who served for part of the year, the numbers in brackets denote the number of meetings the Directors were eligible to attend.
See the Committee Reports for other attendees at Committee meetings, such as the Chairman, CEO and other Executive Directors, and the work of the Committees during the year.
These reports are included later in the Corporate Governance Report.
73 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information 2018 Board programme The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the company and has the authority, and is accountable to shareholders, for ensuring that the Group is appropriately managed and achieves the strategic objectives it sets.
In the performance of these duties, it has regard to the interests of other key stakeholders and is cognisant of the potential impact of the decisions it makes.
The Board discharges those responsibilities through an annual programme of meetings and during the year it focused on a number of specific areas outlined in the table, in line with its long-term IPT priorities underpinned by a continuing shift in culture.
In addition, during the year the CEO met with Non-Executive Directors to discuss various matters, including the progress on the companys strategy, succession planning and continuing regulatory investigations.
Areas of focus Long-term priorities link The Boards oversight of the execution of our strategy included: Strategy Receiving and discussing reports from our three principal businesses: Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and I P T C Consumer Healthcare Receiving IPT transformation programme I P T C Scrutinising and approving new R&D strategy I P T C Holding joint Board and Corporate Executive Team strategy day to discuss IPT priorities against external landscape I P T C changes, business performance, competitors and governance arrangements I P T Scrutinising and approving major Consumer deals with Novartis, Pfizer and Unilever C Scrutinising and approving an oncology deal to purchase Tesaro I P T C Receiving and discussing reports on our pensions, insurance, tax and treasury strategies P T C Performance The Boards focus on performance included: I P T C Evaluating the CEOs 2017 performance and setting her 2018 objectives Setting, reviewing and agreeing the annual budget and forward looking three year plan P T C I P T Receiving reports from the CEO on our three principal businesses C Scrutinising the Groups financial performance P T C Approving a major Group restructuring plan I P T C Reviewing our digital, data and analytics capabilities and opportunities I P T C The Boards approach to discharging its corporate governance duties included: Governance T C Receiving reports from Board Committees Approving the 2017 Annual Report T C Reviewing AGM preparation and approving the 2018 Notice of AGM and a General Meeting to approve the T C transaction with Novartis Considering observations and agreeing actions from the independent external evaluation of the Boards performance T C T C Receiving reports on corporate governance and regulatory developments Approving appointment of new auditor T C Undertaking training on GSKs Code of Conduct and Anti-bribery and corruption T C Approving the appointment of a new Chief Financial Officer I P T C The Head of HR briefed the Board on: Cultural transformation P T C Aligning GSKs culture and values to support our strategy and long-term priorities The Boards regard for stakeholder impacts included: Engagement Reviewing and approving a new Trust framework that has been set in the context of external trends and stakeholder T C expectations Receiving regular external stakeholder development reports T C Approving the evolution of our approach and changes to medical engagement with key external experts I P T C I P T C Designating Dr Vivienne Cox as Workforce Engagement Director to gather the views of the Groups workforce Link to long-term priorities Innovation I Performance P Trust T Culture C 74 GSK Annual Report 2018 Leadership and effectiveness continued Key Board roles and responsibilities Leadership Independent oversight and rigorous challenge Chairman Non-Executive Directors Philip Hampton Provide a strong independent element to the Board Leads and manages the business of the Board Constructively support and challenge management Provides direction and focus and scrutinise their performance in meeting agreed Ensures clear structure for effective operation of the deliverables Board and its Committees Shape proposals on strategy and management Sets Board agenda and ensures sufficient time is Each has a letter of appointment setting out the terms allocated to promote effective debate to support sound and conditions of their directorship decision making Devote such time as is necessary to the proper Ensures the Board receives precise, timely and clear performance of their duties information Are expected to attend all meetings as required.
Meets with each Non-Executive Director on an annual Independence statement basis to discuss individual contributions and performance, together with training and development needs The Board considers all of its Non-Executive Directors Shares peer feedback that is provided as part of the Board who are identified on pages 69 and 70 to be independent.
evaluation process They each demonstrate an appropriate degree of Meets with all the Non-Executive Directors independently independence in character and judgement and are free of the Executive Directors from any business or other relationship which could Maintains a dialogue with shareholders on the governance materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
The independence and commitment of Lynn Elsenhans and Judy Lewent, who have served on the Board for over The Chairmans role description is available on GSK.
com six years, has been subjected to a rigorous review.
Chief Executive Officer Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Emma Walmsley Vindi Banga Is responsible for the management of the Group and its Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and a trusted three businesses intermediary for other Directors Develops the Groups strategic direction for consideration Together with the Non-Executive Directors, leads the and approval by the Board annual review of the Chairmans performance, taking Implements the agreed strategy into account views of the Executive Directors Is supported by members of the Corporate Executive Discusses the results of the Chairmans effectiveness Team review with the Chairman Maintains a continual and active dialogue with Leads the search and appointment process and shareholders in respect of the companys performance.
recommendation to the Board of a new Chairman The Chief Executive Officers role description is available on GSK.
com Acts as an additional point of contact for shareholders In doing so, maintains an understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders through briefings from the Investor Relations team and the Company Secretary.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Directors role description is available on GSK.
com Company Secretary Secretary to the Board and all Board Committees Victoria Whyte Supports the Board and Committee Chairs in annual agenda planning Ensures information is made available to the Board members in a timely fashion Supports the Chairman in designing and delivering Board inductions Coordinates continuing business awareness and training requirements for the Non-Executive Directors Undertakes internal Board and Committee evaluations at the request of the Chairman Advises the Directors on Board practice and procedures and corporate governance matters Chairs the Groups Disclosure Committee Is a point of contact for shareholders on corporate governance matters.
75 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Board induction and development The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in designing and Board, business and key stakeholder awareness facilitating individual induction programmes for new Directors.
They are designed with the purpose of orientating and familiarising To ensure that our Non-Executive Directors develop and maintain new Directors with our industry, organisation, governance and our a greater insight and understanding of the business and key long-term IPT priorities.
stakeholders, they: New CET members meet with Board members as part of their are invited to attend internal management meetings, including induction, and to ensure the Board maintains its connections meetings of the CET: with the CET.
meet employees informally during visits to the Groups operations and at receptions held with staff around Board meetings: Induction receive monthly investor relations and stakeholder reports to Each new Director receives a general induction, which includes maintain awareness of investor and stakeholder views and their duties and responsibilities as a Director of a listed company, competitors performance and strategy: and the companys Corporate Governance structure and undertaking measure progress in implementing our long-term IPT priorities and training on GSKs Code of Conduct.
A personalised induction is evolving our culture through an all-employee survey undertaken then devised which is individually tailored to each new Directors every six months and through reports on the regular conversations background, education, experience and role.
the CET has directly with the workforce through the Lets Talk The induction programme for Executive Directors normally includes programme.
an explanation of the role of an Executive Director, if appropriate, building relationships with the Chairman, Board and the CET and Training arranging to fill any capability gaps the new Director may have.
The Chairman meets with each Director annually on a one-to-one The Chief Financial Officer Designates induction programme was basis to discuss his or her continuing training and development tailored for Iain Mackay, a highly experienced global CFO, and requirements.
The Board is kept up to date on legal, regulatory commenced when he joined the Board in January 2019.
It includes and governance matters through regular papers and briefings the following features: from the Company Secretary and presentations by internal and external advisers.
familiarisation with the industry and GSK: introduction to the Finance organisation and GSKs financial During 2018, the Board members undertook and completed training structure: and on GSKs Code of Conduct and Anti-bribery and corruption.
introduction to senior management, other CET members and advisors to the company.
The induction programme for Non-Executive Directors normally includes introductory meetings with members of the CET and other senior executives to explain the companys business and financial structure, the commercial and regulatory environment in which we operate, our competitors and an investors perspective.
Visits to our business operations are also a feature of Non-Executive and Executive Directors induction programmes.
76 GSK Annual Report 2018 Leadership and effectiveness continued The 2018 Board and Committees evaluation process was conducted 2018 Internal evaluation of the Board internally by the Company Secretary who: The Board carries out an evaluation of its performance and the interviewed each Director with a small number of focused performance of its Committees every year which is facilitated questions: externally every third year.
The progress of the Board against drew all the responses together from the information gathered the outcomes of the 2017 external evaluation, which was and discussed the outcomes and recommendations with the facilitated by Ms Ffion Hague of Independent Board Evaluation, Chairman: and is disclosed below.
following discussion with the Board as a whole, identified areas of focus and improvement for the Board which are set out below.
Further improvements and areas of focus for the Board were identified and are set out below.
Board performance action points for 2019 Further improvements Areas of focus for 2019 Succession planning for the Board The SID is running the search process for the next Chairman supported by a global executive search firm.
Attendance at the Nominations Committee for this process has been expanded to include all Non-Executive Directors.
Further details are set out on page 78.
The Nominations Committee has also been progressing the search for a successor for Judy Lewent, the Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee.
Oversight of R&D and pipeline revival and key business development The Board will continue to monitor the performance of R&D and the pipeline transactions, and the proposed Consumer Healthcare joint venture and the integration and operation of the key business development transactions with Pfizer including: Tesaro, 23andMe, Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany.
It will also be reviewing and overseeing arrangements for the proposed Consumer Healthcare joint venture with Pfizer.
Building Board relationships and culture in line with the CEOs culture Continuing the evolution of the Boards culture and building relationships as the work across the Group membership has changed is an important area of focus especially with the impending Chairman succession.
Further enhancing the Boards decision-making and ways of working Opportunities to further enhance the Boards decision-making and ways of working will continue to be considered to ensure that the Board can operate as effectively as possible.
2018 Board performance Progress against the conclusions of the 2017 Board evaluation review is set out below.
Areas of focus for 2018 Progress Achievements A review of R&D strategy following the appointment of the new The Board reviewed and approved Dr Hal Barrons new approach to R&D which Chief Scientific Officer and President, R&D was announced with the companys Q2 results.
The new approach focused on science relating to the immune system, the use of genetics and investments in advanced technologies.
Enhancing the Boards focus and decision making by agreeing The Board agreed clear priorities for focus during 2018 and was pleased its clear priorities to focus on each year to have achieved them.
Succession planning at senior executive and Board level The Board reviewed Executive and Non-Executive Director succession planning, and succession processes are continuing to replace the Audit & Risk Committee Chair.
Following the Chairmans decision to step down from the Board, the SID is leading the succession process for the Chairman, in collaboration with the Non-Executive Directors.
Further details on Chairman succession are set out on page 78.
Building Board relationships and culture in line with the CEOs The Board was especially busy in 2018, but continues to build relationships and culture work across the Group evolve its culture as its membership changes.
