77 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Nominations Committee report Dear Shareholder In the last few years, the Committee has been thoughtful in its Philip Hampton approach to refreshing the Board and replacing retiring directors.
Nominations Committee Chair More recently, the Committee has supported Emma Walmsley since her appointment as CEO in 2017 in her refreshment of the senior leadership team to drive the delivery of her IPT priorities for the Role long-term benefit of shareholders, patients and our other key The Committee reviews and recommends to the Board: stakeholders.
the structure, size and composition of the Board and Executive management succession the appointment of Directors, members to the Board Committees and the CET In my Committee report last year, I shared insights on the recruitment succession to the Board and the CET.
of several key senior executive appointments.
This included Dr Hal Barron, who joined the Board as Chief Scientific Officer and President, R&D on 1 January 2018 to bring a fresh approach to our Membership R&D business.
This process has continued this year and reflects Committee members Committee member since positively both on a strong pipeline of top talent in the organisation Philip Hampton Chair from 27 January 2015 27 January 2015 and, also, the ability to attract high-quality external hires to bring new Vindi Banga 1 January 2016 perspectives and approaches from outside the business.
Lynn Elsenhans 27 January 2015 Iain Mackay joined the Board from HSBC, to be our next Chief Judy Lewent 8 May 2014 Financial Officer when Simon Dingemans our current CFO steps Urs Rohner 1 January 2017 down from the Board as planned in May 2019.
Our CFO succession process is described in more detail below.
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 1 October 2012 until 3 May 2018 When Simon informed the Board of his intention to leave the company, the Committee engaged Egon Zehnder, which specialises Details of the Committee members skills and experience are given in their biographies under Our Board on pages 69 and 70.
See page 72 in the recruitment of high-calibre executives, to carry out a targeted for Committee member attendance levels.
internal and external search for his successor.
The Committee compiled a role profile for the next CFO which set out the desired The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee skills.
Other attendees at Committee meetings may include: In the Committees view, a potential successor to Simon would require a strong technical grasp of reporting, internal controls, Regular Attends as and cost and capital discipline.
He she would be familiar with Attendees attendee required international long cycle businesses, M&A execution and, though Chief Executive Officer not essential, an understanding of manufacturing and R&D.
Finally, Head of Human Resources a successor should be an effective business partner to the CEO, Appropriate external advisers a proven communicator with shareholders and possess a strong set of personal values.
Advisory services Egon Zehnder initiated a thorough global search against this agreed During the year, Egon Zehnder provided recruitment profile which yielded a pool of candidates, which was then reduced consultancy services to the Committee, in addition to to a shortlist of several potential internal and external candidates.
recruitment and HR services which they provide to the These shortlisted candidates met and were subsequently interviewed company.
The Committee supports the engagement of by the companys Audit & Risk Committee Chair, the CEO, the executive search firms, such as Egon Zehnder, who have Remuneration Committee Chair and me, and our feedback on each signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct on gender candidate was compiled.
The Committee also received the CEOs diversity and best practice.
Egon Zehnder is also one of the analysis of the candidates and that of the Head of HR.
The process 13 executive search firms to be accredited in 2018 under the culminated with the Committee meeting to agree a recommendation Enhanced Code of Conduct, by meeting exacting performance to the Board that Mr Iain Mackay be appointed the next CFO.
The criteria and best practice standards in gender-balanced recommendation received unanimous Board approval.
On 7 August selection for FTSE 350 boards.
2018, it was announced that Iain would join the Board as an Executive Director with effect from 14 January 2019.
The Board was pleased to welcome Iain to GSK.
He is a proven CFO of a complex, regulated global bank, from his eight years as Group Finance Director at HSBC.
He brings tremendous finance experience from different sectors from his time at HSBC, General Electric, Schlumberger Dowell and Price Waterhouse where he trained.
He is a strong leader with a track record of driving cost, cash and capital allocation discipline to deliver the strategy.
In addition to the new CFO, the Committee has also reviewed the following internal senior executive appointments to the CET.
78 GSK Annual Report 2018 Leadership and effectiveness continued Nominations Committee report continued James Ford was appointed SVP, General Counsel on 1 August Progress towards our female Board representation and combined 2018, succeeding Dan Troy who had performed the role at GSK Executive Committee and Direct Reports targets of at least 33% for 10 years.
James was previously SVP and General Counsel for by 2020 was published in the FTSE Women Leaders 2018 report, Global Pharma.
Through his 23-year career with GSK, he has which is reproduced below: gained wide-ranging legal experience including investigations, Female Representation as at 30 June 2018 complex corporate transactions and litigation in senior roles across Combined Executive 2018 Report Female Committee and Direct the US, Asia and the UK.
Representation Metrics Board Reports Roger Connor was appointed President, Vaccines on 1 September 2020 FTSE 100 target 33.0% 33.0% 2018 succeeding Luc Debruyne, who in the last five years of his GSK 45.5% 2017 41.7% 32.5% 2017 25.7% 27 year career at GSK had been President, Vaccines.
Roger has FTSE 100 average 30.2% 2017 27.7% 27.0% 2017 25.2% been on the CET since 2012 as President, Global Manufacturing FTSE 100 highest 50.0% 2017 44.4% 47.0% 2017 47.0% & Supply and led the strategic transformation of GSKs supply chain to support improved quality and supply performance.
He has a As at the date of this Report we have 41.7% women on our Board proven track record of leading a complex, global organisation, 2017 38% and 21% women on our Corporate Executive Team developing organisational capability and driving cultural 2017 21%.
Our female Board representation will return to 45.5% when Simon Regis Simard was appointed President, Pharmaceutical Supply Dingemans steps down from the Board on 8 May 2019.
Regis was previously SVP, Global Closing this gap between the Board and CET gender representation Pharma Manufacturing and joined GSK in 2005 as a site director and further increasing the pipeline of female direct reports to the in France, having in the past worked in the electronics, medical CET to achieve our 2020 target, is a particular area of attention.
We are pleased that good progress has been made, such that at this Diana Conrad has been appointed to succeed Claire Thomas stage we are now almost in line with our 2020 target on combined as SVP, HR from 1 April 2019 to lead the HR function.
executive committee and direct reports.
The representation of women in management positions at GSK is illustrated on page 28, Board composition and diversity as part of the gender diversity of GSKs global workforce.
The Board has sought to balance its composition and that of its We are in line with the Parker Reports recommendation.
Committees and to refresh them progressively over time so that I have decided to step down from the Board.
Our SID, Vindi Banga, they can benefit from the experience of longer serving Directors, is leading the process to identify my successor.
More details are and the fresh external perspectives and insights from newer recent given below.
Non-Executive Directors are drawn from a wide range of industries Chairman succession: A search process for the next Chairman and backgrounds, including the pharmaceuticals industry and R&D, is underway supported by a global executive search firm.
The next vaccines, consumer products and healthcare, medical research and Chairman will oversee delivery of the next phase of the companys academia, and insurance and financial services, and have a wealth strategy, continuing to strengthen the pharmaceutical business of experience of complex organisations with global reach.
Many of whilst demerging the consumer business formed through the our Board members have experience of long-cycle industries, which integration of the Pfizer business with that of GSK.
A specification is of assistance in understanding the industry in which we operate.
has been agreed covering the key skills, experience and personal characteristics deemed desirable for the role and we are also We are committed to the diversity of our Boardroom just as GSK engaging with shareholders to gather their views.
The selection is committed to equal opportunities for all our employees at all levels committee for this process has been expanded to include all of the organisation.
The Board and management seek to encourage Non-Executive Directors.
a diverse and inclusive culture throughout GSK.
A key requirement of an effective board is that it comprises a Vindi Banga range and balance of skills, experience, knowledge, gender and Senior Independent Director independence, with individuals who are prepared to challenge each other and work as a team.
This needs to be backed by a diversity of Committee evaluation personal attributes, including character, intellect, sound judgement, honesty and courage.
The Committees annual evaluation exercise was internally facilitated by the Company Secretary, who interviewed Committee members on The Committee is responsible for developing measurable objectives behalf of the Committee Chair.
It was concluded that the Committee to support the implementation of the Boards diversity policy, continued to operate effectively.
In terms of enhancements, the including gender, and monitoring progress towards the achievement Committee would seek to augment its appointment process of these objectives.
Our diversity policy is in line with the measurable for the appointment of scientific and financial experts by co-opting targets set out in the: subject matter experts to advise the Committee.
Hampton-Alexander Review to increase the number of women in senior leadership positions in all FTSE 350 companies: and Philip Hampton Parker Review Commissions report Beyond One by 21 to Nominations Committee Chair increase ethnic diversity appointments on the boards of FTSE 11 March 2019 100 companies.
