89 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Relations with stakeholders Engagement activities In the performance of its legal duty to promote the success of the Emma and Simon maintain a continual and active dialogue with company, the Board has regard to a number of factors, including institutional shareholders on performance, plans and objectives listening to and considering the views of shareholders and other key through a programme of regular meetings.
During the year, they held stakeholders and is cognisant of the potential impacts of decisions it a total of 83 individual meetings with major shareholders and they makes on our stakeholders, the environment and the communities in have hosted a total of 27 group meetings with major shareholders which we operate.
Our principal Board Committees have delegated powers that enable Philip Hampton also meets with major shareholders to hear their a more in-depth assessment of the impacts of the companys wider views and discuss issues of mutual importance.
He then engagement with stakeholders.
It also provides a means of communicates their views to the rest of the Board.
During the year, identifying emerging stakeholder-related issues that can be brought he held six individual meetings with major shareholders on a range to the attention of the Board, which in turn enables us to further of issues.
Our Senior Independent Non-Executive Director SID invest in activities to build trust in our reputation for operating and our other Non-Executive Directors are available to meet with responsibly to deliver on our purpose.
Engagement with the companys main stakeholder groups, including We normally hold a governance event at the end of each year with our patients, shareholders, consumers, customers and employees, at institutional shareholders, key investment industry bodies and all levels of the organisation and across the enterprise is summarised influential proxy advisory firms, at which the Chairman, SID and on page 11.
The Boards interactions with two of the companys main each of our Committee Chairs discuss particular areas of focus stakeholder groups shareholders and people are set out in more associated with our corporate governance, corporate responsibility detail below.
The governance event for 2018 was cancelled as the company was in possession of inside information All shareholders ahead of its announcement of the proposed joint venture with Pfizers consumer healthcare business.
We try to engage with shareholders in several ways.
This includes regular communications, the AGM and other investor relations On an continuing basis, our Investor Relations department, activities.
We announce our results on a quarterly basis and our with offices in London and Philadelphia, acts as a focal point for annual results are included in our Annual Report.
All shareholders communication with institutional investors.
Our Company Secretary receive an Annual Summary which advises them that our Annual acts a focal point for communications on corporate governance Report and Notice of our Annual General Meeting are available.
We also have a small central Corporate Responsibility CR team which coordinates strategy, policy development and reporting Our major shareholders specifically with respect to CR.
The team communicates with socially responsible investors and other stakeholders.
During the year, after publication of our quarterly results, the CEO, Emma Walmsley, and CFO, Simon Dingemans, gave presentations Our retail shareholders to institutional investors, analysts and the media by webcast teleconference.
In July, Emma and Dr Hal Barron held an R&D update The Company Secretary acts as a focal point for retail investors and event at which they announced a new approach to R&D that is manages key relationships with the companys registrars, Equiniti in designed to capitalise on the assets in the companys promising the UK and The Bank of New York Mellon, who administer our ADR early-stage pipeline and build the next wave of growth for GSK for programme in the US.
the benefit of patients and shareholders.
This update to our major shareholders concluded with a Q&A session.
