71 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Our Corporate Executive Team Brian McNamara Karenann Terrell Emma Walmsley CEO, GSK Consumer Healthcare Chief Digital & Technology Officer Chief Executive Officer Brian joined the CET in 2016, when he was Karenann joined GSK and the CET in 2017 as Simon Dingemans appointed CEO, GSK Consumer Healthcare.
Chief Digital & Technology Officer, responsible for Chief Financial Officer He joined GSK in 2015 as Head of Europe our technology, digital, data and analytics strategy.
and Americas for GSK Consumer Healthcare, Iain Mackay Previously, she worked for Walmart as Chief following the creation of a Joint Venture between Chief Financial Officer Designate Information Officer.
Prior to this, she was at GSK and Novartis.
Previously, he was head Baxter International, where she was Chief Dr Hal Barron of Novartis OTC division.
Brian began his Information Officer, and before that Daimler Chief Scientific Officer career at Procter and Gamble.
Karenann began her and President, R&D Brian is a Board Member of the World Selfcareer at General Motors.
Medication Industry Association, serving as For biographical details, see pages 68 and 69 Karenann is a member of the board of trustees Chairman from February 2017 to March 2019, for the New York Hall of Science and in 2017 she and is a Board Member of the Consumer Goods became a Non-Executive Director of Pluralsight Forum.
He earned an undergraduate degree LLC.
She earned graduate and post-graduate in Electrical Engineering from Union College degrees in Electrical Engineering from Kettering Roger Connor in New York and an MBA in Finance from the and Purdue Universities respectively.
President, Global Vaccines University of Cincinnati.
Claire Thomas Roger joined the CET in 2013.
He was appointed Luke Miels Senior Vice President, Human Resources President of GSK Global Vaccines in 2018.
President, Global Pharmaceuticals In addition to leadership of the Vaccines business, Claire was appointed to the CET as Senior Luke joined GSK and the CET in September he is responsible for GSKs global procurement Vice President, Human Resources in 2008.
2017 as President, Global Pharmaceuticals, organisation.
Previously, he was President, She joined the Company in 1996 as Senior responsible for our commercial portfolio of Global Manufacturing & Supply and, before Manager, Human Resources, Sales and medicines and vaccines.
that, Vice President, Office of the CEO and Marketing Group, UK Pharmaceuticals before Corporate Strategy.
Roger joined GSK in 1998 Previously, he worked for AstraZeneca as Executive becoming Director of Human Resources for from AstraZeneca.
Vice President of their European business and, UK Pharmaceuticals in 1997.
She was appointed prior to that, was Executive Vice President of Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Roger holds a degree in Mechanical and Global Product and Portfolio Strategy, Global Pharmaceuticals Europe in 2001, and Senior Manufacturing Engineering from Queens Medical Affairs and Corporate Affairs.
Before Vice President, Human Resources, University, Belfast and a Masters in Manufacturing then, he held roles of increasing seniority at Roche Pharmaceuticals International in 2006.
and Sanofi-Aventis in the US, Europe and Asia.
Prior to GSK, Claire worked for the Ford Motor He is a member of the Board for ViiV Healthcare.
Company, holding various positions in Human James Ford Luke holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Resources.
She has a Bachelor of Science Senior Vice President & General Counsel Biology from Flinders University in Adelaide and degree in Economics, Management and Industrial an MBA from the Macquarie University, Sydney.
Relations from the University of Wales.
James joined the CET in 2018, when he was appointed Senior Vice President and General David Redfern Phil Thomson Counsel.
He joined GSK in 1995 and has served Chief Strategy Officer President, Global Affairs as General Counsel Consumer Healthcare, General Counsel Global Pharmaceuticals, David joined the CET as Chief Strategy Officer Phil joined the CET in 2011.
He was appointed Vice President of Corporate Legal and Acting in 2008 and is responsible for corporate President, Global Affairs in 2017, with Head of Governance, Ethics and Compliance.
Previously, responsibility for the Groups strategic approach he was Senior Vice President, Northern Europe to reputation, policy development and stakeholder Prior to GSK, James was a solicitor at Clifford with responsibility for GSKs pharmaceutical engagement.
He holds a law degree from businesses in that region and, prior to that, University of East Anglia and a Diploma in Previously, Phil was Senior Vice President, he was Senior Vice President for Central and Competition Law from Kings College.
He is Communications and Government Affairs.
He joined GSK in 1994. qualified as a solicitor in England and Wales, Phil is Chairman of The Whitehall & Industry and is an attorney at the New York State Bar.
David was appointed Chairman of the Board Group and a Board Member of the ChinaBritain of ViiV Healthcare Limited in 2011 and a Nick Hirons Business Council.
He earned his degree in Non-Executive Director of the Aspen Pharmacare Senior Vice President, Global Ethics English, History and Russian Studies from Holdings Limited Board in 2015.
and Compliance Bachelor of Science degree from Bristol University and is a Chartered Accountant.
Nick was appointed to the CET in 2014 as Senior Vice President, Global Ethics and Compliance, Regis Simard responsible for compliance, risk management, President, Pharmaceuticals Supply Chain corporate security and investigations.
Regis joined the CET in 2018, when he became Nick joined GSK in 1994 as an International President, Pharmaceuticals Supply Chain.
He was later Head of Audit & Assurance, He is responsible for the manufacturing and where he combined five audit functions into an supply of GSKs pharmaceutical products.
independent team with a common risk-based He also leads Quality and Environment, Health, methodology.
In 2013, Nick relocated to China Simon Dingemans will step down from the Safety and Sustainability at a corporate level.
to establish a governance model for our China CET on 31 March 2019 and Iain Mackay business that created a consistent approach Regis joined GSK in 2005 as Site Director will take formal responsibility as CFO from to compliance.
at Notre Dame fide Bondeville, rising to become 1 April 2019.
Senior Vice President of Global Pharmaceuticals Nick is a fellow of the Chartered Institute Manufacturing before his current role.
Previously, Luc Debruyne, Dan Troy and Sir Patrick of Management Accountants.
he held senior positions at Sony, Konica Minolta Vallance were members of the CET before and Tyco Healthcare.
He is a member of the leaving the company in December 2018, Board for ViiV Healthcare.
He is a mechanical January 2019 and March 2018 respectively.
engineer and holds an MBA.
