68 GSK Annual Report 2018 Our Board Board composition Gender diversity Composition Board At date of publication Board At close of AGM on 8 May 2019 Executive 33.3% Male 58.3%Male 54.5% Non-Executive 66.7%Female 41.7%Female 45.5% Tenure Non-Executive Executive Executive Up to 3 years 25%Male 75%Male 66.7% 3-6 years 50%Female 25%Female 33.3% 7-9 years 25% Non-Executive Non-Executive Male 50%Male 50% International experience Female 50%Female 50% Global 83% US 100% Europe 92% EMAP 67% Philip Hampton 65 Emma Walmsley 49 N Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Nationality Nationality British British Appointed Appointed 1 January 2015.
Deputy Chairman from 1 April 2015 and Non-Executive 1 January 2017.
Chief Executive Officer from 1 April 2017 Chairman from 7 May 2015 Skills and experience Skills and experience Prior to her appointment as GSKs CEO, Emma was the CEO of GSK Prior to joining GSK, Philip chaired major FTSE 100 companies, including Consumer Healthcare, leading its creation as a Joint Venture between The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc and J Sainsbury plc.
He has also GSK and Novartis in March 2015 solely owned by GSK since June 2018. served as Group Finance Director at Lloyds TSB Group plc, BT Group plc, Emma joined GSK in 2010 from LOreal, having worked for 17 years BG Group plc, British Gas plc and British Steel plc.
Philip was previously in a variety of roles in Paris, London, New York and Shanghai.
an Executive Director of Lazards and a Non-Executive Director of RMC Emma holds an MA in Classics and Modern Languages from Oxford Group Plc and Belgacom SA.
Until 2009, he was Chairman of UK Financial University.
Investments Limited, which manages the UK Governments shareholdings External appointments in banks.
Philip was Senior Independent Director of Anglo American Plc Emma co-chairs the Consumer, Retail and Life Sciences Council, a business between 2014 and 2018, having served on its Board since 2009. advisory group for the UK Government, and is an Honorary Fellow of the External appointments Royal Society of Chemistry.
Philip is Chair of the Hampton-Alexander Review of FTSE Women Leaders, an independent review on improving gender balance in FTSE leadership.
Simon Dingemans 55 As announced in January 2019, Philip will step down as Non-Executive Chief Financial Officer Chairman and the Board has started the process of identifying his successor.
Chief Financial Officer from 1 April 2011 Skills and experience Prior to joining GSK, Simon had over 25 years of experience in investment banking at SG Warburg and Goldman Sachs.
Simon advised GSK for over a decade before his appointment and was closely involved in a number of GSKs key strategic projects.
Simon was previously Chairman of the 100 Group of Finance Directors between 2014 and 2016.
Key External appointments Simon is a Trustee of The Donmar Warehouse.
Committee Chair Simon will step down from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM N Nominations on 8 May 2019.
A Audit & Risk R Remuneration S Science C Corporate Responsibility 69 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Iain Mackay 57 Dr Vivienne Cox 59 Chief Financial Officer Designate Independent Non-Executive Director & Workforce R C Engagement Director Nationality British Nationality British Appointed 14 January 2019.
Chief Financial Officer from 1 April 2019 Appointed 1 July 2016 Skills and experience Prior to joining GSK, Iain was Group Finance Director at the global bank Skills and experience HSBC Holdings plc, a position he held for eight years.
A chartered Vivienne has wide experience of business gained in the energy, natural accountant, Iain has worked in Asia, the US and Europe and before HSBC resources and publishing sectors.
She also has a deep understanding of was at General Electric, Schlumberger Dowell and Price Waterhouse.
She worked for BP plc for 28 years, in Britain and continental Europe, in posts including Executive Vice President External appointments and Chief Executive of BPs gas, power and renewable business and its Iain is a Trustee of the British Heart Foundation and a member of the Court alternative energy unit.
Vivienne was previously a Non-Executive Director of the University of Aberdeen.
of BG Group plc and Rio Tinto plc and Lead Independent Director at the Iain holds an MA in Business Studies and Accounting, and an Honorary UK Governments Department for International Development.
Vivienne was Doctorate from Aberdeen University in Scotland.
appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire in the 2016 New Year Honours for services to the UK Economy and Sustainability.
Dr Hal Barron 56 External appointments Chief Scientific Officer and President, R&D Vivienne is Senior Independent Director of Pearson plc, a Non-Executive Director of Stena AB and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Vallourec.
Nationality She is an Advisory Board Member of the African Leadership Institute, American Chair of Rosalind Franklin Institute, Vice President of the Energy Institute Appointed and a member of the advisory board of Montrose Associates.
Vivienne sits 1 January 2018 on the Global Leadership Council of Sad Business School, Oxford and is Patron of the Hospice of St Francis.
Skills and experience Prior to joining GSK, Hal was President R&D at Calico LLC California Life Company, an Alphabet-funded company that uses advanced technologies Lynn Elsenhans 62 C N A to increase understanding of lifespan biology.
Prior to joining Calico, Hal was Independent Non-Executive Director Executive Vice President, Head of Global Product Development, and Chief Nationality Medical Officer of Roche, responsible for all the products in the combined American portfolio of Roche and Genentech.
At Genentech, he was Senior Vice President of Development and Chief Medical Officer.
Hal was a NonAppointed Executive Director and Chair of the Science & Technology Committee 1 July 2012 at Juno Therapeutics, Inc until March 2018, when it was acquired by Skills and experience Celgene Corporation.
Lynn has a wealth of experience of running a global business and significant External appointments knowledge of the global markets in which GSK operates.
She served as Hal is Associate Adjunct Professor, Epidemiology & Biostatistics, University Chair, President and Chief Executive Officer of Sunoco Inc from 2009 to of California, San Francisco.
He is also a Non-Executive Board Director of 2012.
Prior to joining Sunoco in 2008 as President and Chief Executive GRAIL, Inc, an early cancer detection healthcare company and a member Officer, Lynn worked for Royal Dutch Shell, which she joined in 1980, and of the Advisory Board of Verily Life Sciences LLC, a subsidiary of where she held a number of senior roles, including Executive Vice President, Alphabet Inc.
Lynn was previously a NonExecutive Director of Flowserve Corporation, the First Tee of Greater Manvinder Singh Vindi Banga 64 Houston, and a Trustee of the United Way of Greater Houston.
N A R Senior Independent Non-Executive Director External appointments Lynn is a Non-Executive Director of Baker Hughes, a GE company, and Nationality Chair of its Audit Committee, as well as a Board Director of Saudi Aramco.
British In addition, Lynn is a Director of the Texas Medical Center.
Appointed 1 September 2015 and as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director from 5 May 2016 Skills and experience Prior to joining GSK, Vindi spent 33 years at Unilever plc, where his last role amongst several senior positions was President of the Global Foods, Home and Personal Care businesses, and a member of the Unilever Executive Board.
Vindi sat on the Prime Minister of Indias Council of Trade & Industry from 2004 to 2014, and was on the Board of Governors of the Indian Institute of Management IIM, Ahmedabad.
Vindi is also the recipient of the Padma Bhushan, one of Indias highest civilian honours.
Vindi has been a Non-Executive Director of Thomson Reuters Corp, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Mauser Group and Senior Independent Director of Marks & Spencer Group Plc.
External appointments Vindi is a Partner at private equity investment firm Clayton Dubilier & Rice, Chairman of Kalle GmbH, a Director of High Ridge Brands Co and a member of the Holdingham International Advisory Board.
Vindi is a Non-Executive Director of the Confederation of British Industry CBI, sits on the Governing Board of the Indian School of Business, Hyderabad and the Global Leadership Council of Sad Business School, Oxford and is a member of the Indo UK CEO Forum.
Vindi is Chair of the Board of Trustees of Marie Curie.
70 GSK Annual Report 2018 Our Board continued Dr Laurie Glimcher 67 Judy Lewent 70 A N R S Independent Non-Executive Director and Scientific & Medical Expert Independent Non-Executive Director A S Nationality American Nationality American Appointed 1 April 2011 Appointed 1 September 2017 Skills and experience Judy has extensive knowledge of the global pharmaceutical industry and Skills and experience of corporate finance, having joined Merck & Co in 1980 and then served In addition to a number of senior leadership positions held at both Harvard as its Chief Financial Officer from 1990 to 2007 when she retired.
Judy Medical School and Harvard School of Public Health, Laurie also served served as a Non-Executive Director of Dell Inc, Quaker Oats Company and as Stephen and Suzanne Weiss Dean and Professor of Medicine at Weill Motorola Inc, and held Non-Executive Directorships at Purdue Pharma Inc, Cornell Medical College and as an Attending Physician at the New York Napp Pharmaceutical Holdings Limited and certain Mundipharma Presbyterian Hospital Weill Cornell Medical Center.
Laurie stepped down International Limited companies until 2014. from the Board of Bristol-Myers Squibb Co BMS in 2017 after serving for 20 years on its Board.
Laurie brings scientific and public health expertise The Board has determined that Judy has recent and relevant financial to the Boards deliberations, and a wealth of global, publicly listed, experience, and agreed that she has the appropriate qualifications and pharmaceutical business experience.
background to be an audit committee financial expert.
External appointments External appointments Laurie is currently Professor of Medicine at Harvard Medical School and is Judy is a Non-Executive Director of Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc and CEO, President and an Attending Physician at the Dana-Farber Cancer Motorola Solutions Inc. She is also a Trustee of the Rockefeller Family Trust, Institute.
a life member of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Corporation, a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and a member Laurie is a member of the US National Academy of Sciences and the National of the Business Advisory Board of twoXAR.
She is a member of the Scientific Steering Committee of the Parker Institute for Cancer Immunotherapy and a Non-Executive Director of the Waters Corporation, where she also serves on its Corporate Urs Rohner 59 Governance Committee.
In addition, Laurie is co-founder and Chair of the R N Independent Non-Executive Director Scientific Advisory Board of Quentis Therapeutics Inc. She is a Scientific Nationality Advisory Board member of Repare Therapeutics Inc, Abpro Therapeutics Swiss and Kaleido Biosciences Inc.
Appointed Dr Jesse Goodman 67 1 January 2015 Independent Non-Executive Director and Scientific & Medical Expert Skills and experience C S Urs has a broad range of business and legal experience having served as Chairman on a number of Boards, most recently for Credit Suisse, a Nationality world-leading financial services company.
Prior to joining Credit Suisse in American 2004, Urs served as Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO of ProSieben Appointed and ProSiebenSat.
This followed a number of years in private 1 January 2016 practice at major law firms in Switzerland and the US, having been admitted to the bars of the canton of Zurich in Switzerland in 1986 and the state of Skills and experience New York in the US in 1990.
Jesse previously served in senior leadership positions at the US Food and Drug Administration FDA, including most recently as the FDAs External appointments Chief Scientist and previously as Deputy Commissioner for Science and Urs is Chairman of the Board of Credit Suisse Group AG and of its Public Health and as Director of the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Chairmans and Governance Committee.
He is also Chairman and member Research CBER.
of the Board of Trustees of Credit Suisse Research Institute and Credit Suisse Foundation.
Urs was appointed Vice-Chairman of the Governing Jesse played a leadership role in developing the FDAs Regulatory Science Board of the Swiss Bankers Association in 2015. and Medical Countermeasures Initiatives and has worked collaboratively with industry, academia, government and global public health and regulatory partners to prepare for and respond to major public health threats, including emerging infectious diseases, disasters and terrorism.
He led the FDAs response to West Nile Virus and to the 2009 H1N1 influenza pandemic and served on the Senior Leadership Team for the 2010 White House Medical Countermeasure Review.
Jesse brings scientific and public health expertise to the Boards deliberations.
External appointments Jesse, currently Professor of Medicine at Georgetown University, directs the Georgetown University Center on Medical Product Access, Safety and Stewardship COMPASS and is an active clinician who serves as Attending Physician in Infectious Diseases.
He also serves as President and Member of the Board of the United States Pharmacopeia USP, a member of the Regulatory and Legal Working Group of the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations CEPI and of the US National Academy of Medicine.
Jesse is a member of the Board of Intellia Therapeutics, Cambridge, MA.
