79 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Accountability Audit & Risk Committee report Dear Shareholder In the following pages of this report we aim to share insights into the Judy Lewent activities undertaken or overseen by the Committee during the year.
Audit & Risk Committee Chair The Committee has worked largely to a recurring and structured programme of activities.
I devise this programme with the Company Role Secretary and agree its content with management and the external auditor at the start of each year.
It is then adapted as appropriate The Committee reviews and is responsible for: as the year progresses.
financial and internal reporting processes Financial reporting the integrity of the financial statements, including the Annual Report and quarterly results announcements The integrity of the financial statements, including the Annual Report the system of internal controls and quarterly results announcements, is a key focus for the Committee.
This includes the Committees assessment of the identification and management of risks and external and effectiveness of the internal controls over financial reporting.
internal audit processes The Committee reviewed, at least quarterly, the companys significant initiating audit tenders, the selection and appointment of accounting matters, including contingent consideration liabilities, external auditor, setting their remuneration and exercising revenue recognition and accruals for returns and rebates, oversight of their work.
restructuring, tax and accounting for significant transactions, as well as the impact of changes to accounting standards.
Membership The Committees position has always been to aim for clear and transparent financial disclosure in GSKs financial reporting and Committee members Committee member since to support a proactive approach that is in step with or ahead of Judy Lewent Chair from 1 January 2013 1 April 2011 guidance and requirements from regulators.
In line with prior years, Vindi Banga 1 January 2016 the Committee continued to review compliance with the latest Lynn Elsenhans 1 January 2014 guidance and endorsed management proposals to further improve Dr Laurie Glimcher 1 September 2017 disclosures particularly around the use of Alternative Performance Measures in GSKs 2018 preliminary results and the Annual Report.
Details of the Committee members financial, accounting or scientific experience and expertise are given in their biographies under Our Board External auditor on pages 69 and 70.
See page 72 for Committee member attendance levels.
After a competitive tender exercise Deloitte LLP were appointed The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee and the companys new auditor at the 2018 AGM, replacing attends all meetings.
The entire Board is invited to attend the  LLP, after a smooth transition exercise Committee meetings and other attendees include: with minimal disruption to the business.
I have maintained a strong working relationship with the new audit partner throughout the Regular Attends as Attendee attendee required transition and during the 2018 audit process.
Management and Deloitte have also worked closely together, so that Deloitte could General Counsel develop a deep understanding of GSKs business that it could bring Group Financial Controller to bear during the 2018 Group audit.
We have welcomed the new Head of Audit & Assurance perspectives and the challenge that Deloitte has brought to the audit.
Head of Global Ethics and Compliance We are also pleased to have observed further improvements in audit Chief Medical Officer quality and efficiencies that have resulted from Deloittes deployment Chief Product Quality Officer of data analytics.
External auditor In accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has determined that Judy Lewent has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board has also agreed that she has the appropriate qualifications and background to be an audit committee financial expert as defined by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and has determined that she is independent within the meaning of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
The Committee has, as a whole, competence relevant to the sector in which the company operates.
80 GSK Annual Report 2018 Accountability continued Audit & Risk Committee report continued Enterprise risk framework and strategies: During the year, the Internal framework for control and risk Committee considered GSKs Enterprise risks and the strategies management developments to address them.
These reviews were undertaken through: This is another core area of focus for the Committee.
In 2018, the annual business unit risk and assurance update reports: following developments in Global Ethics and Compliance GEC, the enterprise risk strategy papers for each of our most significant business units, and across the enterprise, continued to strengthen risks: our controls and culture of compliance and risk management.
annual risk reviews contained in the Risk Management & Internal Technology user access controls: As part of the Committees Control Report which is presented by the Head of GEC.
role in assessing the effectiveness of the internal controls over financial reporting, certain technology systems and the associated As part of its review, the Committee assesses whether the key infrastructure were identified for further focus and consideration Enterprise risks affecting the unit are being managed and mitigated in by the Committee especially around user access management.
The Committee examines whether it is satisfied Throughout the year, the Committee closely monitored the Groups with the control environment, its operation and effectiveness and plans to address the control findings identified.
In addition, a further whether refinements that management propose to ensure the programme was implemented and completed in 2018 to identify and environment remains fit for purpose are appropriate.
It also assesses validate the additional layers of controls the Group has established the commitment of the business units leadership to maintain a strong to mitigate this risk area, as well as some further enhancements to controls culture.
Each business reported on key Internal Control Framework ICF Enterprise risk management enhancements: The Committee improvements and simplification activities to further improve how has also overseen the launch of a new Enterprise risk management we manage risks.
ERM cycle, which provides an end-to-end approach to planning, Pharmaceuticals: An overall Pharmaceuticals Leadership Team mitigation and reporting of key Enterprise risks: Risk Management and Compliance Board RMCB was established, introducing Enterprise risk plans ERP for each business, and providing an improved governance structure better aligned to the the Global support function, which set out its risk appetite and organisation and strengthening connections between the regional tolerance, the expected controls, mitigation actions and and country RMCBs.
In addition, the Distributor Control Framework monitoring.
The Risk Oversight Compliance Council approves was designed and implemented by Export Markets, simplifying and the Committee reviews executive summaries of these ERPs: management monitoring and enabling our third-party audits to focus on high risk distributors.
The General Manager confirmation process a controlled process of adaptions for ERPs has been established continued to be a key focus with targeted discussions at RMCBs, a to achieve an appropriate balance between managing Enterprise better understanding of global mitigation actions, and accountability risks on a consistent basis, while providing a measure of riskfor local control efforts.
In addition, a Site Director confirmation was based flexibility for various parts of the organisation where justified: run for the first time in 2018 with the End 2 End supply chain review.
making Enterprise risk reports more data-focused to generate Vaccines: Comprehensive risk reviews were carried out for key more informed discussion of risk exposure and mitigation: and assets such as Shingrix and Bexsero.
The GEC Independent the Committee agreed to separate Information protection into Business Monitoring team also conducted its first review of Vaccines two separate Enterprise risks Information security and Privacy.
focusing on high risk areas primarily within commercial, medical and external R&D, with confirmation that controls are working as Privacy: During the year, the Privacy Centre of Excellence delivered intended.
Monitoring of sites through the corporate Environment, a change programme to improve and sustainably manage GSKs Health, Safety & Sustainability EHSS Assurance Group was also data privacy compliance, whilst ensuring compliance with the established and an R&D mapping exercise was performed to General Data Protection Regulation that became law in May 2018. evaluate the need for IBM in key business activities.
No gaps were This included: identified, and the next verification exercise is planned for 2019. the implementation of a new control framework: Consumer Health: Key risk themes from monitoring and audit remediation of certain existing business activities, including findings were reviewed to identify high risk areas for enhanced risk adopting privacy controls, such as privacy contract terms, written management and low risk areas for clearer guidance and policy records of processing activities, and data protection impact simplification.
An improved management monitoring toolkit was assessments: and developed as well as a new tool assessing country risk, incorporating culture, commercial and qualitative criteria.
a comprehensive training programme to drive greater expertise, awareness and accountability for managing personal information across the entire organisation.
Further details on our approach to data privacy issues is given on page 31.
81 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Audit & Risk Committee report continued Emerging risks: For a number of years the Committee has been The A&A team has conducted 18 Values Assurance Reviews VARs considering emerging risks at each scheduled meeting.
This year, during 2018 to test how well our values and expectations are these discussions were enhanced by the results of the Audit & embedded in the organisation.
These have identified follow up Assurance A&A teams Political, Economic, Social, Technological, action areas including: creating an environment where people are Legal and Environmental PESTLE external analysis of emerging comfortable to speak up: continuing to develop managers leadership risks.
The Committee is also examining the leveraging of new capabilities: addressing perceptions of complexity and continuing technology and risk scanning services to better support identification to drive simplification efforts: and raising awareness of GSKs of emerging risks.
expectations and what they mean in the context of an employees roles.
Written standards: During 2018 a review of GSKs most important, global written standards has been undertaken to further simplify GEC has continued to focus on people development and building and harmonise written standards and controls to make them easier capabilities, including: to access and understand.
Ethics and Compliance Academy: A Virtual Academy run on a quarterly basis.
Monitoring and compliance activities Anti-bribery and corruption ABAC : The ABAC training strategy Monitoring is a key element of our ICF.
It provides a continuous evolved to provide tailored and targeted modules based on source of insights that inform improvements in the control environment employees roles and responsibilities, with a particular emphasis and there was significant focus by each of our businesses in this on further enhancing the skills of those who conduct high risk area in 2018.
This included consolidated and streamlined business business activities on behalf of the company.
monitoring and improved coordination between Enterprise risk Privacy certification: The privacy function offered a globally owners, businesses and monitoring groups.
In addition, a new Travel recognized professional privacy certification from the International and Expenses system was implemented with control enhancements Association of Privacy Professionals.
utilising artificial intelligence and enhanced data analytics.
Code of Conduct: The annual mandatory training on our Code During 2018, GEC introduced an Early Case Assessment phase of Conduct was delivered in two parts and focused on living our to its investigation process.
This empowers an investigator to quickly values and expectations and ABAC.
This was supplemented by determine the most appropriate action, improve the quality of the the introduction of microlearning modules that can be taken at investigation and ensure a more productive use of resources.
The Investigations team have sought to further increase trust in our Speak Up channel arrangements by updating processes to Committee evaluation promote better quality decision making and improved monitoring The Committees annual evaluation was internally facilitated by of lead indicators.
In addition, the Investigations training and the Company Secretary who interviewed Committee members on education programme has been improved with more investigation behalf of the Committee Chair.
It was concluded that the Committee work performed in-house.
This has resulted in a significant reduction continued to operate effectively.
In terms of enhancements, it was in the cost of external support.
In 2018, a further 70 HR, Compliance agreed to continue: and Legal based employees have been trained in investigative interviewing techniques.
the good progress made during 2018 in ensuring Committee papers are concise and accessible to facilitate productive GSK Values & Expectations discussion: and These are a high priority for the Committee.
During the year, a range to work with the Nominations Committee on succession planning of employee resources were introduced to promote awareness, for the Committee Chair and for Board and Committee members help facilitate discussions and bring values and expectations to life with financial experience.
These resources included Living our Values and Expectations discussion guides, expectations descriptors and Lets Talk channels.
In April 2018, GEC updated GSKs Code of Conduct to make it shorter, simpler and easier to use.
Judy Lewent Audit & Risk Committee Chair 11 March 2019 82 GSK Annual Report 2018 Accountability continued What the Committee did during 2018 Areas of Committee focus Items discussed Frequency Financial Reviewed integrity of draft financial statements, appropriateness of accounting policies and going concern A reporting assumptions Considered approval process for confirming and recommending to the Board that the 2017 Annual Report A is fair, balanced and understandable Reviewed and recommended to the Board approval of the 2017 Annual Report and Form 20-F A Reviewed and approved Directors expenses A Reviewed and recommended approval of quarterly and preliminary results announcements, dividends Q and earnings guidance Reviewed significant issues in relation to the quarterly and preliminary results Q Reviewed and recommended inclusion of the Viability Statement in the 2017 Annual Report A Reviewed the financial reporting framework and disclosure arrangements A Reviewed major restructuring reports Q Reviewed accounting developments and their impacts as well as key accounting issues P External Canvassed observations of the outgoing Audit Partner on the company, the Committee and the Finance organisations S auditor Reviewed and approved audit non-audit expenditure incurred during 2017 A Considered the auditors report on the 2017 annual results A Performed evidence-based assessment of external auditor and the effectiveness of 2017 external audit A Considered qualifications, expertise and independence of the external auditor A Recommended to the Board the appointment of Deloitte and for the Committee to agree auditors remuneration A Approved the 2018 audit plan and fee proposal and set performance expectations for auditor for the year A Considered non-audit services fees for 2018 and the 2019 audit budget A Considered initial results of 2018 external audit P Considered internal control over financial reporting A Global internal Reviewed assurance reports from Global Pharmaceuticals including R&D and ViiV Healthcare, Vaccines A control and Consumer Healthcare, as well as the Global Support functions & compliance A Reviewed GSKs internal control framework and controls over financial reporting P Reviewed Technology access controls and closely monitored plans to address control findings identified and the programme to validate mitigation Confirmed compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley Act A Received independent external evaluation outcomes of Audit & Assurance P Reviewed Audit & Assurance work during 2017 and approved the planned work for 2018 A Reviewed the US Corporate Integrity Agreement P Reviewed implementation of the enhancements to the Healthcare professional engagement policy P Reviewed General Data Protection Regulation readiness and compliance P Received litigation reports and updates S Received reports on continuing investigations and on Anti-bribery and corruption ABAC issues S Risk Reviewed risk management framework compliance A Reviewed the risk elements of group treasury, pensions, risk and insurance and tax policies A Agreed a new approach to enterprise risk management P Received status reports on each of the companys 11 Enterprise Risks these Risks are disclosed on pages 34 and 35 P P Received fraud, site security and cyber security risk assessment update P Received updates on the implications and planning for Brexit S Received Risk Oversight and Compliance Council ROCC meeting updates S Considered emerging risks Governance and Confirmed compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code A other matters Reviewed the Committees terms of reference and confirmed that they had been adhered to during 2018 A Received corporate governance updates P A Reviewed the Committees performance and effectiveness P Reviewed and approved the Groups Modern Slavery Act Statement A Reviewed the companys gender pay gap disclosures P Met privately and separately with the Heads of Global Ethics & Compliance, Audit & Assurance, and the General Counsel S Met privately with the external auditor at the end of each meeting as appropriate A Q P S Committee Activity Key Annually Quarterly Periodically Standing 83 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Significant issues relating to the financial statements In considering the quarterly financial results announcements and the financial results contained in the 2018 Annual Report, the Committee reviewed the significant issues and judgements made by management in determining those results.
The Committee reviewed papers prepared by management setting out the key areas of risk, the actions undertaken to quantify the effects of the relevant issues and the judgements made by management on the appropriate accounting required to address those issues in the financial statements.
The significant issues considered in relation to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 are set out in the following table, together with a summary of the financial outcomes where appropriate.
In addition, the Committee and the external auditor have discussed the significant issues addressed by the Committee during the year and the areas of particular audit focus, as described in the Independent Auditors Report on pages 128 to 139.
Significant issues considered by the Committee in relation to the financial statements How the issue was addressed by the Committee Going concern basis for the preparation The Committee considered the outcome of managements half-yearly reviews of current and forecast net of the financial statements debt positions and the various financing facilities and options available to the Group.
Following a review of the risk and potential impact of unforeseen events, the Committee confirmed that the application of the going concern basis for the preparation of the financial statements continued to be appropriate.
Revenue recognition, including returns The Committee reviewed managements approach to the timing of recognition of revenue and accruals for and rebates RAR accruals customer returns and rebates.
The US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines accrual for returns and rebates was 4.4 billion at 31 December 2018 and the Committee reviewed the basis on which the accrual had been made and concurred with managements judgements on the amounts involved.
A fuller description of the process operated in the US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business in determining the level of accrual necessary is set out in Critical accounting policies on page 63.
Provisions for legal matters, including The Committee received detailed reports on actual and potential litigation from both internal and external investigations into the Groups legal counsel, together with a number of detailed updates on investigations into the Groups commercial commercial practices practices.
Management outlined the levels of provision and corresponding disclosure considered necessary in respect of potential adverse litigation outcomes and also those areas where it was not yet possible to determine if a provision was necessary, or its amount.
At 31 December 2018, the provision for legal matters was 0.2 billion, as set out in Note 29 to the financial statements, Other provisions.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions The Committee considered current tax disputes and areas of potential risk and concurred with managements judgement on the levels of tax contingencies required.
At 31 December 2018, a tax payable liability of 1.2 billion, including provisions for uncertain tax positions, was recognised on the Groups balance sheet.
Impairments of intangible assets The Committee reviewed managements process for reviewing and testing goodwill and other intangible assets for potential impairment.
The Committee accepted managements judgements on the intangible assets that required writing down and the resulting impairment charge of 134 million in 2018.
See Note 19 to the financial statements, Other intangible assets for more details.
Valuation of contingent consideration The Committee considered managements judgement that following the further improved sales in relation to ViiV Healthcare performance of Tivicay and Triumeq it was necessary to increase the liability to pay contingent consideration for the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture.
At 31 December 2018, the Groups balance sheet included a contingent consideration liability of 5.9 billion in relation to ViiV Healthcare.
See Note 39 to the financial statements, Contingent consideration liabilities for more details.
ViiV Healthcare put option The Committee reviewed and agreed the accounting for the Pfizer put option and concurred with managements judgement on the valuation of the put option of 1.2 billion at 31 December 2018.
84 GSK Annual Report 2018 Accountability continued Auditors appointment Finally, the Committee considered feedback on the 2018 external External auditor audit through a survey that sought views from the financial Following an audit tender process conducted by the Committee management team at corporate and business unit level.
It covered: which concluded in December 2016, Deloittes appointment as effectiveness of challenge by the auditor, their integrity and the auditor of the company and the Group was approved by the transparency of their reporting to management and the shareholders at the GSK AGM in May 2018.
There were no Committee: contractual or similar obligations restricting the Groups choice of clarity of communication by the auditor and their ways of working: external auditor.
alignment of the 2018 audit to the Groups investment in SAP: Deloitte observed , PwC work as GSKs previous statutory auditor during the 2017 year end auditing quality of the audit teams leadership: and process.
A full report on the transition process between PwC skills and experience of the audit team.
and Deloitte is included on pages 103 and 104 in GSKs 2017 Annual Report.
Having reviewed all this feedback, and noted any areas of improvement to be implemented in respect of the team on the The Committee considers that during 2018, the company has 2019 audit, the Committee: complied with the mandatory audit processes and audit committee responsibility provisions of the Competition and Markets Authority was satisfied with the effectiveness of the auditor and the external Statutory Audit Services Order 2014. audit process: and was satisfied with the auditors independence, qualifications, Effectiveness and quality of external audit process objectivity, expertise and resources.
The Committee is committed to ensuring on an ongoing basis that The Committee therefore recommended to the Board the reGSK receives a high quality and effective audit from its external appointment of Deloitte at the forthcoming AGM.
In evaluating Deloittes performance during 2018, prior to making a recommendation on their re-appointment in early 2019, the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of their performance against the criteria which it agreed, in conjunction with management, at the beginning of 2018.
The criteria are set out on page 85.
In undertaking this review, the Committee considered the overall quality of the audit, the independence of Deloitte and whether they have exhibited an appropriate level of challenge and scepticism in their work.
Because Deloitte had recently been appointed GSKs auditor, their length of tenure was not taken into account when assessing their independence and objectivity.
85 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Auditors appointment continued The detailed criteria the Committee used for judging the effectiveness of Deloitte as the external auditor and their overriding responsibility to deliver a smooth-running, thorough and efficiently executed audit for 2018 are set out below: Performance expectations for GSKs external auditor 2018 Audit approach Leverage a centrally controlled audit approach, ensuring that GSKs group, joint ventures and local statutory entities were audited and strategy once and once only Refine a consistent technology-led audit with enhanced risk assessment and analytical procedures, providing insights that combine data trend analysis, process cycle pathways, and the identification of audit risks, ensuring a well-informed and efficient audit Deliver a focused and consistent audit approach globally that reflects local risks and materiality High quality Adhere to all independence policies GSKs, FRCs 2016 Revised Ethical Standard and applicable SEC standards independent audit Maintain a relentless focus on audit quality and Deloittes internal quality control procedures Provide timely clarity on assessments of accounting treatments and ensure consistency of advice at all levels Maintain a forward-thinking approach by raising potential issues or concerns as soon as identified Provide timely up-to-date knowledge of technical and governance issues, including evolving market practice on the viability statement requirements, ESMA SEC guidelines and new IFRSs i. e. IFRS 16 Serve as an industry resource, communicating best practice trends in reporting and integrated reporting Provide high quality and succession planning of key staff members of Deloitte and ensure their technical skillsets are continuously enhanced Effective Deliver a smooth running, thorough and efficiently executed audit by: partnership Discussing approach and areas of focus in advance and early engagement on understanding the implications of the new operating model Ensuring SOX scope and additional procedures are discussed and endorsed by corporate management and communicated on a timely basis within GSK and Deloitte Avoiding surprises through timely reporting of issues at all levels within the Group Early engagement on and provision of impact assessments of key judgements Ensuring clarity of roles and responsibilities between local Deloitte and Finance Services Responding to any issues raised by corporate management on a timely basis Meeting agreed deadlines Providing sufficient time for management to consider draft auditor reports and respond to requests and queries Consistent and timely communication and engagement between local and central audit teams, and across all GSK stakeholder groups Liaise with Audit & Assurance to avoid duplication of work and Global Ethics and Compliance to ensure a common understanding of audit outcomes, adopting a collaborative approach to solving issues Ultimately provide a high-quality service to the Board, be scrupulous in their scrutiny of the Group and act with utmost integrity Auditor Ensure a seamless, effective, and efficient auditor transition from PwC to Deloitte by maximising the use of relevant information provided transition by PwC in respect of the 2016 and 2017 audits of the company and its subsidiaries in relation to the audit of the Groups consolidated accounts Value for Work closely with management to agree on scope changes, overruns and efficiencies and set clear milestones for continuous monitoring money Provide transparency of audit time and cost incurred analysis against budget, identifying areas that will enable reduction in audit hours without compromising audit quality and commensurately reducing audit fees 86 GSK Annual Report 2018 Accountability continued Non-audit services Where possible, other accounting firms are engaged to undertake Pre-approval: The category-wide pre-approval process reflects non-audit services.
the restrictions in the FRCs 2016 Guidance on Audit Committees, so that all non-audit services: Where the external auditor is permitted to provide non-audit services such as audit-related, tax and other services, in accordance with over 50,000 are pre-approved by the Committee Chairman GSKs policy contained in GSKs Finance Manual, the Committee and CFO as delegated by the Committee: ensures that auditor objectivity and independence are safeguarded between 25,000 and 50,000 are pre-approved by the by requiring pre-approval by the Committee.
Group Financial Controller: and The following core policy guidelines on engaging the external auditor under 25,000 are approved by a designate of the Group to provide non-audit services are observed: Financial Controller.
Process: ensuring all non-audit services over 50,000 are put Fees paid to the companys auditor and its associates are set out out to competitive tender with financial service providers other below.
Further details are given in Note 8 to the financial statements, than the external auditor, in line with the Groups procurement Operating profit.
process, unless the skills and experience of the external auditor make them the only suitable supplier of the non-audit service under consideration: Audit non-audit services three year comparison graph m Safeguards: ensuring adequate safeguards are in place so that the objectivity and independence of the Group audit are not threatened or compromised: and 2018 26.2 1.93.9 Deloitte Fee cap: ensuring that the total fee levels do not exceed 50% of the annual audit fee, except in special circumstances where there would be a clear advantage in the companys auditor undertaking 2017 1.9 such additional work.
27.7 PwC The companys current policy complies with the Financial Reporting Councils FRC 2016 Revised Ethical Standard and the EU Audit Regulation and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
The policy contains 2016 3.5 26.6 PwC the following three guidelines: Fee cap: GSKs policy cap of 50% of the annual audit fee cap is 0 10 20 30 40 more stringent than the FRCs fees cap set at 70% of the average Audit and assurance services fees for the preceding three-year period.
Other services, including tax, regulatory, compliance and Prohibitions: GSKs policy includes a black list of prohibited treasury-related services non-audit services.
Fair, balanced and understandable assessment One of the key compliance requirements of a groups financial Code of Conduct and reporting lines statements is for the Annual Report to be fair, balanced and We also have a number of well-established policies, including understandable.
The coordination and review of Group-wide a Code of Conduct, which are available on the Governance section contributions into the Annual Report follows a well-established of our website, together with details of our confidential Speak Up and documented process, which is performed in parallel with reporting lines for the reporting and investigation of unlawful the formal process undertaken by the external auditor.
An updated version of the Code of Conduct was last published in April 2018.
The Committee received a summary of the approach taken by management in the preparation of GSKs 2018 Annual Report to ensure that it met the requirements of the FRCs 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code.
This enabled the Committee, and then the Board, to confirm that GSKs 2018 Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
t R o e P s r p o s o b d l n r e d a m i d n n s s g a l t o S r t n n e o t t C i M M r W o & a g n n n i i t a r o o g t r i i e n T n e h o t e c m g n n m G t a h S e r e g s K u i n s s s v m r a s e t e l a v u n s o e t i s 87 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Internal control framework The Board recognises its obligation to present a fair, balanced A fit for purpose Framework, in conjunction with our corporate and diligent assessment of GSKs current position and prospects.
values, expectations and Speak Up processes, ensures that the risks The Board is accountable for evaluating and approving the associated with our business activities are actively and effectively effectiveness of the internal controls, including financial, operational controlled in line with the agreed risk appetite.
We believe the and compliance controls, and risk management processes operated Framework provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against by GSK.
The Internal Control Framework the Framework is a comprehensive The Groups Risk Oversight and Compliance Council ROCC, a enterprise-wide risk management model and the means by which team of senior leaders, is mandated by the Board to assist the GSK ensures the reliability of financial reporting and compliance Committee in overseeing risk management and internal control with laws and regulations.
The Framework supports the continuous activities.
It also provides the business with a framework for risk process of the Boards identification, evaluation and management of management and upward escalation of significant risks.
Each the Groups Principal Risks, as required by the Financial Reporting business unit has a risk board structure which reports to the ROCC.
Councils FRCs UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, and The business unit Risk Management and Compliance Boards is designed to manage the risk of not achieving business objectives.
RMCBs are responsible for promoting the local tone from the top and risk culture, as well as ensuring effective oversight of internal controls and risk management processes.
Each Principal Risk has an assigned risk owner who is a member The Framework of senior management.
The risk owner is accountable for the management of his her respective Principal Risk, including the setting of risk mitigation plans, their implementation and for reporting on the risk management approach and progress to the ROCC and the Committee every year.
The ROCC and the RMCBs are assisted by Global Ethics and Compliance GEC, which is responsible for advancing risk management across the enterprise and for the development of working practices that are risk-based and ethically sound.
GEC actively promotes ethical behaviours through enabling all members of the organisation to operate in accordance with our values, and to comply with applicable laws and regulations.
Audit & Assurance A&A, in line with an agreed assurance plan, provides independent assurance to senior management and the Business Activities Board on the effectiveness of risk management across the Group.
This assurance helps senior management and the Board to meet their oversight and advisory responsibilities in fulfilling the Groups strategic objectives and building trust with patients and other stakeholders.
A&A has a dual reporting line into the Chief Financial Officer and the Committee.
The Committee receives regular reports from business units, Principal Risk owners, GEC and A&A on areas of significant risk to the Group and on related internal controls.
These reports provide an assessment on the internal control environment within each Principal Risk area, including enhancements to strengthen the control environment.
Following the consideration of these reports, the Committee concludes on the effectiveness of the internal control environment and reports to the Board annually.
In accordance with the FRCs Code provisions, the Board, through the authority delegated to the Committee, has conducted a robust assessment of the Groups Principal Risks.
This includes the consideration of the nature and extent of risk it is willing to take in achieving the Groups strategic objectives.
The Board, through the Committee, has maintained oversight to ensure the effectiveness of the internal control environment and risk management processes in operation across the Group for the whole year, and up to the date of the approval of this Annual Report.
n s s e a s e u i n e r d d b p k n s r e e e t s x t s p n p C n i e e E e A R c d o t d n a t n I i m o e n p s m e d u n n I t i d n c n e a a t m i e o e n n i c l p r i o c f s n i D E T r a i n i n g Responsibility for implementing 88 GSK Annual Report 2018 Accountability continued Internal control framework continued The Boards review focuses on the company and its subsidiaries and A review of the Groups risk management approach is further does not extend to material associated undertakings, joint ventures discussed in the Risk management section of the Strategic report or other investments, although it considers the risk of the companys on pages 34 to 36.
Our management of each Principal Risk is participation in these activities.
There are established procedures explained in Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 241 to 250. and controls in place to identify entities whose results must be The Groups viability is discussed in the Group financial review consolidated with the Groups results.
We believe the process section of the Strategic report on page 37. followed by the Board, through the Committee, in reviewing regularly the system of internal controls and risk management processes is in accordance with the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting issued by the FRC.
Governance structure of risk management Responsible for our system of corporate Board of Directors governance, strategy, risk management and financial performance Responsible for reviewing and approving Audit & Risk Committee the adequacy and effectiveness of our risk management and internal controls Supports the CEO in managing our business Corporate Executive Team and activities Authorised by the Board to assist the Audit Risk Oversight and & Risk Committee in overseeing the risk Compliance Council management and internal control activities of the Group Responsible for our system of corporate Business units governance, strategy, risk management and financial performance Ensure that appropriate internal controls for Risk Management and effective risk management are implemented Compliance Boards Complemented by Country Executive Risk Boards to ensure a consistent approach to risk management across local territories Accountability for monitoring
