79 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Accountability Audit & Risk Committee report Dear Shareholder In the following pages of this report we aim to share insights into the Judy Lewent activities undertaken or overseen by the Committee during the year.
Audit & Risk Committee Chair The Committee has worked largely to a recurring and structured programme of activities.
I devise this programme with the Company Role Secretary and agree its content with management and the external auditor at the start of each year.
It is then adapted as appropriate The Committee reviews and is responsible for: as the year progresses.
financial and internal reporting processes Financial reporting the integrity of the financial statements, including the Annual Report and quarterly results announcements The integrity of the financial statements, including the Annual Report the system of internal controls and quarterly results announcements, is a key focus for the Committee.
This includes the Committees assessment of the identification and management of risks and external and effectiveness of the internal controls over financial reporting.
internal audit processes The Committee reviewed, at least quarterly, the companys significant initiating audit tenders, the selection and appointment of accounting matters, including contingent consideration liabilities, external auditor, setting their remuneration and exercising revenue recognition and accruals for returns and rebates, oversight of their work.
restructuring, tax and accounting for significant transactions, as well as the impact of changes to accounting standards.
Membership The Committees position has always been to aim for clear and transparent financial disclosure in GSKs financial reporting and Committee members Committee member since to support a proactive approach that is in step with or ahead of Judy Lewent Chair from 1 January 2013 1 April 2011 guidance and requirements from regulators.
In line with prior years, Vindi Banga 1 January 2016 the Committee continued to review compliance with the latest Lynn Elsenhans 1 January 2014 guidance and endorsed management proposals to further improve Dr Laurie Glimcher 1 September 2017 disclosures particularly around the use of Alternative Performance Measures in GSKs 2018 preliminary results and the Annual Report.
Details of the Committee members financial, accounting or scientific experience and expertise are given in their biographies under Our Board External auditor on pages 69 and 70.
See page 72 for Committee member attendance levels.
After a competitive tender exercise Deloitte LLP were appointed The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee and the companys new auditor at the 2018 AGM, replacing attends all meetings.
The entire Board is invited to attend the  LLP, after a smooth transition exercise Committee meetings and other attendees include: with minimal disruption to the business.
I have maintained a strong working relationship with the new audit partner throughout the Regular Attends as Attendee attendee required transition and during the 2018 audit process.
Management and Deloitte have also worked closely together, so that Deloitte could General Counsel develop a deep understanding of GSKs business that it could bring Group Financial Controller to bear during the 2018 Group audit.
We have welcomed the new Head of Audit & Assurance perspectives and the challenge that Deloitte has brought to the audit.
Head of Global Ethics and Compliance We are also pleased to have observed further improvements in audit Chief Medical Officer quality and efficiencies that have resulted from Deloittes deployment Chief Product Quality Officer of data analytics.
External auditor In accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has determined that Judy Lewent has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board has also agreed that she has the appropriate qualifications and background to be an audit committee financial expert as defined by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and has determined that she is independent within the meaning of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
The Committee has, as a whole, competence relevant to the sector in which the company operates.
