Corporate Governance report This report should be read in conjunction with the Directors Report and the remainder of the Governance section Board governance and structure The Chief Financial Officer attends Roles and responsibilities Overview allmeetings of the Board and Audit This governance report sets Committee.
The Company Secretary Chairman Leading the Board outhowGlencore has applied the attends all meetings of the Board Shaping the culture in mainprinciples of the UK Corporate and its committees.
theboardroom Governance Code the Code in a Division of responsibilities Promoting sound and effective manner which enables shareholders As a Jersey incorporated company, Board governance to evaluate how these principles Glencore has a unitary Board, Ensuring effective communication have been applied.
The Board with shareholders meaning all Directors share equal believes that the Company has Leading the annual performance responsibility for decisions taken.
throughout the year complied with evaluation of the Board Glencore has established a clear allrelevant provisions contained division between the respective Senior Independent Director inthe Code, except for provision responsibilities of the Non-Executive Acting as confidant of the A.
4.1. which requires the Board to Chairman and, when appropriate, Chairman and the Chief Executive appointone of the Independent as an intermediary for other Officer, which are set out in Non-Executive Directors to be independent Directors aschedule of responsibilities theSenior Independent Director.
Acting as Chair of the Board if approvedby the Board.
While Theposition was vacant between theChairman is unable to attend theNon-Executive Chairman Leading the Chairmans the time of MrPeter Grauers isresponsible for leading the performance appraisal along departure in March2018 and the Boardsdiscussions and decisionwithother independent Directors appointment ofMr Martin Gilbert making, the CEO is responsible Answering shareholders queries asSenior Independent Director in forimplementing and executing when usual channels of May 2018 and during MrGilberts strategy and for leading Glencores communication are unavailable leave of absence from 16May to operating performance and Chief Executive Officer 10October 2018. day-to-day management.
Leading the management team Ms Gill Marcus was appointed as a TheCEOand CFOhave line of Developing the Groups strategy Non-Executive Director on 1 January sightacross the Group.
The CEO inconjunction with the Board 2018.
Mr Peter Grauer retired on 3 isfurthersupported by the Groups Implementing the decisions oftheBoard and its Committees March 2018.
Since then the Board senior management team principally Achieving the Groups commercial has comprised seven Non-Executive comprising theGeneral Counsel, objectives Directors including the Chairman theheads ofthebusinesses and Developing Group policies and and one Executive Director.
The Company ensuring effective implementation ofthe current Directors, with their Secretary is responsible for Other Non-Executive Directors briefbiographical details and ensuringthat there isclear and Challenging the Chief Executive othersignificant commitments, effective information flow to Officer and senior management isprovided in the previous pages.
constructively Further details of these Bringing an independent mindset and a variety of backgrounds and responsibilities are set out opposite.
experience around the Board table Providing leadership and Board attendance throughout the year challengeas chairs or members Attendance during the year for all scheduled full agenda Board and all Board ofthe BoardCommittees, which Committee meetings is set out in the table below: exceptHSEC comprise only Non-Executive Directors Board Audit Remuneration Nomination HSEC Assisting the Senior Independent of 6 of 4 of 2 of 3 of 5 1 Director in assessing the Chairmans Anthony Hayward 6 2 5 performance and leadership Peter Coates 6 5 Company Secretary Leonhard Fischer 6 4 2 3 Ensuring that Board procedures 2 Martin Gilbert 4 3 1 arecomplied with and that papers Ivan Glasenberg 5 4 are provided in sufficient detail 1 Peter Grauer 1 1 1 andon time Informing and advising the John Mack 6 2 3 Boardon all governance matters Gill Marcus 6 4 3 Informing the Board on all 2 Patrice Merrin 6 1 1 5 mattersreserved to it Assisting theChairman and the 1 Mr Grauer retired from the Board on 3 March 2018 and was present for all Board and Committee meetings untilthat date.
Subsequently, Dr Hayward was appointed as Chair of the Nomination Committee.
Board regardingthe annual 2 Mr Gilbert was granted a leave of absence between 16 May 2018 and 10 October 2018.
During this period performance evaluation process MsMerrin attended the Audit and Remuneration Committee meetings in his place.
In addition, there were another three limited agenda meetings of the Board.
98 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Tenure Gender Board diversity and experience 12 yrs Male 36 yrs Female 79 yrs 10 yrs Tony Ivan Martin Leonhard Peter John Gill Patrice 1 Hayward Glasenberg Gilbert Fischer Coates Mack Marcus Merrin British S. African British German Australian American S. African Canadian Experience Resources Non-executive directorship C-suite Global transactions Technical Skills Leadership & Strategy Financial Expertise Ethics & Governance Health & Safety Investor Relations Communications &Reputation Risk Management 1 Mr Glasenberg was appointed CEO and Director of Glencore International AG in 2002, and Glencore plc in 2011.
Senior Independent Director Management of conflicts of interest resolution approving the transaction, Martin Gilbert is the Senior All Directors endeavour to avoid as noted above.
Additionally, Independent Non-Executive anysituation of conflict of interest theBoard seeks advice whenever Director.
He is available to meet with the Company.
Potential anassessment is to be made as to withshareholders and acts as an conflicts can arise and therefore whether any material transaction intermediary between the Chairman processes and procedures are in may be a related party transaction and other independent Directors place requiring Directors to identify under the terms of FCA Listing when required.
This division of and declare any actual or potential Rule11.
responsibilities, coupled with the conflict of interest.
Any such Transactions between the Group schedule of reserved matters for notifications are required to be andits significant joint ventures and theBoard, ensures that no individual madeby the Directors prior to, associates are summarised in Note has unfettered powers of decision.
orat, a Board meeting and all 32 to the Financial Statements.
Directors have a duty to update Non-Executive Directors thewholeBoard of any changes in Acquisition and disposal of assets The Companys Non-Executive circumstances.
Glencores Articles The Board reviews and approves Directors provide a broad range ofAssociation and Jersey law allmaterial proposed transactions, ofskills and experience to the allowfor the Board to authorise including acquisitions and Board see table above, which potential conflicts and the potentially disposalsof assets.
Additionally, assists in their roles in formulating conflicted Director must abstain theBoard assesses whether the Companys strategy and in from any vote accordingly.
During materialtransactions comply with  challenge 2018, no abstention procedures FCA Listing Rule 10 requirements.
forconflicts had to be activated.
If required, the Board may Glencore regularly assesses Related Party Transactions engageanindependent third itsNon-Executive Directors In the course of its business, partyas consultant to review the independence.
Except for Peter theGroup enters into transactions proposed transaction and provide Coates, due tohisemployment with organisations which may anindependent opinion for the bythe Group during2013, they are constitute related parties.
Board toconsider before making allregarded bythe Company adecision.
asIndependent Non-Executive All material related party Directors within themeaning transactions are required to be ofindependent as defined in the reviewed and approved by the Code and free from any business Board.
In the event that a conflict orother relationship which could exists for a Director, he or she materially interfere with the exercise willnotbe allowed to vote on the of their independent judgement.
Glencore Annual Report 2018 99 Corporate Governance report continued Board Committees A report for 2018 from each Board meetings The following permanent Chairman of the permanent The Board has approved a schedule Committees are in place to assist Committees is set out later in that sets out the matters solely theBoard in exercising its functions: thisCorporate governance report.
reserved for its approval, including Audit, Nomination, Remuneration, Group strategy, financial statements All Committees terms of reference Health, Safety, Environmental and and annual budget, risk appetite, are available at: glencore.
The Board material acquisitions and disposals.
who-we-are governance may also establish temporary Meetings are usually held at the Committees for specific purposes, Each Committee reports to, and Companys headquarters in Baar, such as the Investigations hasits terms of reference approved Switzerland.
Details of the Board Committee.
Aseach Committee by, the Board and the minutes andCommittee meetings held reports to theBoard, meetings oftheCommittee meetings are during the year are detailed below.
areheld prior toBoard meetings, circulated to the Board.
Each The Board and its Committees during which thechairman of Committee regularly review its havestanding agenda items to eachCommittee leads adiscussion termsof reference to ensure they covertheirproposed business concerning theCommittees reflect theBoards expectations attheir scheduled meetings.
activities since theprevious astothe Committees role.
TheChairman seeks to ensure that Boardmeeting.
In July 2018, following receipt of a thevery significant work of the In addition, the Board has subpoena from the US Department Committees feeds into, and benefits established a fifth permanent of Justice, the Board established as to feedback from, the full Board.
Committee, the Ethics, Compliance anInvestigations Committee to The Board and Committee meetings and Culture ECC Committee, directthe Companys response.
receive support from senior whichbegan its work in 2019.
ThisCommittee also took over the management through reports and TheECC Committee takes responsibilities of the committee presentations, which among others responsibility for ethics and established in 2017 to monitor vary from operational, financial, compliance in lieu of theaudit theinvestigation by the Ontarios audit, risk, legal and compliance, committee, and will also Secretaries Commission into governance, and investor relations.
overseetheGroups culture allegations concerning Katanga These reports and presentations andrelated matters.
Mining Limited, which led to allow Directors to further their thesettlement by Katanga in understanding of the business and December2018, as reported provide the insights necessary for onpage29.
defining the Companys strategy and objectives, in turn contributing to a more effective Board.
A summary ofthe Boards main activities during Corporate Governance 2018 is set out on the next page.
Appointment and re-election of Directors All Directors will be offering themselves for re-election at the Shareholders 2019 AGM.
All of the Non-Executive Directors have service agreements or lettersofappointment and the Elect Chief Executive Officer Directors details oftheir terms are set out in and Ongoing Chief Financial Officer the Directors remuneration report.
engagement Noother contract with the Company or any subsidiary undertaking of the Company in which any Director was materially interested existed during Audit or at the end of the financial year.
committee Information, management Board of meetings, site visits and Directors  Remuneration It is considered of great importance committee that the Non-Executive Directors attain a good knowledge of the Investigations Company and its business and committee Nomination allocate sufficient time to Glencore committee todischarge their responsibilities ECC HSEC committee effectively.
The Board calendar committee isplanned to ensure that Directors are briefed on a wide range of topics.
100 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Board activities during 2018 Below are details of the main topics which were reviewed, discussed, andwhen required, approved by the Board during 2018: Regular updates Financial & Risk Strategy Chairmans report Finance reports, forecasts Strategic objectives Reports from and capital position updates Balance sheet and CommitteeChairmen 2019 budget 202022 shareholder returns Reports from CEO, CFO, business plan M&A reviews Company Secretary, Dividend & buyback General Counsel and programmes Senior Management Financial statements Health, Safety Group performance report Group risk appetite Customer performance Group risk management &Environment dashboard framework Fatalities, major incidents and other safety issues Environmental incidents reports Human Rights and Governance Legal, Regulatory Communities reports &Stakeholders &Compliance Carbon Climate reports Annual report Group policies AGM and voting results Legal matters updates Investor relations reports and investigations Other activities Analysts updates Regulatory & Corporate governance Complianceupdates Board and Directors framework Group Compliance Programme performance Raising Concerns reports Chairmans performance Succession planning Directors are also given the Director induction and training The evaluation took place against opportunity to visit Group operations New Directors receive a full, formal thebackdrop of a difficult year and discuss aspects of the business and tailored induction on joining whichhas included major regulatory with employees, and regularly theBoard, including meetings investigations and severalchallenges meetthe heads of the Groups withsenior management.
maindepartments and other The induction process for The Board was assessed as seniorexecutives.
As well as internal GillMarcusin 2018 provided a performing well, with confidence briefings, Directors attend appropriate comprehensive introduction to also in the effectiveness of its Audit external seminars andbriefings.
theGroup, its businesses and and HSEC Committees its main Meetings with heads ofcommodities themarkets in which it operates: riskand oversight committees.
and other senior Group functions theopportunity to meet with Theevaluation was carried out take place alongsidescheduled Glencore employees, particularly whiletheBoard has been assessing Board meetings.
In addition, in senior management: and a clear what changes should be put in orderto better familiarise themselves appreciation of the Companys placeto properly address the with the industrial activities, regular principal risks.
In addition, training requirements ofthe new UK sitevisits take place.
During 2018 was provided on the roles and Corporate GovernanceCode and three operations were visited.
responsibilities of a UK listed therefore therecommendations company director and the ofthe reviewpartly reflect the All Directors have access to the Companys Code of Conduct.
conclusions of those deliberations advice and services of the Company see details onthe next page.
Secretary, who is responsible to Board effectiveness theBoard for ensuring the Board In the final quarter of 2018 an procedures are complied with, and evaluation was conducted by have access to independent and Spencer Stuart, an external professional advice at the Companys boardreview specialist.
expense, where they judge this tobenecessary to discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
Glencore Annual Report 2018 101 Corporate Governance report continued External Board evaluation 2018 The Board is subject to an independent external performance evaluation every three years.
Evaluations for 2016 and 2017 were conducted internally.
The Company engaged Spencer Stuart to conduct thereview which took place in Q4 2018.
The evaluation covered a broad range of areas Board Board Board Board Mechanics Composition Performance Committees Board Board and CEO Stakeholder New Code Communication Succession Planning Relations requirements Overview of the process Spencer Stuart Spencer Stuart Spencer Stuart Spencer Stuart Wide ranging Individual attended interviewed also interviewed interviewed Board discussion feedback Boardand all each Director the Chief thelead on the evaluation shared with permanent individually.
They Financial Officer, partner of the report and each Director Committee also provided the General Companys suitable actions including meetings commentary on Counsel and external to reflect its theChairman asobserver the Chairmans the Company auditor and findings viathe Senior and their fellow Secretary representatives Independent Directors of two Director performance institutional investors Outcome and outlook Operation Increased focus Improving Succession Engagement of Board and oncompliance engagement with planning withinvestors Committees and culture stakeholders Board and main Since January Appointing Board succession Maintain open Committees 2019, a dedicated Engagement plan now and regular performing Board Committee Directors who concentrating dialogue with effectively the Ethics willbe responsible on the Directors investors and Compliance for oversight who will reach stakeholders Incremental and Culture ofengagement the maximum improvements Consider Committee has withthe Groups recommended to operation increased been established global workforce tenure andperformance engagement to oversee discussed and Review CEO and senior from Senior compliance, agreed engagement executives Independent business ethics with other key succession Director and and corporate Increased stakeholders planning Committee culture scope of some to ensure Chairmen Committees Co-operating appropriate to reflect the with DoJ on transition of requirements of itssubpoena executives the new Code 102 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Risk Board leadership The Board provides leadership and oversight on risk management.
Specifically it: 1 2 3 provides a robust assessment reassesses the Groups monitors the Groups risk of the principal risks facing long-term viability management and internal the Group Taking account of the Groups controlsystems The Board has carried out a robust financialposition and principal risks, The Board monitors the soundness assessment of the principal risks facing theDirectors assess the prospects ofthe Groups risk management the Group, including those that would oftheGroup andconclude whether andinternal control systems and threaten its business model, future theyhave a reasonable expectation carries out regular reviews of their performance, solvency or liquidity.
thatthe Group will be able to continue effectiveness, including reviewing Thisassessment is essential in enabling inoperation andmeet its liabilities as theGroups internal financial controls.
the Board to determine the Groups they fall due over theperiod of their This monitoring and review covers all riskappetite, which is one of the critical assessment.
Theirconclusions are material controls relative tofinancial, factors used when setting the Groups setouton page26.
The Directors Further details on pages 104106. description of those risks and how theyare being managed ormitigated isset out on pages 2435.
Remuneration Accountability and audit Risk management Remuneration is covered in the Financial reporting andinternalcontrol Directors remuneration report The Group has in place a The Board has applied Principle which follows this section and comprehensive financial review C. 2of the Code by establishing a includes adescription of the work cycle, which includes a detailed continuous process for identifying, ofthe Remuneration Committee.
annual planning budgeting process evaluating and managing the risks where business units prepare that are considered significant Diversity budgets for overall consolidation bytheGroup in accordance with The diversity policy which is andapproval by the Board.
therevised Guidance on Internal appliedto appointments to our TheGroup uses a large number of Control published by the Financial administrative, management and performance indicators to measure Reporting Council.
This process supervisory bodies with regard both operational and financial hasbeen in place for the period toaspects such as, for instance, activity in the business.
Depending under review and up to the date of age, gender, or education and on the measure, these are reported approval of theAnnual Report and professional backgrounds is the and reviewed on a daily, weekly financial statements.
The process same as for all Group employees, ormonthly basis.
In addition, isdesigned to manage and mitigate asdescribed on page 47. management in the business rather thaneliminate risk, and can receives weekly and monthly only provide reasonable and not The Board is very cognisant reportsof indicators which are absoluteassurance against material oftheongoing desire from thebasis ofregular operational misstatement or loss.
The Directors stakeholders for greater diversity meetings, where corrective action confirm that they have carried out insenior management and boards.
At a Group level, arobust assessment of the principal In particular, leading UK institutional a well-developed management risks facing the Group and have shareholders have set a target accounts pack, including income reviewed the effectiveness of forwomen to comprise 30% of statement, balance sheet, cash theriskmanagement and internal seniormanagement and boards flowstatement as well as key control systems.
This review ofFTSE100companies by 2020. ratiosisprepared and reviewed excludesassociates of the Group Whilewe support the aims of monthly by management.
As part asGlencore does not have the ability diversity, we do not believe that a ofthemonthly reporting process, to dictate ormodify the internal one size fits all policy is appropriate.
areforecast of the current year controls ofthese entities.
This report Still today we find it challenging projections is performed.
To ensure describes how the effectiveness tofillsenior positions inremote consistency of reporting, the Group ofthe Groupsstructure of internal mining locations and forthe has a global consolidation system controls including financial, marketing of commodities, aswell as a common accounting operational andcompliance bywomen.
controlsand risk management Management monitors the systems is reviewed.
publication of new reporting standards and works closely with ourexternal auditors in evaluating their impact, if any.
Glencore Annual Report 2018 103 Corporate Governance report continued Katanga OSC Investigations structure, Glencores disciplined Together, central and business In November 2017, Glencore approach to risk management management risk culture aims announced the existence of a andcontrol originates with strategic tostrike an appropriate balance formalinvestigation launched by responsibility in the hands of the between the level of risk assumed theOntario Securities Commission Board, which also retains operational and the expected return.
OSC into Katanga Mining Limited authority on matters exceeding Board committees Katanga, following the completion agreed thresholds of materiality.
The Audit Committee is responsible by Katanga of an internal review The Board retains the authority for reviewing the risk management ofcertain of its historic accounting forassessing and approving the framework and internal controls.
and the restatement of Katangas Groups overall risk appetite and sets financial statements.
Mandated by the Board, the overall limits which are reviewed Auditand HSEC Committees were In December 2018, Katanga and annually.
It is assisted by the work of responsible in 2018 for ensuring theOSC entered into a settlement the Audit Committee for oversight thatthe significant risks identified agreement as described on page29.
andby senior management for are properly managed.
From 2019, day-to-day operational matters, Since the start of the investigation, the ECC Committee assumes the inorder to maintain an effective Glencore has implemented various compliance and ethics remit.
riskmanagement governance structural and control changes apparatus for the Group.
Group functions across its wider copper department Group functions Risk Management, to enhance and strengthen its Additionally, the Group General Compliance, Legal and Sustainable financial processes and procedures.
Counsel, in his capacity of Development support the Business Additionally, It has also improved HeadofCompliance, reports at Risk Owners and senior management itscompliance programme across eachscheduled meeting of the in mitigating risk across the Group.
ECCCommittee formerly to the AuditCommittee onall material Internal Audit Approach to risk management compliance risks andmatters.
Internal Audit, as an independent Effective risk management is assurance provider, reviews the risk crucialin helping the Group achieve Risk Management Framework management process and internal its objectives of preserving its Management engagement controls established by management.
overallfinancial strength for the The Companys senior management A risk-based audit approach benefit ofall stakeholders, and reviews the major risks facing the isapplied in order to focus on safeguarding its ability to continue Group and decides if the level of risk highrisk areas during the audit asa going concern, while generating fits within the appetite approved process.
It involves discussions sustainable long-term profitability.
byBoard or whether further steps withmanagement on key risk Spanning the organisational needto be taken to mitigate areasidentified in the business theserisks.
riskregisters, emerging risks, operationalchanges, new investments and capital projects.
Risk Management Framework Risk culture Board of Directors Oversight Risk strategy and appetite Audit Committee Tone from Risk governance HSEC Committee the top 1 Ethics, Compliance and Culture Committee Risk organisation Infrastructure Management team executive External disclosure Group functions incl.
Compliance Risk monitoring and reporting Internal Audit People Process Technology HSEC Assurance Risk identification Risk process Business segments Risk assessment and functions Identify Measure Mitigate Control Report Risk management Marketing Industrial HSEC risk process risk process risk process External Business Sustainability Principal risks and uncertainties Prices: Supply Legal & see pages 2435 Operating Credit Catastrophes HSEC &demand Regulatory 1 Effective from 1 January 2019.
104 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information The key results from this process Marketing risk management and expected return, which relies areforming the audit plan and Glencores marketing activities are  expert scope, which are reported to exposed to a variety of risks, such knowledge provided by business theAudit Committee for their ascommodity price, basis, volatility, heads.
This is then subject to reviewand ratification.
foreign exchange, interest rate, challenge from the CEO based on creditand performance, liquidity hisoverall Group knowledge and Industrial risk management andregulatory.
This healthy tension We believe that every employee significant resources to developing isdesigned to manage risk should be accountable for the risks and implementing policies and effectively while facilitating the related to their role.
As a result, procedures to identify, monitor fast, commercial decision-making weencourage our employees andmanage these risks.
that is required inadynamic toescalate risks not limited commodity marketingcompany.
Glencore has a disciplined and tohazards, whether potential conservative approach to Marketing Another important consideration orrealised, to their immediate Risk MR management supported ofthe MR team is the challenge supervisors.
This enables risks to by its flat organisational structure.
ofdealing with the impact of large betackled and mitigated at an Glencore continues to update and transactional flows across many earlystage by the team with implement policies that are intended locations.
The function seeks therelevant level of expertise.
to mitigate and manage commodity toensure effective supervision The management teams at price, credit and other related risks.
byitstimely and comprehensive eachindustrial operation are transaction recording, ongoing Glencores MR is managed at responsible for implementing monitoring of the transactions and anindividual, business and central processes that identifies, resultant exposures, providing all level.
Initial responsibility for risk assessesand manages risk.
encompassing positional reporting, management is provided by the and continually assessing universal Any significant risks are reported businesses in accordance with and counterparty credit exposure.
toManagement and the Audit or complementing their commercial HSEC Committee as appropriate.
A support, Key focus points ACorporate Risk Management challenge and verification role is Market Risk limits and reporting Framework is implemented provided by the central MR function The MR team provides a wide onaGroup-wide basis to ensure headed by the Chief Risk Officer arrayofdaily and weekly reporting.
consistency in the assessment CRO via its daily risk reporting Forexample, daily risk reports andreporting of risks.
andanalysis which is split by showing Group Value at Risk VaR marketand credit risk.
as shown on page 107 and various The risks that may impact on other stress tests and analysis are business objectives and plans The CEO, as the central figure of distributed to the CEO, CFO and aremaintained in a business risk commercial leadership and control, CRO.
They include strategic, drives functional risk management summaries showing positional compliance, operational and policy, supported by the CFO and exposure and other relevant metrics, reporting risks.
theCRO, with data and reporting together with potential margin call from the central risk team and requirements, are also circulated daily.
HSEC risk management theother key functional units.
The MR function strives to enhance These risk management InturntheCEOreports to, and its stress and scenario testing as well processesare managed at asset seeksauthority limits from, the as improving measures to capture level, withthesupport and guidance Board.
Themain oversight role is risk exposure within the specific fromthecentral sustainability performed by the Audit Committee areas of the business, e. g. within andHSECteams, and subject which receives a report from the CRO metals, concentrate treatment and totheleadership and oversight ateach of its scheduled meetings.
Italso approves the Group-wide riskprofile, and any exceptions to Credit Risk Management The Groups internal assurance agreed positional thresholds.
The Group continues to programme assesses compliance makeextensive use of credit with leading practices in health At the heart of the risk management enhancement tools, seeking andsafety, environment and regime is the process of continuous lettersof credit, insurance cover, communities, but mainly challenge that takes place discounting and other means  risks.
betweenthe CEO, the CRO and ofreducing credit risk from thebusiness heads which sets risk Further information is provided counterparts.
In addition, mark-toappetite inaccordance with Group inthereport from the HSEC market exposures in relation to requirements and market conditions Committee below and will hedging contracts are regularly for each commodity, subject to bepublished in the Groups andsubstantially collateralised theAudit Committees oversight.
sustainability report for 2018. primarily with cash pursuant to Theobjective is to ensure that an margining agreements in place appropriate balance is maintained withsuch hedge counterparts.
between thelevels of risk assumed Glencore Annual Report 2018 105 Corporate Governance report continued The Group-wide Credit Risk Policy Dealing with requirements arising Internal Audit reviews areas of governs higher levels of credit from recent regulatory reform, potential risk within the business riskexposure, with an established Glencore continued to implement andsuggests control solutions threshold for referral of credit the requirements of financial tomitigate exposures identified.
decisions by business heads regulatory reform, including: TheAudit Committee considers totheCFO and the CEO relating andapproves the risk-based audit The European Market Abuse tounsecured amounts in plan, areas of audit focus and Regulation MAR which affects excessof$75million with BBB resources and is regularly updated the protection and disclosure orequivalent or lower rated on audits performed and relevant ofinside information and the counterparts.
At lower levels of findings, aswell as the progress on prevention of market manipulation materiality, decisions may betaken implementing the actions arising.
bythe business heads where key The Dodd-Frank Act, the Inparticular, the Committee strategic transactions orestablished EuropeanMarket Infrastructure considered Internal Audits main relationships suggest that an Regulation EMIR and the Swiss conclusions, its KPIs and the openaccount exposure may Financial Market Infrastructure Act effectiveness and timeliness bewarranted.
FMIA which affect in particular ofmanagements responses to theareasof risk mitigation itsfindings.
Compliance Risk tradeconfirmation timeframes, The Group has dedicated Legal The Audit Committee has , portfolio andCompliance resources to assist concludedthat the Internal compression and dispute Group businesses in complying Auditfunction remains effective, resolution and trade reporting withregulatory obligations and taking into account the successful internal policies, procedures Upcoming financial regulatory review undertaken in 2017 andguidelines.
reform proposals or requirements byKPMG.
Aspartof this work, include: itconsidered thefunctions A Group compliance risk register management framework and ismaintained by Group Compliance Further requirements under itsimprovement programme.
to identify, assess and evaluate EMIRincluding mandatory compliance risks.
The risks clearing and margining Interactions with shareholders identifiedin the Group compliance requirements The Board aims to present a risk register are considered when Further requirements under FMIA balanced and clear view of the drafting policies and procedures including trade reporting, risk Groupin communications with applicable tothe business.
Group mitigation, margin requirements shareholders and believes that Compliance conducts local office and mandatory clearing beingtransparent in describing compliance riskassessments at howwe see the market and appropriate intervals to understand MIFID II including EU theprospects for the business and record compliance risks faced authorisations and position limits isextremely important.
byindividual operations as well The impact of certain aspects of asthe controls necessary to We communicate with these and other new regulations mitigatethem.
shareholdersin a number of tocommodity market participants is differentways.
Theformal reporting Group Compliance accounts potentially considerable.
The impact of our fullandhalf-year results forchanges and external factors on our marketing business will andquarterly production reports affecting the business which may largely be in the form of compliance isachieved through a combination create compliance risk, and avoids requirements with associated costs, ofreleases, presentations, group preconceptions regarding control rather than meaningful commercial callsand individual meetings.
effectiveness or integrity of limitations.
Glencores compliance, Thefullandhalf-year reporting employees or third parties.
finance, IT and risk teams continue to isfollowed byinvestor meetings work together in monitoring Furthermore, the Group conducts inavariety oflocations where andadvising management on training and awareness, with wehave institutional shareholders.
Wealsoregularly meet with existing andprospective shareholders to Internal Audit Systems and reporting update or to introduce them to the Glencore has a dedicated Internal The Group has not yet identified Company and periodically arrange Audit Activity reporting directly asingle trading system able visits to parts of the business to give tothe Audit Committee.
The role tomanage the broad range of analysts and major shareholders ofInternal Audit is to evaluate requirements that its different abetter understanding of how andimprove the effectiveness of business profiles operate within.
These riskmanagement, control, and Therefore, interfacing with multiple visits and meetings are principally businessgovernance processes, source systems and transferring undertaken by the CEO, CFO and andthus enhance and protect datafrom one system to another senior members of the Investor organisational value.
heightens risks relative to data Relations team and an array integrity, granularity, consistency ofbusiness heads.
106 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information manymajor shareholders have meetings with the Chairman Value at risk andappropriate senior personnel ofthe Group including other The Group monitors its commodity The Group remains aware Non-Executive Directors, the price risk exposure by using a oftheextent of coverage of risk Company Secretary and senior VaRcomputation assessing open exposures and their limitations.
commodity positions which are Inaddition, VaRdoes not purport subject to price risks.
VaR is one to represent actual gains or AGM ofthe risk measurement techniques lossesin fair value onearnings The Companys next AGM is due the Group uses to monitor and limit tobe incurred by the Group, nor tobe held in Zug on 9 May 2019. its primary market exposure related are these VaR results considered Fulldetails of the meeting will to its physical marketing exposures indicative of future market besetout in the AGM notice and related derivative positions.
movements or representative ofmeeting, which will be sent to VaRestimates the potential loss in ofany actual impact on its future shareholders inApril.
Shareholders value of open positions that could results.
VaR remains viewed in the unable to attend are encouraged occur as aresult of adverse market context of its limitations: notably, tovote by proxy as detailed in movements over a defined time theuse of historical data as a thenotice.
horizon, given a specific level of proxy for estimating future events, confidence.
The methodology is market illiquidity risks and risks All documents relating to astatistically defined, probability associated with longer time theAGMwill be available on based approach that takes into horizons as well astail risks.
theCompanys website at: account market volatilities, as well Recognising theselimitations the glencore.
com agm asrisk diversification benefits by Group complements and refines recognising offsetting positions and this riskanalysis through the use correlations between commodities ofstress and scenario analysis.
In this way, risks can TheGroup regularly back-tests becompared across all markets itsVaR to establish adequacy of andcommodities and risk accuracy and to facilitate analysis exposurescan be aggregated of significant differences, if any.
The Board has again approved Last year, the Board approved theAudit Committees theAudit Committees recommendation of a one day, recommendation of a one day, 95%VaR limit of $100 million 95%VaR limit of $100million for for2019.
2018, consistent with the previous VaR development $m year.
This limit is subject to review and approval on an annual basis.
80 Thepurpose of this Group limit 70 istoassist senior management 60 incontrolling the Groups overall 50 riskprofile, within this tolerance 40 threshold.
During 2018 Glencores 30 reported average daily VaR was 20 approximately $33 million, with 10 anobserved high of $76 million 0 Jan Mar May Jul Sep Nov andalow of $16 million.
2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 There were no breaches in the Metals and minerals Energy products limitduring the year.
Agricultural products Glencore Annual Report 2018 107 Corporate Governance report continued Mr Fischer and Ms Marcus served Considering the scope and Audit Committee throughout the year.
Mr Gilbert methodologies to determine the wasgranted a leave of absence Companys going concern and report fromthe Board between May and longer-term viability statements October 2018.
During that period, Reviewing and agreeing the MsMerrin served as member of the preparation and scope of the Committee.
Mr Peter Grauer retired year-end reporting process in March 2018, and participated in onemeeting prior tothis date.
All Considering applicable regulatory areconsidered to beIndependent changes to reporting obligations Non-Executive Directors and Evaluating the Groups procedures deemed to be financially literate by for ensuring that the Annual virtue of their business experience.
Report and accounts, taken as Additionally, all Committee members awhole, are fair, balanced are considered by the Board to andunderstandable haverecent and relevant financial experience and have competence Reviewing the Groups financial Chairman inaccounting.
TheCommittee held and accounting policies and Leonhard Fischer four scheduled meetings during practices including discussing theyear, which allthe then current material issues with management Other members Committee members attended.
and theexternal auditors, Martin Gilbert John Burton isSecretary to especially matters that influence Gill Marcus theCommittee.
orcould affect the presentation ofaccountsand key figures Governance processes Reviewing Glencores internal The Audit Committee usually invites financial and compliance the CEO, CFO, General Counsel, controlsand internal controls Group Financial Controller, CRO andrisk management systems andHead of Internal Audit and thelead partner from the external Considering the output from auditor to attend each meeting.
theGroup-wide processes Other members of management usedtoidentify, evaluate and the external auditor may andmitigate risks, including attendas and when required.
creditandperformance risks, OtherDirectors also usually attend acrosstheindustrial and its meetings.
The Committee marketing activities alsoholds private sessions with Monitoring and reviewing theexternal auditors and the Head theeffectiveness of Glencores ofInternal Audit without members internal controls for which there ofmanagement being present.
were no significant failings or TheCommittee has adopted weaknesses noted guidelines allowing non-audit services to be contracted with the Determining the global audit external auditors on the basis set plan, scope and fees of the audit outbelow.
work tobe undertaken by the external auditor Role, responsibilities Recommending to the Board and main activities aresolution to be put to the The primary function of the Audit shareholders for their approval Committee is to assist the Board onthe appointment of the infulfilling its responsibilities externalauditor and to authorise withregard to financial reporting, the Board to fix the remuneration external and internal audit, risk and terms of engagement of management and controls.
theexternal auditor During the year, the Committees Monitoring the independence principal work included thefollowing: ofthe external auditor and Reviewing the full-year audited, reviewing the operation of and half-year unaudited, financial theCompanys policy for the statements with management provision of non-audit services and the external auditor by it 108 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Considering and approving renewals, royalties and taxation 4.
Taxation twoassignments above the andadditional regulatory controls.
Due to its global reach, including approval threshold with the TheCommittee noted that Glencore operating in high risk jurisdictions, external auditors in respect has advised theDRC authorities the Group is subject to enhanced ofnon-audit services thatimmediate introduction of complexity and uncertainty the2018 Mining Codeis in breach inaccounting for income taxes, Evaluating the effectiveness ofthe pre-existing stabilisation particularly the evaluation of tax oftheexternal auditor provisions.
The Group willcomply exposures and recoverability Reviewing the Internal Audit withthe codes provisionsunder ofdeferred tax assets.
The departments annual audit plan protest to avoid penalties for non Committee hasengaged with and reviewing the effectiveness compliance while itinvestigates management tounderstand the ofthe Internal Audit function itsvarious options.
potential tax exposures globally andthe key estimates taken Reviewing reports on 2.
Acquisitions and disposals indetermining thepositions theoperationof the Groups Accounting for acquisitions recorded, including thestatus Compliance programme, involvessignificant management ofcommunications withlocal includingmaterial reports under judgements and estimates.
taxauthorities and the carrying the Groups Raising Concerns In2018, the Committee analysed values ofdeferred taxassets.
whistleblowing programme theaccounting treatment of theHailCreek and HVO coal, 5.
Counterparty exposures Risk analysis Volcan zinc, and ALE Combustiveis The Groups global operations The Committee receives reports oildownstream acquisitions exposeit to credit and performance andpresentations at each meeting andthe dissolution of the QIA risk, which result in the requirement on management of marketing and andRosneft strategic partnership.
to make estimates around other risks excluding sustainability recoverability of receivables, loans, 3.
Impairment risks which are reviewed by the trade advances and contractual The Committee considered HSEC Committee and at least non-performance.
As part of an whetherthe carrying value of oncea year considers an in-depth ongoing review, the Committee goodwill, industrial assets, physical study ofthe perceived main risks considered material continuing trade positions and material loans and uncertainties and the Groups exposures, the robustness of and advances may be impaired riskmanagement framework processes followed to evaluate asaresult of commodity price asawhole.
recoverability and whether the volatility and some asset specific amounts recorded in the financial factors.
TheCommittee reviewed Significant issues related statements are reasonable.
managements reports, outlining to the financial statements thebasis for the key assumptions Following its analysis of these The Committee assesses whether used in calculating the recoverable matters, the Committee satisfied suitable accounting policies value for the Groupsassets.
itself that the estimates made including the implementation Futureperformance assumptions bymanagement are reasonable ofnew accounting standards used arederived from the Board andthat financial statements IFRS9 Financial Instruments and approved business plan.
As part disclosures included in the IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts ofthe process for approval of .
withCustomers havebeen adopted thisplan, the Committee considered and whether management has the feasibility of strategic plans Compliance made appropriate estimates and underpinning future performance The Committee monitored judgements.
They also review expectations, and whether they theeffectiveness of Compliance theexternal auditors reports remain achievable.
Considerable controls through the reports outlining audit work performed focus was applied to managements itreceived from management andconclusions reached in respect commodity price and exchange ateverymeeting.
These reports ofkeyjudgements, as well as rateassumptions and their focus on key compliance risks to identifying any issues in respect sensitivities within the models.
theGroup, such as anti-corruption, ofthese.
Assets based in DRC and Zambia sanctions and money-laundering.
During the year, the Committee were subject to particular scrutiny.
They also cover updates to the hasfocused in particular on these The Committee discussed with GroupCompliance programme, key matters: theexternal auditor their work including its policies, procedures inrespect of impairment review, andguidelines, as well as updates 1.
DRC Developments which was a key area of focus onthe training and awareness The Committee considered forthem.
theimpacts of the 2018 Mining Code, which became effective on These responsibilities have now 10July 2018, including the provisions beentransferred to the new relating to mining permits and Ethics, Compliance and Culture Board Committee.
Glencore Annual Report 2018 109 Corporate Governance report continued Internal Audit Provision of non-audit services The Committee has determined The Committee monitored the bythe external auditor thatit is satisfied that the internal audit function as described The Groups policy on non-audit workofDeloitte LLP is effective, under Internal Audit on page 106. services provided by the external  and auditor is designed to ensure the significant judgements have been External Audit external auditor independence challenged robustly by the lead The Committee has evaluated andobjectivity is safeguarded.
Additionally, theeffectiveness of the external Aspecified wide range of services thereare nocontractual restrictions auditor and as part of this may not be provided as they have on theCompanys choice of assessment, has considered: the potential to impair the external externalauditor.
The Committee auditors independence Excluded hastherefore recommended to The steps taken by the auditor Services.
The Audit Committees theBoard that a proposal be put toensure their objectivity approval is required for 1 any toshareholders at the forthcoming andindependence Excluded Service 2 any other AGM forthereappointment of The deep knowledge of the engagement where either i the Deloitte LLP asexternal auditor.
Company which enhances feeis contingent, ii the fee may Deloittes ability to perform exceed $500,000, or iii where asexternal auditor thefees for allnon-audit work may Leonhard Fischer exceed $15million in a particular year.
Chairman of the Competence when handling Subject to these restrictions and Audit Committee keyaccounting and audit other safeguards inthe policy, the 28 February 2019 judgements and ability to external auditor may be permitted communicate these to the toprovide certainnon-audit services Committee and management when itisconcluded that they are The extent of the auditors the mostappropriate supplier due resources and technical toefficiency and status as a leading capabilityto deliver a robust firm for those specific services.
andtimely audit including For2018, fees paid to the external consideration of the qualifications auditor were $30 million, the total and expertise of the team non-audit fees of which were $6million: further details are Auditors performance contained in note 29 to the andprogress against the financialstatements.
agreedauditplan, including communication of changes Reappointment of the totheplan and identified risks externalauditor andtheproven stability that Deloitte has been the auditor of isgained from the continued thelisted entity since its IPO in 2011. engagement of Deloitte as In 2018, a lead audit engagement external auditor partner rotation occurred.
The benefit of lead audit Since Mr Fischer will step down partnerrotation fromthe Board by the 2020 AGM, The Committee assesses the quality anew chairman of the Audit and effectiveness of the external Committee will be appointed, audit process on an annual basis probably with effect from that date.
inconjunction with the senior The Audit Committee has concluded management team.
Key areas of that an audit tendering process focus include consideration of the should be led by its new chair.
quality and robustness of the audit, Accordingly following that identification of and response appointment the Committee toareas of risk and the experience willdetermine the timetable for andexpertise of the audit team, atenderprocess.
including the lead audit partner.
110 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Mr Mack, Mr Fischer and Ms Marcus Main activities Nomination Committee served on the Committee The Committee focused on throughout the year.
Dr Hayward twomain tasks during this year.
report was appointed as Chairman of Firstly, prior to the notice of theCommittee in May 2018 and 2018AGM being compiled, attended two meetings during theCommittee considered the theyear.
Mr Peter Grauer retired performance of each Director.
inMarch 2018, andparticipated Itconcluded that each Director inone meeting prior tothis date.
iseffective in their role and TheCommittee onlycomprises continuesto demonstrate the Independent Non-Executive commitment required to remain Directors.
The Committee met onthe Board.
Accordingly, it threetimes during the year and recommended to the Board that allmembers attended these re-election resolutions be put for meetings, when eligible.
In each Director at the 2018AGM.
addition, some of the discussions Secondly, the Committee and deliberations inrespect of the consideredthe composition Chairman matters summarised below were oftheBoard and refreshment.
Anthony Hayward carried outat Board meetings.
TheCommittee continued its JohnBurton is the Secretary of Other members workonsuccession planning.
John Mack The Committee notes Leonhard Fischer Roles and responsibilities therecommendations of the Gill Marcus The main responsibilities of the HamptonAlexander Review on Nomination Committee are to gender and the Parker Review assistthe Board with succession onethnic diversity.
It is part of planning and with the selection theCommittees policy when process for the appointment making new Board appointments ofnewDirectors, both Executive toconsider the importance of andNon-Executive, including diversity on the Board, including theChairman.
This involves: gender and ethnicity.
This is considered in conjunction with Evaluating the balance and experience and qualifications.
skills, knowledge and experience oftheBoard and identifying thecapabilities required for Anthony Hayward  Chairman of the Overseeing the search process NominationCommittee 28 February 2019 Evaluating the need for Board refreshment and succession planning generally Glencore Annual Report 2018 111 Corporate Governance report continued The Committee met five times Provided leadership for Health, Safety, during the year.
Each Committee catastrophic hazard management member served throughout which is the most important Environment theyearand attended all of the non-financial risk management &Communities meetings, except for one meeting issue for the Group HSEC report that MrGlasenberg could not attend.
Continued oversight of Everyscheduled meeting had a theSafeWork programme substantial agenda, reflecting the implementation, focusing on Committees objective of monitoring identification of fatal hazards the achievement by management andan appropriate safetyculture ofongoing improvements in HSEC performance.
John Burton is the Oversaw the operation of the Secretary of this Committee.
Groups assurance programme forsustainability matters with Responsibilities anemphasis on catastrophic The main responsibilities of the hazards and approved the Committee are: assurance plan for 2019 Ensuring that appropriate Provided ongoing support for Grouppolicies are developed managements carbon climate Chairman inline withour Values and Code policies.
Thisincluded reviewing Peter Coates ofConduct for the identification the work of the climate change andmanagement of current working group, chaired by Other members andemerging health, safety, DrHayward Ivan Glasenberg environmental, community Anthony Hayward Considered engagement with andhuman rights risks Patrice Merrin communities and NGOs on Ensuring that the policies sustainability matters areeffectively communicated Reviewed and oversaw the throughout the Company Groupssustainability report andthatappropriate processes andprocedures are developed Held an investor roadshow atan operational level to comply toinform and receive feedback and evaluate the effectiveness onthe Companys sustainable ofthese policies through: development strategy and approach to HSEC management assessment of operational performance Advised on the programme andhosted theinternal HSEC review of updated internal Summit for the year, and andexternal reports Considered a variety of other independent audits and reviews material HSEC issues such as of performance in regard to resettlement programmes, HSEC matters, and action plans incident reporting and developed by management healthstrategy inresponse to issues raised Evaluate and oversee the quality and integrity of any reporting Peter Coates toexternal stakeholders Chairman of the concerning HSEC matters HSEC Committee 28 February 2019 Reporting to the Board Main activities During the year, the Committee: Reviewed and approved the Groups HSEC strategy Continued its work on reducing fatalities, especially at the higher risk assets.
For this purpose it received a report on, reviewed andmade recommendations inrespect of, each fatality 112 Glencore Annual Report 2018
