STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION DIRECTORS STATEMENT OF RESPONSIBILITIES The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Disclosure of information to the auditor Accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Directors responsibility statement Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the directors are regulations.
Detailed below are statements made by the directors aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined by section We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: in relation to their responsibilities, disclosure of information to the 418 3 of the Act of which the Groups auditor is unaware and the auditor and going concern.
The Group financial statements, prepared in accordance with directors have taken all the steps they ought to have taken to the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss Directors responsibilities in respect of the establish that the Groups auditor is aware of that information.
of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation preparation of the financial statements taken as a whole Going concern UK Company law requires the directors to prepare Group financial The strategic report includes a fair view of the development and statements for each financial year.
The directors are required to The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to performance of the business and the position of the Group and prepare Group financial statements in accordance with affect its future development, performance and position, are set the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by out in the strategic report.
The financial position of the Group, its together with a description of the principal risks and the European Union.
cashflows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described uncertainties that they face in the financial review on pages 42 and 43.
In addition, note 22 to Under company law, the directors must not approve the Group The Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true balanced and understandable and provide the information and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group at the end of the necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, management objectives: details of its financial instruments and financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
business model and strategy hedging activities: and its exposures to price risk, credit risk, In preparing the Group financial statements, the directors are liquidity risk and cash flow risk.
required to: The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Cash generation from the Groups bus and rail operations was records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups Present fairly the financial position, financial performance and strong and the balance sheet remains robust.
Core financing is cashflows of the Group transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time provided by a 250m sterling bond entered into on 6 July 2017 the financial position of the Group, and enable them to ensure that Select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: securing financing to 2024 and committed bank facilities of the Group financial statements comply with the Companies Act Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and 280.0m to July 2025.
The directors believe that the Group is well 2006 the Act and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also Errors and then apply them consistently placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the responsible for the system of internal control, for safeguarding current uncertain economic outlook.
Present information, including accounting policies, in a theassets of the Group and, hence, for taking reasonable steps mannerthat provides relevant, reliable, comparable and The directors have assessed, in the light of current and forthe prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
understandable information anticipatedeconomic conditions, the Groups ability to continue Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable The directors are also responsible for preparing the strategic asa going concern.
The directors confirm they are satisfied that andprudent report, directors report, including the directors remuneration the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational report and the corporate governance report, in accordance with Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue specific requirements in IFRS as adopted by the European the Act and applicable regulations, including the requirements of to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Unionis insufficient to enable users to understand the impact and Accounts.
ofparticular transactions, other events and conditions on the The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of The directors are also required to provide a broader assessment Groups financial position and financial performance the corporate and financial information included on the Groups of viability over a longer period, which can be found on page 45.
State whether the Group financial statements have been corporate website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the The directors going concern confirmation and viability statement the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may EuropeanUnion have both been considered in accordance with the Guidance on differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014.
By order of the Board Carolyn Ferguson Group Company Secretary 5 September 2018 108 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
