STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REPORT Directors conflicts of interests Share capital and substantial shareholdings Share schemes The directors present their report and The Board has established robust procedures for ensuring that its All information relating to the Groups capital structure, rights audited financial statements for the Employee Benefit Trust power to authorise conflicts of interest is operated in accordance attaching to shares, dividends, any restrictions on the transfer of yearended 30 June 2018.
This directors Computershare Trustees Jersey Limited, the Trustee of with the Articles.
The Board considers that the procedures in shares, the policy to repurchase the Groups own shares, respect of this power, which have been properly followed, have substantial shareholdings and other shareholder information is The Go-Ahead Group Employee Trust the Trust, holds shares report forms part of the management for the benefit of the Groups executive directors and senior operated effectively during the year and the conflicts register has shown on pages 199 to 201. reportas required under the Disclosure been updated accordingly.
The Board is aware of its directors managers, and in particular for the satisfying of awards made under the Groups Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and Deferred Guidance andTransparency Rules.
Certain other commitments and any changes to these commitments are Change of control advised to and approved by the Board committees.
During the financial period, as part informationthat fulfils the requirements of The details of the change of control provisions in the Groups rail of a planned programme of monthly share purchases, the Trust franchise agreements, the sterling bond issue dated 6 July 2017 the directors report can be found elsewhere purchased a total of 64,012 ordinary shares at a total price of Directors indemnities and the revolving credit facilities dated 16 July 2014, 27 April 2017, 1,090,694.59 including all associated costs.
The average price in this document as referred to below.
In accordance with our Articles and to the extent permitted by 23 October 2017 and 20 July 2018 are set out on page 200.
As at 5 September 2018 being the latest law, directors are granted an indemnity from the Group in of the powers of Transport for London, the Land Transport Thisinformation is incorporated into this practical date prior to the date of this report the Trust held respect of liability incurred as a result of their office.
In addition, Authority and the National Transport Authority to prevent the 171,415 ordinary shares representing 0.4% of the issued share directors report by reference.
we maintained a directors and officers liability insurance policy operation of contracts is also provided.
capital of the Group, less treasury shares, in trust for the benefit of throughout the year.
Neither an indemnity nor the insurance There are no agreements between the Group and its directors or the executive directors of the Group under the LTIP and DSBP.
The provides cover in the event that a director is proven to have voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the Directors statement of responsibilities employees providing for compensation for loss of office or acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
Qualifying third party employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy Trustee and dividends are waived while the shares are held by The directors statement of responsibilities is set out on indemnity provisions as defined in Section 234 of the Act were theTrustee.
or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
page 108. in force during the year ended 30June 2018 and continue to remain in force.
Share Incentive Plan Dividends Going concern and viability statements The Group operated a Share Incentive Plan during the year under The Board continues to recognise the importance of dividends to Listing Rule 9.8.
4R disclosures The Groups viability and going concern statements are set out on review, enabling employees of the Group to acquire shares in the shareholders and accordingly has updated its dividend policy.
Disclosures required pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.
In order to preserve certain tax benefits, these shares are TheGroup will target a dividend pay-out ratio of 50% to 75% of net Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules can be found within held in a trust by EES Corporate Trustees Limited for participating income.
This better reflects the historic and future pay-out ratio Corporate governance statement the following sections of the 2017 18 Annual Report and Accounts: employees.
Whilst these shares are held in trust, the voting rights and provides shareholders with more clarity and the Group with The corporate governance statement, setting out how attached to them will not be exercised by the Trustee or the the appropriate flexibility to continue to pay an attractive dividend.
The Go-Ahead Group plc the Group complies with the 2016 employees for whom they are held.
As at 5 September 2018 being Listing Details of the proposal final dividend payment for the year ended Rule 9.8.
4 Required disclosure Reference UK Corporate Governance Code the Code is set out on pages 52 the latest practical date prior to the date of this report, 1% of the 30 June 2018 are shown on the consolidated income statement on to 115.
This includes a description of the main features of its 1 Interest capitalised Not applicable issued share capital of the Group, less treasury shares, was held page 126 of the report.
internal control and risk management arrangements in relation and tax relief by EES Corporate Trustees Limited.
In the event of an offer being tothe financial reporting process and a description of the 2 Publication of unaudited Not applicable made to acquire these shares, the employees are entitled to direct Political donations and expenditure composition and operation of the Board and its committees.
financial information EES Corporate Trustees Limited to accept an offer in respect of It is the Groups policy not to make political donations and Theinformation required by DTR 7.2.
6R can be found in the 3 Details of long term Note 6 of the financial the shares held on their behalf.
accordingly no such payments were made in the year 2017: nil.
shareholder information section on pages 199 to 201. incentive schemes statements and directors Additionally, the Group did not incur any political expenditure as remuneration report on Save As You Earn Scheme defined in the Act 2017: nil.
Strategic report pages 82 to 105 The Group also operates a Save As You Earn scheme known as 4 Waiver of emoluments Directors remuneration The strategic report on pages 4 to 49 includes an indication of The Go-Ahead Group plc 2013 Savings-Related Share Option Post balance sheet events by a director report on pages 82 to 105 future likely developments in the Group, important events since Scheme Sharesave, for which the last launch was in February There have been no material events since 30 June 2018 to the date 5 Waiver of future Not applicable the year ended 30 June 2018, the Groups business model and 2016 Sharesave 2016.
Under Sharesave 2016, all permanent of this report.
emoluments by a director strategy, and greenhouse gas emissions.
employees who had completed at least six months continuous 6 Non pre-emptive issues Not applicable service with a participating company were invited to make monthly Reappointment of external auditor of equity for cash savings of between 5 and 50 for three years.
At the end of the Groups Articles of Association Articles 7 Non pre-emptive issues of Not applicable savings term, participants will have the choice of their money Details of the reappointment of the external auditor are provided The Articles can only be amended by a special resolution at a equity for cash by major back, or to purchase Go-Ahead Group shares at a 20% discount to on page 114. general meeting of shareholders.
Shareholders of the Group can subsidiary undertakings the market price set at the date of invitation.
Sharesave 2016 will request a copy of the Articles by contacting the Group Company 8 Parent participation Not applicable mature on 1 May 2019.
Employees Secretary at the registered office.
in a placing by a listed Details of the Groups employee policies, including those subsidiary Directors and their interests concerning the employment of disabled persons and employee 9 Contracts of significance Not applicable By order of the Board engagement, are provided on pages 23 to 24.
Details of the directors who served during the year ended 30 June 10 Provision of services by a Not applicable 2018 are set out on pages 54 and 55.
The appointment and Information on the Group equal opportunities, inclusion and controlling shareholder replacement of directors are governed by the Articles, the Code, diversity policy is set out on pages 24 and additional information, 11 Shareholder waivers Directors report on pages the Companies Act 2006 the Act and related legislation.
The including a copy of the policy, is available on the Groups website of dividends 106 to 107 powers of the directors are set out in the Articles and the Act.
12 Shareholder waivers Directors report on pages Carolyn Ferguson of future dividends 106 to 107 Details of the directors share interests are given in the directors Group Company Secretary remuneration report on pages 99 to 101.
13 Agreements with Not applicable controlling shareholders 5 September 2018 106 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
