STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT An assessment of the directorships held by each The committee also oversees the inclusion and How does the committee ensure there is the Boardmember based on the new ISS points-based diversitystrategies across the Group and is committed right skills, experience and behaviours on Q system was undertaken and I, your Chairman, was to developing and strengthening our talent pipelines theBoard?
foundto be the only director who was overboarded.
andculture across the business to improve diversity We regularly review the skills, experience and Thecommittee therefore carried out a more detailed inits broadest sense.
Through our culture change behaviours of the Board to ensure that we can deliver review of my external time commitments, including programme, we receive regular updates on the effectively against our strategic objectives, both now and myrole as Chairman of Fox Marble plc, a very small inclusionand diversity initiatives across the Group.
Our annual Board review also gives us the AIMcompany, which is significantly less onerous Thecommittees role is to provide oversight and opportunity to evaluate individual and collective thanmy other non-executive directorships.
Another scrutinyto ensure that the strategies in place deliver boardroom behaviours ensuring they support our consideration was my extensive time commitment improvements and promote a culture that upholds the strategic direction, vision and culture.
toGo-Ahead, which could be evidenced.
Since this principles of inclusion, diversity and equality.
assessment I have ceased to be Non-Executive In October 2017, we welcomed Harry Holt and Leanne Read more about our inclusion and diversity initiatives Chairman of Marshalls plc.
My other non-executive Wood to the Board as new independent non-executive across the Group, on page 24. directorships remain under ongoing review.
Our Board development programme the previous year helped us to identify the specific skills, Following this review, the committee and the Board How has the committee considered succession expertise and behaviours we needed to strengthen the confirmed that they were satisfied that I, and my fellow Q planning and the leadership talent pipeline?
Board, which then informed the recruitment process non-executive directors, have sufficient time to meet that resulted in their appointments.
Effective succession planning and a diverse pipeline of their Board responsibilities.
talent are key priorities for the committee.
Read more about Harry and Leannes ongoing induction Going forward, the ISS guidance will be taken into programme on page64.
During the year, the committee reviewed the succession account when making new Board appointments or plans for both the Board and the senior management approving additional external appointments for existing An inclusive and diverse culture The majority of the Board are independent non-executive team.
For the Board, the committee discussed the Board members.
In accordance with the Boards directors.
Independence is reviewed on an annual basis.
willsupport the delivery of the succession planning for both Katherine Innes Ker, Conflicts Policy, additional external appointments This year, a more rigorous review was undertaken for asSenior Independent Director, and myself as your cannotbe undertaken without prior approval of the Groups strategy.
Katherine Innes Ker who, as at 30 June 2018, had served Chairman, as we are the longest serving members.
Our executive directors can also not take on on the Board for almost eight years.
Forthe senior management team, which is the first layer morethan one non-executive directorship in a below Board level, the annual leadership review included Andrew Allner, The Boards collective experience covers a range of FTSE 100 company or other significant appointment.
relevant sectors, as illustrated on page 75. assessing succession strength to business-critical roles, Nomination Committee Chair All directors, including myself, will be submitting leadership performance andfunctional expertise, as well themselves for re-election at the 2018 annual as identifying those individuals with longer term Were there any further Board changes during generalmeeting.
leadership or executive director potential.
Q In conjunction with the succession planning review, the Other than those mentioned above, there were no What is the committees approach to inclusion committee also reviews the leadership talent pipelines, further changes to the Board during the year.
Q particularly in the context of the Boards commitment following the year end, the Board announced that Patrick Our approach to inclusion and diversity on the Board to promote a strong, resilient and diverse pipeline of Butcher, Group Chief Financial Officer, would be leaving I am pleased to present the isset out in the Boards Inclusion and Diversity Policy.
This includes recruiting, developing the Group later this year to join Capita plc as Chief During the year, the committee reviewed and updated and promoting individuals from the widest possible nomination committees report Financial Officer.
At the time of this report being the policy to include an increased emphasis on inclusion, talent pool.
Four pools of talent are now actively published, Russell Reynolds Associates, an external covering our key activities for the as well as diversity.
Measurable objectives are also now sponsored, including high potential colleagues, search agency, had been appointed to assist the Board year ended 30 June 2018.
This report included in the policy, which are based on the principles mid-level managers, operational roles and graduates.
with the appointment of a successor.
Full details of the of fairness, respect and inclusion.
All Board nominations Several of our bus and rail businesses also support should be read in conjunction with the process undertaken will be provided in next years and appointments are based on individual competence, talent pools locally.
Securing future skills and increasing Annual Report.
section on how we have complied with skills and expertise, measured against identified diversity, were key focus areas during the year, in objective criteria.
addition to developing strategies and initiatives to the 2016 UK Corporate Governance How does the committee assess the time support greater female representation.
Code the Code, on pages 110 to 115, The Board remains committed to improving levels of Q commitments of the non-executive directors?
female representation on the Board, while ensuring that As stated in the Hampton-Alexander Review, published which also provides other details The committee reviews the time commitment of diversity in its broadest sense remains a key priority.
in November 2017, the combined analysis of our Group eachnon-executive director on at least an annual basis.
Following the change of our Board composition on 23 executive committee and their direct reports shows Thisis to ensure they have sufficient time to fulfil their October 2017, our female representation has increased female representation at the level of 40.9%.
As reported responsibilities and are able to be fully engaged and from 17% to 29%.
The committee will always engage in our Gender Pay Gap Report, published in April 2018, actively involved with the Groups business throughout executive search firms that are accredited under The the number of women in leadership and roles in our UK the year.
Enhanced Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms, bus and rail workforce has increased above the industryThis year, the committee strengthened its review which promotes gender diversity and best practice.
wide average to 15.4% and 17.3% respectively.
Whilst to include the new guidance from the Institutional this represents progress in the right direction, it is the Shareholder Services ISS on overboarding.
committees role to monitor the strategy and targets to secure lasting change.
72 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 73 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Board experience by sector What role did the committee play in the Transport services, transport infrastructure and transport engineering Groups reporting against the UK Gender Pay Q Nomination committee highlights Finance, accounting and audit services Gap Regulations?
In April 2018, our gender pay gap results were published Property, building construction and building materials along with plans to narrow our gender pay gap.
The Built upon the initiatives identified committees role in relation to reporting against the Retail, fashion and consumer markets as part of last years Board newregulations was to provide oversight and ensure reporting compliance against the six measures set out Telecommunications, broadcasting, marketing and software solutions development programme inThe Equality Act 2010 Gender Pay Gap Information Health, public service and charity Regulations 2017.
As the data was independently Continued focus on aligning calculated, assurance was also provided regarding Non-Executive Director Executive Director Board and senior management theaccuracy of the published data.
succession planning to business Although in a number of areas the gender pay gap at Diversity training has previously been made available to all Head Planning for future leadership Go-Ahead is lower than the national average, it is our strategy Office managers and additional training is currently under review ambition to narrow this gap.
Following the gender pay The committee oversees our Graduate Programme, which is to be launched during 2018 19.
In support of our inclusion and gap results, the committee reviewed the strategies being animportant way of introducing talent into both our bus and Considered the challenges and diversity strategy, we are partnered with Business in the deployed to ensure appropriate plans are in place to railoperating companies.
The third year of the rail graduate opportunities facing the Group and Community BitC, Business Disability Forum, Inclusive Employers, achieve the desired outcome and narrow the gender programme has successfully concluded and a further tranche of Princes Trust and Everywoman, the worlds largest womens paygap.
The committee will also monitor these on the skills and expertise needed on graduate entrants will join the Group in September 2018.
As Champion Members of BitCs Gender Equality anongoing basis.
graduate programme has been strengthened so it complements the Board in the future Campaign, we can compare our gender rebalancing initiatives to the bus business strategy, particularly where operations are being More information on the gender pay gap analysis results best practice approaches.
The committee tracks the careers of graduate is available on our website www.
Oversight of leadership and talent entrants, with retention during the graduate programme higher Read more about our inclusion and diversity initiatives initiatives, linking to cultural than the industry average.
What were the findings of the annual transformation Talent development is also a key focus area, and during the year committee effectiveness review?
Q the committee was updated on the new initiatives for improving Development opportunities for all colleagues A review of the committees effectiveness was carried Reviewed Board Inclusion and talent development across the Group.
One new initiative was for The committee continues to recognise the importance of out internally this year as part of the Boards evaluation.
colleagues with longer term leadership potential to participate in Diversity Policy and improved supporting the personal development of all colleagues across The review concluded that the committee was fulfilling either a high potential programme or a management development theGroup.
The committee is regularly updated on how colleague its duties effectively.
In particular there had been oversight of Group-wide inclusion programme to accelerate their growth.
Candidates on the high development is being supported, which includes initiatives improved reporting and insight into a number of and diversity initiatives potential programme also worked on the strategic business delivered by rail and bus HR teams as well as Group-wide strategically important areas such as talent, diversity, projects to enhance their experiential development.
An example during the year was the launch of leadership and succession planning across the projects which formed part of the rolling programme of Reviewed and published gender Personal Development Hours, an initiative designed to support the businesses.
The Board felt that this focus should presentations to the Board.
developing culture of Go-Ahead and to encourage more continue, with one of the key actions from the review pay gap results professional and personal development.
The objective is to drive being that the committee should build upon their Read more about our Graduate Programme and our initiatives to continuous improvement of leadership and colleague capability, attract talent on pages 23 and 24. oversight of the inclusion and diversity strategies across Considered impact of changes in enhancing our opportunity to perform year in, year out.
The initial the Group, including monitoring key performance voting guidelines relating to Board The committee recognises that, in addition to developing our own roll out has taken place at Head Office, with further indicators and action plans.
people, identifying external talent fulfils a vital role in improving implementation across the operating companies envisaged over directorships and overboarding organisational effectiveness and it is important we continue to be the next 18 months.
What will be the committees focus for the able to attract high calibre talent to senior roles both in the UK Reviewed the effectiveness of In the coming year, the committee will oversee a greater focus on year ahead?
leadership development as a key enabler of the business strategy.
the committee, including its terms The committee will continue to support the Board in the Inclusion and diversity initiatives across the Group Senior management will also be supported to maintain robust year ahead by ensuring the Boards succession planning of reference development plans ensuring that they invest in their own personal is effective, particularly in relation to the search and The committee has been updated on the inclusion and diversity and professional development.
selection process for the new Group Chief Financial strategies developed across the Group, with objectives and actions Received updates on best practice Officer.
We will continue to support the work which is consistent across all operating companies.
The pace and impact of and governance developments being undertaken on senior management succession activity have been far reaching, supported by the creation of a new planning and talent pipelines.
Inclusion and diversity at role of Head of Inclusion, Diversity and Colleague Engagement.
all levels throughout the business will be a key focus This role has helped shape and co-ordinate strategy and provides area.
The committee will review the changes arising thought leadership on matters relating to inclusion and diversity from the new 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code, across the bus and rail divisions.
Additional support has also been where the focus is on the increased importance of high provided by the Inclusion and Diversity Steering Group and the new quality board composition and diversity.
Bus and Rail Working Groups.
74 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
