STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE Leadership continued The Board reviews the independence of its non-executive directors A.
Division of responsibilities This section of the corporate governance each year in accordance with the criteria set out in the Code.
Alignment with the UK Corporate Governance There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman, Code who was independent on appointment, and the Group Chief report details the Groups compliance B.
Appointments to the Board Executive.
The Board has adopted a written Statement of Division A.
Leadership The nomination committee is chaired by the Chairman and withthe principles set out in the of Responsibilities between the Chairman and the Group Chief The Board is collectively responsible for the long term consists of all independent non-executive directors, who together 2016UKCorporate Governance Code Executive.
The Chairman, Andrew Allner, is responsible for the success of Go-Ahead bring a diverse and complementary range of backgrounds, leadership of the Board.
The Group Chief Executive, David Brown, theCode which is available at personal attributes and experience.
Effectiveness is responsible for leading and managing the business within the www.
This section should be We review the Boards overall balance of skills, authorities delegated by the Board.
The Group Chief Financial Non-executive directors are appointed for specified terms and experience and behaviours to optimise effectiveness Officer is responsible for providing strategic and financial guidance stand for re-election at each AGM.
Any term beyond six years is read in conjunction with the corporate to ensure that the Groups financial commitments are met.
subject to a rigorous review, taking into account the need for C. Accountability governance report as a whole, which is progressive refreshment of the Board.
We present a fair, balanced and understandable A.
The Chairman setout on pages 52 to 105. assessment of Go-Aheads position and prospects Setting the Board agenda is a collaborative effort between the The principal responsibilities of the nomination committee are: Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Group Company Secretary, D. Remuneration which ensures that matters relating to both the Groups operations The Group has complied in full with the Executive remuneration is transparent and aligned with 1.
Board composition review the structure, size and and its governance are on the agenda.
The Chairman ensures that shareholders and stakeholders long term interests requirements of the Code during the year composition of the Board adequate time is available for discussion of all agenda items, in E. Relations with shareholders ended 30 June 2018. particular strategic issues where more time is now spent in 2.
Board balance evaluate the balance of skills, We place great importance on transparent, relevant and Boardmeetings debating key issues and key financial matters.
knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board timely communication with shareholders TheChairman promotes strong relationships and facilitates 3.
Succession planning consider succession planning constructive challenge between executive and nonfor the Board and other senior management, taking into executivedirectors.
account the challenges and opportunities facing the The Chairman was considered independent upon his The Board holds nine scheduled formal face-to-face meetings a A.
Leadership Group and the skills and expertise needed on the Board appointmentin 2013.
He ensures he engages regularly with year, in addition to unscheduled meetings to deal with matters as in the future A.
The role of the Board institutional shareholders.
The table below sets out the Board and committee Go-Ahead is headed by a Board whose members are collectively 4.
Inclusion and diversity review and update the Board attendance for the year ended 30 June 2018.
Non-executive directors responsible for creating and delivering long term sustainable Inclusion and Diversity Policy as the number of meetings attended out of the total number of The non-executive directors bring independent judgement and value for the business.
A key responsibility of the Board is to meetings possible for the individual director during the year.
Effectiveness review the effectiveness of the committee, balance the interests of the Group, including our shareholders scrutiny to the decisions taken by the Board.
They monitor the including an annual review of the committees terms of All directors are expected to: success of management in delivering the agreed strategy within and stakeholders, colleagues and the communities we serve.
During the year, the terms of reference were Board has ultimate responsibility for setting the Groups strategic the risk appetite and control framework set by the Board.
Their Attend all meetings of the Board and of those committees on updated in accordance with best practice and a copy is views are actively sought when developing proposals on strategy, direction, leading and overseeing culture and ensuring the Group which they serve available on our corporate website at www.
com or upholds the highest standards of corporate governance.
including discussions in meetings, in post meeting conversations, Attend the Annual General Meeting AGM upon request from the Group Company Secretary or as part of the annual Board Strategy Day.
A full description of the Boards role, which includes the Devote sufficient time to the Groups affairs to enable them to specific responsibilities reserved to us, is available on our fulfil their duties as directors The Senior Independent Director, Katherine Innes Ker, offers a B.
Commitment sounding board for the Chairman and serves as an intermediary website at www.
for other directors and shareholders when necessary.
The majority of the Board, excluding the Chairman who was independent on appointment, are independent non-executive The Chairman and the non-executive directors meet periodically directors.
The independence, effectiveness and time commitment without the executive directors present.
During the year, the of each non-executive director is reviewed on an annual basis.
Chairman also met individually with each director.
Board Audit committee Remuneration committee Nomination committee The committee also keeps under continual review the time If any director has concerns about the running of the Group or a 3 Board attendance Scheduled Unscheduled Scheduled Unscheduled Scheduled Unscheduled Scheduled Unscheduled commitments of all Board members, to ensure they do not proposed action which cannot be resolved, these will be recorded become overstretched.
Total meetings 9 3 4 6 2 1 in the Board minutes.
No such concerns arose for the year ended 1 30 June 2018.
Andrew Allner 9 9 3 3 6 6 2 2 The review this year resulted in the committee being satisfied that 2 David Brown 9 9 3 3 the contribution made by all directors continued to be effective and 2 that all directors are able to commit fully to their role.
Effectiveness Patrick Butcher 9 9 3 3 4 all directors will stand for re-election at the 2018 AGM, with full Katherine Innes Ker 8 9 1 1 4 4 6 6 2 2 1 1 B.
The composition of the Board details provided in the Notice of Meeting.
Adrian Ewer 9 9 2 2 4 4 6 6 2 2 1 1 During the year, the Board reviewed the overall balance of skills, 5 Harry Holt 7 7 2 2 4 4 1 1 1 1 experience, independence and behaviours of the Board and Upon appointment, all new non-executive directors are asked to 5 confirm they are able to devote the time required to fulfil the role committee members.
It was satisfied that the Board was of an Leanne Wood 7 7 2 2 4 4 1 1 1 1 appropriate size and that the requirements of the business can and each individuals commitment to their role is reviewed 6 Nick Horler 4 4 1 1 2 2 3 3 1 1 annually as part of their performance evaluation.
The Chairman attends audit committee meetings by invitation as appropriate which are not included in the above attendance.
The Chairman was not eligible to appointment for the non-executive directors are available for Details of the directors, including the skills and experience they each attend the unscheduled nomination committee meeting given this related to his own succession planning.
bring to the Board, are on pages 54 and 55.
The executive directors attend committee meetings by invitation as appropriate which are not included in the above attendance.
Unscheduled Board meetings to discuss bus tenders and rail bids were held on 22 August 2017, 4 October 2017 and 12 March 2018.
Two of these meetings were Neither the Group Chief Executive or the Group Chief Financial sub-committees of the Board and so not all non-executive directors were required to attend.
On 30 June 2018, the Board comprised a non-executive Chairman, Officer holds any non-executive directorship or chairmanship in 4.
Katherine Innes Ker was unable to attend one scheduled Board meeting due to a family bereavement.
two executive directors and four independent non-executive aFTSE 100 company.
Such appointment would be subject to the 5.
Harry Holt and Leanne Wood joined the Board as independent non-executive directors and members of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees with directors, all of whom are equally responsible for the proper effect from 23 October 2017. approval of the Board which would consider particularly the time 6.
Nick Horler retired as independent non-executive director and member of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees with effect from the conclusion of stewardship of the Group.
Taking into account the provisions of commitment required.
Go-Aheads AGM on 2 November 2017. theCode, each of the non-executive directors is considered External appointments of each individual director are set out on independent in character and judgement.
110 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 111 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE CONTINUED Effectiveness continued Accountability continued B.
Evaluation Prior to the announcement of full year and half year results, the The principal responsibilities of the audit committee are: audit committee reviews the Groups principal risks.
This includes All new directors undertake a full induction programme either The Board evaluation for the year ended 30 June 2018 was a commentary on how risk exposures have changed during the shortly before or upon joining the Board.
The Group Company conducted internally by the Group Company Secretary and more 1.
External audit manage and review the reports from the period and any emerging risks in the Groups risk register.
Secretary, working closely with the Chairman, agrees the details can be found on pages 66 and 67.
The evaluation of the external auditor, recommend any change of external auditor, personalised induction plan which is designed for each individual, Board is externally facilitated at least every three years.
An For the year ended 30 June 2018, the Board has carried out oversee any retendering process and review remuneration taking into account their existing knowledge, specific areas of externally facilitated Board development programme was carried a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group 2.
Financial reporting monitor the integrity of the Groups expertise and proposed committee appointments.
Where out for the year ended 1 July 2017 by Better Boards Ltd, which had including those that would threaten its business model, future Annual Report and Accounts, any formal announcements appropriate, non-executive directors are given the opportunity to no other connection with the Group.
The Senior Independent performance, solvency or liquidity.
relating to financial performance and consider significant meet institutional shareholders including attending any of our Director also chairs an annual meeting of executive and nonRead more about the Groups principal risks and a description of the financial reporting issues, judgements and estimates investor relations association and best practice events.
executive directors without the Chairman to appraise the changes during the year on pages 44 to 49.
Chairmans performance and address any other matters the 3.
Risk management and internal controls review the system Read more about Harry Holts and Leanne Woods induction directors may wish to raise.
The Senior Independent Director on page 64.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of of internal control and risk management, including financial controls conveys the outcome of these discussions to the Chairman.
failure to achieve the Groups business objectives and can only 4.
Internal audit set and monitor the internal audit plan and The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all non-executive provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material B.
Re-election review its findings directors receive ongoing training and development to ensure they misstatement or loss.
All directors are subject to election at the first AGM following their have the relevant expertise and skills for their role on the Board 5.
Performance review the performance and work of both the appointment and annual re-election at each AGM thereafter.
All The directors have assessed the Groups viability over a three year and its committees.
internal and external auditors directors are therefore submitting themselves for re-election at period to June 2021 and have reasonable expectation that the Equally, as part of their annual performance evaluation, directors the 2018 AGM.
Following recommendation from the nomination Group will be able to continue in operation and meet all of its 6.
Whistleblowing and anti-bribery procedures monitor and are given the opportunity to discuss any of their own additional committee, the Board considers that all directors continue to be liabilities as they fall due during the viability review period.
review the effectiveness of the whistleblowing and anti-bribery training and development needs.
Directors are expected to take effective, committed to their roles and have sufficient time procedures in place The viability statement and going concern statement are on pages 45 responsibility for identifying additional training needs and to take available to perform their duties.
steps to ensure each is adequately informed about the Group and their responsibilities as a director.
Independence, objectivity and fees of external auditor C. Accountability C. 3.
Audit committee and auditors The Board recognises the importance of auditor independence and The Board is confident that all of its members have the knowledge, C. 1.
Financial and business reporting The membership of the audit committee, which comprises is aware of the situations which may give rise to the impairment of ability and experience to perform the functions required of a four independent non-executive directors, provides the range The requirement for the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a auditor independence.
The audit committee considers carefully the director of a UK listed company.
of financial and commercial expertise necessary to meet its whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable is taken into objectivity of the auditor on an annual basis in relation to both the responsibilities in a robust and independent manner and has consideration in the drafting and reviewing process.
Information and support audit process and the relationship with the Group.
competence relevant to the sector in which the Group operates.
established processes to ensure that all reports and information The Board is supplied with high quality information, presented in a Adrian Ewer is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants which are required to be presented in accordance with regulatory The audit committee is responsible for developing, implementing form designed to enhance Board effectiveness.
A comprehensive and has recent and relevant financial experience in the UK requirements are a fair, balanced and understandable assessment and monitoring the Groups policy on the engagement of the Board procedures manual is maintained which includes formal listed environment, enabling him to fulfil his role as Audit of the Groups position and prospects.
Further details can be found external auditor to supply non-audit services.
The principal procedures for the working of the Board and its committees, Committee Chair.
on page 79. requirements of that policy are: delegated authorities, the timely provision of appropriate Meetings of the committee generally take place immediately prior information and the duties and responsibilities of directors, Read more about the Groups business model, performance, strategy The auditor will only be used for the provision of non-audit work to a Board meeting to maximise the effectiveness of collaborating and principal risks on pages 4 to 49. including standards of conduct and compliance.
if it can be demonstrated that the engagement will not impair with the Board.
Meetings are attended by the independent independence, is a natural extension of their audit work or there The Group Company Secretary is available to all directors to A statement of the Directors responsibilities regarding the financial non-executive directors.
By invitation, the Chairman, Group are other overriding reasons that make them the most suitably provide advice and is responsible for ensuring all Board statements is on pages 108 and 109.
ChiefExecutive, Group Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial qualified to undertake the work procedures are complied with and that Board and committee Controller and internal and external auditors also regularly attend C. 2.
Risk management and internal control The auditor will not provide certain categories of non-audit services papers are circulated to all directors by electronic means ensuring meetings.
The Group Corporate Services Director also attends at to the Group, such as internal audit and litigation support, the full the timely and secure provision of information.
The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and the least two meetings a year to provide the committee with health list of which can be found in the committees terms of reference system of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
and safety reports, including best practice and standards across The Group Company Secretary reports to the Chairman in her role The provision of certain non-audit services including accounting Specifically, it determines the extent and nature of the risks the operating companies.
To ensure matters are progressed, the as secretary to the Board and committees and plays a pivotal role and tax services if the fees exceed a cumulative 50,000 is it is prepared to take to achieve the Groups strategic objectives.
Audit Committee Chair holds pre-audit committee meetings in supporting the Chairman to facilitate directors induction, Board subject to approval by the audit committee While the Board does not have a separate risk committee, risk withmanagement and key advisors between scheduled development, effectiveness and best practice.
She reports to the management and resource are embedded throughout the The ratio of the external auditors audit to non-audit fees during committeemeetings.
Group Chief Financial Officer on all other company secretariat organisation with the audit committee responsible for monitoring the year, as a proportion of the annual external audit fee, is kept matters, including the management of the Groups bus pension At least once a year, the non-executive directors hold separate risk and discussing with the Board as appropriate.
The Board has under review by the committee arrangements.
The appointment and removal of the Group meetings with the external and internal auditors, without the overall responsibility for the Groups risk appetite.
Company Secretary is a matter requiring Board approval.
During the financial year, the Group external auditors fees were executive directors being present.
0.8m 2016: 0.7m : in addition non-audit fees of 0.1m 2016: A top-down risk review is combined with a complementary All directors may take independent professional advice, at the The Audit Committee Chair regularly reports details of the work bottom-up approach to ensure that risks are fully considered.
0.4m were payable to the Groups external auditor.
As reported Groups expense, if they believe it to be necessary for the proper carried out by the audit committee to the Board in accordance with last year, the non-audit fees for 2016 included 0.3m for a one-off As well as complying with the Code, the best practice discharge of their duties as directors the committees terms of reference.
recommendations in Guidance for Risk Management, Internal specific piece of overseas bid work, with the conclusion that Deloitte LLP was the sole advisor able to provide this work.
Excluding the Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting have also The committees terms of reference are reviewed annually and been adopted.
one-off overseas bid work, non-audit fees paid for 2016 were 0.1m.
During the year, the terms of reference were updated in accordance with best practice and a copy is More information on the remuneration of Deloitte LLP is in note 5 of available on our website at www.
com or upon request the financial statements on page 144. from the Group Company Secretary.
112 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 113 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE CONTINUED Accountability continued Remuneration continued The Board supports the objectives of the Bribery Act and D. 2.
Procedure We also communicate with the wider investment community External auditor tenure procedures have been established to ensure that compliance is through regular news releases and trading updates via the Deloitte LLP was appointed as the Groups external auditor in When determining policy on executive remuneration the achieved.
These set out what is expected from our colleagues and LondonStock Exchange which are also published on our website remuneration committee takes into account all factors which it November 2015 following an audit tender.
While the Group has no stakeholders to ensure that they protect themselves as well as the www.
The IR section of our website provides a current retendering plans at this time, it will be required to put the deems necessary.
These include relevant legal and regulatory Groups reputation and assets.
Training has been provided to the wealth of information including a dedicated results centre, access requirements, the provisions of the Code, associated guidance external audit contract out to tender by 2025.
Deloitte LLP will also Board and senior management and is refreshed on a regular to reports, factsheets, latest news and presentations, as well as be required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group andviews of principal shareholders.
Any breach of the Bribery Act will be regarded as serious ashare price analysis.
Investors and other interested parties can audit every five years and therefore the current lead audit partner The remuneration committee comprises the Chairman and four misconduct, potentially justifying immediate dismissal.
subscribe to receive news through email updates by registering Chris Powell, who was appointed in November 2015, will be independent non-executive directors.
The members of the their details on our website, which is fully responsive to required to step down following the completion of the 2020 audit.
Read more about how the audit committee has discharged its committee have no personal interests in the matters to be decided mobiledevices.
responsibilities during the year on pages 76 to 81. by the committee other than as shareholders and have no conflicts The committee continues to review the external auditor Read more about how the Board listens to our wider stakeholders on appointment and the need to tender the audit, ensuring the of interest arising from cross-directorships.
During the year ended pages 68 and 69.
30 June 2018, no individual was present when his or her own Groups compliance with the Code and the reforms of the audit D. Remuneration market by the UK Competition and Markets Authority.
Accordingly, remuneration was being determined.
The level and components of remuneration E. 2.
Constructive use of general meetings the Group confirms that it complies with the provisions of the The remuneration committee believes it is very important that our The committees terms of reference are reviewed annually and The AGM is an opportunity for the Board to communicate with Competition and Markets Authoritys Order for the financial year overall remuneration policy is structured to support both the approved by the Board.
During the year, the terms of reference and answer questions from shareholders.
All Board members are under review.
For the financial year ending 29 June 2019, the audit financial objectives and the strategic priorities of the Group in a were updated in accordance with best practice and a copy is available to meet informally with shareholders before and after committee has recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be manner which is transparent and aligned with shareholders and available on our website at www.
com or upon request the meeting.
reappointed under the external audit contract and the directors stakeholders long term interests.
from the Group Company Secretary.
will be proposing the reappointment of Deloitte LLP at the AGM Full details of the business to be discussed at the Groups next on1 November 2018.
Details of advisors who provided services to the remuneration AGM on Thursday 1 November 2018 can be found in the Notice of The principal responsibilities of the remuneration committee during the year are on page 103.
This is posted to registered shareholders at least 20 working committee are: Internal audit function days in advance of the meeting and will also be available on our website at www.
E. Relations with shareholders The Groups internal audit function has been outsourced to 1.
Remuneration policy develop the remuneration policy  PwC on a rolling 12 month contract, E. 1.
Dialogue with shareholders The Group proposes separate resolutions on each substantially for the executive directors, including the balance between with overall responsibility and direction being retained by the audit separate issue, with voting conducted by poll.
The Board believes Go-Aheads Board has always been committed to reporting in a fixed and performance-related, cash and share-based, committee.
The internal audit function provides assurance over this voting process is more democratic than a show of hands since fair, balanced and understandable way and places great immediate and deferred remuneration the effectiveness of key internal controls as identified as part of all shares voted at the meeting, as well as proxy votes lodged importance on transparent, relevant and timely communication the risk assessment process.
In addition to meetings with local before the meeting, are counted.
Effectiveness review the ongoing appropriateness and with shareholders.
Throughout the year, we maintained open and management, the internal auditor reports to the committee at shareholders will have the option to vote either for or against a effectiveness of the Groups remuneration policy frequent dialogue with investors, providing updates on our least four times a year.
resolution, or to withhold their vote.
Following the meeting, the strategy, sustainability policy, objectives and governance as well 3.
Pay and reward regularly review the design and targets number of votes lodged for and against each resolution are In accordance with the previously agreed internal audit plan for aslistening to and responding to questions.
for performance-related pay arrangements and approve the announced to the London Stock Exchange and displayed on the the year ended 30 June 2018, the committee reviewed reports total annual payments and awards The Groups investor relations IR team has regular dialogue Groups website.
confirming the findings from the internal audit reviews between the executive directors and current and potential 4.
Terms and conditions ensure adherence to the policy undertaken, the actions to implement the recommendations and When the Board is of the opinion that a significant proportion of shareholders, through group and one-to-one meetings, set for executive directors service agreements, including the status of progress against previously agreed actions.
During the votes at any general meeting is cast against a resolution, the presentations, roadshows and conferences.
The executive team recruitment and compensation payment policies the year, the committee also approved the internal audit plan for Group will explain, when announcing the results of the vote, the isalso in regular contact with sell-side analysts and broker sales the year ending 29 June 2019. actions it intends to take to gain an understanding of the reasons 5.
Group pay recommend and monitor the level and teams to communicate the Groups performance and strategy.
structure of remuneration for senior management within the The committee keeps under review the internal audit relationship TheChairman is available to meet investors, as are the Senior Group Independent Director and committee chairs, who appreciate the with PwC and maintains the procedures necessary to ensure appropriate independence of the internal audit function.
During opportunity to do so.
Chairmans pay determine the fees of the Chairman the year, a review of the services provided by PwC was undertaken The Group Chief Financial Officer provides the Board with regular and a number of changes were made to improve the focus and reports and updates, including analysts reviews, analysis of the effectiveness of the internal audit approach.
The Directors remuneration report is on pages 82 to 105. shareholder register and shareholder feedback.
Understanding shareholders views is important.
Following our roadshows, our Whistleblowing and anti-bribery procedures corporate advisors gather detailed feedback from institutional The Group is committed to the highest standards of quality, shareholders which is presented to the Board and we also honesty, openness and accountability.
The Group and all operating welcome direct feedback at any point in the year.
Feedback forms companies have whistleblowing policies in place.
Colleagues are an important part of the Boards strategic discussions and also encouraged to raise genuine concerns under the policy and any assists the IR team in improving the quality of communications.
concerns raised are investigated carefully and thoroughly to During the year, we conducted an in-house investor perception assess what action, if any, should be taken.
Any matters of survey and held our first Go-Ahead Investor and Analyst significance are reported to the audit committee.
Networking event in London which, going forward, will be heldannually.
114 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
