STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT What were the findings of the annual Were there any changes to the key areas of What is the committees role regarding health Q committee effectiveness review?
Q focus for the committee this year?
A review of the committees effectiveness was carried There were no significant changes to the committees Health and safety reporting is a key feature of our key areas of focus this year.
These continued to risk management and internal control framework.
out internally this year as part of the Boards evaluation.
The committee was invited to discuss the content, includemonitoring the integrity of the Groups The committee oversees the health and safety audit financialstatements and maintaining an appropriate programmes in place across all of our operating management, quality and focus of discussion during meetings.
I am pleased that the review found relationship with Deloitte LLP, the Groups external companies and reviews their audit findings.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups theyear, the committee also focused on the quality the committee continues to operate effectively, with the high quality reports and information enabling us system of risk management and internal controls, ofprocess, procedure and policy of contractor including risk appetite, was a key topic, with a particular management, in addition to strengthening health to continue to discharge our duties and responsibilities.
In particular, there were improved processes and focus on cyber security risks including those associated andsafety standards and reporting.
with the holding of personal data and ensuring IT reporting of risk management, which supported the key Read more on page 79. risk focus areas that the committee recommended to controls remain robust and dynamic.
The committee discussed in detail managements assessment of the Board for more in-depth discussion.
income and costs relating to performance regimes andcontractual obligations, to receive assurance that What are the committees main activities in What was the outcome of the Financial such assessment has been carried out appropriately.
respect of the Groups financial reporting?
Q Reporting Councils FRC Audit Q During the year, the most significant judgements The committee reviews, with both management QualityReview?
wereinrelation to GTR and the ongoing discussions and the external auditor, the half year and annual The FRCs Audit Quality Review team selected the audit withtheDfT regarding a number of contractual financial statements.
Our key role is to ensure that the of Go-Aheads 2016 17 financial statements to review as variations.
Discussions centred around two unresolved key accounting policies, estimates and judgements The committee is responsible for part of their 2018 19 annual inspection of audit firms.
items, namely timetable specifications and rolling applied in those financial statements are reasonable.
The focus of the review and their reporting was on stockcascades.
Towards the end of the year, the recommending to the Board the identifying areas where improvements were required committeediscussed the timetable change and The committee assists the Board in undertaking its in-depth risk focus areas.
rather than highlighting areas performed to or above potentialcontractual implications of its implementation.
assessment as to whether the Annual Report and the expected level.
A full copy of the review was The committee scrutinised managements judgement Accounts taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and discussed with the external auditor at a pre-audit onthe range of uncertainty around profitability of the understandable, and provides the necessary information Adrian Ewer, committee meeting, before discussion with the wider Groups rail division for the year ended 30 June 2018 to allow shareholders to assess the Groups position, Audit Committee Chair committee.
The committee is pleased to confirm that andthe external auditor confirmed its agreement performance, business model and strategy.
This there were no significant areas for improvement withmanagements view.
The committee was therefore assessment forms the basis of the advice given to the identified and they were satisfied that there was nothing satisfied with the conclusions reached.
Board to assist in making the statement required by within the report which might have a bearing on the theCode.
More information on the key financial and internal external auditors appointment.
control matters considered during the year is on page 80.
The committee also reviews the assumptions and Read about the key features of the Groups internal provides assurance to support the going concern control and risk management system on page 81.
What will the committees focus be for the basisadopted in the financial statements, as well as year ahead?
Q As Audit Committee Chair, I am thelongterm viability statement contained within the What are the committees main activities Our focus will be on continuing to exercise our AnnualReport and Accounts.
pleased to present the committees assurance oversight role in the best possible way and inrelation to risk management and Q report for the year ended 30 June remaining well informed of best practice.
How does the committee review significant financial judgements and providing assurance 2018.
This report should be read in While the Board has overall responsibility for risk whistleblowing, fraud and anti-bribery Q to the Board will remain high on our agenda as will management and the system of internal controls, the conjunction with the section on how procedures?
challenging the external auditor to continue to audit the committee plays an important role in supporting the During the year, the committee monitored the Groups Groups financial statements robustly.
Another key we have complied with the 2016 UK Board in fulfilling its responsibilities, particularly in whistleblowing arrangements.
The committee received a priority will be to continue to review the effectiveness of Corporate Governance Code, the overseeing the effectiveness of the processes and report which confirmed the review undertaken of all the Groups system of risk management and internal controls in place.
As policies in place across the Group and operating controls and ensure the Board assesses certain key companies.
Any matters of a whistleblowing nature risks in-depth to gain an understanding of how they The risk management framework and reporting required by the Code, I have relevant raised at our operating companies during the year are could affect our strategic objectives and to ensure they providethe basis for the committees discussion of financial experience to chair this reported to the committee and, while none were of a remain within our risk appetite.
therisks across the Group, including how they are committee and my fellow committee significant nature, we view the reporting of such identifiedand assessed in terms of their potential I would like to thank the other members of the incidents as a positive reflection of our culture.
The committee reviews the controls in members bring a wide range of committee, together with management and the internal placetomitigate these risks and to ensure that The committee also reviewed the processes in place and external auditors, for their engagement and support financial and commercial expertise theyallremainwithin the Groups risk appetite.
around fraud and anti-bribery procedures, with a during the year.
Thecommitteeis responsible for recommending to which has enabled the committee to number of key control measures, reporting and the theBoard the in-depth risk focus areas which, during meet its responsibilities in a robust sharing of best practice all improved during the year.
theyear, included presentations to the Board on IT Fraud risk assessments are now also incorporated into and independent manner.
resilience and cyber security, security and counter internal audit planning.
terrorism measures, the new General Data Protection Regulation and rail bidding and forecasting.
76 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 77 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The observations from the assessment were presented and External audit discussed at a committee meeting, with the committee concluding Viability statement The committee has primary responsibility for overseeing that the audit process was robust, challenging and appropriately therelationship with, and performance of, the external auditor.
During the year, the committee reviewed the updated wording of the Groups longer term viability statement, targeted to focus on the key areas of audit risk.
Thisincludes making the recommendation as to the appointment, set out on page 45.
In order to do this, the committee ensured that the model used for scenario and sensitivity reappointment and removal of the external auditor, assessing testing aligned clearly with the principal risks of the Group, challenged the underlying assumptions used, and Independence, objectivity and non-audit services their independence on an ongoing basis and negotiating the reviewed the results of the detailed work performed.
The committee was satisfied that the viability statement auditfee.
had been prepared on an appropriate basis and that the statement was justified.
The Board recognises the importance of auditor independence and is aware of the situations which may give rise to the impairment of auditor independence.
The audit committee considers carefully on Effectiveness of the external audit process an annual basis the objectivity of the auditor in relation to both the During the year, the committee undertook an assessment of the Audit committee highlights audit process and the relationship with the Group.
quality and effectiveness of the external audit process which consisted of: During the year, the committee considered the extent of the non-audit services provided by Deloitte LLP.
Assessing each phase of the audit process against a quality Reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of risk framework.
This included the key focus areas of audit planning Details of the provision of non-audit services and associated fees are and design, audit execution, Group-wide policies and procedures included on page 113 and the full policy is included within the audit management and internal controls, including risk appetite committees terms of reference available at www.
and role of management Through a constructive, honest and open dialogue with the Continued to assess cyber security risks including those external auditor, discussing what areas had worked well and Financial reporting associated with the holding of personal data, with a focus on what could be improved ensuring IT controls remain robust and dynamic Fair, balanced and understandable Confirming optimised assurance was being derived from theaudit The committee adopted the same approach as in previous years to Monitored improvement in IT resilience and capability Assessing effectiveness against a range of valuation ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts collectively, the components including skills and knowledge, mindset and Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
The process Continued to build on improvements to health and safety reporting culture, judgement and quality control was led by an internal Annual Report Team ART consisting of members drawn from Group Finance, Group Company Secretariat Considering input from the Group Chief Financial Officer, with a focus on reviewing and refining the end-to-end process for and Investor Relations teams.
The inclusion of these various key members of the Group Finance Team and the Group managing suppliers and contractors departments, with input from Group Legal and operating divisions Company Secretary.
Deloitte LLP also provided feedback on as appropriate, ensured the balance, completeness and accuracy their own performance Assessed potential impact of the new accounting standard IFRS16 of the Annual Report.
The ART was responsible for regularly Reviewing progress against areas of focus identified from the reviewing work and ensuring balanced reporting with appropriate which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 2016 17 external audit effectiveness review links between key messages and sections of the Annual Report.
January 2019 The committee used the FRCs Audit Quality Practice Aid as The audit committee, together with senior management, reviewed guidance to support the committees assessment of the external the Annual Report in its final stages, and the committee and then audit.
Feedback arising from the assessment process was fed Reviewed the key financial and internal control matters during the the Board were able to confirm that the Annual Report, taken as a back to the Groups lead audit engagement partner so that any whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the year and provided assurance to the Board that the Annual Report areas of improvement could be followed up.
necessary information for shareholders to assess the Groups and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable position, performance, business model and strategy.
Reviewed GTRs financial and operational performance and forecasts, as well as the timetable change and potential contractual implications of its implementation Potential suppliers are now asked to complete a comprehensive Health and Reviewed the robust assessment undertaken by management to questionnaire as part of the tendering process to ensure they all safety in action have a good track record and share our commitment to HS&E support the Groups viability statement standards.
We are also writing to all of our current suppliers to Contractor management retrospectively approve their HS&E credentials, in addition to Reviewed documentation prepared to support the Groups going applying the process to all new contracts.
We have developed a and controls concern statement and concluded that the accounts had been planning template and process so that, prior to any work taking place on a site, all parties and stakeholders are identified with properly prepared on a going concern basis clearly defined roles and responsibilities.
It is at this stage that We are committed to continually improving our Health, Safety and risk assessments are reviewed to agree safe systems of work.
Reviewed the work undertaken with the Groups tax advisors, Environmental HS&E standards across the Group and have Finally, all of the operating companies have reviewed their hosting Ernst & Young LLP, to assess the levels of risk across the business focused a significant amount of time and resource in reviewing, arrangements to ensure that all visitors are appropriately testing and improving the policy and procedures across all aspects with respect to the Corporate Criminal Offences Act supported whilst working on site.
In addition to our supplier base demonstrating their commitment Reviewed the effectiveness of the internal and external audit During the year, the committee were appraised of a new to keeping people safe and well, the benefits within our business framework, which had been developed to better understand the are apparent, with colleagues contributing to a common goal and process and reappointment of the external auditor different interactions, responsibilities and roles the Group has with engaging in constructive work.
Over the year ahead, work to bring our suppliers.
Three distinct processes were identified, namely: suppliers on board will continue.
We are also looking for smart Reviewed the effectiveness of the committee, including an annual supplier approval at the Group procurement tendering stage: software solutions to help automate some of the processes and review of its terms of reference project planning at operating company level: and daily task make even more transparent the controls and documentation in supervision at depot or site level.
place to keep people safe.
78 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 79 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Key financial and internal control matters Risk management and internal controls During 2017 18, the committee considered the following key financial and internal control matters in relation to the Groups financial A summary of the key features of the Groups internal control and risk management system is set out below: statements and disclosures, with input from management and the external auditor: The Groups devolved organisational structure supports Key financial and internal control How the committee addressed these key financial matters an effective top down bottom up approach to risk Group structure matters for 2017 18 management and control Compliance with franchise terms and conditions The committee regularly reviews the accounting policies relating to income Clear leadership from the Board with the executive relating to the rail components of the Group, and costs arising from franchise agreements and considers a range of directors playing an integral role in working with Leadership specifically relating to the accounting for related reasonably probable outcomes.
At interim and year end reviews, a full operating companies income and costs arising from franchise agreements.
schedule of material income statement and balance sheet figures is assessed against the committees expectations and discussed with the Group Regular review of reports received from the Groups Chief Executive, the Group Chief Financial Officer and, where appropriate, See page 134 for more information internal auditor, external auditor, executive directors and theexternal auditor.
Board reporting senior management Ongoing review of provisions for liabilities, At interim and year end, the levels of provision for third-party claims, lease specifically relating to third-party claims, lease return and dilapidation provisions are reviewed with the Group Chief Regular review of health and safety reports and audits, return and dilapidation provisions for rolling Executive and the Group Chief Financial Officer.
Managements review is including best practice and standards across the Health and safety reporting stock, stations, depots, other properties and supported by reports from appropriate third-party experts who independently operating companies measurement of uninsured liabilities.
assess the required provision based on their industry knowledge and an understanding of the Groups specific circumstances.
Increases in provisions, A comprehensive Group-wide system of financial reporting, utilisation and release of provisions are all reviewed for reasonableness in See note 24 of the consolidated budgeting and cash forecasting and control through which financial statements light of these reports and the Groups specific circumstances.
the consolidated financial accounts are prepared and Strategy and financial reporting submitted to the Board monthly and from which the interim Impairment testing in respect of the value of The ongoing review of goodwill and carrying value of investments, as and annual consolidated financial reporting is derived goodwill on the Groups investments.
presented by management, is challenged by the committee.
This is done by assessing the expected performance of the individual cash generating units Annual certification by each operating company that it has and ensuring that relevant risk factors are imputed to the rate of return used adhered to the Groups policies and procedures manual, to assess net present value of future cashflows.
The committee also reviews See note 13 of the consolidated Compliance management which reinforces the Groups corporate governance, historic performance against expectations set in previous years.
financial statements internal control processes and management of risk Assumptions underpinning the calculation of the Pension scheme liabilities are assessed on behalf of the Group by Groups defined benefit pension liabilities.
Additionally, management reviews and challenges the The new internal audit plan subsequently approved by the underlying assumptions with other professional advisors to ensure that the committee has been monitored throughout the year and Assessment of the Groups risk management and actuaries own assumptions are appropriate for the Group.
The committee examples of the reviews undertaken during the year included: internal control system also discusses the appropriateness of the assumptions with the Groups See note 27 of the consolidated external auditor.
financial statements Revenue processes in areas such as Brighton and Hove Buses The Board has confirmed that, through its audit committee and Go South Coast and the committees review of the key financial and internal control matters for 2017 18 as detailed on page 80, it has Financial controls in Go South Coast, Go North East, Go East Understanding and treatment of exceptional The committee has considered separate disclosure of exceptional income reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal, financial, items in the year end accounts.
orcosts in light of the FRC recommendations of a balanced and consistent Anglia and Singapore operational and compliance controls and risk management approach.
The committee is mindful of the need to understand the underlying Southeastern performance income and considers that this system of internal controls operated trends of each division within the business with the impact of large and effectively throughout the financial year and up to the date on Internal audit function effectiveness unusual items separated out as necessary to avoid distortions from such See note 7 of the consolidated which the financial statements were signed.
financial statements The committee monitors the effectiveness of the internal audit function annually.
This review is led by the Audit Committee Chair, supported by the Group Company Secretary and Group Financial Ensuring operating company compliance with The committee, together with the Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief Internal audit Group policies and procedures and maintaining Financial Officer, approve the scope of internal audit including the cycle of Controller.
Input is sought from various sources with feedback then reviewed by the wider committee.
The committee also holds a the required financial control environment.
visits to test operating company compliance and financial controls, based on Internal audit for the 2017 18 financial year a risk assessment.
The results of the internal audit visits are considered by meeting with the internal auditors on an annual basis, without The Groups internal audit function has been outsourced to management present.
the committee, together with managements responses to any improvement points.
Control matters and reporting issues identified as part of the external Pricewaterhouse Coopers LLP PwC.
During the year, the The committee concluded that the internal audit function provided committee agreed a different approach to the audit plan for the auditor interim and year end audits are also reviewed by the committee which effective assurance over the Groups risk and controls considers the adequacy of any management responses.
Following an initial discussion with the committee, environment and was operating effectively.
There were no PwC held meetings with the Group Chief Financial Officer and management ensures that the recruitment and review process for operating significant concerns raised.
The necessary procedures were also company directors gives confidence in the calibre of the operating company Group Financial Controller to develop the detail of the plan.
In in place to ensure the appropriate independence of the internal addition to reviewing risk registers from across the Group, teams and their management, and review of the control environment in audit function.
meetings were also held with operating companies and business assurance teams to understand key focus areas.
Discussions were then held with the committee to develop and finalise the plan.
80 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
