STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Delegation CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Our vision Leadership A world where every journey is taken care of The Board recognises that strong governance also underpins a healthy culture.
This, in turn, brings benefits to the Group and its employees as well as to all our stakeholders.
Your Board The Board is committed to leading by example and ensuring that good standards of behaviours permeate throughout all levels of the organisation.
The role of the Board Go-Ahead is headed by a Board that is collectively responsible for creating and delivering long term sustainable value for the business.
The Board is accountable for balancing the interests of the Group, including our shareholders, colleagues, customers and the communities we serve.
Go-Aheads governance framework Leadership highlights Our governance framework is set out in the diagram opposite.
It establishes a clear division of responsibilities Key responsibilities of the Board for the Board and supports the development of good Evolved Group strategy Strategy Health and safety Contracts, bids Governance governance practices throughout the Group.
development, targets andacquisitions andregulatory Day-to-day management of the Group and the Stakeholder Monitored performance and objectives compliance engagement Risk management, implementation of strategies agreed by the Board have against objectives been delegated to the executive directors.
Corporate planning appetite and internal Board development Corporate culture and KPIs controls andeffectiveness andreputation The executive directors meet with senior management in Established key cultural the Group and across our operating companies, both indicators to measure success formally and informally, on a regular basis.
We believe that this devolved management structure enables the Nomination Audit Remuneration Improved stakeholder and Group to be managed in an effective way and allows the committee committee committee right balance between local and Group initiatives.
It also customer feedback channels Board and committee External audit Remuneration policy ensures the Board remains well informed about our composition operating companies, colleagues, customers and all our Financial reporting Remuneration principles Reviewed inclusion and diversity Succession planning stakeholders, so we can respond proactively to the Risk management and Incentive design and setting initiatives, including gender pay changing dynamics of the business andsociety.
Inclusion and diversity internalcontrols oftargets policies gap results Internal audit Executive and senior Talent strategy management remuneration Whistleblowing and Development opportunities anti-bribery procedures Chairman fees Continued Board development to Health and safety auditing improve effectiveness Read more on Read more on Read more on pages 72 to 75. pages 76 to 81. pages 82 to 105.
Group executive Operating company Cross-business rail committee boards and bus steering Operated autonomously by Comprises senior groups and forums managers responsible for local senior management Comprise the managing the key centralised Group Local senior management directors in each functions reports to the executive operating company Meets monthly with the directors directly on Meet with the executive executive directors to day-to-day management directorson a regular review the business issues including risk basis to explore and andpolicies Local senior management identify new opportunities Identifies synergies which ensure operating andinitiatives can then be cascaded compliance with Group Share knowledge, through cross-business policies and procedures experience and best groups and forums Executive directors practice across operations Functions include, but are appraise the Board Are supported by not limited to, the areas of cross-business forums IT, procurement, bus and such as health and safety, rail business development engineering, HR and and marketing diversity forums 56 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 57 Accountability STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Boards focus The Boards annual programme of activity is structured around actions and priorities agreed in last years Board development How governance supported the delivery of our strategic the development and implementation of strategy and the Board programme to make sure the Board was leveraging the skills and spends time at each meeting discussing performance against strengths of individual Board members.
We also welcomed our objectives in 2017 18 strategic objectives.
During the year, the Board welcomed a new non-executive directors, Harry Holt and Leanne Wood, to change in executive reporting to enable more discussion of theBoard in October 2017 and have spent time during the year strategy, including progress against objectives and monitoring ensuring their transition onto the Board has been supported Board activities were structured to enable the Board to support the executive directors and senior management to shifts in trends to ensure the Board remains forward looking.
through our formal induction programme and building deliver our strategic objectives.
We have set out below how the Boards governance role ensured focus on each of The Board monitors operational, financial and health and safety relationships with existing Board members.
Our internal Board our strategic objectives for the year ended 30 June 2018.
Our achievements illustrate how we continue to generate performance at each meeting.
Risk management is also a regular review identified that we have a collegiate Board with robust and value for our investors and build a sustainable business that meets the needs of all our stakeholders and the feature of Board discussion, with a programme of in-depth constructive debate in the boardroom.
The Board also ensures that key performance indicators KPIs specific to each strategic presentations on key risk focus areas by senior management objective are incorporated into our executive directors performance-related remuneration targets.
A regular discussion topic during the year was GTRs Governance financial and operational performance and forecasts.
This included As a Board we believe that good governance is crucial to the consideration of the timetable change and potential contractual successful delivery of our strategic objectives.
We aim to always implications of its implementation.
There was also a rolling Strategic objectives Board governance role What we achieved in 2017 18 remain abreast of best practice and actively participate in debates programme of presentations on the change themes that were and consultations on matters which are important to our business enablers of our strategy, including lean, technology, customer and the communities we serve.
experience, culture change and leadership.
Ensure our core businesses are Strategies developed to grow bus passenger Protect and grow The Boards role in governance and how this is linked to our strategy safeguarded numbers the core is set out on pages 59 to 61 together with what we have achieved Culture Understand market developments and Contract wins secured in London during the year ended 30 June 2018.
The Boards culture agenda ensures oversight of the many shifts in trends Maximised value from successful demobilisation of We continue to hold informal meetings and Board dinners, usually initiatives underway within our business to drive positive culture Track evolving strategic opportunities London Midland either before or after Board meetings.
Bringing our vision, beliefs and attitudes to life is a key Approve and monitor strategy and delivery Secured extension of Southeastern franchise held as required where topics warrant more time, for example, area for the Board and, this year again, we spent a lot of time Oversee and approve organic growth Continued focus on operational challenges in GTR to approve bids or contracts.
discussing how our culture change programme is being embedded initiatives, bolt-on acquisitions and Acquisition of a sightseeing company in Oxford and a across the business.
Our people bring the value of our culture to strategic partnerships All Board papers are circulated at least one full week before bus and coach operator in Hull life in their day-to-day roles and the Board regularly reviews meetings, with easy and secure access to papers via the internet, inclusion and diversity initiatives across the Group, colleague where archived papers and resource materials can also be engagement, succession planning, talent management accessed.
Each director comes to the Board meeting well Assess and agree the viability, including Explored bus and rail opportunities in targeted anddevelopment.
Win new bus and prepared, having read all papers.
Executive summaries are risk, of rail and bus contracts international markets rail contracts presented at the meeting itself, which provide the Board with the Ensuring the Board is as effective as it can be is always a priority.
Ensure detailed oversight and Submitted bid for a further German contract, which opportunity to fully engage and stimulate productive discussion.
All Board members need to bring the right behaviours and values understanding of bid process, strategy was won during the year The executive directors and Group Company Secretary to Go-Ahead to create the blend which is vital to a healthy andrisks Prepared for opportunities arising from the Bus are readily available should any Board member require boardroom culture.
Making sure all Board members are aligned to Approve all key bid and contract Services Act 2017 additional information.
Go-Aheads corporate culture has therefore remained a key focus submissions Awarded Outer Dublin Metropolitan Area and Dublin area during the year.
We undertook an interim assessment of the Oversee mobilisation of contracts Commuter Routes bus contracts alreadywon Submitted bid for new South Eastern franchise Ensure knowledge, experience and best Ongoing mobilisation of Netz Lots 2&3 in Germany practice are shared across the Group Agree new and emerging strategic Options being scoped and trialled for exploiting Develop for initiatives captive markets the future Rolling programme of in-depth reviews Target operating model established for train of transport into innovation projects operating companies Monitor progress on a regular basis Demand-responsive transport services pilot commenced in Oxford Monitor evolving competitor and macrotrends Utilising spare capacity in assets trial underway Provide support and resources to Technology initiatives launched with Hammock to pioneering innovations enable smart cities Influencing future transport through thought leadership articles and events 58 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 59 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED How governance supported the delivery of our change themes In addition to the strategic objectives and change themes detailed on pages 59 and 60, risk and governance continue to be at the forefront of in 2017 18 the Boards thinking and discussion throughout the year.
The Board Risk and governance priorities ensures that targets and KPIs are included in the executive directors annual performance-related bonus.
The following table sets out the Boards governance role and achievements against each change theme for the year ended 30 June 2018.
As with our strategic objectives, KPIs specific to each change theme were incorporated into our executive directors performance-related remuneration targets.
As these change themes have now been embedded in the everyday activities of our operating companies, the Group strategy has naturally evolved and developed.
For the coming year, the new change themes to support the delivery of our strategic objectives are: better teams, happier Board governance role What we achieved in 2017 18 customers, stronger communities, smarter technology and a cleaner environment.
Through these key areas, we aim to deliver change, shape our culture and prepare for future challenges facing us and our wider industry.
Reviewed risk management and internal control process Risk management and internal control monitoring and concluded they were effective Change Board governance role What we achieved in 2017 18 theme Continued to undertake in-depth risk reviews, which In-depth risk focus included franchise bid process, reputation and cyber security Monitor progress of lean engineering Process control Boards introduced to all bus operating Lean strategy companies and at pilot depots Challenge senior management to improve Lean plans submitted by all bus operating companies operational areas, eliminate inefficient Reviewed risk appetite statement KPIs established to monitor performance Risk appetite practices and reduce waste Lean education and training courses for colleagues Ensure technology strategy is aligned to Invested in technological advances including new bus Technology Reviewed proposed revisions to the UK Corporate support strategic direction applications Governance Code, executive remuneration policy and High standards of governance Oversight of digital initiatives Introduced new payment options and channels Board policies andprocedures Gain assurance that key IT risks are managed Resourced and piloted pioneering technological innovations with the appropriate controls inplace Reviewed key IT risks, including cyber security and controls Received updates on different groups of stakeholders including shareholders, customers, colleagues and Monitor customer satisfaction across Improved leading Bus Passenger Survey satisfaction score Effective stakeholder engagement Customer strategicpartners theGroup in regional bus experience Receive updates on customer experience Continued focus on improving GTR performance and strategy and engagement customer service Oversee relationships with strategic partners Proactively engaged and collaborated with a wide range of Ensured regulatory, statutory and legislative compliance Compliance to support and improve the customer stakeholders and partners focused on improving the experience customer experience Improved customer communications Govern the Groups vision, beliefs and Agreed key cultural indicators to monitor progress Culture attitudes Colleague engagement scores improved across change Approving target contracts within the pipeline, based Board considerations when implementing Set the Boards culture agenda operatingcompanies onalignment with our prioritisation criteria, such as our international strategy Monitor progress of Group-wide culture Considered how the Board listens to the views of our wide competitivelandscape, bid resources, financial returns, change programme range of stakeholders capitalrequirements and strategic growth opportunities Oversee and monitor key cultural indicators, Non-executive directors engaged with senior management Approving the submission of bids, negotiating parameters including inclusion and diversity policies and and front-line colleagues through local operating company andcontract close out.
Ensuring that the resultant contracts We have a clearly articulated international strategy to win new initiatives site visits arecompatible with the expected financial return and that bus and rail contracts.
The development, implementation and Ensure culture is taken into account in all risksare clearly understood, monitored and mitigated monitoring of our international strategic targets are a key focus strategic and business decision making area for the Board, with the Boards main considerations during Monitoring performance against the plan and endorsing the year summarised below: tacticalchanges as required Define the Groups purpose and strategy Focused on strategy, risk management and control Leadership Governance and oversight of the mobilisation activities required programmes Endorsing recommendations for specified opportunity Ensure governance framework contributes to to convert newly won contracts into operational businesses that long term sustainable success Improved executive reporting to measure strategic selection criteria such as, the public procurement are integrated within the Group company architecture, systems authorities, capital requirements, competitive landscape, objectives, emerging trends and innovations Set the strategic objectives for the Group and and policies sizeof potential pipeline, political risk and alignment with measure performance against them Good progress made with inclusion and diversity policies Assurance activities to monitor compliance with Group Go-Aheads core values and initiatives, including gender pay gap reporting Build and maintain effective stakeholder requirements and stakeholder expectations, including Approving target geographies, in the current and future relationships Implemented the actions from the Boards development safetymanagement, financial reporting requirements and pipeline, based on the above criteria programme last year and internal evaluation undertaken thisyear Oversee leadership succession planning,  Approving the allocation of investment resources to support personal development, reward and Built resilience into senior management succession the growth plan recognition strategies planning, improved talent and development initiatives Ensure continuous Board development andeffectiveness 60 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 61 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board Strategy Day My view of the Board Strategy Day: Harry Holt The annual Board Strategy Day took place in June 2018.
This meeting enabled the Board to focus on reviewing progress against strategy to date, debate ideas and reflect upon the future direction of the business.
In doing so, the interests of all our stakeholders were at the forefront of the Boards considerations.
The agenda for the Board Strategy Day was determined through acollaboration between the executive and non-executive directors This years Board Strategy Day was my first as a non-executive who agreed in advance the key strategic questions for discussion director on Go-Aheads Board.
It provided a great opportunity to onthe day.
reflect on the strategic position of the Group and to dig into more Protect and grow the core The morning began with the Group Chief Executive providing a detail, on certain subjects, that its not always possible to cover at summary of progress against strategy to date.
The Groups routine Board meetings.
As a relative newcomer to Go-Ahead, I For our strategic objective to protect and grow the core, financial advisor, Rothschild, presented a market and valuation found the opportunity to explore and understand the key risks and the Board discussed the wide range of initiatives underway update and the Group Chief Financial Officer updated the Board on opportunities for Go-Ahead invaluable.
tosafeguard and develop our core businesses.
The potential financial performance during the year.
The Board then discussed financial returns and risks were assessed against a number The detailed review of the overall equity markets was very the competitive landscape and macro trends facing the business, ofscenarios, the Board explored some less conventional ideas insightful, along with benchmarking against our market peers.
It with debate around the challenges these presented and how and discussed what the future might look like for our bus and set much of the context for the remainder of the days discussion.
strategic resilience could help the business adapt and adjust to rail businesses.
After a quick reflection on our past years performance, especially these changing trends.
The morning concluded with the Group the progress made against our current strategy, we were able to Commercial and Customer Director updating the Board on the key get stuck into the big strategic questions facing our sector and, drivers of demand within the bus business, with debate around specifically, Go-Ahead.
I found the discussion of global macro growth generation.
trends affecting our business particularly fascinating.
They Win new bus and rail contracts Debate in the second half of the day focused on our three included British politics, demographics and significant changes to For our strategic objective to win new bus and rail contracts, strategicobjectives.
peoples work, retail and leisure patterns.
The mix of challenge presentations were given by theManaging Directorsof and opportunity made for a stimulating debate amongst the Board, bothBusand Rail Development on target opportunities with the non-executive directors bringing their own experience and andstrategy, acquisition, biddingand pipelines.
TheBoard knowledge of different business sectors to bear.
We spent time exploring some of the innovations which Go-Ahead is pioneering to exploit the future of transport.
Initiatives such as demand-responsive transport, utilising spare capacity in current assets and smart cities all gave an insight into what the future Develop for the future of transport might look like, with Go-Ahead very much at the fore.
The Board discussed the progress made against our strategic Although the strategic debate was stimulating, it was particularly objective to develop for the future of transport, where several gratifying to distil it all down into what it meant for the Group for initiatives were being explored.
TheBoard considered how the year ahead.
This now gives the Board the foundation of a firm ourskills, knowledge and assets were being used in new ways plan, based on long term strategy, against which it is easier for the to deliver innovativeand sustainable growth for the long term.
I found the Board Strategy Day very insightful: an opportunity to spend longer getting under the surface of the business and understanding the key value drivers The management teams Throughout the Board Strategy Day, the non-executive directors which, of course, will make our routine shorter Board meetings contributed personal perceptions and views, based on their own excellent preparation even more productive.
The management teams excellent business experience.
The participation of external advisors and preparation for the day, the high quality of paperwork and fortheday, the high senior managers also provided interesting and stimulating presentations ensured it was a very successful day.
insights which contributed to the Boards debate.
qualityofpaperwork and Strategy was at the core of the Boards activities during the presentations ensured it year, with the strategic and measurable objectives that will wasa very successfulday.
underpin the Boards deliberations over the year ahead, also agreed at this years Board Strategy Day.
Harry Holts perception of the Board Strategy Day is set Harry Holt Non-Executive Director out opposite.
62 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 63 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Reflections on my first eight months: Leanne Wood Induction programme Effectiveness highlights Harry Holt and Leanne Wood were appointed as independent non-executive directors in October 2017.
Both are following a structured and tailored induction process which includes Two new non-executive directors the following key focus areas: appointed, bringing skills, Governance our devolved management approach and governance framework experience and behaviours that complement the Board Strategy how we create and deliver long term sustainable value Board effectiveness improved Since joining the Go-Ahead Board last October, I have greatly Risk our key risks, internal controls and risk appetite enjoyed getting to know the business and our people.
further by harnessing skills and Stakeholders how we listen to and balance the interests strengths of individual Board I was immediately struck by the high level of engagement all of our stakeholders Board directors show for the business.
From my first day, I have members Culture how our vision, beliefs and attitudes underpin been warmly welcomed to Go-Ahead and have enjoyed the open our culture change programme and lively discussions we have across the topics we cover.
I found Completion of action plan our annual Board Strategy Day both informative and stimulating Board how we lead by example, perform our directors following 2017 Board and appreciated the openness of the management team to input duties and strive for excellence and debate.
development programme Meeting colleagues across the Group within the first few As a new Board member, Im keen to see as much as possible of months of joining the Board was a key part of their induction our operations and people.
During the year, Ive been able to visit process and included: two of our operating companies, Go North East and Go-Ahead One-to-one meetings with members of the Board, London.
At Go North East, we visited the Riverside Gateshead Ongoing training and development including the Group Company Secretary Depot and were able to see the full range of activity which goes on There is an ongoing programme of training and development for there.
I particularly appreciated seeing how we track buses across One-to-one meetings with members of the Group the Board and this year it included: the network and how quickly we are able to respond, often executive committee responsible for the Groups Regular presentations at Board meetings from senior remotely, to any operational issues.
centralised functions management to ensure that the non-executive directors had At Go-Ahead Londons Waterloo Depot, I had the opportunity Meeting independently with both the internal and sufficient knowledge to make informed decisions.
Examples to see our fleet of entirely electric buses and hear about their externalauditors included presentations on bus and rail bid submissions, introduction and development.
Go-Ahead is leading the industry international development opportunities, stakeholder and Meeting with key advisors, including the corporate brokers in the development of electric buses, and Im looking forward to colleague engagement, reputation strategy, sustainability watching this progress.
andculture Meeting with shareholders at the annual general meeting I have been impressed by the leadership role that Go-Ahead A planned programme of non-executive director visits to There is also a programme for the non-executive directors is playing in the debate about the future of transport.
Varied operating companies to meet colleagues and understand how to meet with our local senior management teams and groups of stakeholders are regularly brought together to discuss the individual businesses work colleagues in each of the operating companies.
This is and find solutions to issues such as congestion and pollution.
Regular updates on corporate governance and best practice, undertaken through the Boards rolling programme of site Go-Ahead continues to innovate, most recently with the pilot of which during the year included the governments corporate visits, presentations to the Board and events like the annual PickMeUp, an on demand bus service in Oxford.
Through investing governance reform agenda and market best practice management conference.
in a variety of new solutions, Go-Ahead is at the forefront of Updates on legislative and regulatory matters, which during the developments in the sector.
year included compliance training on the new General Data Protection Regulation Finally, I have been impressed with the strong culture that I have Since joining the Go-Ahead Attendance and participation at the Groups annual experienced since joining the Board.
From the ongoing focus on Board last October, I have management conference areas such as health and safety and sustainability, through to the plans for colleague engagement which are developed at each greatly enjoyed getting to operating company, it is clear that Go-Ahead has a strong know the business and our commitment to delivering for all its stakeholders.
I would like to thank the Chairman, other Board directors and the management team for their warm welcome to Go-Ahead.
They have provided me with plentiful time and opportunity to learn and Leanne Wood ask questions.
From day one, they have encouraged me to Non-Executive Director contribute from my own experience.
Im delighted that Ive joined Go-Ahead and am looking forward to much more tocome.
64 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 65 Effectiveness STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board effectiveness review Our annual Board review gives us the opportunity to reflect on the effectiveness of our Board and its committees.
Following the Insights from new non-executive directors externalreview last year, this year the review was internally facilitated by the Group Company Secretary.
The Board considers the Group Individual director effectiveness Harry Holt and Leanne Wood joined the Board as non-executive Company Secretary to be a suitable and independent sounding board for this process, particularly given her insight into the day-to-day directors in October 2017 and hence were not part of the Board The Chairman also met with each director on an workings of the Board and its committees and the support and advice provided to the Board members throughout the year.
The Group Company Secretary  the findings from the Board therefore focused on their early insights of the Board, its review.
The SeniorIndependent Director led the process of The Group Company Secretary met with each Board member on a one-to-one basis, with discussion focused around progress operations and dynamics, in addition to ensuring we were evaluating the performance of the Chairman, in consultation againstthe actions from the previous years external review, the Boards governance framework and current topics to improve leveraging the new skills and experience they bring to the Board.
with the non-executive directors and with input from the executive directors.
Progress against actions arising from the 2016 17 Board development programme The Boards governance framework Discussions focused on resourcing of meetings, agenda planning and quality of information, the culture and quality of debate in Theme Specific action Progress Board meetings, strategic and risk challenge and committee effectiveness.
Board papers should be reviewed in the Executive reporting was improved to facilitate more broad and Debate At the end of the meeting, there was an opportunity for a context of stimulating and improving the strategic thinking at Board meetings and ensure time was being quality of debate spent discussing strategic objectives and key focus areas generalopen discussion and an opportunity to cover any areas notconsidered.
The Group Company Secretary then shared the findings with the Chairman, on an anonymous basis, ahead of a full discussion at the July 2018 Group Board meeting.
An action Use the results of the skills and gaps The results of the skills and gap analysis guided the search plan was then agreed for the yearahead.
Skills analysis to guide the search process for process for the two new non-executive directors, resulting in a Nick Horlers replacement, following his more diverse Board with different skills to support the strategic retirement as non-executive director at direction of the business Conclusions the 2017 annual general meeting The review highlighted the Boards key strengths and made recommendations as to how the Board could continue to develop and improve effectiveness.
A summary of the feedback and the principal areas of focus for the year ahead is as follows: Regularly assess organisational Board succession planning has been effective.
There is also Succession structure and succession planning to now increased insight into senior management succession ensure alignment with strategy planning, leadership potential and development aligned to Key strengths Principal areas of Board focus for 2018 19 strategic direction Individual directors should hold Progress against the outputs from last years Board Board The review found the functioning of the Board to be Sustainable value creation themselves to account, particularly with development programme were discussed during the year.
This development at a very good level.
The small size of the Board was cited as a Building upon the progress made during the year, the focus should included Board strengths and commitment matrices, key regard to their own personal positive, primarily because it provided the opportunity for everyone continue to be on developing the key drivers of sustainable value developmentplan insights and actions, to ensure individual accountability and the to contribute.
Discussions were supportive, constructive and well creation over the year ahead.
collective Boards continuous development balanced.
The Chairmans stewardship of meetings was viewed highly positively, actively encouraging an open and transparent Stakeholder engagement style in Board meetings.
Develop further the two-way channels of communication with Discussions with the Group Company Secretary also focused on a Sustainable value creation Board members felt well supported, with comprehensive keystakeholders, with particular focus on engagement with number of key topics relating to good corporate governance and pre-reads to support discussions sent out in a timely manner.
How does the Board assess the basis upon which the Group theworkforce.
long term sustainable success, particularly in relation to the Governance support, including updates on key compliance generates and preserves value over the long term, including the debate around the proposed changes to the UK Corporate matters, was considered to be of a very high standard with sustainability of the Groups business model and how governance Culture Governance Code.
Key areas of focus were as follows: Go-Ahead maintaining its good reputation for best practice and contributes to the delivery of strategy.
Continued assessment of the cultural indicators throughout the transparent reporting.
Committees were all considered to work business to ensure our culture continues to evolve and remains well, with Chairs well prepared and having a good subject Culture Diversity aligned to the Groups purpose, values and strategy.
knowledge and understanding of issues.
How does the Board embody and promote the desired culture How can the Board promote diversity and what role does the ofthe Group and are we monitoring and assessing culture The changes to Board composition during the year were viewed Board play in ensuring that diversity supports the achievement of Inclusion and diversity appropriately to satisfy ourselves that behaviour throughout as very positive, with the two new non-executive directors bringing the Groups strategic objectives.
Building upon the oversight of diversity strategies across the thebusiness is aligned with the Groups values and a different set of skills, experience and perspectives toenrich Group, review the Board and Group-wide inclusion and diversity corporatepurpose.
A key strength of the Board was also thein-depth Stakeholder engagement policies, key performance indicators and action plans.
knowledge and experience of existing Boardmembers.
How does the Board ensure that the interests of all stakeholders are considered and are influential in the Boards decision making Governance Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006. Review the changes to the new 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code to enable early adoption where possible and compliance with best practice.
66 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 67 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED How the Board listens to our stakeholders Our vision Our beliefs Our attitudes Listening to and engaging effectively with our wide variety of stakeholders plays a critical part in the long term success of the Group.
It helps drive strategy in a way that will deliver value for all of our stakeholders.
A key priority for the Board is to ensure that the views and interests of all of our stakeholders are represented in the Boardroom and considered as part of the Boards decision making.
This is achieved in the following ways: Why we listen How we hear the stakeholder voice Why we listen How we hear the stakeholder voice To ensure we are customer-focused Social media news and updates To foster relationships of mutual trust and Formal written contracts, negotiated loyalty using the principle of transparency and To assess the Groups performance Customer satisfaction surveys Customers Strategic partners our vision and values To ensure collaborative partnerships To respond to customers needs and Continual review of feedback and and suppliers Customers are at the heart Annual surveys of our suppliers demands complaints To ensure competitive advantage of Go-Ahead.
We We work collaboratively Regular meetings to discuss contract To identify change required and Direct feedback via call centres, emails and To monitor feedback understand our local with strategic partners performance deliver improvements social media messages To assess performance and identify markets and strive to including TfL, Network Rail Early supplier engagement To maintain a reputation for high Focus groups and other primary research opportunities for improvement exceed our customers and Keolis, and build standards of business conduct Annual procurement sustainability supply Customer-facing colleague feedback To adopt a strategic and forward expectations.
We care how strong relationships with chain event To deliver a high quality public focused approach Customer panels, especially for special our customers feel about core suppliers.
transport service Stakeholder surveys interest groups such as the disabled To ensure cultural fit and maintain supply us and our services so we chain sustainability Regular stakeholder meetings can improve.
Why we listen How we hear the stakeholder voice Why we listen How we hear the stakeholder voice To maintain a highly engaged and Annual management conference To ensure the Group is well-positioned to Working in partnership with the DfT on motivated workforce pre-empt, respond and adapt to change improving customer satisfaction, air Annual colleague engagement survey Our people Government quality, safety and customer satisfaction To develop the skills and capabilities To enable a continued focus on service Investor in people process Our people drive our of our people to be the best in the By working closely with quality and delivery Key partner in the Thameslink Colleague performance data business.
We strive to both central and local sector programme which is transforming To formulate innovative and attractive bids Leadership and talent development review create an environment government, including the north-south travelthrough London To ensure the culture across the as opportunities arise Training and needs analysis which is inclusive and DfT and local authorities, Group is improving and is Ongoing dialogue with local MPs as well To help shape new policies, regulations Site visits diverse: enabling all we bring the benefits of underpinned by our vision, beliefs and as participating in government and and standards for the industry for the long Focus groups colleagues to reach their private sector attitudes industry working groups, to represent our term benefit of passengers full potential, to seek new, partnerships: by helping to key strategy and customer needs To confirm the people agenda innovative ways to meet reduce public spending, complements the business strategy Stakeholder newsletters customers needs.
bringing investment, Working alongside other departments to customer focus, our improve policy on accessibility for disabled experience and expertise: people and a safe transport service for all helping to shape policy and regulatory changes.
Why we listen How we hear the stakeholder voice Why we listen How we hear the stakeholder voice To maintain a loyal shareholder base Annual General Meeting To deliver our vision: a world where every Two-way communication stream with journey is take care of local businesses and organisations To enhance long term shareholder Annual Report and Accounts Investors Communities value To support local economies by enabling Economic contributions Results announcements and trading Go-Ahead is listed on the Our businesses are at the access to work, education, leisure and To build long term credibility updates Stakeholder conferences London Stock Exchange, heart of the communities retail opportunities To assist investors to make informed Online communications Open days at depots forming part of the FTSE they serve.
Our aim is to To respond to local demands and needs decisions Investor perception survey Surgeries in community centres 250.
We provide investors provide the social and To ensure longevity of economic Participation in investor relations with open and transparent economic benefits of contribution associations and best practice events information and encourage affordable and accessible To assess the impact of our operations on Individual investor meetings two-way communication.
travel in the towns and the community and environment Feedback from our cities in which we operate.
shareholders forms part of strategic Board discussions.
68 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 69 Visiting our businesses Lean management and meeting the teams Engineering managers provided an overview of how lean was being adopted across the business functions so that the benefits could Committee be realised by all of the business.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director were then given a tour of the companys engineering site, providing them with the opportunity to interact with teams at all levels in the business.
reports Site visits enable the Board to experience first hand how our Considering stakeholders businesses are run and, importantly, meet local teams.
Such visits provide an invaluable way of assessing how culture change is A presentation was given covering stakeholders, media relations being embedded and cascaded throughout the organisation.
The and marketing with an update provided on what the business was In this section Board has a rolling programme of site visits.
Between them, the doing to improve customer experience.
A presentation on 72 Nomination committee report Board visited Plymouth Citybus, London Midland, Go North East, recruitment and engagement demonstrated the positive impacts 76 Audit committee report Brighton and Hove Buses, Go-Ahead London and Go South Coast being seen from the recruitment strategy and also covered 82 Directors remuneration report during the year.
highlights from the colleague engagement survey and key focus 82 Annual statement areas to continue improvement.
84 Q&A with Katherine Innes Ker The Boards visit to Brighton and Hove Buses 86 Remuneration 2017 18 at a glance Growing the core and developing new opportunities The Chairman and Senior Independent Director visited Brighton 87 Remuneration policy report The day concluded with a talk on growing the core business and and Hove Buses in December 2017.
94 Annual report on remuneration developing new business opportunities.
This covered passenger growth trends, investing for growth, network reallocation of Section 1 Single figure tables Fleet environmental strategy resources, congestion threats and responses, partnering and 94 Executive directors single figure table audited The visit began with the Head of Engineering providing an developing opportunities for growth and innovation.
95 Commentary on the executive directors single updateon the companys current fleet profile, low emission and figure table clean air-zones, and how the company is proudly helping with A successful day 98 Non-executive directors single figure table Brighton and Hove City Councils initiatives to become an audited emissions free city.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director found the visitveryinformative and that a full day meeting the teams Section 2 Additional information on 2017 18 remuneration andvisitingthe engineering site had worked well.
By spending 99 Directors shareholdings and share plan interests Health and safety time with management and front-line colleagues, they were audited Next on the agenda was a presentation on changing health and ableto gainvaluable feedback on Go-Aheads culture and see 100 Executive directors interests in outstanding share safety culture and performance.
This provided key highlights as howour vision, beliefs and attitudes were demonstrated in awards and options audited well as insights into how far the business had come in changing aday-to-day setting.
culture amongst its people, progress since last years health and 101 Long Term Incentive Plan safety audit, and looking ahead to the next priorities.
102 Total shareholder return performance graph 102 Remuneration of the Group Chief Executive over last nine years 103 Remuneration for the Group Chief Executive compared with all other employees of the Group 103 Relative importance of spend on pay 103 Payments to former directors and payments for loss of office audited 103 Material contracts 103 External advisors to the committee 103 Statement of voting at annual general meeting Section 3 Implementation of remuneration policy in 2018 19 104 Executive directors 2018 19 base salaries 104 Benefits 104 Pensions 104 2018 19 performance-related bonus 104 2018 19 LTIP awards 105 Non-executive directors fees 70 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
