STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Key to committees BOARD OF DIRECTORS Executive directors N Nomination committee Details of the directors contracts, emoluments and share Chairman interests can be found in the directors remuneration report on Chairman and pages 82 to 105.
A Audit committee Committee Secretary non-executive directors Group Company Secretary R Remuneration committee Andrew Allner David Brown Patrick Butcher Katherine Innes Ker Adrian Ewer Harry Holt Leanne Wood Carolyn Ferguson Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Group Company Secretary N R N A R N A R N A R N A R N A R Appointment: Appointment: David Brown was appointed Patrick Butcher was Appointment: Appointment: Appointment: Appointment: Appointment: Appointment: to the Board as Deputy Chief appointed to the Board as Andrew Allner joined the Katherine Innes Ker joined Adrian Ewer joined the Board Harry Holt joined the Board in Leanne Wood joined the Carolyn Ferguson was Executive on 1 April 2011 Group Chief Financial Officer Board in October 2008 and the Board in July 2010 and in April 2013 October 2017 Board in October 2017 appointed as Group Company before his accession to the on 14 March 2016.
In August was appointed as Chairman was appointed as Senior Secretary in July 2006 post of Group Chief Executive 2018, it was announced that of the Group in April 2013 Independent Director in on 3 July 2011 Patrick will leave Go-Ahead Length of service: Length of service: Length of service: April 2013 later this year to take up the Length of service: 5 years and 2 months 0 years and 8 months 0 years and 8 months position of Chief Financial Length of service: Length of service: 12 years Officer at Capita plc Length of service: 9 years and 8 months 7 years and 3 months Independent: Independent: Independent: 7 years and 11 months Independent: Yes Yes Yes Length of service: Independent: Independent: Not applicable 2 years and 3 months Independent: On appointment Not applicable Skills, experience Skills, experience Skills, experience Yes Skills, experience and qualifications: and qualifications: and qualifications: Independent: Skills, experience Skills, experience and qualifications: Became a chartered Served 24 years in the British Extensive corporate Not applicable Skills, experience and qualifications: and qualifications: accountant in 1977 and, as a Army fulfilling some of the experience working in several A Fellow of the Institute of and qualifications: Significant Board experience Fellow of theInstitute of Defences most demanding senior international executive Chartered Secretaries and Over 35 years of experience in Skills, experience across a broad range of UK and Former city financial analyst.
Extensive roles at Diageo plc from 2000 Administrators.
Qualified and the industry with particular and qualifications: multinational companies and Extensive executive and sound recent and relevant experience working as a to 2015, and Burberry Group practising coach and mentor.
expertise in the London bus sectors.
Former Partner at non-executive experience in financial experience.
Former commander on combat plc from 2015 to date.
Former Managing Member of the Institute of  LLP helping to grow successful Chief Executive Officer of operations, as a senior international career secretarial, compliance, Director of Surface Transport Chartered Accountants anda Fellow of the Institute of and dynamic organisations.
John Laing plc and executive in the Ministry of background with significant governance and pensions at Transport for London.
Over 17 years Chartered Accountants in Held many previous nonassociated limited Defence and in government experience of leading experience.
Began working as Thorough knowledge and of experience as a finance England & Wales.
Graduate of executive directorships companies.
A wealth of corporate strategy and Assistant Company Secretary understanding of the Groups director at Board level in Oxford University.
Former including Gigaclear plc, experience of major long experience in strategic organisational transformation in 2001, before being business, having been Chief transport and infrastructure Non-Executive Director of StModwen Properties plc, term contracts.
Strong planning, operations, culture appointed to Group Company Executive of Go-Aheads companies.
Former Group AZElectronic Materials SA, Victoria plc, Taylor Wimpey customer focus and flair for and transformation through Secretary in 2006.
Previous London bus business from Finance Director of Network Other directorships CSR plc, and Moss Bros Group plc, Taylor Woodrow plc, The strategy and finance.
leadership positions held at employment includes working 2003 to 2006 and advisor to Rail as well as finance and offices: plc.
Former Non-Executive Television Corporation plc, Experience in bidding and Rolls-Royce plc from 2011 for Northern Electric, the main Board director roles at English, Chief Strategy, People and Chairman of Marshalls plc Fibernet plc, Williams Lea operating heavy and light rail todate predominantly in the field Welsh and Scottish Railways Corporate Affairs Officer at plc, Shed Media plc and Gyrus franchises as well as rail ofpensions now DB Schenker and Other directorships Burberry Group plc Group plc infrastructure procurement London Underground.
Other directorships Other directorships and offices: Extensive experience working Other directorships and offices: and offices: Director of Rail Delivery as a management consultant Other directorships Other directorships and offices: Non-Executive Chairman Chief People Officer Group Limited, Director of and auditor for Deloitte LLP.
and offices: and offices: ofSIGplc Chairman of atRolls-Royceplc and None ATOCLimited Chairman of Formermember of the the nomination committee, Non-Executive Chair of The None Non-Executive Chairman the remuneration committee British Transport Police Non-Executive Chairman Mortgage Advice Bureau, of the Royal Foundations and Non-Executive Director Authority ofFoxMarble Holdingsplc Non-Executive Director of Endeavour Fund of Renew Holdings plc member of the remuneration Forterra plc and Chair of Other directorships committee and Non-Executive Readypower Group Limited and offices: Director of Northgate plc None 54 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
