THE SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE TO CONTINUE TO DELIVER OUR STRATEGY The Board is responsible to the Companys shareholders for the long-term success of the Group, its strategy, its values and its governance.
E Helen Gordon N R Mark Clare Chief Executive Non-Executive Chairman Appointment: Appointed to the Board in Appointment: Appointed Chairman in November 2015 February 2017 Skills, competence and experience: Mark has wide-ranging Skills, competence and experience: Helen is a highly experienced, experience in a number of sectors and extensive knowledge of the proven and well-regarded real estate investor.
She has significant residential property market.
He has substantial plc-level experience experience working across a wide range of real estate asset classes, and is senior independent director of United Utilities Group plc and including residential property.
This is combined with an extensive a non-executive director of Premier Marinas Holdings Limited.
Mark knowledge of the City.
Helen is a Chartered Surveyor and before was previously chief executive of Barratt Developments plc from joining Grainger was global head of Real Estate Asset Management 2006 to 2015, and is a former trustee of the Building Research of Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
She previously held senior property Establishment and the UK Green Building Council.
Prior to joining positions at Legal & General Investment Management, Railtrack and Barratt, he was an executive director of Centrica plc and held a John Laing Developments.
Helen is a non-executive director of number of senior roles within both Centrica plc and British Gas.
Derwent London plc and previously held a number of other Mark has also been a non-executive director of Ladbrokes Coral non-executive board roles over her career, including British Group plc and BAA plc, the airports operator.
Waterways and the Covent Garden Market Authority.
She is also a vice president of the British Property Federation, a director of EPRA Tenure: 1 year and 7 months and an advisory board member of Cambridge Universitys Land Economy Department.
Tenure: 2 years and 10 months E Vanessa Simms Chief Financial Officer Appointment: Appointed to the Board in February 2016 A N R Justin Read Non-Executive Director Skills, competence and experience: Vanessa brings extensive Appointment: Appointed to the Board in financial experience to Grainger from the property sector in the UK.
February 2017 She has particular expertise in leading and implementing strategic change in businesses.
She has substantial experience in senior Skills, competence and experience: Justin has substantial finance leadership roles in a listed environment.
Vanessa has experience in real estate and corporate finance.
He was group worked in finance since 1998 and immediately prior to joining finance director of SEGRO plc from August 2011 to December Grainger held a number of senior positions within Unite Group plc, 2016.
Between 2008 and 2011, Justin was group finance director at including deputy chief financial officer.
Prior to that Vanessa was UK Speedy Hire plc.
Prior to this, he spent 13 years in a variety of roles finance director at SEGRO plc.
Vanessa is also a non-executive at Hanson plc, including deputy finance director, managing director director of Drax Group plc, the power company.
of Hanson Continental Europe, head of corporate development, head of risk management and group treasurer.
He was a nonTenure: 2 years and 7 months executive director of Carillion plc for a six week period from 1 December 2017.
Justin is also a non-executive director of Ibstockplc.
Tenure: 1 year and 7 months 42 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Other information A N R Tony Wray A N R Andrew Carr-Locke Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board in Appointment: Appointed to the Board in October 2011 March 2015 and appointed as Senior Independent Director in February 2018 Skills, competence and experience: Andrew has substantial Skills, competence and experience: Tony brings extensive experience in senior finance positions in listed companies, experience in a broad range of senior operational and strategic particularly in the residential property sector.
He also has wideleadership roles, in particular in public companies.
He was the chief ranging experience as a non-executive director of public companies.
executive of FTSE 100 water company Severn Trent plc from 2007 Andrew is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management to 2014, having joined its board in 2005.
He has also held director Accountants and was group finance director at George Wimpey plc roles within Transco and National Grid Transco, and was a member between 2001 and 2007.
He has previously held senior finance roles of the Water UK board.
at Courtaulds Textiles plc, Diageo plc, Bowater-Scott and Kodak.
More recently, Andrew was executive chairman of Countryside Tenure: 6 years and 11 months Properties, where he led the refocus of the companys strategy.
Andrew stood down as a director of Countryside Properties in 2014.
Committee membership He has previously held non-executive directorships at Dairy Crest E Executive Committee plc, Royal Mail Holdings, Venture Production and AWG.
A Audit Committee Tenure: 3 years and 6 months R Remuneration Committee N Nominations Committee A N R Rob Wilkinson Committee Chairman Non-Executive Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board in Tenure is as at 30 September 2018.
October 2015 Skills, competence and experience: Rob has substantial experience in real estate and corporate finance.
He is a Chartered Accountant and the chief executive of AEW Europe, a leading European real estate investment manager.
Prior to joining AEW Europe in 2009, Rob was a managing director with the Goodman Group and also held investment banking positions at UBS and Eurohypo.
He is also chairman of the Green Rating Alliance.
Tenure: 2 years and 11 months Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 43
