Governance EFFECTIVENESS The standard Board schedule sets seven formal meetings against strategic objectives and details of any issues arising.
In throughout the year, one of which was specifically focused on a addition, items that require formal Board approval are circulated in review of the Companys longer-term strategy, and an additional advance with all supporting paperwork to aid appropriate decisions.
meeting was held in the year to consider transactional matters.
The Board also spent time visiting sites in London, including our The Board has a list of matters reserved to it, and a rolling annual development schemes at Argo Apartments, Canning Town and plan of items for discussion, agreed between the Chairman and the Young Street, Chelsea.
The Board also received a number of CEO.
They review the list of reserved matters and annual plan presentations from the Grainger team during the visits.
regularly, to ensure they are properly covered, together with other key issues as required.
At each Board meeting, the CEO provides a The table below shows examples of the subjects and matters the review of the business, setting out how it has been progressing Board debated and considered throughout the year: Board activity How the Board spent its time 1.
Property transactions Carried out an in-depth review of and operations 20% Graingers strategy, considering options Considered health and safety matters, for growth, the PRS market, development 5 including a presentation to the Board business and operational and financial from the Health and Safety Director, and 00 strategy.
1 matters arising in the sector following the Received a presentation from Goldman Grenfell Tower tragedy and the Dame Sachs regarding domestic and Hackitt Review.
international real estate and equities Considered material transactions and 4 markets, together with an update on business opportunities including, among merger and acquisition activity in the others, our build-to-rent schemes in 00 sector.
Milton Keynes, Southampton and Considered competitor activity in the PRS Sheffield, and the disposal of our interest sector.
2 in the Walworth joint venture.
Monitored the economic, legislative and Received reports on the progression of our 3 geo-political landscape, including the existing development projects in the UK.
development of government policy in Considered management of our suppliers relation to the residential property sector.
and our approach to procurement, with Reviewed the risk management particular focus on key repair and framework, principal risks and appetite, in maintenance arrangements.
particular with regard to the future Received reports on our customer service strategic options for this business, such as performance and other operational KPIs, increasing development and M&A activity.
Monitored the progress of our technology change project.
Governance 10% Considered the evaluation of the Boards Reviewed the Groups debt and capital Received briefings on regulatory and effectiveness.
structure, including the launch of a new governance issues, including the New Reviewed the culture of the business, the corporate bond.
Code issued by the FRC and the GDPR Board and employee engagement.
This Considered the Groups financial compliance programme.
included the HR Director presenting the performance throughout the year.
Considered shareholder relations, in results of the annual staff survey to the Agreed the continued application of the particular the feedback from investors Board.
and analysts in connection with the 2017 Received a presentation from the HR Compared corporate and operating full year results and the 2018 interim Director on our People strategy for the overheads to the business plan.
business, including the skills and Monitored performance of the agreed Received reports from the Nominations, resourcing required to achieve our KPIs for the business.
Considered the requirements of a REIT Considered the Gender Pay Gap for the conversion, and the feasibility of this for business pursuant to the new legislation.
44 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Other information Information flow Access to independent advice The Chairman and the Company Secretary ensure the Directors All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company receive clear, timely information on all relevant matters.
Board Secretary, who ensures we follow Board processes and maintain papers are circulated well in advance of meetings to ensure there is high corporate governance standards.
Any Director who considers it adequate time for them to be read and to facilitate robust and appropriate may take independent, professional advice at the informed discussion.
None of the Directors did so in the current year.
The papers contain the CEOs written report, high-level reports on Engagement with stakeholders each business area, key figures and papers on specific agenda items.
How we engage and interact with our stakeholders is integral to our Also, minutes of the Executive Committee meetings and detailed business.
In order to achieve our aim of being the UKs leading financial and other supporting information are provided.
The Board residential landlord, we keep in close contact with our employees, also received presentations throughout the year from various customers and investors to ensure that we are aware of each departments, including HR, Legal, Investment, Corporate Finance others key drivers and act in such a way as to maximise our mutual and Health and Safety, and from external advisers on subjects interests.
including financing, regulatory issues for listed companies and business valuation.
We seek to develop and improve our stakeholder engagement, through regular communication and continuous improvement in Time commitment our processes and practices.
You can find further details of our The Board, supported by the Nominations Committee, carefully engagement with stakeholders at pages 55 to 58 of this report.
considered the external commitments of the Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Board is satisfied that each Induction and professional development Director committed enough time to be able to fulfil their duties, No new Board members were appointed during the year, but in any and has capacity to continue doing so.
None of them has any event and in accordance with the Code, Graingers policy is that the conflict of interest not disclosed to the Board, in accordance with Chairman, supported by the Company Secretary, is responsible for the Companys Articles of Association.
ensuring that each Director receives a comprehensive and tailored induction.
The Board is updated on a range of matters throughout the year.
Subjects include the business of the Group, legal and regulatory responsibilities of the Company including updates to the legislative landscape and changes to accounting requirements.
This takes the form of presentations by Grainger senior management and external advisers, and Board papers and briefing materials.
We also expect individual Directors to identify their own training needs, and to ensure they are adequately informed about the Group and their responsibilities as a Director.
The Board is confident that all its members have the knowledge, ability and experience to perform the functions required of a Graingers Non-Executive Directors take pride in not governing director of a listed company.
As part of its regular programme of site visits to get first-hand experience of the Companys activities, in the past year the Board visited our developments at Young Street, Kensington and Argo Apartments, Canning Town.
During the visits the Board was shown around the developments by staff leading the projects.
This included highlighting the innovative features and tenant facilities incorporated at each site, noting that amenities of this nature form a key part of our strategic proposition in our development pipeline.
At the Argo Apartments visit the Board took the opportunity to conduct a full Board Meeting in the amenity space included in the building which can be utilised by tenants to host dinner parties or other gatherings with friends.
These visits provided the Board with an invaluable insight into how the Companys strategy is being put into practice.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 45 Governance EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED Performance evaluation More opportunities should be created for the Non-Executive The annual evaluation of the Board and its Committees for 2018 Directors to interact with the business and its employees more was led by the Chairman and the Company Secretary through frequently.
completion of a detailed questionnaire, followed by individual The Board should gain more understanding of the intended meetings between the Chairman and each of the Directors.
The customer philosophy and operational procedures that will Company Secretary collated the results of the questionnaire and underpin it.
these were considered by the Chairman and reported to the Board as a whole.
The overall results were positive and indicated that the The Board and its Committees will monitor progress and continue Board, its Committees and the individual Directors were all their critical review of the Boards effectiveness during the year operating effectively and demonstrated a commitment to the role.
In accordance with the Code, we intend the next external A selection of the key findings arising from the evaluation are evaluation of the Board to be carried out in 2020. summarised below: Re-election of Directors Board meetings are conducted in an effective manner which We continue to adopt the recommendations of the Code that all encourages open discussions, with appropriate time allocated to Directors offer themselves for re-election annually, even though the key issues and strategy in particular.
Companys Articles of Association only require this every three Committees are performing to a high standard.
Therefore all current Directors, with the exception of Tony Input from each of the Directors regarding the strategic review Wray who is retiring, will stand for re-election at the 2019 AGM.
The Board would benefit from a new Non-Executive Director with In light of the performance evaluation, the Board recommends that customer-facing skills, good operational experience and a all Directors proposed are so re-elected.
personality that helps drive the diversity of thinking.
External Board evaluation cycle Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 2017 2018 2019 2020 External Internal Internal External 46 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
