Governance ACCOUNTABILITY: AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Audit Committee currently comprises four independent Non-Executive Directors.
Dear shareholders, This is my third year of chairing Graingers Audit Committee, and I am pleased to present the Audit Committee report for the year ended 30 September 2018.
During the year, the Committee has continued to carry out a key role within the Companys governance framework, supporting the Board in risk management, internal control and financial reporting.
This report provides an overview of Andrew Carr-Locke the significant issues the Committee considered, and its assessment Chairman Committee of the Annual Report and Accounts as a whole, including how we have reviewed the narrative reporting to ensure it is an accurate reflection of the financial statements.
Attendance table As a matter of course, the Committee considers its terms of Meetings reference each year, taking into account changes to Grainger and to Member Meetings eligible to external governance requirements.
During the course of the year Committee member since attended attend we have been mindful of the consultation and finalisation of the Andrew Carr-Locke March 2015 4 4 New Code.
In addition, we develop a clear work plan through the Committee Chairman year to ensure we fulfil all our responsibilities.
At the heart of those Tony Wray November 4 4 2011 responsibilities is ensuring that the Company operates an effective risk assessment and management process, and has an appropriate Rob Wilkinson February 2016 4 4 control framework in place.
We are helped by the Internal Audit Justin Read March 2017 4 4 team at Deloitte, which reports directly to us, and which works to an agreed plan to ensure controls are effective.
How the committee spent its time Grainger is continuing to undergo significant change.
Implementing 00 40% the PRS strategy requires the introduction of new processes and 10% Financial reporting 40% new systems, much of it via our IT restructure.
Therefore, this year Internal control and audit 25% the Committee has focused on assessing the risks and controls Risk management and compliance 25% regarding this changing environment.
I also anticipate that over the Governance 10% next two years the work of the Committee will include giving close 25% 00 attention to reviewing the new technological and automated systems and preventative controls to be established.
We have also 25% carefully considered the risk management framework to assess its relevance for an increasingly PRS-focused business.
The Committee has supported the Board in considering the principal risks and appetite of the Company.
We provide details of the risk management framework, principal risks and key mitigants on pages 32 to 36.
The issue of security of personal information is of increasing concern to the public, and Graingers current and future customers likewise want comfort that their personal data is safe and secure.
In this regard the Committee and the Board have closely monitored Graingers preparations for the regulatory change brought about by the GDPR that came into force in May 2018.
This oversight of data protection compliance will continue in 2019 as the change embeds.
One of the Committees other key responsibilities which we carried out during the year is ensuring the Groups published financial statements show a true and fair view and are consistent with 50 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Other information accounting and governance requirements.
We also considered the Quality Inspection Report and the proposed improvement plans viability statement closely, having regard to the continued progress arising from the mixed findings of the Report.
The Committee will of the implementation of our PRS strategy and the overall strategic closely monitor progress against these plans.
This included interrogating the financial models and to their work for Grainger, the Committee was satisfied with the related sensitivity analysis of various economic scenarios.
In work of KPMG and recommends its reappointment.
addition, we have concentrated on the fair, balanced and understandable requirements for the Annual Report.
In this regard, I believe the regular challenge and engagement with management, we are helped by receiving a number of appropriate papers from the external auditor and the Internal Audit team, together with the the Chief Financial Officer and her team, and by the independent timely receipt of high-quality reports and information from them, work of our internal and external auditors.
has enabled the Committee to discharge its duties and responsibilities effectively, a conclusion endorsed by the Board As well as our planned work programme, we respond to key matters appraisal process.
An example of this during the year was to consider the impact upon the Companys statutory income statement, statutory I would like to record my thanks for the support of the other statement of financial position and the EPRA NNNAV of the members of the Committee, to Graingers Finance and Legal forthcoming amendment to IAS 40 in relation to the scope for teams, and to our internal and external auditors for their transfers to and from investment property.
Whilst there was no specific FRC review of Graingers audit this year, Andrew Carr-Locke the Committee discussed with KPMG the results of its FRC Audit Chairman of the Audit Committee 13 November 2018 Significant matters relating to the Groups 2018 financial statements The most significant matters considered by the Committee and discussed with the external auditor in relation to the Groups 2018 financial statements were as follows: 1 Property valuations We received reports and presentations directly from the valuers and management on the assumptions utilised in valuing the Groups property assets, the suggested discount rates for reversionary assets and the valuations.
We considered the prevailing valuation methodology and process.
As detailed in the 2017 report certain revisions to the valuation process were introduced last year and therefore this is the second year in which the adopted process has been carried out.
We were content, after close scrutiny and debate, with the assumptions and judgements applied to the valuations.
We also considered that the external valuers were sufficiently independent and report directly to the Committee.
KPMG also independently reviews the valuation process and results.
The results of the valuations form the basis of managements assessment to support the carrying value of investments in subsidiary companies by the parent company.
2 Recoverability of inventories Management utilise the valuation information referred to above to perform an assessment of recoverability of inventories.
The valuations include references to comparable market evidence of similar transactions along with the Groups own evidence and experience in sales of similar assets.
Along with our assessment of property valuations we have considered managements assessment of recoverability of inventories and are satisfied that the approach adopted and results are appropriate.
Invitations to attend meetings Role, responsibilities and experience There is a standing invitation to the Chairman of the Board and the The Committees role and responsibilities are concerned with Executive Directors, who in turn attended all of the Committees financial reporting, narrative reporting, whistleblowing and fraud, meetings during the year.
The Director of Group Finance and internal control and risk management systems, internal audit and representatives of the internal and external auditors also attended external audit.
all meetings of the Committee, and both sets of auditors met privately with the Committee during the year.
Andrew Carr-Locke, Rob Wilkinson and Justin Read have recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
The Committee as a whole has the competence relevant to the sector in Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51 Governance ACCOUNTABILITY: AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED which it operates.
Please refer to pages 42 and 43 for skills and draft Annual Report.
The Committee, and subsequently the Board, experience of the Directors and page 49 for the Nominations were satisfied that, taken as a whole, the 2018 Annual Report and Committee report.
Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable.
Terms of reference Going concern and financial viability The Committees terms of reference are approved by the Board.
The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of adopting the We review them at least annually and last reviewed them at the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the full year Committees meeting in February 2018.
The Committees terms of financial statements and assessed whether the business was viable reference comply with the Code and they can be found on the in accordance with the requirements of the Code.
included a review of the principal risks facing the Group, their financial impact, how they were managed, the availability of finance Objectives and covenant compliance together with a discussion as to the The Board has delegated authority to the Committee to oversee appropriate period for assessment.
The Groups viability statement and review the: is on page 37.
Groups financial reporting process: External auditor objectivity and independence system of internal control and management of business risks: The objectivity and independence of the external auditor are critical internal audit process: to the integrity of the Groups audit.
During the year, the Committee external audit process and relationship with the external auditor: reviewed the external auditors own policies and procedures for and safeguarding its objectivity and independence.
There are no Companys process for monitoring compliance with applicable contractual restrictions on the Group appointing an external laws and external regulations.
On three occasions during the year the audit engagement partner made representations to the Committee as to the external Final responsibility for financial reporting, compliance with laws and auditors independence.
This also confirmed that KPMGs reward regulations and risk management rests with the Board, to which the and remuneration structure includes no incentives for him to Committee reports regularly.
The Committee understands and, cross-sell non-audit services to audit clients.
KPMG duly applies the where required, challenges any materiality and unadjusted errors requirement to rotate audit partners every five years, and this that occur during the year and considers how best to engage with rotation will be due for the 2020 audit.
The Committee and KPMG investors on any materiality and adjusted or unadjusted differences.
have commenced discussions on audit partner succession to ensure there is an orderly and timely handover of responsibilities.
Meetings The Committees main work follows a structured programme of The Committee appraised KPMGs performance by assessing its activity agreed at the start of the year.
As well as its main work, the audit plan, the quality and consistency of its team and reports Committee undertakes additional work in response to the evolving received and discussions held with the Committee.
In addition, we audit landscape.
The following page shows a non-exhaustive list received feedback from the finance team.
We also considered the highlighting the Committees work during the year under review.
tone of KPMGs relationship with the Executive, which we assessed as constructive and professional yet independent and robust.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Committee has undertaken a detailed review in assessing In respect of KPMGs independence, the Committee applies its whether the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and policy for the use of external auditors for non-audit services.
This understandable, and whether it provides the necessary information policy substantially restricts the types of non-audit services that to shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model can be rendered and specifies the limited circumstances in which an and strategy.
The Committee reviewed and made suggestions engagement can be made.
about the processes put in place by management to provide the necessary assurance that they have made the appropriate Services the external auditor is prohibited from providing to the disclosures.
The Committee considered managements assessment Group include, amongst others: of items included in the financial statements and the prominence given to those items.
This review also included receiving a near final bookkeeping and preparing financial information: draft of the Annual Report in advance of the November 2018 the design, supply or implementation of financial information Committee meeting.
This was accompanied by a reminder of the systems: areas the Committee should focus on having regard to the Audit appraisal or valuation services: Committee Institute guidance, and how it can be applied to the internal audit services: and actuarial services.
52 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Other information KEY ACTIVITIES November 2017 Received a presentation from the independent external valuer of Noted the tax impact and treatment of the full year results and Graingers reversionary assets.
also that the Company maintained its HMRC low risk status.
Considered and received matters relating to the 2017 full year, Reviewed the effectiveness of the Committees performance.
including: Considered KPMGs independence and recommended to the managements summary of the accounting positions: Board KPMGs re-appointment.
KPMGs year end audit report: Received an Internal Audit report on service charge, a review of going concern review of the business: and Risk and Control Matrices RACM and reviewed the Internal Audit the draft Annual Report and Accounts.
February 2018 In respect of risk, considered the Groups: On Internal Audit matters: risk management framework, principal risks and mitigants: considered the five-year core assurance Internal Audit plan: and assurance map against principal risks: and received Internal Audit reports on penetration testing and the the revised version of the risk management policy.
Companys development and refurbishment operations.
Received a presentation and paper on Graingers compliance with Considered KPMGs plan for its review of the 2018 half year and preparations for the GDPR.
Reviewed the Audit Committee terms of reference.
Carried out a detailed evaluation of the performance of the internal and external auditors.
Considered them to be effective and also identified certain areas for future improvement May 2018 Considered issues regarding the 2018 half year results, including: Received Internal Audit reports on: the draft half year financial statements and announcement: property management and customer care: managements judgements and assessment: and health and safety: KPMGs half year review report.
lettings and on-boarding: the progress of on-going actions from previous Internal Audit reports: and progress of the RACM spot check programme.
September 2018 Received an update on Accounting Standards.
Reviewed reports on: Considered the 2018 draft viability statement and related analysis.
internal controls: Considered KPMGs audit strategy memorandum and the risk management framework and the application of the engagement regarding the audit for the full year 2018. three lines of defence model: Considered and approved the forward Internal Audit plan.
the development of key risk indicators for parts of the business: Received Internal Audit reports on: and Governance review of Graingers IT change programme principal risks and risk appetites.
Connect: Received an update on compliance, including GDPR, anti-bribery RACM spot checks: and and financial crime legislation, and our programme of compliance progress of completing actions from previous internal audits.
with corporate tax evasion legislation.
Considered FRC AQR Report on KPMG and its proposed remedial Considered the potential impact of the forthcoming revisions to actions.
IAS 40 in relation to investment property.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 53 Governance ACCOUNTABILITY: AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Regarding potentially permitted non-audit services, key criteria that Internal controls must be evidenced to the Committees satisfaction is that the The Board, assisted by the Audit Committee, is responsible for external auditor is best suited to undertake the relevant services reviewing the operation and effectiveness of the Groups internal and that the engagement will not jeopardise external auditor controls.
This internal control system is designed to manage risks as independence.
The engagement of KPMG for the provision of far as possible, acknowledging that no system can eliminate the risk non-audit services requires prior approval from the Audit of failure to achieve business objectives entirely.
The Board did not Committee Chairman.
In 2018 there was an increase in the level of identify any significant failings or weaknesses in the year.
The non-audit services rendered in 2018 are specified in the table below and in each case, after close The Board is also responsible for ensuring that appropriate systems consideration, the Committee was duly satisfied that the: are in place to enable it to identify, assess and manage key risks.
The preparation of financial statements and the wider financial key criteria noted above had been satisfied: reporting process and control system are monitored by the non-audit services policy had been applied: and adoption of an internal control framework to address principal appointments were in the best interests of the Company and its financial reporting risks.
This includes risks emerging as a result of stakeholders.
changes to the business or accounting standards.
The effectiveness of the controls is evaluated by a combination of review by all of the Year ended Grainger management committees and boards, and the internal 30 September and external auditors.
2018 Schedule of fees paid to KPMG Statutory audit of Grainger Group 241,500 A key project in the year was the GDPR compliance project.
Both Total audit fees 241,500 the Board and the Committee received regular updates from senior Half year review 32,000 management.
In 2019 an Internal Audit report will provide further assurance in relation to our actions in this area.
Reporting accountant - corporate bond 35,000 Corporate finance activity 135,000 Non-statutory certificate on Berewood Internal Audit Development site 5,000 Deloitte is appointed by the Company as Internal Auditor.
Internal Total non-audit fees 207,000 Audit focuses on the areas of greatest risk to the Company.
Audits are considered during an annual audit planning cycle.
This is The Committee was also satisfied that the overall levels of audit informed by the results of current and previous audit testing, the related and non-audit fees were not of a material level relative to Companys strategy, performance and the risk management the income of the external auditor firm as a whole.
Additional audits may be identified during the year in response to changing priorities and requirements.
The Committee External auditor tenure approves the plan and monitors progress accordingly.
All Internal The Company confirms that it has complied with the Competition Audit findings are graded, appropriate remedial actions agreed, and and Markets Authoritys Order for the year.
Due to the relatively progress monitored and reported to the Committee.
recent appointment of KPMG in 2015, the Committee was satisfied that it was not optimal to tender external audit services in the Internal Audit has a direct reporting line to the Chairman of the current year.
The Committee noted that a competitive tender for Audit Committee.
We assess the effectiveness of Internal Audit by the external auditor must be held no later than 2025. reviewing its reports, feedback from the Chief Financial Officer, and through meetings with the Chairman of the Audit Committee The Committee monitors the performance of the external auditor, without management being present.
providing an in-depth evaluation of its performance following the external audit, and then makes a recommendation to the Board.
The Internal Audit programme for 2018 gave attention to the When considering the appropriateness of the re-appointment of Groups core operational processes and the risk and controls in that KPMG, we considered in our review, the ratio of audit to non-audit regard.
The plan for 2019 and thereafter has been designed to align fees and the effectiveness of the audit process, together with other with the implementation programme for the PRS focused strategy.
We were satisfied that we should This approach will give attention to providing assurance, process recommend the re-appointment of KPMG.
improvement and insights for Graingers core processes, complemented by an appropriate number of targeted risk reviews on principal risks or areas of management concern.
54 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
