Governance LEADERSHIP GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Board Responsible to the Companys shareholders for the long-term success of the Group, its strategy, its values and its governance.
Provides leadership of the Group and, either directly or by the operation of Board Committees and delegated authority, applies independent judgement on matters of strategy, performance, resources including key appointments, the overall approach to risk management and internal control, culture and standards of behaviour.
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Responsible for overseeing the Responsible for determining the reward Reviews the structure, size and Companys financial statements and strategy for the Executive Directors to composition of the Board and its reporting.
Reviews the work of internal align their interests with those of the Committees.
Oversees succession and external auditors and matters of shareholders.
planning for Directors and Executive significant judgement by management.
It leads the process It reviews the risk management for appointing Board Directors.
framework and the integrity of the risk management and internal control systems.
Executive Committee This Committee operates under the direction and authority of the Chief Executive.
It makes key decisions on matters to ensure achievement of strategic plans, reviews strategic initiatives, ratifies executive decisions and considers the key business risks.
It is supported by sub-committees, each focusing on an area of the business.
Management Investment Operations Board Development Finance Committee Responsible for Responsible for Committee Committee Board executing operations financial matters Responsible for the Reviews and Responsible for the strategy, performance across the Group, day-to-day approves material strategy management, risk which include management issues transactions, implementation, management and accounting, financial of the business and allocates investment performance governance reporting, tax, ensuring all senior capital and agrees management, risk across the operating treasury, corporate leaders are briefed on investment hurdle management business.
and commercial business activity and rates.
and governance in finance and financial priorities.
relation to the support for the development business.
40 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Other information ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE DIRECTORS Role Responsibilities Responsible for running the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chief Executive reports to the Chairman, Chairman as does the Company Secretary, on matters of corporate governance.
The Chairman is the guardian of the Boards decision making process and is responsible for ensuring a constructive relationship between Executive and Non-Executive Directors and for fostering open debate with an appropriate balance of challenge and support.
In accordance with the Code, the posts of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, with their roles and responsibilities clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
Responsible for running the business and implementing the Boards decisions.
She recommends the strategy to Chief Executive the Board and is responsible for implementing it.
She chairs a regular meeting with the Chief Financial Officer and the additional members of the Executive Committee.
Chief Financial Responsible for the financial stewardship of the Groups resources through compliance and good judgement.
She provides financial leadership in the implementation of the strategic business plan and alignment with financial Officer objectives.
Non-Executive Responsible for bringing independent and objective judgement and scrutiny to all matters before the Board and its Committees, using their substantial and wide-ranging skills, competence and experience.
The key responsibilities Directors of Non-Executive Directors are set out in their letters of appointment and include requirements to: challenge and contribute to the development of the Companys strategy: scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives, and monitor the reporting of performance: and satisfy themselves that financial information is accurate, and that financial controls and systems of risk management are rigorous and secure.
A copy of the standard letter of appointment for a Non-Executive Director is available from the Company Secretary.
During the year, the Non-Executive Directors meet periodically without the Executive Directors present and also without the Chairman.
Senior Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for the other Directors where necessary.
The Senior Independent Director will meet shareholders if they have concerns, and where contact Independent through the normal channels has not resolved the issue or is inappropriate.
The Senior Independent Director Director leads the annual performance review of the Chairman.
Board meetings 2017 18 Board meeting Site visit Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Attendance table to 30 September 2018 Balance of Directors as at 30 September 2018 Meetings Male Meetings eligible to Executive Directors attended attend Helen Gordon 8 8 Vanessa Simms 8 8 71% Non-Executive Directors Mark Clare 8 8 Female Chairman Belinda Richards 3 3 Executive Directors Tony Wray 8 8 Non-Executive Andrew Carr-Locke 8 8 Directors Rob Wilkinson 8 8 29% Justin Read 8 8 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 41
