Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Other information EFFECTIVENESS: NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT The Nominations Committee currently comprises the Chairman of the Board and four independent Non-Executive Directors.
Dear shareholders, I am pleased to present the Nominations Committee report for 2018 which details the main activities we undertook during the year.
The Nominations Committee plays a fundamental role in ensuring we select and recommend strong candidates for appointment to the Board.
The Committee monitors the balance of Mark Clare skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Board and its Chairman Committee Committees, with any changes recommended to the Board for its review and decision.
The Committee is also responsible for succession planning, and monitors talent development at senior management level.
2017 was a particularly busy year for the Attendance table Nominations Committee with significant change to the Board and its Committees.
Consequently, 2018 has been about embedding Meetings Member Meetings eligible to these changes whilst focusing on the future make-up of the Board.
Committee member since attended attend Mark Clare February 2017 2 2 Although it is not yet in force, the Committee is also mindful of the Committee Chairman New Code and the changes that will flow to the work of the Board Belinda Richards February 2014 1 1 and its Committees.
In this regard, in May 2018 the Committee Tony Wray February 2014 2 2 reviewed those areas which specifically relate to the Nominations Andrew Carr-Locke March 2015 2 2 Committee.
We will continue to monitor best practice under the Rob Wilkinson May 2017 2 2 new Code as it is implemented.
Justin Read March 2017 2 2 Key responsibilities The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: How the committee spent its time 00 review the size, balance and constitution of the Board, including 30% Non-Executive Director succession 15% the diversity and balance of skills, knowledge and experience of and balance of skills 30% the Non-Executive Directors: Executive and senior management consider succession planning for Directors and other senior succession and pipeline 30% executives: Committee composition 25% 30% 00 identify and nominate, for the approval of the Board, candidates Governance 15% 25% to fill Board vacancies: review annually the time commitment required of Non-Executive Directors: and make recommendations to the Board, in consultation with the respective Committee Chairmen, regarding membership of the three Board Committees.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 47 Governance EFFECTIVENESS: NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Process for Board appointments Tony Wray has served on the Board for over six years at the date of Before making an appointment, the Nominations Committee will this report, and therefore will be stepping down from the Board at evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience currently the February 2019 AGM.
On behalf of the Board and the on the Board.
Following this a specification of the personal Committee I would like to thank Tony for his significant contribution attributes, experience and capabilities required to perform the to Grainger over a period of such strategic and operational change.
In circumstances where external recruitment or benchmarking of an internal candidate is As reported last year, Belinda Richards was due to retire from the appropriate, an independent external search consultancy will be Board at the February 2018 AGM, and consequently Andrew engaged to help identify appropriate candidates for the role.
A Carr-Locke was to take on the role of Senior Independent Director recommendation is then made to the Board concerning the and Justin Read was to become Chairman of the Remuneration appointment of any Director.
The Committee also supports the Committee, being positions previously held by Belinda.
It is Board in the appointment of the Company Secretary when confirmed that these changes duly took place in February 2018 as required.
Main activities of the Committee during the year Executive succession planning The Committee met formally twice during the year to The Committee received a detailed presentation from the HR 30 September 2018, supplemented by other discussions to support Director in relation to our succession plans for key staff in the the work of the Committee.
At the formal meetings the Committee business and related retention strategies for them.
Specifically with considered a number of standing agenda items relating to its key regard to succession planning of senior executives, the search for a responsibilities detailed above.
In applying those responsibilities, the Director of Land and Development was carried out during the year, Committee made decisions on a range of matters during the year, and the Committee and Board were kept informed of progress with the most significant of which are detailed below.
Invitations to this search by the Chief Executive.
This search was successfully attend Committee meetings extend to the CEO, HR Director and concluded during the year with the appointment of Mike Keaveney others as necessary and appropriate.
Non-Executive Directors External non-executive directorships As mentioned in the 2017 Committee report, it was agreed that an During the year, both Helen Gordon and Vanessa Simms were additional Non-Executive Director would be recruited to add retail appointed as non-executive directors of other listed companies.
consumer-facing skills to the Board, recognising the changing Helen was appointed to the board of Derwent London plc and nature of Graingers business as it delivers its PRS-focused strategy.
Vanessa to Drax Group plc.
In considering whether to give approval To assist with the appointment, three independent executive search for the appointments, after close consideration, the Committee was consultancies were invited to pitch for the engagement to carry out satisfied that the time commitment required for the appointments the search.
This involved the consultancies making presentations to would not jeopardise the capacity for Helen and Vanessa to a Grainger panel comprised of the Chairman, Chief Executive and perform their roles at Grainger, and that there was no immediate HR Director.
Following this process, the panel recommended the conflict of interest arising.
Further, the Committee considered that appointment of a consultancy which it considered had the optimal the experience and insight that would be gained from these capability for the instruction.
The consultancy was subsequently directorships would be beneficial for them both, and in turn for the engaged.
It is confirmed that the relevant consultancy is not Company.
Helen and Vanessa are entitled to retain their fees in connected with the Company in any other way.
In this search respect of these directorships.
process the Committee will base the prospective appointment on merit but also have regard to the benefits of diversity on the Board.
This appointment process is still under way and we look forward to reporting further in due course once the appointment is agreed and made.
48 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Other information Diversity Experience of the Board The Directors are committed to having a balanced Board which Property experience includes diversity of perspectives, skills, knowledge and background.
For gender diversity specifically, the Board supports the aspiration of the Hampton-Alexander Review to promote greater female 86% representation on listed company boards, and notes the significant progress made in this area in FTSE 350 companies since the original Lord Davies report of 2010.
We make all appointments to the Grainger Board on merit, and within this context the Directors will continue to follow best practice on the issue of diversity as it Financial experience develops further.
At the date of this report, female representation at leadership or audit capacity Board level was 29%, which is lower than the 38% reported in 2017.
This reduction is owing to Belinda Richards retirement during the year with no further appointments having been made.
The current 86% percentage is also slightly below the 33% level recommended by the Hampton-Alexander Review.
The objective for the Board and the Committee is to consistently have at least one-third of the Retail consumer Board being female Directors, and the Board aims to return to a business experience composition which exceeds this threshold in 2019.
Page 29 contain further details of diversity matters across Grainger.
29% The Board is also mindful of the Parker Review regarding ethnic diversity on UK boards that was published in 2017.
The Review recommends that each FTSE 250 board should have at least one director of colour by 2024.
The Committee will work with the Board with a view to complying with this recommendation assuming suitable candidates can be found.
Balance of knowledge, skills and experience The Directors have wide-ranging experience as senior business people.
The Board has particular expertise in finance, property and the listed company environment.
As mentioned above, we are looking to enhance the blend of skills and experience of the Board by adding an individual with retail consumer-facing skills.
Mark Clare Chairman of the Nominations Committee 13 November 2018 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 49
