Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Other information s r e m o t s u C RELATIONS WITH STAKEHOLDERS How does the Board consider shareholder and stakeholder views?
Reviewed customer service survey Reviewed and considered reports of results meetings with investors Reviewed focus group feedback Considered questions and comments from Reviewed and fed back on plans to analysts improve customer service Met with shareholders at the AGM in More detail on how Grainger delivered Newcastle for its customers is included on page More detail on Graingers engagement with 24 shareholders is included on page 24 Shareholders Customers Reviewed reports on Graingers Considered reports on key supplier engagement with local relationships and performance communities Oversaw development of Graingers Considered schemes in which policies and approach to antiGRAINGER Grainger participated at Local bribery, anti-corporation tax evasion Suppliers development sites PLC and modern slavery Community More detail on Graingers More detail on Graingers BOARD engagement with local engagement with suppliers is communities included on page 25 is included on page 24 Employees Government Monitored employee engagement Considered reports on Graingers survey results contributions to government matters Considered talent management and Oversaw Graingers relationships with key succession planning issues local authority partners Monitored progress against diversity Reviewed reports on meetings with targets and plans government, shadow government and Engagement with employees at office party officials and site visits More detail on Graingers engagement with More detail on Graingers engagement public bodies is included on page 25 with employees is included on page 25 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 55 Governance RELATIONS WITH STAKEHOLDERS CONTINUED Key shareholder events 2017 18 An ongoing dialogue with our shareholders is fundamental to ensuring that there is an understanding of the strategy and governance of the business, and that the Board is aware of the issues and concerns of our investors.
In this section of the report we highlight the key activities of our shareholder engagement programme throughout the year.
November December 2017 January 2018 Full year results presentation Two investor property tours October 2017 London London Two investor conferences Full year investor roadshow Investor conference London London and Edinburgh London March 2018 February 2018 Two US investor conferences Miami and New York Full year investor roadshow Amsterdam Investor conference London Investor property tour London Property tour London AGM May 2018 June 2018 Two investor conferences Half year investor roadshow September 2018 London Amsterdam Investor conferences Half year results Property tour London presentation Manchester London Investor conference Investor conference Berlin Half year investor roadshow Paris London and Edinburgh Investor presentation Property tour and lunch Property tour London Argo Apartments, London London 56 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Other information Substantial shareholdings At 30 September 2018 and 31 October 2018 being the latest practicable date prior to the date of this report, the Company is aware of the following interests amounting to 3% or more in the Companys shares.. 30 September 2018 31 October 2018 Holding Holding Holding Holding million % million % BlackRock Inc. 32.1 7.7% 32.2 7.7% Schroder Investment Management Ltd 27.5 6.6% 27.3 6.5% Aberdeen Standard Investments 23.1 5.5% 24.1 5.8% The Vanguard Group Inc 15.5 3.7% 15.6 3.7% Columbia Threadneedle Investments 15.5 3.7% 15.4 3.7% Aberforth Partners LLP 15.4 3.7% 15.4 3.7% Norges Bank Investment Management 14.7 3.5% 14.7 3.5% M&G Investment Management Ltd 14.2 3.4% 14.2 3.4% Legal & General Investment Management Limited 13.7 3.3% 13.4 3.2% Highclere International Investors LLP 12.9 3.1% 12.9 3.1% Frequently asked questions The market Demand for renting continues to outstrip supply.
What is the competitive The PRS continues to attract significant interest among institutional investors.
However, it is estimated that landscape like at the moment?
the PRS will grow from 4.7m households to 7.2m by 2025, and the current supply of new purpose built PRS stock is c. 130,000 units.
We have over 4,500 operational PRS units, with an anticipated pipeline of a further c. 5,300 units, positioning us as one of the largest players in the market.
We have demonstrated our ability to deliver on our strategy through the success of securing PRS investments.
Graingers intention has always been to grow beyond the 850m target, which was an initial metric set out Outlook along with our PRS strategy in January 2016.
What is the scale of your PRS investment ambitions?
Scale is important in the PRS market, and the opportunity for growth, supported by growing demand, is vast.
We will continue to invest at pace and in a disciplined manner, supported by our established asset recycling programme, gearing within our target range of 40-45% LTV and the resilient cash flow generated from our regulated tenancy business.
Overheads Overheads have been reduced by 25% since January 2016.
We have restructured the business to this level in Overheads have been reduced order to support our growth plans.
Therefore we do not expect to see overheads materially rise as we a lot, but are they going to increase our portfolio, with the exception of wage inflation due to our investment in our operational increase again as you grow?
As part of our investment process, we undertake detailed mapping of the local consumer market including Affordability job profiles, personal income levels, commuting patterns and economic growth forecasts.
Are you concerned about your customers ability to afford When underwriting and pricing our properties, we aim to set rents within levels that are affordable to those rising rents and housing costs?
living locally with average incomes.
This mid-market approach ensures that are properties are accessible to the widest range of people.
Operational platform We continue to invest in our operational platform, which provides us with significant competitive advantage, You have the market leading including investing in technology to enable us to increase our scalability and enhance our customer operational platform.
leverage off it and seek to offer We are not seeking to offer our operational platform to third parties but are actively pursuing partnerships your operational platform to where the third party can bring a PRS development opportunity we could not otherwise acquire.
A good others entering the market?
example is our newly established partnership with the London Borough of Lewisham, where we are working together to develop c. 300 new homes on land owned by the Borough.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 57 Governance RELATIONS WITH STAKEHOLDERS CONTINUED Case study of investor presentation at Argo Apartments Forward funding Objective Direct development To provide investors and prospective investors with an insight into Land the work undertaken by Graingers development division and how development adds value to the business.
Hosted at Graingers latest PRS offering, Argo Apartments, which was launched in January 2018, the presentation gave investors the Presented by Graingers Executive management and senior opportunity to view the buildings amenity space and apartments.
development team, this provided progress to date on current projects and outlined future opportunities, with a focus on three strands of development: The presentation was attended by over 20 top investors and sell side analysts, with positive feedback received.
The Groups website includes a comprehensive investor relations manage the Groups investor relations programme with the section, containing all RNS announcements, share price Director of Corporate Affairs.
We always seek feedback at these information, annual documents available for download and meetings and present it to the Board.
In addition, the Company similar materials.
All the Directors standing for re-election intend Secretary engaged with a combination of fund managers and to attend the 2019 AGM and be available to answer questions.
corporate governance officers of the Companys major shareholders All shareholders can attend the AGM, which is a means of before the 2018 AGM.
We anticipate a similar pre-AGM communication with smaller and private shareholders.
engagement process will take place in 2019.
We send out the notice of meeting and Annual Report and Attendance at key investor meetings Accounts at least 20 working days before the meeting.
We hold 95% Chief Executive separate votes for each proposed resolution.
A proxy count is given Chief Financial Officer 92% in each case after the voting on a show of hands.
Grainger includes, 89% Senior executive as standard, a vote withheld category, in line with best practice.
Shareholders can also lodge their votes through the CREST system.
Shareholders by region The Board believes that understanding the views of its shareholders 00 is a fundamental principle of good corporate governance.
Strong 57% 10% UK excluding Scotland 57% engagement with stakeholders and investors is key to achieving 8% North America 16% this.
Rest of Europe 9% 9% Scotland 8% Investor relations are based on the financial reporting calendar, with 16% Other 10% additional engagement when considered beneficial to the Company.
00 We have held more than 230 engagements with shareholders, analysts and potential investors in the year.
Helen Gordon and Vanessa Simms held the vast majority of these meetings, and 58 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
