Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 49 O Ou ur r r re el la at ti io on ns sh hi ips ps Building and nurturing strong working relationships O ur ability to attract and retain with our customers, suppliers, JV partners, capital occupiers is driven by the quality of our relationships with them.
providers and other stakeholders iscritical to Therefore, we are encouraged our success.
that 88% of respondents in our recent customer satisfaction survey rated our services as Our key relationships good or excellent.
Lisa Day Customers Capital providers Regional Building Manager Occupiers Purchasers Equity See more on page 49 See more on pages 106 to 107 Debt GPE occupier mix % See more on pages 47 and 48 Retailers and leisure 1 9 Technology, media and telecoms Professional services Suppliers Other stakeholders 12 35 Banking and finance Corporates Contractors Advisers Local planning authorities Government See more on page 52 See more on page 51 19 Communities JV Partners See more on page 50 See more on page 51 24 During the year, we commissioned our first independent customer satisfaction survey to better understand how our Operational measures occupiers view the services that we provide.
Encouragingly, Occupiers satisfaction Worker engagement 88% of respondents described their level of satisfaction 88% 6 rating: % good or audits on construction with our services as good or excellent.
Looking forward, we excellent sites anticipate that occupiers will demand ever increasing levels of customer service.
We have therefore further strengthened our Our approach occupiers services team with the recent recruitment of a Head We aim to build lasting relationships with our stakeholders of Occupier Services into a newly created role.
Furthermore, based on professionalism, fair dealing and integrity.
we have appointed a Director of Workplace and Innovation Our active engagement with our stakeholders helps us to focus attention on factors such as digital mobility, agile build long-term relationships withthe individuals and working, changes to IT infrastructure and the integration of groups upon which the successofourbusiness depends.
Through this greater focus on innovation, we will create more adaptable spaces, allowing occupiers the flexibility tooccupy their workplace in diverse and productive Focused approach to meet customers needs ways and further improve the occupier experience.
Across the portfolio we have 346 occupiers in 55 buildings High occupier satisfaction % across 40 sites.
Our occupiers operate across a wide spectrum of business sectors and range from Fortune Global 500 companies to local sole traders.
We consider that a close 100 88 relationship with our occupiers is vital to our success.
As a result, we manage all aspects of our property portfolio 75 in-house enabling us to continually refine our understanding ofwhat occupiers want and how we can best meet their needs.
50 This understanding depends on successful communication.
Therefore, each of our portfolio managers is required to 25 11 formally meet with every occupier twice a year and at least 1 one Executive Committee member will meet with our top 0 Good excellent Neutral Negative 20 occupiers annually.
This process provides valuable insight Occupier survey: Percentage overall levels of satisfaction into their business which allows us not only to ensure that In November 2017, we completed the residential element of our occupiers are satisfied with their existing space but also Rathbone Square, W1, our largest ever residential scheme, and to retain them when their leases expire.
the process to hand over the 140 pre-sold units to the buyers commenced.
The complex process to co-ordinate the new owners taking occupation of their apartments was successfully administered in-house by our customer services manager.
All but one of the units have been handed over, completing the collection of the remaining sales proceeds and concluding a very successful development with only two penthouses remaining available for sale.
Strategic Report Annual Review 50 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Our relationships continued Through our partnership with Centrepoint, in addition to Enhancing our communities providing an annual financial contribution we will also be We aim for our activities to have a positive social looking to offer opportunities for our employees to engage impact, with our buildings bringing improvements to with Centrepoint through fundraising, pro bono support their surrounding local communities.
We consider our and an annual community day.
We also hope to provide communities to be London as a whole, the boroughs in some of the much needed work placements to some of their which we work and the streets in which our buildings are young people.
We also aim to create communities within our buildings, developing environments in which the occupiers In order to ensure that we can continue to build the and users of our buildings wish to linger and socialise as well workplaces and homes of the future, it is essential that as work.
Whilst we have always contributed to local causes we support local skills and opportunities more broadly and donated to charitable organisations, in May 2018 we across the industry to help support the skilled workforce launched a new community strategy Creating Sustainable oftomorrow.
Since 2013, we have had an active programme Relationships setting out how we aim to manage our social working with and supporting Westminster University in impact and create long lasting, sustainable community delivering their building-related degrees programme.
This strategy is based around four key themes: During the forthcoming year, we will be looking to build on this programme.
We will continue to support our contractors breaking the cycle of youth homelessness: in appointing apprentices to work on our development improving air quality and urban greening: sites and will also be looking to increase the reach of this addressing the skills gap through engagement with programme, extending it to our consultant teams and our education: and own building management team.
mitigating the risk of modern slavery in our portfolio.
Health and wellbeing, particularly air quality, is becoming S ee Creating sustainable relationships on our website at an increasing issue in London and, as a result, it is having an www.
co. uk our-relationships local-communities increasing impact on our building design.
Our community strategy aims to take this one step further and aims to As a London business, our new community strategy is help improve the air quality surrounding our buildings.
designed to ensure that we focus our activities on the key We fully support the drive to increase urban greening issues that are affecting London.
We recognise the growing throughout London, given the extensive benefits of green problem in London of homelessness and the cost to both spaces including, improved air quality, biodiversity and the London and UK economy of supporting young people the reduction in the urban heat island effect.
In April 2018, not in employment, education or training.
As a result, we we joined Wild West End, a group of property owners wanted to support an organisation that helps address looking to improve green infrastructure throughout the some of these issues and have selected Centrepoint West End.
Furthermore, we have separately committed asourinaugural charity partner for the next three years.
tofunding a three-year air quality research project backed by Groundwork London to measure the impact of some of these initiatives on local air quality across the capital.
We are also committed to including green walls, roofs, terraces and spaces in our new developments and considering how we retro-fit urban greening to our existing buildings.
Reducing congestion in London is key to making lasting improvements in air quality.
We are therefore reviewing how we can support local consolidation centres and support coordinated distribution to reduce deliveries to our buildings, both during construction and whilst occupied.
We believe that this strategy, coupled with new social value guidelines to measure the social impact of our development projects and our commitment to undertaking social value Centrepoint: our corporate studies for all developments over the value of 10 million, will start to deliver lasting impact in the communities in charitypartner which we are located.
Centrepoint plays a crucial role helping young homeless people, helping around 125,000 individuals since 1969, many of these within London.
Through the Centrepoint helpline, it provides much needed advice to young people who are homeless or who are worried that they might be about to become homeless.
Centrepoint also provide accommodation across London for young homeless people aged 16-25, along with mental and physical health support and assistance in gaining the qualifications, skills and confidence they need to get a job.
Centrepoints activities tackling homelessness across London, combined with their efforts to get young 1 25,000 people back into work, made them the obvious organisation Young homeless people helped by for us to work with as our first charity partner.
Centrepoint Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 51 Our joint venture partnerships We work collaboratively Joint ventures remain an important part of our business with the GLA, local councils and stakeholders to achieve andwe categorise our joint ventures into two types: planning consents that meet our access to new properties 3.2% of GPEs net asset value.
commercial objectives and the The relevant joint venture is the Great Victoria Partnership needs of the wider community.
GVP with Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society: and Piers Blewitt Senior Development Manager risk sharing on development projects and or large lot size properties 14.7% of GPEs net asset value.
The relevant joint ventures are the GHS Limited Partnership GHS withthe Hong Kong Monetary Authority HKMA and the Great Ropemaker Partnership GRP with BP Pension Fund.
Navigating the planning process together Our three active joint ventures continue to represent an withlocal authorities important proportion of the Groups business.
At 31 March Developing new buildings in central London is difficult, 2018, they made up 18.1% of the portfolio valuation, 17.9% particularly in the West End.
Large areas are protected of net assets and 13.6% of rent roll at 31 March 2017: 18.0%, by conservation areas, building heights are restricted, 17.5% and 16.8% respectively.
development needs to be considerate to local residents and Wholly-owned and joint venture property values at 31 March 2018 the planning process is stringent.
Navigating this process is a core driver of our success.
As a result, our relationships Wholly-owned 2,285.2m 4% Risk sharing 389.0m with the local planning authorities are key to delivering on 14% Access to new properties 115.8m our business plans.
We are open, transparent and non-adversarial in our approach to securing planning consents.
We engage pro-actively in pre-application consultations with key stakeholders and will adjust our proposals to take account of comments received.
Where possible, we use planning performance agreements with the local planning authority 82% to ensure that our planning applications are determined inatimely manner.
Joint venture partners Recent planning successes include planning consent for our Net assets at 116,000 sq ft retail and office new-build scheme at Oxford 31 March 2018 House, W1 at the eastern end of Oxford Street.
GRP BP Pension fund 206.8m Following the recent local elections, which have not resulted GHS Hong Kong Monetary Authority 140.7m in a change of control in our key boroughs, there will be GVP Liverpool Victoria 76.1m a number of newly appointed cabinet positions.
We are Other 0.1m closely monitoring whether this signals a change of planning Total 423.7m tone and or policy going forward.
9% Net assets in joint venture Strategic Report Annual Review 52 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Our relationships continued Working with our supply chain to eradicate I n order to successfully deliver our often highly complex modern slavery projects, a team ethos is In May 2017, we launched Creating Sustainable Spaces, essential.
We aim to create our long term vision for sustainability.
As part of this vision, long lasting relationships we committed to working with our contractors to eradicate with market leading suppliers modern slavery from our supply chain.
As a result, we through our collaborative have rolled out Worker Engagement Audits across our approach.
development sites, undertaking six audits during the Helen Hare last twelve months.
A number of common themes were Head of Project Management identified, ranging from the quality of canteen facilities to the percentage of self-employed operatives working on our sites and the dissemination of policy information on modern Working closely with our contractors slavery and human rights.
The results of the audits have The successful and profitable delivery of our developments been shared with our principal contractors to assist them in requires the effective management of a multitude of engaging with their supply chain on ethical labour sourcing.
factors, including maintaining deep relationships and We have also committed to: collegiate working with our main contractors.
Whilst the construction of our developments is often subject to launching a poster campaign within site welfare facilities a tender process to ensure we obtain value for money, toraise awareness on modern slavery: wetry tosecure the best people with an established track working with our contractors to ensure the payment of the record and, where possible, retain key team members on London Living Wage across all our construction sites at all successive developments.
levels: and This close collaboration combined with bi-monthly payment updating our Sustainable Development Brief to include terms, a track record of successful project delivery and more on modern slavery and ethical sourcing.
a deep pipeline of future work means that contractors want to work with us, enhancing our good access to Alongside our modern slavery statement and Sustainable quality suppliers.
Development Brief, our Supplier Code of Conduct includes requirements in connection with: We work with a broad and diverse range of suppliers, fromsmall independent companies to large multinationals.
ethical working practices: Whilst we require all our suppliers to comply with standards human rights: and codes that may be specific to their industry, our child labour: Supplier Code of Conduct sets out the standards that forced labour: werequire of our suppliers.
working hours: wage and benefits: and apprenticeships.
Compliance clauses are included in all portfolio management contracts with our suppliers, making the payment of the London Living Wage a condition of employment.
Suppliers are audited to ensure compliance and in the event of non-compliance they are required to immediately address the situation and compensate the relevant individuals.
Contractors employed on committed development schemes during the year Project: Project: Project: Project: Project: 160 Old Street, EC1 Rathbone Square, W1 55 Wells Street, W1 Cityside House, Hanover Square, W1 Whitechapel, E1 Contractor: Contractor: Contractor: Contractor: Contractor: Previous work with GPE: Previous work with GPE: Previous work with GPE: Previous work with GPE: Previous work with GPE: 95 Wigmore Street, W1 Wells & More, W1 95 Wigmore Street, W1 n a 240 Blackfriars Road, SE1 and and and 33 Margaret Street, W1 33 Margaret Street, W1 12 14 New Fetter Lane, EC4 Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 53 We are continually developing and improving our processes We are in the process of integrating fire safety into our on modern slavery and are determined to improve soft landings process to ensure that design issues and awareness on modern slavery and ethical labour practices operational concerns in connection with fire safety are dealt throughout our supply chain.
with early in the design process.
This will also ensure that forour new buildings our operational teams are fully briefed Maintaining high health and safety standards on the fire systems installed as well as building fire strategy well in advance of occupation of the building.
We are committed to maintaining the highest standards ofhealth and safety at our buildings in order to minimise the Health and Safety Incidents by year risk of accidents and incidents to our occupiers, contractors 2018 2017 2016 and employees.
Enforcement notices or fines received 0 0 0 Employees As works undertaken at our buildings are outsourced Work related fatalities 0 0 0 to contractors, the maintenance of high health and Reportable injuries incidents 0 0 0 safety standards in connection with the selection and First aid injuries management of our contractors, in addition to good 3 4 3 communication, is key to managing our health and safety Number of days off due to accidents andincidents 0 0 0 risks.
We review the health and safety record of all our At our occupied buildings contractors prior to instruction, as we believe that a good Work related fatalities 0 0 0 health and safety record is also an indication of a well run Reportable injuries incidents 2 0 1 project.
We also provide our employees with regular health First aid injuries 15 8 9 and safety training updates to ensure that changes to At our developments legislation and policy updates are communicated as soon Work related fatalities 0 0 0 as possible.
Reportable accidents incidents 3 0 2 During the year, we instigated a programme of site visits, undertaken by our senior management team to review During the year, we had one potentially serious health operational health and safety issues.
Visits have already and safety incident related to refurbishment works being been carried out by our Board of Directors and Executive undertaken at an occupied building.
Fortunately no-one was Committee members.
The visits are solely to discuss health injured and we have subsequently reviewed all construction and safety matters with our construction teams and have related health and safety protocols across our portfolio.
already proved invaluable in promoting a positive health and safety culture and improving communication with our contractors on safety issues.
Following the tragic events at Grenfell Tower, we carried out a review of fire safety arrangements across our business, both our development portfolio and our occupied properties.
Although we do not have any high-rise residential buildings with aluminium composite materials within cladding systems, the review highlighted a need to improve communication with our residential occupiers on fire safety.
As a result, new guidance and updated building procedures were provided to all residential occupiers.
6 Worker Engagement Audits Strategic Report Annual Review
