GREENCOAT U K W I N D Audit Committee Report During the year, the Audit Committee comprised Overview Shonaid Jemmett-Page Chairman, William Rickett During the year, the Audit Committees discussions C. B. Dan Badger and Martin McAdam.
The AIC Code have been broad ranging.
In addition to the 4 formally has a requirement that at least one member of the convened Audit Committee meetings during the year, Audit Committee should have recent and relevant the Audit Committee has had regular contact and financial experience and the Audit Committee as a meetings with the Investment Manager, the whole shall have competence relevant to the sector.
These meetings and The Board is satisfied that the Audit Committee is discussions focused on, but were not limited to: properly constituted in these respects.
The a detailed analysis of the Companys quarterly qualications and experience of all Audit Committee NAVs: members are disclosed on pages 22 to 24 of this report.
reviewing the updated risk matrix of the Company: The Audit Committee operates within clearly dened terms of reference which were reviewed during the reviewing the Companys corporate governance financial year and approved by the Board, and include framework: all matters indicated by Disclosure Guidance and reviewing the internal controls framework for the Transparency Rule 7.1 and the AIC Code and are Company, the Administrator and the Investment available for inspection on the Companys website: Manager, considering the need for a separate www.
internal audit function: Audit Committee meetings are scheduled at considering any incidents of internal control failure appropriate times in the reporting and auditing cycle.
or fraud and the Companys response: The Chairman, other Directors and third parties may considering the ongoing assessment of the be invited to attend meetings as and when deemed Company as a going concern: appropriate.
considering the principal risks and period of Summary of the Role and Responsibilities of the assessment for the longer term viability of the Audit Committee Company: The duties of the Audit Committee include reviewing monitoring the ongoing appropriateness of the the Companys quarterly NAV, half year report, Annual Companys status as an investment entity under Report and financial statements and any formal IFRS 10, in particular following an acquisition: announcements relating to the Companys financial performance.
monitoring compliance with AIFMD, the AIC code and other regulatory and governance frameworks: The Audit Committee is the forum through which the reviewing and approving the audit plan in relation external Auditor reports to the Board and is to the audit of the Companys Annual Report and responsible for reviewing the terms of appointment of financial statements: the Auditor, together with their remuneration.
On an ongoing basis, the Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring compliance with the Companys policy reviewing the objectivity of the Auditor along with the on the provision of non-audit services by the effectiveness of the audit and the terms under which Auditor: and the Auditor is engaged to perform non-audit services reviewing the effectiveness, resources, restricted to the limited scope review of the half year qualications and independence of the Auditor.
report and reporting accountant services in relation to equity raises.
The Audit Committee is also responsible Financial Reporting for reviewing the Companys corporate governance The primary role of the Audit Committee in relation to framework, system of internal controls and risk financial reporting is to review with the Investment management, ensuring they are suitable for an Manager, the Administrator and the Auditor the investment company.
appropriateness of the half year report and Annual The Audit Committee reports its findings to the Board, Report and financial statements, concentrating on, identifying any matters on which it considers that amongst other matters: action or improvement is needed, and make the quality and acceptability of accounting policies recommendations on the steps to be taken.
and practices: 35 Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Audit Committee Report continued Financial Reporting continued enquiry.
As a result of the FRCs enquiry, the Company has made improvements to the disclosures in this the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with annual report, principally in respect of its judgement financial reporting standards and relevant financial that the Company meets the IFRS 10 Consolidated and governance reporting requirements: Financial Statements denition of an investment entity.
amendments to legislation and corporate The FRCs enquiry did not result in any change to governance reporting requirements and accounting profit, net assets or net cashow reported in respect treatment of new transactions in the year: of the 2017 financial year.
the impact of new and amended accounting Scope and limitations of the FRCs review standards on the Companys financial statements: The Audit Committee recognises that the FRCs review whether the Audit Committee believes that was based on a review of the Companys Annual proper and appropriate processes and procedures Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 and did have been followed in the preparation of the half not benefit from detailed knowledge of the Groups year report and Annual Report and financial business or an understanding of the underlying statements: transactions entered into but that it was conducted by staff of the FRC who have an understanding of the consideration and recommending to the Board for relevant legal and accounting framework.
The approval of the contents of the annual financial conclusion of the FRCs review does not provide any statements and reviewing the Auditors report assurance that the Companys Annual Report is correct thereon including consideration of whether the in all material respects: the FRCs role is not to verify financial statements are overall fair, balanced and the information provided but to consider compliance understandable: with reporting requirements.
The FRCs letters are material areas in which significant judgements written on the basis that it and its ofcers, employees have been applied or there has been discussion and agents accepts no liability for reliance on them by with the Auditor: and the Company or any third party, including but not limited to investors and shareholders.
any correspondence from regulators in relation to the Companys financial reporting.
Assessment of the Carrying Value of Investments BDO LLP attended 2 of the 4 formal Audit Committee The Groups accounting policy is to designate meetings held during the year.
The Audit Committee investments at fair value through profit or loss.
has also held private meetings with the Auditor to Therefore, the most significant risk in the Groups provide additional opportunities for open dialogue and financial statements is whether its investments are fairly feedback.
Matters typically discussed include the valued due to the uncertainty involved in determining Auditors assessment of the transparency and the investment valuations.
There is also an inherent risk openness of interactions with the Investment Manager of management override as the Investment Managers and the Administrator, conrmation that there has fee is calculated based on NAV as disclosed in note 3 been no restriction in scope placed on them, the to the financial statements.
The Investment Manager independence of their audit and how they have is responsible for calculating the NAV with the exercised professional scepticism.
assistance of the Administrator, prior to approval by the Board.
significant Issues On a quarterly basis, the Investment Manager provides The Audit Committee discussed the planning, conduct a detailed analysis of the NAV highlighting any and conclusions of the external audit as it proceeded.
movements and assumption changes from the previous At the Audit Committee meeting in advance of the quarters NAV.
This analysis and the rationale for any year end, the Audit Committee discussed and changes made is considered and challenged by the approved the Auditors audit plan.
The Audit Chairman of the Audit Committee and subsequently Committee identied the carrying value of investments approved by the Board.
The Audit Committee has as a key area of risk of misstatement in the Companys satisfied itself that the key estimates and assumptions financial statements.
used in the valuation model are appropriate and that FRC Letter the investments have been fairly valued.
During the year, the Company received a letter from The key estimates and assumptions include the useful the FRC which raised questions on certain aspects of life of the assets, the discount factors, the level of wind its Annual Report for the year ended 31 December resource, the rate of ination, the price at which the 2017.
The Company responded fully to the matters power and associated benets can be sold and the raised in the letter, enabling the FRC to conclude its 36 GREENCOAT U K W I N D Audit Committee Report continued significant Issues continued Internal Audit Assessment of the Carrying Value of Investments The Audit Committee continues to review the need for continued an internal audit function and has decided that the systems, processes and procedures employed by the amount of electricity the assets are expected to Company, Investment Manager and Administrator, produce.
In particular, the Audit Committee carefully including their own internal controls and procedures, considered external technical advice in relation to the provide sufficient assurance that an appropriate level change in the asset life assumption from 25 years to 30 of risk management and internal control is maintained.
years and associated assumptions in relation to the In addition to this, the Companys external Depositary continued good management of the assets, lease provides cash monitoring, asset verication and extensions and other factors, that has been included oversight services to the Company.
The Audit Committee has therefore concluded that Internal Control shareholders investments and the Companys assets are The Audit Committee has established a set of ongoing adequately safeguarded and an internal audit function processes designed to meet the particular needs of the specic to the Company is considered unnecessary.
Company in managing the risks to which it is exposed.
The Audit Committee is available on request to meet The process is one whereby the Investment Manager investors in relation to the Companys financial has identied the key risks to which the Company is reporting and internal controls.
exposed, and recorded them on a risk matrix together with the controls employed to mitigate these risks.
A External Auditor residual risk rating has been applied to each risk.
The Effectiveness of the Audit Process Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the risk The Audit Committee assessed the effectiveness of the matrix and associated controls before recommending audit process by considering BDO LLPs fullment of to the Board for consideration and approval, the agreed audit plan through the reporting presented challenging the Investment Managers assumptions to to the Audit Committee by BDO LLP and the ensure a robust internal risk management process.
discussions at the Audit Committee meeting, which The Audit Committee formally reviewed the updated highlighted the major issues that arose during the risk matrix in Q1 2019 and will continue to do so at course of the audit.
In addition, the Audit Committee least annually.
By their nature, these procedures also sought feedback from the Investment Manager provide a reasonable, but not absolute, assurance and the Administrator on the effectiveness of the audit against material misstatement or loss.
For this financial year, the Audit Committee will be provided to the Audit Committee highlighting was satisfied that there had been appropriate focus material changes to risk ratings.
and challenge on the primary areas of audit risk and assessed the quality of the audit process to be good.
The Audit Committee reviewed the Groups principal risks and uncertainties as at 30 June 2018, to Non-Audit Services determine that these were unchanged from those Details of fees paid to BDO LLP during the year are disclosed in the Companys 2017 Annual Report and disclosed in note 5 to the financial statements.
The Audit remained the most likely to affect the Group in the Committee approved these fees after a review of the second half of the year.
level and nature of work to be performed, and are satisfied that they are appropriate for the scope of the During the year, the Audit Committee discussed and work required.
The Audit Committee seeks to ensure that reviewed in depth the internal controls frameworks in any non-audit services provided by the external Auditor place at the Investment Manager and the Administrator.
do not conict with their statutory and regulatory Discussions were centred around 3 lines of defence: responsibilities, as well as their independence, before assurances at operational level: internal oversight: and giving written approval prior to their engagement.
The Administrator Audit Committee was satisfied that BDO LLP had holds the International Standard on Assurance adequate safeguards in place and that provision of Engagements ISAE 3402 Type 2 certication.
This these non-audit services did not provide threats to the entails an independent rigorous examination and testing Auditors independence.
of their controls and processes.
The Audit Committee has a policy regarding the The Audit Committee concluded that these frameworks provision of non-audit services by the external Auditor were appropriate for the identication, assessment, which precludes the external Auditor from providing management and monitoring of financial, regulatory and any of the prohibited non-audit services as listed in other risks, with particular regard to the protection of the interests of the Companys shareholders.
37 Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Audit Committee Report continued External Auditor continued The external audit contract is required to be put to tender at least every 10 years.
The Audit Committee Non-Audit Services continued shall give advance notice of any retendering plans Article 5 of the EU Directive Regulation EU No within the Annual Report.
The Audit Committee monitors the Groups considered the re-appointment of the Auditor and expenditure on non-audit services provided by the decided not to put the provision of the external audit Companys Auditor who should only be engaged for out to tender at this time.
As described above, the non-audit services where they are deemed to be the Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness and most commercially viable supplier and prior approval independence of the Auditor and remains satisfied that of the Audit Committee has been sought.
the Auditor provides effective independent challenge to the Board, the Investment Manager and the Independence Administrator.
The Audit Committee will continue to The Audit Committee is required to consider the monitor the performance of the Auditor on an annual independence of the external Auditor.
In fullling this basis and will consider their independence and requirement, the Audit Committee has considered a objectivity, taking account of appropriate guidelines.
report from BDO LLP describing its arrangements to identify, report and manage any conict of interest and The Audit Committee has therefore recommended to the extent of non-audit services provided by them.
the Board that BDO LLP be proposed for reappointment as the Companys Auditor at the AGM of The Audit Committee has concluded that it considers the Company.
BDO LLP to be independent of the Company and that the provision of the non-audit services described Annual General Meeting above is not a threat to the objectivity and The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present independence of the conduct of the audit.
at the Companys AGM to answer questions on the Audit Committees activity and matters within the Re-appointment scope of the Audit Committees responsibilities.
BDO LLP has been the Companys Auditor from its incorporation on 4 December 2012.
The Auditor is required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group audit every 5 years.
A new lead partner was appointed in 2015 and therefore the lead partner will be required to rotate after the completion of the 2019 year end audit.
Shonaid Jemmett-Page Chairman of the Audit Committee 27 February 2019 38
