CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit and risk committee report The new committee name better reflects its function and responsibilities.
assessment that the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable, the This is my second report as chairman of the audit and risk committee, at the request of the board, has undertaken a audit and risk committee and I am pleased to review of this prior to submission of the annual report to the board, as detailed below.
This year, The committee also advises the board on the appointment of the external the committee was renamed the audit and risk auditor, oversees the relationship with the external auditor, and reviews committee in order to better reflect its function the quality and effectiveness of both the internal and the external audit.
Inaddition, the committee is responsible for considering the companys and responsibilities.
The committees key whistle blowing procedures and reviewing their effectiveness in practice.
responsibilities include monitoring the integrity In relation to risk matters, the committee reviews the groups risk of the groups financial reporting, internal management policies and procedures prior to submission to the board and receives detailed reports on the risk management processes within controls and risk management procedures, the business units and key functional areas.
The committee receives overseeing the internal and external audit regular updates on regulatory, accounting and reporting developments processes and a range of other corporate and their application to the company.
Operation of the committee The committee held four half-day meetings during the year.
Attendance at During the year the committee devoted these meetings by the committee members is shown in the table on page 52. particular attention to the following key areas: On each occasion the external auditor, chief financial officer and senior members of the finance function attended, as well as the company secretary, the year-end financial statements, including the the head of risk and members of the internal audit function.
By rotation, viability statement, interim report and associated operational managers and functional heads present risk reports at audit and risk committee meetings.
audit matters: the implementation of the There is an opportunity at each meeting for the committee to discuss General Data Protection Regulation: and risk matters privately with the internal and external auditors without management management processes and internal controls.
Outside of scheduled meeting times, the chairman of the committee is in regular contact with the external audit partner to discuss matters relevant to the company.
The committees terms of reference are available on the companys website and these are reviewed annually and updated to reflect changes in the Rob Rowley responsibility and regulation of the committee.
In addition, the committee Chairman of the audit and risk committee conducts a review of its own performance on an annual basis and considers steps for future improvement taking input from the members of the committee, the external auditor and senior members of the finance function.
Key priorities for the coming year were identified including an overview of the group control framework and the development of a Membership risk-based internal audit programme.
The audit and risk committee was chaired during the year by Rob Rowley.
The board is satisfied that Rob Rowley has recent and relevant financial Financial statements and audit experience, as a former finance director of Reuters Group plc.
The other The committee reviewed and provided input into the audit scope and members of the committee were Mike Coupe and Gordon Fryett, who audit plan presented by the external auditor.
In considering the financial bring a wealth of experience from other large retail operations.
The board statements the committee reviewed the groups accounting policies to considers all members to be independent and the committee as a whole ensure consistency on a year-to-year basis, and the methods used to to have relevant sectoral competence.
account for significant or unusual transactions.
Significant issues that the committee addressed in relation to the financial statements are set out in Responsibilities the table on the next page.
The committee also reviewed managements A key responsibility for the audit and risk committee is reviewing the attestation paper setting out the information that had been provided financial reporting, controls and risk management processes across the tothe auditor to enable it to form its opinion on the groups financial group.
The committee assesses the external audit conclusions on both the statements and demonstrating that it was appropriate for the directors full year and interim results, in each case prior to their submission to the tomake the representations set out in the letter of representation.
Whilst the board retains responsibility for undertaking the required Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit and risk committee report continued Significant issues considered by the audit and risk committee in relation to the financial statements for 2017 18 Matter considered What the committee did Capital vs. expense The committee continued its review of the groups fixed asset accounting policy and the allocation of costs as either capital accounting orexpense.
The committee reviewed the results of the testing by the external and internal auditors to assess the effectiveness of the new internal accounting policy implemented by management.
The committee was satisfied that the risk of material error had been appropriately mitigated by application of the new policy.
Impairment of Following the implementation of a new impairment model last year, the committee discussed with management and property, plant and theexternal auditor the arithmetical accuracy and consistency of the impairment model, the key assumptions used by equipment and management in the model and the purpose of and rationale for management override of the models automated calculations intangible assets where appropriate.
Particular attention was given to development and rebranded sites.
The committee determined that the model was fit for purpose and that the key input assumptions for growth rates and discount rates were appropriate in the current economic environment.
New accounting The committee considered reports from management on the impact of new accounting standards for financial instruments standards IFRS 9, revenue recognition IFRS 15 and leases IFRS 16.
The committee noted that the adoption of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15, both of which were effective for the group from 30 April 2018, would not have a significant impact on the groups consolidated results or financial position.
However, because of its large portfolio of leases, the committee noted that IFRS 16 would impact both the groups consolidated results and financial position.
The committee reviewed managements implementation plan for IFRS 16, including the wide-ranging financial impacts under the different transition options available and the impact the standard would have on the groups data collection systems and reporting processes, and determined that the plan was on track for the groups effective start date of 29 April 2019. most suitable supplier of the non-audit services, and to ensure that the fees Fair, balanced and understandable annual report for non-audit services do not exceed 70% of the average audit fee over a One of the key governance requirements in relation to the annual report three-year period.
The above financial restrictions apply in all situations is that it should be fair, balanced and understandable.
The audit and risk and the audit and risk committee is required to pre-approve all non-audit committee undertook a review of managements processes in this regard services.
The committee had already given pre-approval in relation to including the clear guidance given to contributors and the review process subscriptions to online accounting resources, the audit of the Belhaven adopted by management and also considered in detail the draft annual pension scheme and the interim review.
report to ensure that it was fair, balanced and understandable in its view.
The committee then recommended to the board that it could make the The committee also has a policy in relation to the appointment of former required disclosure as set out on page 75. partners or employees of the auditor by the group to prevent any potential conflict between their undertaking of the audit and their new appointment.
Effectiveness of the external audit During the year the company made limited use of specialist teams within The overall quality of the service, the audit partner and the audit team Ernst & Young LLP for non-audit work, including in relation to the Belhaven were reviewed by the committee and matters such as the management of pension scheme audit and an analysis of fees incurred in relation to HMRC the audit team, the quality of its challenge, insight and communications and matters.
The total fees earned by Ernst & Young LLP during the year the cost effectiveness of the audit were considered.
The committee was amounted to 590k, of which 55k 9% related to non-audit work.
satisfied that the quality of the audit service provided by Ernst & Young LLP Further detail is in note 4 to the accounts.
In order to assist the committee with its consideration of the independence and objectivity of the external auditor, the external auditor undertook an Ensuring external auditor independence annual review of its services provided to the group.
In light of this review, The audit and risk committee is cognisant of the importance of auditor and the further safeguards in place to protect such independence and independence and objectivity and the auditors compliance with the FRCs objectivity, the committee determined that the carrying out of such Ethical Standard and has a policy in relation to the use of the auditor for services by the external auditor did not impair the external auditors non-audit work.
The company will award non-audit work to the firm which independence or objectivity.
provides the best commercial solution for the work in question, taking into account the skills and experience of the firm if the audit firm is being External auditor tendering and re-appointment considered, the nature of the services involved, the level of fees relative The company last tendered the external audit contract in 1997 and to the audit fee and whether there are safeguards in place to mitigate to Ernst& Young has been the auditor since then, with an annual rolling contract an acceptable level any threat to objectivity and independence in the and subject to an annual shareholder vote at the AGM.
Ernst & Young is conduct of the audit resulting from such services.
required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the group every five Work estimated to cost in excess of 25,000 is put out to tender unless years and a new audit partner was appointed for the 2016 17 financial year.
agreed otherwise by the chairman of the audit and risk committee.
The In accordance with The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies chief financial officer may approve specific engagements up to 50,000 Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Processes and Audit inaggregate up to 100,000 p. a., and the chairman of the audit and risk Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 the Order and in light of the committee may approve engagements up to 100,000 in aggregate up to transitional provisions on audit matters thereunder which allow a period 200,000 p. a., with fees in excess of those limits being subject to approval until April 2024 before an audit tender and change is required the committee of the full committee.
This policy was complied with during the year.
recommended to the board, and the board accepted the recommendation, The audit and risk committee approved a revised policy for non-audit that Ernst & Young LLP should be retained as the groups auditor for the services in line with the recent guidance issued by the FRC, which came time being.
The committee will give consideration to undertaking a full into effect for the groups 2017 18 and future financial years.
The committee audit tender, in which Ernst & Young LLP will not be permitted to partake, must review any services proposed to be provided by the external auditor, within the next three years.
The company was in compliance with the to consider whether the skills and expertise of the audit firm make it the Order during the year.
56 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The committee therefore recommended to the board that Ernst & Young The risk management framework and internal control systems are designed LLP should be re-appointed as the companys auditor for the forthcoming to manage to an acceptable level, and not to eliminate, the risk of failure to year.
This resolution will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
They can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that the groups assets are safeguarded and that the financial information used within the business and for external reporting is reliable.
Internal audit The companys internal audit function is responsible for reviewing the The company has in place procedures to assess the key risks to which it is effectiveness and efficiency of the systems of internal control in place to exposed and has formalised the control environment needed to address safeguard the assets of the company.
Under the terms of reference for these and other issues.
There are processes in place which accord with thefunction, the internal audit team has direct access to the audit and the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal riskcommittee chairman to enable it to raise any significant issues and to Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting, and these remained maintain independence.
Members of the internal audit team also attend in place up to the date of this report.
During the course of the year the the audit and risk committee meetings to report on the progress and committee continued to review reports from a number of business units actions taken by the function.
and functional areas on their respective risk management processes and key risks and on the key financial internal controls and to challenge representatives of the relevant business unit or functional area who Statutory code attended those meetings and presented the relevant reports.
In accordance with The Pubs Code etc.
Regulations 2016 the Code the committee received a compliance report from the Pub Partners division The key elements of the internal control framework, in addition to the risk covering the period from 21 July 2016 to 31 March 2018.
The report management processes outlined in the risks and uncertainties section of noted that a code compliance officer has been appointed and Code this report, are: training had been conducted with business development managers.
Greene the schedule of matters reserved for the board: King had not been subject to any investigations, enforcement or representations in reference to unfair business practices by the Pubs Code the groups defined management structure with suitable authority limits Adjudicator PCA.
105 market rent-only notices had been received, all of and responsibilities, staffed by appropriate personnel: which had been reviewed and investigated and 77 of which had been regular updates for the board on strategy: accepted.
Three Code-related complaints had been received which were dealt with under the companys established complaints procedure.
In a comprehensive planning and financial reporting procedure including relation to the three complaints, no breaches of the Code were annual budgets and a three-year strategic plan, both of which are determined, no awards were made by the PCA and agreeable resolutions reviewed and approved by the board: were reached between the parties in each case.
The report was approved ongoing monitoring by both the board and senior management of by the committee to enable submission tothe PCA in July 2018. performance against budgets, through the periodic reporting of detailed management accounts and key performance indicators: Other matters considered during the year Throughout the year the committee reviewed managements plans ahead ongoing monitoring by the board of compliance with financial covenants: of the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation.
The a centralised financial reporting system and close process, with controls committee noted the risk-based approach which was adopted and supported and reconciliation procedures designed to facilitate the production of the structured plan that led up to 25 May 2018 and beyond.
As part of the consolidated accounts: the preparation the committee continued to review the subject of cyber security and received regular reports from management on the issue and clearly defined evaluation and approval processes for acquisitions and how external threats were managed.
Significant investment has been made disposals, capital expenditure and project control, with escalating levels in hardware, software and user awareness during the year and management of authority including board approval for major acquisitions and disposals, has continued to undertake testing including by external consultants of detailed appraisal and review procedures and post-completion reviews: the companys defences against a cyber security attack.
a review of retail operational compliance by the retail internal audit The committee reviewed, as it does on an annual basis, the groups team responsible and other analytical and control procedures facilitated by the EPOS till system: whistleblowing policy and its application across the business.
All whistle blowing reports were investigated and resolved satisfactorily, with no audits conducted by the group internal audit function of business significant issues emerging.
andfunctional control environments: and The terms of reference of the committee were also reviewed during the documented policies to cover data protection, modern slavery, bribery year and updated in line with the ICSA Institute of Chartered Secretaries and whistle blowing and regular updates on any incidents.
and Administrators guidance note that was produced in March 2017 and reflected the UK Corporate Governance Code and the updated FRC Guidance During the year the internal audit function reported to the committee on on Audit Committees which had both been published in April 2016. a number of areas where it had carried out key financial control reviews and audit reviews, including perpetual inventory counts, apprenticeship The committee reviewed and approved the companys group tax strategy, levy, employee expenses and key financial control reviews.
which it published on its website in April 2018.
The committee also reviewed a paper setting out the companys group tax control framework for ensuring The board is satisfied that there are no significant weaknesses in these systems and that the groups internal controls are operating effectively.
compliance with the collection and payment of taxes to HMRC.
Internal control and risk management As disclosed in the risks and uncertainties section of this report on page 31, there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the company.
The board has overall responsibility for the groups risk management framework and systems of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness, whilst the audit and risk committee monitors and reviews those internal controls and risks on a regular basis, and reports to the board on its findings.
Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 57
