CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Nomination committee report Succession planning and board structure will remain the ongoing focus.
A key activity for the committee during the year has been to consider the I am pleased to introduce our nomination size and composition of the board and agreement was reached during the committee report for 2017 18, which explains year that an additional female non-executive director with experience of multi-location operations should be appointed to the board.
The Zygos the committees focus and activities during the Partnership, which has no other connection with the company and has year.
The focus of the committee has continued signed up to the voluntary code of conduct on matters such as diversity for executive search firms, is assisting the committee in relation to the search.
to be on ensuring that the size, composition The committee also reviewed the composition of the various board committees and structure of the board are appropriate for and determined that no changes were required to the composition of the the delivery of the groups strategic objectives board committees.
We have also The committee supported the chief executive in the recruitment of Richard Smothers in succession to Kirk Davis and approved his appointment worked to ensure that all relevant provisions to the board from 1 February.
In relation to broader succession planning ofthe UK Corporate Governance Code and talent management, during the year the committee received a detailed continue to be met.
report from the group HR director on the senior management teams skills and performance and the succession plans for each of them and on the talent review work that had been undertaken across the company.
The issues of succession planning and board structure will remain the ongoing focus of the committee during the course of the forthcoming year.
Philip Yea On the recommendation of the nomination committee, and taking into Chairman of the nomination committee account the continuing effective performance of the directors, the board has decided once again this year to ask all directors to stand for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
As disclosed elsewhere an external evaluation exercise was undertaken inrelation to the board and its committees.
The evaluation report for thecommittee was reviewed in detail and the committee accepted the priorities identified in the report as appropriate for the forthcoming year.
These were to focus on the appointment of a female non-executive Membership director as was already under way, the building of a high performing During the year the nomination committee was chaired by Philip Yea.
team including chief executive succession, supporting the executives Theother members of the committee were Mike Coupe, Gordon Fryett, actions with regard to improving morale and engagement and addressing Rob Rowley and Lynne Weedall.
All members were considered by the its approach to diversity.
The evaluation exercise concluded that the performance of the committee was rated highly overall, as were the management of the meetings and the Responsibilities information provided to the committee, and there were no recommendations The key responsibilities of the nomination committee are to identify, evaluate as to areas in which the committee would benefit from additional support, and nominate candidates for appointment to the board, to review regularly training or induction.
the structure, size and composition including skills, knowledge and experience of the board and to make recommendations to the board with regard to Other matters considered by the committee during the year included the any adjustments that are deemed necessary.
training requirements of the directors and the committees terms of reference.
The committee is also responsible for considering the companys Diversity succession plans for board members and senior management, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the company, and what The board approves of the principle of trying to recruit more women skills and expertise are therefore needed on the board in the future, and intosenior management and director roles.
There is currently one female for reviewing membership of the boards committees to ensure that director on the board, Lynne Weedall, who is chairman of the remuneration undue reliance is not placed upon any individuals.
committee and plans are under way to appoint a second female non-executive director.
With a board of currently seven people, the board believes that the key is to ensure a suitable range of skills, experience and knowledge Activities during the year across the board members, and that the issues of gender and diversity are The committee held two meetings during the year.
Attendance at these just two considerations to be taken into account when filling board vacancies.
meetings by the committee members is shown in the table on page 52.
54 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018
