CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance statement We have a well-balanced and effective board and all of the non-executive directors are independent.
Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Chairmans introduction Governance Code 2016 version I am pleased to introduce this report on how the board operates The company is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code which from a governance and control perspective to ensure that we isissued by the Financial Reporting Council and which is available at comply with the main principles and relevant provisions of the www.
The code sets out guidance in the form of principles and UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
As a board we provisions on how companies should be directed and controlled to follow take corporate governance very seriously, and I will continue to good governance practice.
Companies listed in the UK are required to ensure that we maintain high standards throughout my tenure.
disclose how they have applied the main principles and whether they havecomplied with its provisions throughout the financial year.
Where During the 2017 18 financial year the business focus was very theprovisions have not been complied with companies must provide much on the performance of the business, particularly that of anexplanation.
our largest business unit, Pub Company, whilst at board level we continued to ensure that we have a well-balanced and effective The board considers that the company has complied with the UK Corporate board, strong oversight of risk management, alignment of Governance Code dated April 2016 throughout the year in all respects.
remuneration policies with shareholder interests and sound shareholder relationships.
The board In accordance with the Code, we conducted an external board Board composition evaluation exercise during the year, using Lintstock to assist us As at the year end the board comprised the chairman, two executive inthat process.
They prepared a number of questionnaires, directors and four non-executive directors.
The non-executive chairman oneeach on the board and its various committees, one on my is Philip Yea, the chief executive is Rooney Anand and the senior independent performance as chairman and one for each board member to director is Rob Rowley.
During the year Kirk Davis resigned from the assess their own performance.
These were made available for board on 31 January 2018 and was succeeded as chief financial officer by completion by the board and the company secretary.
Lintstock Richard Smothers, who was appointed to the board on 1February 2018. then produced a summary for the board and each committee The board believes that the structure and size of the board has been setting out the results of the questionnaires.
A representative appropriate and that no single individual or group dominates the from Lintstock attended our board meeting in April 2018 to decision-making process.
However, as discussed in the report of the discuss the outcome of the exercise and to make a number of nomination committee, steps have been taken to recruit an additional recommendations for consideration by the board.
These were non-executive director in order to broaden the experience of the board discussed in detail by the board and the report below details as a whole.
theoutcome of the boards discussions in this regard.
The directors biographies are on page 48.
Finally, I would like to thank my fellow directors for their continued support.
I am confident that we can continue to maintain a strong and effective governance system to enable the business to deliver its strategy, generate shareholder value and safeguard our shareholders long-term interests.
Philip Yea Chairman 50 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Independence of non-executive directors Operation of the board In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, more than half The board has a formal schedule of matters which are reserved for its of the board, excluding the chairman, are non-executive directors.
The consideration, including approval of the long-term objectives and strategy, board is satisfied that all of the non-executive directors were independent approval of budgets and financial statements including the annual report throughout the year, in that they satisfied the independence criteria of the and accounts, acquisitions and disposals, changes to the structure of the code on their appointment and continue to satisfy those criteria.
group and overall corporate governance issues.
It reviews trading performance and considers major capital expenditure.
Philip Yea, the chairman, was independent on appointment, having never been employed by the company and having diverse business interests beyond The board has delegated certain responsibilities to standing committees, the company, and in the opinion of the board remains independent.
details of which are set out on page 52.
During the year the board resolved to change the name of the audit committee to the audit and risk committee, Rob Rowley was the senior independent non-executive director during to more accurately reflect its role.
By delegating key responsibilities to these the year.
He too has never been employed by the company and has diverse committees, the board is able to ensure that adequate time is devoted by business interests.
As well as supporting the chairman and acting as a board members to the oversight of key areas within their responsibility.
sounding board for the chairman and an intermediary for other directors, a key responsibility for the senior independent director is to be available Day-to-day management and control of the business is delegated to the for direct contact from shareholders should they require.
executive directors, business unit managing directors and certain key functional heads, who meet formally on a four-weekly basis together Board independence current directors withother senior managers as appropriate.
Nomination Audit and risk Remuneration Board meetings are scheduled to be held eight times a year, with main Name Independent committee committee committee meetings linked to key events in the companys financial calendar, with the Philip Yea Yes N annual results and dividend being approved in June or July and the interim results and dividend in November or December.
Regular agenda items Rooney Anand No include an overview of the market and current trading as well as a detailed Mike Coupe Yes N A R review of financial performance against agreed targets.
Gordon Fryett Yes N A R There is a two-day meeting of the board in February each year focusing Rob Rowley Yes N A R on strategy, with the business unit managing directors and heads of the main functional areas, namely commercial, HR and property, attending for Richard Smothers No part thereof.
The strategy sessions include an in-depth review of relevant Lynne Weedall Yes N R economic factors and issues affecting the sector and managements projections for the medium term.
The board then has the opportunity to agree the strategic plans across all areas for the short and medium term.
Following Leadership approval of the companys strategy, budgets are prepared for the next Role of the board financial year, which are reviewed and approved by the board in April.
The board also has a programme to conduct more detailed reviews of different The board has collective responsibility for the long-term success of thecompany and for its leadership, strategy, control and management.
aspects of the business at each meeting, with the schedule of topics being regularly reviewed to ensure that it remains appropriate.
The relevant The offices of chairman and chief executive are separate and distinct and managing director or functional head attends such meetings to present the division of responsibilities between them has been clearly established, and answer questions.
set out in writing and agreed by the board.
The board has responsibility for determining, with the assistance of the The chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the audit and risk committee, whether the annual report, taken as a whole, board and for ensuring that each non-executive director is able to make isfair, balanced and understandable to enable shareholders to assess the an effective contribution to the board through debate and discussion with companys performance, business model and strategy.
In coming to its view, the executive directors.
He is also responsible for setting the style and the board took into account the views of the audit and risk committee, tone of board discussions.
which assisted in the process this year, as well as its own knowledge of the group, its strategy and performance in the year, the guidance given to all The chief executives role is to develop the companys strategic direction contributors to the annual report and a detailed review by senior and to lead senior management in executing the companys strategy and management of the overall content.
managing the operational requirements of the business.
The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that Key focus areas for the board during the year included business performance, and the actions being taken by management to address increasing cost the strategies proposed by the executive directors are carefully examined and fully discussed, that the performance of the company is monitored and challenges and improve performance, with a particular focus on Pub Company.
The board also reviewed the debt structure of the company challenged and that the financial information provided is comprehensive and accurate.
They are also responsible for ensuring, through the relevant and the work being undertaken in relation to refinance parts of the Spirit debenture and the performance of key competitors to enable the board committee, that appropriate remuneration arrangements are in place for the executive directors.
to gain a better understanding of the marketplace.
Between meetings, as required, the board can be in frequent contact to progress the companys business and, if necessary, board meetings can be held at short notice.
Where possible, however, ad hoc committees of the board are appointed to deal with matters which it is known will need to be dealt with between scheduled board meetings.
It is expected that all directors attend board and relevant committee meetings, unless they are prevented from doing so by prior commitments.
If directors are unable to attend meetings in person or by telephone they are given the opportunity to be consulted and comment in advance of the meeting.
Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance statement continued GREENE KING BOARD The board is ultimately responsible for the long-term success of the company.
Its principal responsibilities are to: approve the groups long-term objectives, commercial strategy and the overall funding strategy: approve the budgets and financial statements, including the report and accounts: approve acquisitions and disposals: and oversee the groups operations and review performance in light of the groups strategy, objectives, business plans and budgets.
COMMITTEES NOMINATION AUDIT AND RISK REMUNERATION reviews structure, size and composition reviews and monitors full year sets remuneration policy: ofthe board: andinterimresults: sets executive director remuneration makes recommendations monitors internal financial controls: and incentives: forappointments: and oversees external audit relationship: and approves annual performance succession planning.
objectives:and oversees risk management.
approves granting of long-term incentives.
MEMBERS Philip Yea chairman Rob Rowley chairman Lynne Weedall chairman Mike Coupe Mike Coupe Mike Coupe Gordon Fryett Gordon Fryett Gordon Fryett Rob Rowley Rob Rowley Lynne Weedall Nomination committee report Audit and risk committee report Directors remuneration report page 54 page 55 page 58 Board papers are generally circulated seven days prior to each board or Leadership continued committee meeting to ensure that directors have sufficient time to review Operation of the board continued them before the meeting.
Documentation includes detailed management Attendance at meetings held during the year is set out below.
accounts, reports on current trading, reports from each business unit and main functional areas and full papers on matters where the board is Nomination Audit and risk Remuneration Board committee committee committee required to give its approval.
Executive directors The chairman holds regular, informal meetings with the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present and the non-executives Rooney Anand 8 8 also meet with the chairman and the chief executive on an informal basis 1 Kirk Davis 5 5 twice each year.
Although not a member of the remuneration or audit 2 and risk committees, and therefore not recorded in the table above, the Richard Smothers 3 3 chairman also routinely attends these meetings at the invitation of the Non-executive directors committee chairmen.
Mike Coupe 8 8 2 2 4 4 3 3 Board effectiveness Gordon Fryett 8 8 2 2 4 4 3 3 Board performance and evaluation Rob Rowley 8 8 2 2 4 4 3 3 The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the board to conduct Lynne Weedall 8 8 2 2 3 3 anannual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and directors.
Philip Yea 8 8 2 2 The board evaluation exercise was carried out by Lintstock, an external Notes: adviser with no other connection with the company.
Kirk Davis resigned from the board on 31 January 2018. number of questionnaires, one each on the board and its various committees, one on the chairman and one for each board member to assess their own 2.
Richard Smothers was appointed to the board on 1 February 2018. performance.
These were made available for completion by the board and 52 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE the company secretary.
Lintstock then produced a summary for the board Institutional shareholders and analysts and each committee setting out the feedback.
A representative from Lintstock There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, including meetings attended the board meeting in April 2018 to discuss the outcome of the after the announcement of the year-end and interim results.
Analysts are exercise and to make a number of recommendations for consideration by also invited to presentations at those times and separately to analyst trips the board.
Topics covered included the schedule of board topics for particular to visit our premises and hear presentations on specific divisions of the review during the year: the arrangements for which were perceived to business.
The board receives regular reports and feedback on the meetings beworking well: the need for a more formal programme giving the held between the executive directors and principal shareholders, and non-executive directors exposure to the front line of the business, which copies of analysts reports on the company.
would be followed up in a number of ways: and a desire from the board The senior independent non-executive director, Rob Rowley, is available to better understand the culture across the group, which would be considered to shareholders if they have concerns about governance issues which the further by management with a view to a proposal being submitted to the normal channels of contact fail to resolve.
It was also agreed that on occasions the tone of challenge in meetings could be improved and that there would be a review AGM of the extent and content of board papers.
The chairman also agreed to The AGM is fully utilised as a means of communicating directly with discuss a number of individual points with each of the directors and to follow private shareholders, who receive a brief presentation on the business up individually with the non-executive directors with regard to their before the formal business of the meeting begins.
They also have the full training needs.
opportunity to ask questions during the meeting and to meet directors Rob Rowley, the senior independent non-executive director, used the and senior management informally after the meeting.
The board aims to input from the report prepared by Lintstock as the basis of his evaluation ensure that all members of the board, including in particular the chairmen of the chairman.
of the board committees, are available to answer questions at the AGM.
In addition to the annual evaluation exercise there remains an ongoing The notice of the AGM is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days dialogue within the board to ensure that it operates effectively and that before the meeting.
All substantive items of business at shareholders any matters raised are addressed in a timely manner.
meetings are dealt with under separate resolutions, including a resolution to adopt the report and accounts.
The chairman announces the results The performance of the executive directors is reviewed annually by the ofthe proxy voting on each resolution after it has been dealt with on remuneration committee in conjunction with their annual pay review and ashow of hands.
The next AGM will be held on 7 September 2018 at the Millennium Training and support Grandstand, Rowley Mile Racecourse Conference Centre, Newmarket, The training needs of the board and its committees are regularly reviewed Suffolk CB8 0TF.
Details can be found in the separate notice of meeting.
and each director is responsible for ensuring their skills and knowledge of Website the company remain up to date.
Particular emphasis is placed on ensuring that directors are aware of proposed legislative changes in areas such as The company maintains a website www.
co. uk to provide corporate governance, financial reporting and sector specific issues.
All up-to-date, detailed information on the companys operations and brands, which directors are encouraged to visit the companys pubs and restaurants and includes a dedicated investor relations section.
All company announcements as mentioned above there are plans for a more formal programme to give are available on this site, as are copies of slides used for presentations to the non-executive directors exposure to the front line of the business.
We are happy to answer questions by telephone or email investorrelations@greeneking.
co. uk or companysecretary@greeneking.
Newly appointed directors receive a tailored induction on joining the board to acquaint them with the company.
This includes meetings with Board committees other board members and senior management, and the provision of an induction pack containing general information on the company, its policies The board has established a nomination committee, an audit and risk committee and a remuneration committee, each of which has formal and procedures, financial and operational information and a briefing on directors responsibilities.
terms of reference governing its method of operation.
Each of the terms of reference, which have been approved by the board, are available on There is an agreed written procedure for directors, in furtherance of their request or to download from the companys website and will be available duties, to take independent professional advice at the companys expense.
for inspection at the AGM.
Directors also have access to the services of the company secretary.
The company has in place directors and officers liability insurance.
DTR disclosure Commitment and conflicts of interest The information required by DTR 7.2 is set out in this report, the nomination committee report and the audit and risk committee report, except for All significant commitments which the directors have outside Greene King are disclosed prior to appointment and on an ongoing basis when there information required under DTR 7.2.
6, which is set out in the directors report.
The board is satisfied that the chairman and each of the non-executive directors commits sufficient time to their duties and fulfils their obligations to the company.
The board has the right, under the articles of association, to approve potential situational conflicts of interest.
A small number of such potential conflicts have been approved by the board following disclosure by certain directors, in each case with the relevant director not taking part in any decision relating to their own position.
Directors are also aware that the disclosure and authorisation of any potential conflict situation does not detract from their requirement to notify the board separately of an actual or potential conflict in relation to a proposed transaction by the company.
Communication with shareholders The board is keen to ensure that our shareholders have a good understanding of the business and its performance, and that the directors are aware of any issues or concerns which shareholders may have.
Communication with shareholders takes a variety of forms.
Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 53
