GREENCOAT U K W I N D Corporate Governance Report This Corporate Governance Report forms part of the Any Director, who has held ofce with the Company Report of the Directors as further disclosed on pages for a continuous period of 9 years or more at the date 25 to 27.
The Board operates under a framework for of the AGM, shall retire from ofce but may offer corporate governance which is appropriate for an themselves for re-appointment.
This will allow for investment company.
All companies with a premium phased Board appointments and retirements and listing of equity shares in the UK are required under enable the Board to consider whether there is any risk the UK Listing Rules to report on how they have that such Director might reasonably be deemed to applied the UK Code in their Annual Report and have lost independence through such long service.
The terms and conditions of appointment of nonThe Company became a member of the AIC with effect executive Directors are available for inspection from from 27 March 2013 and has therefore put in place the Companys registered ofce.
arrangements to comply with the AIC Code and, in Diversity Policy accordance with the AIC Code, complies with the UK Code.
The Board has a policy to base appointments on merit and against objective criteria, with due regard for the The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, benets of diversity, including gender diversity.
Its addresses all the principles set out in the UK Code, as objective is to attract and maintain a Board that, as a well as setting out additional principles and whole, comprises an appropriate balance of skills recommendations on issues that are of specic relevance and experience.
to investment companies such as the Company.
The Board consists of individuals from relevant and The AIC Code and the AIC Guide are available on the complementary backgrounds offering experience in AICs website, www.
The UK Code is the investment management of listed funds, as well as available on the FRCs website, www.
in the energy sector from both a public policy and a commercial perspective.
As at the date of this report, The Company has complied with the recommendations the Board comprised 4 men and 1 woman, all nonof the AIC Code throughout the year.
executive Directors who are considered to be independent of the Investment Manager and free from The Board any business or other relationship that could materially As at the date of this report, the Board consists of 5 interfere with the exercise of their independent non-executive Directors and represents a range of judgement.
There were no changes to the Board investment, financial and business skills and members during the year.
The Chairman of the Board is Tim Ingram.
In considering the independence of the Chairman, the The search rm Heidrick & Struggles has been Board took note of the provisions of the AIC Code engaged to assist the Board in relation to succession relating to independence, and has determined that planning to secure the right skills and experience while Mr Ingram is an independent Director.
The Senior also seeking to increase diversity on the Board.
This Independent Director is William Rickett C. B..
The process is now at an advanced stage.
Company has no employees and therefore there is no requirement for a chief executive.
The Investment Manager operates an equal opportunities policy and its partners and employees The Articles of Association provide that Directors shall comprise 29 men and 10 women.
retire and offer themselves for re-election at the first AGM after their appointment and at least every 3 years Performance and Evaluation thereafter.
However, the AIC Code requires the Pursuant to Principle 7 of the AIC Code, the Board Directors of FTSE 250 companies to be subject to an undertakes a formal and rigorous evaluation of its annual election by shareholders, and the Directors performance each financial year.
As a FTSE 250 comply with this requirement.
All of the Directors shall company, in keeping with the provisions of the AIC offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Code, it is the Companys policy that every 3 years an AGM.
Having considered their effectiveness, external consultant, who has no connection with the demonstration of commitment to the role, length of Company, carries out a formal review of the Boards service, attendance at meetings and contribution to performance.
This was conducted in late 2016. the Boards deliberations, the Board approves the nomination for re-election of all of the Directors.
31 Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Corporate Governance Report continued Performance and Evaluation continued Committees of the Board Since then, internal evaluations of the Board, the Audit The Companys Audit Committee is chaired by Shonaid Committee and individual Directors have been Jemmett-Page, and consists of a minimum of 3 conducted in the form of annual performance members.
In accordance with best practice, the appraisals, questionnaires and discussions to determine Companys Chairman is not a member of the Audit effectiveness and performance in various areas, as well Committee however he does attend Audit Committee as the Directors continued independence and tenure.
meetings as and when deemed appropriate.
The Audit This process was facilitated by the Company Secretary.
Committee Report which is on pages 35 to 38 of this The reviews concluded that the overall performance of report describes the work of the Audit Committee.
the Board and Audit Committee was satisfactory and The Company has established a Communications and the Board was confident in its ability to continue to Disclosure Committee which is required to meet at govern the Company.
The committee has responsibility for, The next full external review will commence during amongst other things, determining on a timely basis 2019 and the results of this review will be reported in the disclosure treatment of material information, and the next Annual Report.
This will enable the necessary assisting in the design, implementation and periodic rigour of evaluation, and consideration thereafter, as evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures.
The anticipated by the Code.
committee also has responsibility for the identication of inside information for the purpose of maintaining Each individual Directors training and development the Companys insider list.
All new Directors receive an induction from the Investment Manager, which Terms of reference for the Communications and includes the provision of information about the Disclosure Committee have been approved by the Company and their responsibilities.
In addition, each Board and membership consists of Tim Ingram or one Director visits portfolio wind farms and specic Board other Director and one of Stephen Lilley and Laurence training days are arranged involving presentations on Fumagalli.
Additional members of the committee may relevant topics.
be appointed and existing members removed by the committee.
The membership of the committee is Board Responsibilities reviewed by the Board on a periodic basis and at least The Board will meet, on average, 4 times in each once a year.
calendar year for scheduled Board meetings and on an The Company has established a Management ad hoc basis as and when necessary.
At each meeting Engagement Committee which comprises all of the the Board follows a formal agenda that will cover the Directors and is required to meet at least once per business to be discussed.
Between meetings there is year.
The chairman of the Management Engagement regular contact with the Investment Manager and the Committee is Tim Ingram and its main function is to Administrator.
The Board requires to be supplied with keep under review the performance of the Investment information by the Investment Manager, the Manager and make recommendations on any Administrator and other advisers in a form appropriate proposed amendment to the Investment Management to enable it to discharge its duties.
Terms of reference for the Management The Board has responsibility for ensuring that the Engagement Committee have been approved by Company keeps proper accounting records which the Board.
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the The Company has established a Nominations financial position of the Company and which enable it Committee which comprises all of the Directors and is to ensure that the financial statements comply with required to meet at least once per year.
It is the Boards responsibility to of the Nominations Committee is Tim Ingram and its present a fair, balanced and understandable Annual main function is to plan for board succession and to Report, which provides the information necessary for review annually the structure, size and composition of shareholders to assess the performance, strategy and the Board and make recommendation to the Board business model of the Company.
This responsibility with regard to any changes that are deemed necessary.
extends to the half year and other price-sensitive Terms of reference for the Nominations Committee public reports.
have been approved by the Board.
32 GREENCOAT U K W I N D Corporate Governance Report continued Committees of the Board continued The number of meetings of the Audit Committee attended in the year to 31 December 2018 by each The AIC Code recommends that companies appoint a Audit Committee member is set out below: Remuneration Committee, however the Board has not deemed this necessary, as being wholly comprised of Audit Committee Meetings Total of 4 non-executive Directors, the whole Board considers these matters.
Shonaid Jemmett-Page 4 William Rickett C. B.
4 The Investment Manager Dan Badger 4 The Board has entered into the Investment Martin McAdam 4 Management Agreement with the Investment Manager under which the Investment Manager is Internal Control responsible for developing strategy and the day-to-day management of the Groups investment portfolio, in The Board is responsible for the Companys system of accordance with the Groups investment objective and internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The policy, subject to the overall supervision of the Board.
Board confirms that it has an ongoing process for A summary of the fees paid to the Investment Manager identifying, evaluating and managing the significant are given in note 3 to the financial statements.
risks faced by the Company.
This process has been in place throughout the year and has continued since the The Investment Managers appointment is terminable year end.
by the Investment Manager or the Company on not less than 12 months notice.
The Investment The Companys principal risks and uncertainties are Management Agreement may be terminated with detailed on pages 5 to 7 of this report.
As further immediate effect and without compensation, by either explained in the Audit Committee Report, the risks of the Investment Manager or the Company if the other the Company are outlined in a risk matrix which was party has gone into liquidation, administration or reviewed and updated during the year.
The Board receivership or has committed a material breach of the continually reviews its policy setting and updates the Investment Management Agreement.
risk matrix at least annually to ensure that procedures are in place with the intention of identifying, mitigating The Board as a whole reviewed the Companys and minimising the impact of risks should they compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, crystallise.
The Board relies on reports periodically the Listing Rules, the Disclosure Guidance and provided by the Investment Manager and the Transparency Rules and the AIC Code.
In accordance Administrator regarding risks that the Company faces.
with the Listing Rules, the Directors confirm that the When required, experts are employed to gather continued appointment of the Investment Manager information, including tax and legal advisers.
The under the current terms of the Investment Board also regularly monitors the investment Management Agreement is in the interests of environment and the management of the Companys shareholders.
The Board also reviewed the portfolio, and applies the principles detailed in the performance of other service providers and examined internal control guidance issued by the FRC.
the effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems during the year.
The principal features of the internal control systems which the Investment Manager and the Administrator Board Meetings, Committee Meetings and have in place in respect of the Groups financial Directors Attendance reporting include: The number of meetings of the full Board attended in internal reviews of all financial reports: the year to 31 December 2018 by each Director is set out below: review by the Board of financial information prior Scheduled Board Additonal Board to its publication: Meetings Meetings Total of 4 Total of 8 authorisation limits over expenditure incurred by Tim Ingram 4 8 the Group: Shonaid Jemmett-Page 4 7 review of valuations: and William Rickett C. B.
4 7 Dan Badger 4 7 authorisation of investments.
Martin McAdam 4 8 During the year, there were also 13 meetings of subcommittees of the Board.
33 Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Corporate Governance Report continued Whistleblowing All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions to the Company at the registered address.
The AGM of The Board has considered the AIC Code the Company will provide a forum for shareholders to recommendations in respect of arrangements by which meet and discuss issues with the Directors and staff of the Investment Manager or Administrator may, Investment Manager.
in confidence, raise concerns within their respective organisations about possible improprieties in matters The Board receives comprehensive shareholder reports of financial reporting or other matters.
It has concluded from the Companys Registrar and regularly monitors that adequate arrangements are in place for the the views of shareholders and the shareholder prole proportionate and independent investigation of such of the Company.
The Board is also kept fully informed matters and, where necessary, for appropriate followof all relevant market commentary on the Company by up action to be taken within their organisation.
Amendment of Articles of Association Shareholders may also nd Company information or The Companys Articles of Association may be contact the Company through its website: amended by the members of the Company by special www.
resolution requiring a majority of at least 75 per cent.
On behalf of the Board of the persons voting on the relevant resolution.
Relations with Shareholders The Company welcomes the views of shareholders and places great importance on communication with its Tim Ingram shareholders.
The Investment Manager is available at Chairman of the Board all reasonable times to meet with principal shareholders and key sector analysts.
The Chairman, 27 February 2019 the Senior Independent Director and other Directors are also available to meet with shareholders if required.
