Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Audit Committee report Introduction The Committee I am pleased to introduce the report of the Audit Committee for 2018. plays an important The Committee plays an important part in the governance of the Company with its principal activities focused on the integrity of financial reporting, quality and effectiveness of internal and part in the external audit, risk management and the system of internal control.
governance of I have set out below the main matters considered by the Committee during the year and the conclusions drawn.
We meet formally at key times within our reporting calendar and the agendas the Company for our meetings are designed to cover all significant areas of risk over the course of the year and to provide oversight and challenge to the key financial judgements, controls and processes that operate within the Company.
The Committee continues to keep its activities under review in the light of regulatory developments and the emergence of best practice.
Key topics for consideration in 2019 will be the implementation of IFRS 16 leasing and associated reporting and the Companys ongoing supply chain investment programme and the associated exceptional charges.
Cyber security matters continue to be a priority for the Committee.
Overall I am satisfied that the activities of the Committee enable it to gain a good understanding of the key matters impacting the Company during the year along with oversight of the governance and operation of its key controls and ultimately to draw the conclusions set out in the following report.
Favourite Greggs snack: A bacon roll sets me up Allison Kirkby for the day.
Chair of the Audit Committee 7 March 2019 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51 Audit Committee report continued Composition The Audit Committee is comprised of the following: Allison Kirkby Chair Helena Ganczakowski Peter McPhillips Sandra Turner It is the practice of the Company for all independent Non-Executive Directors to serve as members of the Audit Committee.
There have been no changes in the composition of the Committee during 2018, however, Allison Kirby will retire from the Board at the Annual General Meeting in May and will not be seeking reappointment.
Training is provided for any new members of the Audit Committee by way of a thorough induction process which includes access to the external auditor, the Head of Business Assurance and relevant members of management.
The Directors biographies on pages 40 and 41 detail the Committee members previous experience and demonstrate that they have experience individually in a range of disciplines relevant to Greggs business.
The Board considers that Allison Kirkby has recent and relevant financial experience.
Role and responsibilities The Terms of Reference of the Committee can be accessed at: http: corporate.
co. uk investor-centre corporategovernance Company-documents.
The key responsibilities of the Audit Committee are: ensuring that the accounting and financial policies of the Company are proper and effective: assisting the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities by monitoring the integrity of the accounts and information published by the Company and reviewing significant financial judgements contained in them: advising the Board on whether it believes the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy: reviewing the internal financial controls and the Groups approach to risk management: oversight of whistle-blowing arrangements: monitoring compliance with the Listing Rules and the recommendations of the Governance Code: oversight of the Companys external and internal auditors and reviewing the effectiveness and objectivity of the audit process: and reporting to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
Meetings during the year The Audit Committee met four times during the year.
Details of Committee members attendance is given on page 43.
The Committee normally invites the Company Chairman, the Executive Directors, the Head of Business Assurance and the external auditor to attend its meetings.
Time is set aside bi-annually for discussion with the external auditor and with the Head of Business Assurance, in each case in the absence of all Executive Directors.
The Committee also has access to the Companys management team and to its auditor and can seek further professional advice, at the Companys cost, if required.
The Chair has regular contact with the Finance Director, and internal and external auditors, in addition to scheduled Committee meetings to ensure that emerging issues are addressed.
She also has access to, and in 2018 made contact several times with, an audit partner independent of the partner responsible for the audit.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 52 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Financial reporting In 2018 the Audit Committee reviewed the 2017 annual report, interim results, preliminary results announcement and reports from the external auditor on the outcome of their reviews and audits.
During the year, and up to the date of this report, the Committee considered key accounting issues and judgements and related disclosures in the Groups accounts.
The significant areas of judgement considered by the Committee in relation to the accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 December 2018 are as follows: Area of focus Action taken Understanding and treatment of exceptional items The accounts include exceptional items in the current year.
The Committee considered the accounting requirements of IAS1 relating to the separate disclosure of material items Total exceptional costs of 7,213,000 were incurred in 2018 of income or expense together with the FRCs guidance on 2017: 9,862,000. the subject, with reference to: i the costs arising from the decision, announced in March 5,947,000 2017: 10,060,000 of this relates to the restructuring 2016, to invest in and reshape the Companys supply chain of supply chain operations and in 2018 comprises mainly the in order to support future growth: and one-off costs associated with the transfer of activity between ii the equalisation of GMP payable from our defined benefit sites as we consolidate our manufacturing operations into pension scheme.
Costs in the prior year related largely to redundancy a full breakdown for both years is given in The Committee ensured that consistent principles were Note 4 to the accounts.
established and agreed with the external auditor early in the process and that reporting is suitably clear.
The Committee gave A charge of 1,682,000 in relation to the gender equalisation careful consideration to the judgements made in the separate of guaranteed minimum pensions GMP payable from our disclosure of non-underlying items, both in respect of events defined benefit pension scheme was recognised as exceptional.
occurring in 2018 and also changes in circumstance in respect The judgements applied in recognising this amount are noted of provisions relating to events from prior years, ensuring that below.
The one-off nature of this charge led to its disclosure the annual report as a whole presents a balanced view, including as exceptional.
the presentation of GAAP and non-GAAP measures.
In addition 416,000 2017: 198,000 was credited to exceptional It concluded that separate disclosure should be made of items being the release of prior years provisions relating to the charges incurred in 2018 related to the supply chain investment settlement of various property transactions.
Accounting for defined benefit pension schemes The determination of the defined benefit obligation depends Pension scheme liabilities are assessed on behalf of the on the selection of certain assumptions including the discount Company by independent actuaries.
The Committee assessed rate, inflation rates and mortality rates.
the underlying assumptions and concluded that they were appropriate and also discussed the appropriateness of the The UK High Court ruled on 26 October 2018 in respect of assumptions with the external auditor.
the gender equalisation of GMPs for occupational pension schemes.
The judgement requires equalisation between men and women for the effect of unequal GMPs accrued between 1990 and 1997 and describes the applicable ways in which the benefit entitlements should be equalised.
Detailed individual calculations have yet to be performed by the scheme actuary an estimate of the additional liability has been incorporated in the accounting valuation of the defined benefit obligation at 29 December 2018 as a plan amendment.
The resulting charge to the income statement has been treated as an exceptional item as noted above.
Any difference between this estimate and the actual liability will be recognised in other comprehensive income in the year in which it is determined.
The net liability held in relation to defined benefit pension schemes at the end of 2018 was 8,416,000 2017: 7,506,000 and the exceptional charge to the income statement was 1,682,000 2017: nil.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 53 Audit Committee report continued Area of focus Action taken Fair, balanced and understandable The Committee is responsible for advising the Board The Committee received a report from the Head of Business on whether it believes the annual report and accounts, Assurance who is not involved in the preparation of the annual taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
report and accounts and who conducted an independent review of it.
The following factors were considered during the course of this review: ensuring that all the statements are consistent with one another: verifying that figures in the narrative sections are consistent with the relevant financial detail: identifying any duplication of information: ensuring that the disclosure of non-underlying items is balanced: confirming that bad news is included, as well as good news: and highlighting any inappropriate use of technical language or jargon.
The Audit Committee considered the feedback from this report alongside its own review of the annual report and accounts when making its recommendation to the Board regarding fair, balanced and understandable.
Going concern The accounts continue to be prepared on a going concern basis.
Information provided by the Finance Director regarding future financial plans, risks and liquidity is presented to the Committee to enable it to determine whether the going concern basis of accounting remained appropriate.
The Committee reviewed and challenged the assumptions used and concluded that the Board is able to make the going concern statement on page 47 of the Directors report.
Viability The Board is required to consider the period over which The Committee reviewed the process undertaken by they are able to conclude that the Company will remain management to support and allow the Directors to assess the viable, having taken into account severe but plausible Groups long-term prospects and make its viability statement.
The Committee considered and provided input into the determination of which of the Groups principal risks and combinations thereof might have an impact on the Groups liquidity and solvency.
In particular, the possible impact of a no deal Brexit scenario was applied in combination with other principal risks.
The Committee reviewed the results of managements scenario modelling and the stress testing of these models.
The Committee reviewed and challenged the assumptions used and concluded that the Board is able to make the viability statement on page 37 of the strategic report.
The Committee also considered other key accounting issues and related disclosures in the Groups accounts as follows: whether any changes in accounting policy were required following changes in the business or in legislation: whether the Companys tax policy remains appropriate: the impact of changes in accounting standards and their relevance, if any, to the Company.
In particular it reviewed the Companys preparations for the implementation of IFRS 16 Leases which becomes effective at the start of 2019.
IFRS 16 will have a material impact on the Companys accounts and requires the exercise of several key judgements.
The Committee reviewed and challenged the judgements that the Company proposes to adopt to ensure that they are appropriate: and reports from the Company Secretary and Finance Director which assess the Companys compliance with the Listing Rules.
One areas which was previously considered to be significant accounting for dilapidations is no longer included above as the amounts provided have been utilised to such an extent that they are no longer material.
As a result the Committee does not consider the judgements required to be significant to the accounts.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 54 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts External audit Assessing external audit effectiveness The Audit Committee discussed and agreed the scope of the audit with the external auditor and agreed their fees in respect of the audit.
The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit in line with the Financial Reporting Councils Practice aid for Audit Committees May 2015.
It considered the results of external quality inspections by the Audit Quality Inspection Team on other KPMG clients.
It sought feedback from senior management, by way of a detailed questionnaire, in respect of the effectiveness of the audit process with particular reference to audit planning and design and audit execution.
The Committee also considered the effectiveness of the audit through the reporting from and communications with the auditor and an assessment of the auditors approach to key areas of judgement and any errors identified during the course of the audit.
The Committee concluded that the audit was effective and that the relationship and effectiveness of the external auditor be kept under review.
Appointing the auditor and safeguards on non-audit services KPMG has been the Companys auditor for more than 20 years and the transitional rules in the EU Directive require an initial change of audit firms no later than 2020.
Having reappointed KPMG in 2014 following a competitive tender, the Committee expects to change audit firms in accordance with the requirements of the EU directive.
The Committee will continue to consider annually whether to conduct an audit tender for audit quality or independence reasons.
During the year Mick Thompson retired by rotation as audit partner and has been replaced by Nick Plumb.
The Audit Committee confirms that the Company complies with the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory use of Competitive Tender Process and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
It is the responsibility of the Committee to monitor the independence and objectivity of the external auditor including the impact of any non-audit work undertaken by it and its suitability for re-appointment.
The Company has a formal policy to ensure that the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor for non-audit work does not compromise the auditors independence or objectivity.
It monitors the level and type of non-audit fees on an annual basis and ensures that the overall level of non-audit fees remains in line with current ethical guidance governing the accounting profession.
The Audit Committee favours a presumption that non-audit work will be awarded to a firm other than the audit firm unless there is a good reason to use the auditor.
An annual base plan for non-audit fees paid to the external auditor is agreed in advance by the Audit Committee.
Expenditure in accordance with this plan can then be committed without further referral to the Audit Committee.
Expenditure that is not included in the agreed plan is subject to strict authority limits and is reviewed by the Committee.
All use of the external auditor for non-audit work must be reported to and approved by the Committee.
In circumstances where non-audit fees are significant relative to the audit fee an explanation would be provided in the subsequent Audit Committee Report.
In addition, the Audit Committee ensures that the external auditor has its own policies and is subject to professional standards designed to safeguard their independence as auditor.
The Audit Committee has reviewed whether, and is satisfied that, the Companys auditor, KPMG LLP, continues to be objective and independent of the Company.
KPMG LLP did perform non-audit services during 2018 for the Group but the Audit Committee is satisfied that its objectivity was not impaired by such work.
In 2018, the charge to the income statement in respect of non-audit fees paid to KPMG LLP and related KPMG operations amounted to 5,000 which is 17 per cent of the audit fee for the year and related to audit of turnover statements required by shop landlords and pension scheme audits.
Reappointment of auditor In accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution for the reappointment of KPMG LLP will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Risk management and internal control Internal control The Committee reviewed the Companys internal control environment to satisfy itself that procedures are in place to ensure that assets are well protected, authority levels for expenditure are clear, segregation of duties exists and performance is regularly monitored.
Processes are in place to ensure that key controls are being operated and compliance with these processes is the subject of inspection by the Internal Audit team and subsequent review by the Audit Committee.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 55 Risk management and internal control continued Whistle-blowing The Companys whistle-blowing policy is made available to all employees through the intranet, as well as via posters displayed across the business.
This gives information regarding how to raise a concern in strict confidence.
Two reports were made during the year, relating to staff welfare and shop facilities.
Both events were reported directly to the Chair of the Audit Committee by email.
One instance was resolved by working with the local management team and the other was found to be unsubstantiated.
The outcome of both matters was reported to the Board during the year.
The Companys whistle-blowing policy was last subject to a detailed review in 2016 and updated to align with best practice.
The Audit Committee is confident that it remains appropriate and fit for purpose: however, the policy will be refreshed and updated during 2019 as part of a wider review of corporate policies.
Risk management process The Audit Committee undertakes a review of the risk management process in the Group at least annually, as set out in its terms of reference.
The process is detailed on page 35, and has been reviewed by the Committee to confirm its appropriateness in light of the risks identified.
The Committee Chair also attended a meeting of the Risk Committee during the year.
The key areas that the Committee has specifically considered are as follows: Area of focus Action taken New and emerging risks The Audit Committee reviews areas of new and emerging risk as identified by the business via the Risk Committee as a standing item on its agenda.
It raises any other areas which it believes should be documented within the Companys risk register.
Financial reporting and control Judgemental areas in the accounts are considered by the Committee, to provide challenge to the process.
The Companys approach to lease accounting requirements under IFRS 16 has been discussed.
Amendments to the accounts receivable policy and delegated authorities have also been reviewed and approved.
General Data Protection Regulation GDPR Regular updates on preparation for the implementation of GDPR were received by the Committee during the first half of the year.
Since the regulation came into force in May, members have received commentary on compliance and associated activity.
Cyber risk and information security The adequacy of the Companys approach to cyber risk and information security is considered at every Audit Committee meeting, by receiving a regular update on activity.
Business transformation The Committee continues to receive reports on the Companys transformation programme, including progress with supply chain investment and SAP implementation.
Review of principal risks and uncertainties The proposed disclosure of principal risks and uncertainties was prepared by the Risk Committee, based on its discussions during the year and informed by its annual review of the strategic risks faced by the business.
The statement was then considered and approved by the Audit Committee.
Internal audit The work of the internal audit function is set out in more detail within the principal risks and uncertainties statement on pages 35 to 39 of this annual report.
The team is led by the Head of Business Assurance, supported by the Risk Manager, the Information Security & Compliance Manager and 14 auditors.
The majority of the audit team work across the retail estate to provide assurance over the Companys retail operations.
The Audit Committee approves the annual plan for the team and monitors progress against that plan.
The effectiveness of the internal audit team and its level of resource are reviewed by the Committee at least annually.
This review includes assessing the delivery of the audit plan, considering the functions output across the year and evaluating customer feedback received by the team.
Committee effectiveness Each year the Committee reviews critically its own performance, assisted by consideration of a series of questions, and considers where improvements can be made.
Allison Kirkby Chair of the Audit Committee 7 March 2019 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 56
