66 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED LEADERSHIP EXPERIENCE ACROSS THE BOARD Lee Feldman Non-executive Chairman of the Board Lee joined the GVC Group in December 2004 and Prior to co-founding Twin Lakes, Lee wasa partner became Chairman in 2008.
Heis the Managing in Softbank Capital Partners.
A. and J. D. Partner of Twin Lakes Capital, a private equity rm from Columbia University.
focused on branded consumer products, media Nominations Committee Chair and business services.
From 2008 to 2015, he was also the Chief Executive officer of Aurora Brands: the owner of both MacKenzie-Childs and Jay Strongwater, the iconic American luxury home furnishings and personal accessories companies.
Lee was appointed the Chief Executive officer of Aurora Brands when Twin Lakes led the acquisition of the business.
He is also a member of the Board of Directors of LRNCorporation and TLH Beauty LLC.
Kenneth Alexander Chief Executive officer Kenneth joined GVC as its Chief Executive officer in March 2007.
On the re-domiciliation of Gaming VC Holdings S. A. to the Isle of Man and its renaming as GVC Holdings PLC, he became a Director of GVC Holdings PLC in January 2010.
He was formerly Finance Director, then Managing Director, of the European operations of Sportingbet plc, which he joined in 2000.
He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland and previously worked for GrantThornton UK LLP.
CSR Committee Paul Bowtell Chief Financial officer Paul joined GVC in March 2018 on completion of GVCs acquisition of Ladbrokes Coral where he was the CFO.
Previously he had joined Gala Coral Group in October 2011 as CFO.
Prior to that he was Chief Finance officer of First Choice Holidays PLC and became Chief Financial officer of TUI Travel PLC after its merger with First Choice Holidays PLC.
He previously held a number of senior positions with Centrica, WHSmith and Forte.
Paul is also Chairman of Alua Hotels, a privately owned company.
Jane Anscombe Independent Non-executive Director Jane joined the GVC Board in June 2017.
She has having joined from The Rank Group plc where she more than 30 years of experience in the gaming, was the Director of Investor Relations between 1993 leisure and entertainment sectors, primarily as an and 1997.
From 1981 to 1993, Jane was an equity equity research analyst.
She retired from equity research analyst at fide Zoete & Bevan and then research in spring 2017 having been a gaming Barclays fide Zoete Wedd, where she was a Director and entertainment analyst at Edison Investment of BZW Research Ltd. Research since its formation in 2003.
Remuneration Committee Chair Prior to that she was an independent equity Nominations Committee research analyst from 1999 to 2003, and before CSR Committee that a leisure sector analyst at Investec Henderson Crosthwaite from 1998 to 1999.
Prior to this Jane served as the Director of Investor Relations at Carlton Communications plc from 1997 to 1998, GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018 67 Pierre Bouchut Independent Non-executive Director Pierre Bouchut joined the GVC Board on Schneider Electric SA 2005-2009 and Casino 13 September 2018.
Pierre has over 40 years 1995-2003, where he also served as the chief ofexperience in senior management roles across executive officer from 2003 to 2005.
He has also finance, European retail and European property.
been a Non-executive Director of La Rinascente SPA He is a Non-executive Director and chairman of the and a non-executive member of the advisory boards audit committee at Hammerson plc and Firmenich of Qualium Investissement and Lombard Odier Asset SA and a Director and Chairman of the Audit, Management Switzerland SA.
Accounts and Risks Committee of Albioma SA.
Audit Committee Chair He is also a Non-executive Director of GeoPost SA.
Previously Pierre was the chief operating officer for Europe and Indonesia at Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N. V. 2016-2018, chief financial officer at Delhaize Group SA 2012-2016, Carrefour SA 2009-2012, Peter Isola Independent Non-executive Director Peter Isola joined the GVC Board in 2016 following and advises the Government of Gibraltar on a the move to the Main Market of the London Stock number of committees in both financial services Exchange as an expert in gaming law and regulation and gaming.
He is also a Director of a number of with experience advising numerous e-commerce Gibraltar regulated rms in financial services, gaming clients.
Peter Isola is the Senior Partner of ISOLAS, and e-commerce including the Gibraltar International Gibraltars longest established law rm.
He is a Bank and Broadband Gibraltar Limited.
He was Gibraltarian, domiciled in Gibraltar, and in 1982 appointed a Commissioner to the Gibraltar Financial was called to the Bar of England and Wales and Services Commission in March 2017. also Gibraltar.
Peter has worked in the gaming and CSR Committee financial services sector all of his professional life and is widely recognised and respected as a leading expert in gaming and regulation.
Peter is a former President of the Gibraltar Chamber of Commerce Stephen Morana Senior Independent Non-executive Director Stephen Morana joined the GVC Board on entertainment plc and the enlarged Groups move 2 February 2016 and is widely recognised for his to the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange.
e-commerce expertise, particularly as a specialist Stephen was until recently a Non-executive Director in the online gaming sector having spent ten years and Audit Committee Chairman of boohoo.
com plc, as part of the management team at Betfair plc.
the high growth fast fashion business.
Stephen is a Stephen joined Betfair in 2002, becoming Chief member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Financial officer in 2006 and also served as Interim England and Wales and an alumnus ofthe executive Chief Executive officer in 2012.
After Betfair, management programme at INSEAD.
Stephen spent over three years at Zoopla Property Audit Committee Group Plc as Chief Financial officer, where he Remuneration Committee helped them join the FTSE 250 in June 2014.
CSR Committee Stephen joined the Board of GVC following Nominations Committee the successful acquisition of bwin.
party digital Virginia McDowell Independent Non-executive Director Virginia joined GVC in June 2018.
She has 35 years of operations, sales and marketing at Argosy Gaming of experience working in the US gaming industry and Company from 1997 until that business was acquired is the current Vice Chairperson of Global Gaming in 2005.
From 1984 to 1996 Virginia was promoted Women, a non-profit organisation with a mission to through various roles in Tropicana Casino and Resort support, inspire and inuence the development of before departing as Vice President of business women in the gaming industry through education development in 1996. and mentoring.
Audit Committee Virginia was the President and CEO of Isle of Capri Remuneration Committee Casinos, Inc. in the United States from 2011 until her CSR Committee Chair retirement in 2016, and the president and COO of Isle of Capri from 2007 to 2011.
Prior to this she was the Chief Information officer at Trump Entertainment Resorts from 2005 to 2007 and Senior Vice President
