74 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT The Nominations Committee also advises the Board on its structure, THE BOARD HAS ADOPTED A FORMAL size, composition and matters of Director and senior management succession.
The terms of reference for the Nominations Committee AND TRANSPARENT PROCEDURE FOR are available on GVCs corporate website at https: gvc-plc.
com wp-content uploads 2017 07 NominationTHE APPOINTMENT OF NEW DIRECTORS Committee-tor.
pdf TO THE BOARD BY APPOINTING A Membership and attendance NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE TO LEAD The following Directors are or were members of the Nominations Committee in the period 1 January 2018 to date and they each THE PROCESS OF APPOINTMENT attended the following number of meetings: AND MAKE RECOMMENDATIONS Number of meetings Number of meetings Member entitled to attend attended TO THE BOARD.
Lee Feldman 3 3 Jane Anscombe 3 3 Stephen Morana 1 1 Will Whitehorn 2 1 Note: Will Whitehorn stepped down from the Board on 6 June 2018.
The Company Secretary attends all Nominations Committees to record meetings and provide advice to the Directors.
The CEO is normally invited to attend each meeting and the Group HR Director may be invited to attend from time-to-time to participate Lee Feldman indiscussions about succession planning.
Chairman 5 March 2019 Business during the year During 2018 the main areas of business for the Nominations Committee were: The recruitment of three new independent Non-executive Directors: and Succession planning, particularly in relation to the change of CFO.
Supported by the independent recruitment rm, Russell Reynolds, the Nominations Committee successfully selected Virginia McDowell in June and Pierre Bouchut in September and the Board accepted the Nominations Committees recommendation and made these appointments in those respective months.
The search for the third Non-executive Director is well advanced and is being undertaken to nd a successor for Karl Diacono who retired last December after 10 years of service.
A number of candidates have been interviewed and the Nominations Committee expects tomake a recommendation to the Board later in the year.
The Nominations Committee has spent a considerable amount of time during 2018 reviewing and feeding into the succession plans for the Board members and senior executives.
This proved to be extremely worthwhile when in the autumn our current CFO indicated he was considering leaving to take up a new opportunity in private equity.
By running through the succession work that had already been done and engaging Russell Reynolds to do some further benchmarking of external and internal candidates, the Nominations Committee was able to recommend that Rob Wood, the Ladbrokes Coral Retail CFO be appointed CFO if Paul Bowtell decided to leave GVC.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018 75 As part of the development of the Groups succession plans, the Statement on Chairmans Succession Nominations Committee has directed the Group HR Director to ensure In July 2018, the update to the Code saw a change in recommended that these plans also address succession below the senior executive practice regarding a Chairmans tenure, with the move towards a team and that sufficient training and mentoring is provided to assist Chairman stepping down after nine years of service.
Lee Feldman has colleagues to step up into the shoes of their predecessors.
been the Chairman of GVC since 2008, so his tenure exceeds the new Throughout any recruitment process the Nominations Committee recommended maximum duration.
operates within the parameters of the Companys diversity As Senior Independent Director, I have led the Board discussion on this policy.
The diversity policy ensures the Group engages trains and matter as we try and nd a balance between adherence with the Code, promotes employees on the basis of their capabilities, qualications and doing what is best for the business and shareholders.
The policy forbids discrimination or pressure to is the Boards aim to comply with the Codes recommendations, the discriminate by its employees or others acting on the Groups behalf overriding duty is to ensure that any action taken to comply is in the or their employees, contractors or customers in respect of age, Companys best interests overall.
gender, sexual orientation, race, ethnic origin, marital status or civil partnership, nationality, disabilities, political or religious beliefs, or There are a number of factors that we as a Board need to take into onany other criteria unrelated to an individuals ability to perform the account when reviewing this issue: duties.
The policy also sets out how the diversity guidelines impact The successes that GVC has seen under Lees tenure, including recruitment, selection and promotion, learning and development, sector leading returns on investment, an ambitious M&A strategy the management of part-time workers and individual employee andan exciting new Joint Venture in the US: responsibilities for ensuring enforcement and compliance with the policy.
Owing to the breadth of diversity existing across the Group, The improvements in our corporate governance processes and diversity ratios or objectives have not been set.
controls over the last few years as we moved to a full listing: The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code was updated in The lack of muscle memory in our current non executive July 2018 and this applies to listed companies reporting in respect Board members, all of whom have been appointed within ofaccounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
One of the the last three years: and new recommendations is that the tenure of the chairman of the board A new CFO joining the Board whilst we are very lucky to have should not exceed nine years.
As I have been a Director of GVC since someone of Rob Woods calibre within the business, this will be his 2004 and Chairman since 2008 my tenure could become an issue first PLC role.
under the forthcoming version of the Code which will be in full effect for GVC in 2020.
In preparation for this the Senior Independent Director is In November 2018, I met with the majority of our largest shareholders leading the debate with the Board about this governance development and had detailed conversations on this matter.
I received very strong and he reports below on this matter.
feedback that, although they believe that over time we do need to nd a successor to Lee, they would be very concerned were we to prioritise compliance with the Code to the detriment of the business, especially Lee Feldman given the above factors.
Chairman of the Nominations Committee 5 March 2019 To that end, we believe that non-compliance with this aspect of the updated Code at this time is preferable given the unique circumstances the business faces, and the value-add that Lee continues to bring in the role as Chairman.
That said, we will look to commence a search for a new Chairman during the course of the next year.
We believe that this is the right decision for all stakeholders, and I will continue to maintain dialogue with shareholders on this issue.
Stephen Morana Senior Independent Director 5 March 2019
