72 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED COMPOSITION, SUCCESSION AND EVALUATION Directors where necessary.
Possible options for addressing any issues Meetings without Executive Directors present arising from the review are considered and action agreed by the Board.
The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that the Chairman The SID meets with the Non-executive Directors to review the results of meets with the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors the evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
The SID then discusses present at least once a year.
This meeting normally happens in connection with the Chairman these results and any further feedback from the with the annual Board performance evaluation process, however, Non-executive Directors.
The Board is currently going through the it is not unusual for the Chairman to conduct these meetings more performance evaluation process and the actions agreed to be taken frequently, particularly if the Company is contemplating a significant following the evaluation feedback being reviewed and discussed will be transaction.
The Chairman reports back to the full Board any published in the Chairmans letter accompanying the 2019 AGM notice.
recommendations arising from these meetings.
2019 AGM Information and support A separate notice convening the AGM on Wednesday 5 June 2019 will Working with the Chairman the Company Secretary ensures good be dispatched to shareholders more than 20 working days before the information ows within the Board and its committees and between AGM.
The AGM notice will describe each item of business, which will be senior management and the Non-executive Directors.
The Company dealt with by its own separate resolution.
All the Directors will each stand Secretary is the guardian of all Board procedures and advises for re-appointment and there will be separate resolution proposed for the Chairman and other Directors when required.
All Directors will be present at the AGM to answer accompanying reports are prepared for each Board or committee questions from those shareholders that attend.
In accordance with best meeting and circulated via a secure data-room in advance of each practice, the Chairman will exercise his discretion under the articles and meeting.
Between scheduled meetings, Directors are updated on call for all resolutions to be decided on by a poll vote rather than a show business developments with email reports, management accounts of hands.
The voting results will be announced via a regulatory news and regulatory updates and, where necessary, the Chairman of the service and published on GVCs corporate website shortly after the Board or the Chairman of a committee will convene a conference AGM closes.
call to discuss and reach agreement on material urgent matters.
The Company Secretary is available to all Directors to offer guidance Shareholder engagement and advice on corporate governance, company law and share plan The Company keeps shareholders informed of business developments matters.
The Company Secretary presents a report at each Board via its Annual Report, half-year statement and trading update meeting updating the Directors on share capital and shareholder announcements.
In addition, other price sensitive information is publicly changes, Group corporate structure changes and corporate disclosed via a regulatory news service.
All these items of information governance developments.
GVCs Head of Legal is also available to are available on the Companys corporate website, www.
all Directors to provide advice on general legal and regulatory issues.
The website also contains other information about the Group and In addition, a formal procedure has also been adopted allowing its business.
Directors to seek independent professional advice where they believe it is necessary in order for them to full their duties to the Company.
Throughout the year the CEO, CFO and Director of Investor Relations Board committees are also authorised by the Board under their terms meet with shareholders on request or via organised investor roadshows of reference to retain external advice as required for each committee supported by GVCs brokers, as well as by attending and presenting at to carry out its duties.
During 2018 there were more than 700 such meetings, hosted in the UK, mainland Europe and the US.
Induction and training In addition the Chairman and Senior Independent Director conducted a corporate governance roadshow in November 2018 and feedback from A full induction programme is provided to new Directors, which is that exercise is set out on page93.
The Senior Independent Director is specically tailored to the needs and experience of the new Director available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through and the committees on which they sit.
The programme provides the Chairman, CEO or CFO fails to resolve or, where contact with those corporate governance information provided by the Company Secretary individuals is inappropriate.
Major shareholders also have the opportunity which is both general in nature e. g. UK Corporate Governance to meet newly appointed Non-executive Directors should they wish, but Code, remuneration best practice and specic to the Company e. g. in practice our shareholders have not to date taken up this offer the risk register, Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board, etc.. New Directors may also meet with the Companys external auditors GVCs shareholders and advisers as part of the induction process.
After the induction As at 1 March 2019, GVCs major shareholders were: programme from time to time the Company Secretary noties Directors of courses and seminars conducted by corporate governance bodies % of Issued and professional advisers that Directors may nd helpful.
Share Capital Number & Total Voting Board performance evaluation Shareholder of Shares Rights In accordance with best practice, the Board conducts an evaluation Capital Group 75,008,444 12.89% of the performance of the Board, its committees, individuals and Standard Life Aberdeen 55,347,260 9.51% the Chairman.
For this year a third party advisory rm, Lintstock Limited has been engaged to facilitate the exercise.
This will require BlackRock 32,006,969 5.50% each Director to complete a series of questions online.
Lintstock will Merian Global Investors 28,885,405 4.96% collate the answers and then interview each Director, before then collating a report.
The report will be circulated to all Directors and Note: then the Chairman will discuss the results of the Board, individual and As at 1 March 2019 the Company had 581,870,271 shares in issue.
Each share carries the committee performance evaluations with the Board and with individual right to one vote.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018 73 During 2018 the Company issued a total of 278,143,796 new ordinary fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent Company and shares.
271,816,558 shares were issued to the Ladbrokes Coral of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and shareholders in consideration for GVC acquiring that group, with an parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: additional 6,327,238 new shares issued as a result of Directors and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: employees exercising various Company share plan awards.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable, relevant, The Company did not acquire any of its shares in 2018. reliable and prudent: Directors report other disclosures for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: Customer and creditor payment policy for the parent Company financial statements, state whether The Group is committed to prompt payment of customer cash-out applicable UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced requests and maintains adequate cash reserves to cover customer Disclosure Framework, have been followed, subject to any material withdrawals and balances.
Normally payments will be made to departures disclosed and explained in the parent Company customers within seven days of receiving a customer instruction.
In the nancialstatements: case of other creditors, it is the Groups policy to agree terms at the outset of a transaction and ensure compliance with such agreed terms.
assess the Group and parent Companys ability to continue as a In the event that an invoice is contested then the Group informs the going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going supplier without delay and seeks to settle the dispute quickly.
concern: and use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend Going concern to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
affect its future development, performance and position are set out in The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records this Annual Report in the sections preceding this governance report.
that are sufficient to show and explain the parent Companys The financial position of the Group, its cashow, liquidity position and transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the borrowings are set out in the aforementioned section.
In addition, financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure notes to the financial statements on pages 88 to 118 includes the that its financial statements comply with the Isle of Man Companies Act Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: 2006.
They are responsible for such internal control as they determine its financial risk management objectives: details of financial instruments is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably a large number of players and long-term contracts with a number of open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent corporate customers and suppliers across different geographic areas anddetect fraud and other irregularities.
As a consequence, the Directors believe the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully in the context Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also of the current economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the Directors responsible for preparing a Directors Report and a Corporate have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group Governance Statement that complies with that law and have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the those regulations.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the concern basis in preparing the Annual Report.
corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
annual report and the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with ofthe annual financial report applicable law and regulations.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and the law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards the strategic report includes a fair review of the development and as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU performance of the business and the position of the issuer and as applicable to an Isle of Man company and applicable law and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 that they face.
Reduced Disclosure Framework as applicable to an Isle of Man company.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the We consider the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
