76 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT MEMBERS MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COMMITTEE PIERRE BOUCHUT CHAIRMAN Monitors the integrity of GVC Holdings PLCs financial APPOINTED 13 SEPTEMBER 2018 statements and any formal announcements relating to theCompanys financial performance and reviews, STEPHEN MORANA FORMER CHAIRMAN and challenges, where necessary, the significant KARL DIACONO STEPPED DOWN 13 SEPTEMBER 2018 financial reporting issues andjudgements in relation to the half-year and annual financial statements before WILL WHITEHORN STEPPED DOWN 20 JUNE 2018 thesearesubmitted to the Board for final approval: VIRGINIA MCDOWELL APPOINTED 6 JUNE 2018 Makes recommendations to the Board concerning anyproposed, new or amended accounting policies: PIERRE BOUCHUT IS REGARDEDASTHE Oversees the relationship with the Groups external AUDITCOMMITTEE MEMBER WITH RECENT AND auditorincluding reviewing the annual external audit planandaudit findings: RELEVANT FINANCIAL AND RETAIL EXPERIENCE Recommends the audit fee to the Board and sets the Groupspolicy on the provision of non-audit services Composition and constitution bytheexternal auditor: The Audit Committee oversees the Groups financial reporting and Reviews and monitors the external auditors internal controls and provides a formal reportinglink with the external independence andobjectivity, and the effectiveness auditors.
The Committees Terms of Reference, which arereviewed ofthe audit process: annually, are availableon the Companys website, https: gvc-plc.
com Monitors and reviews the internal audit programme wp-content uploads 2018 09  effectiveness: GVC-Sept-amendment.
pdf Monitors and reviews GVCs systems for internal control, The Audit Committee currently comprises three members, all of financial reporting and risk management: whom are Independent Non-executive Directors.
Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board at the recommendation of Reviews internal audit reports covering the various areas the Nomination Committee, which consults with the Chairman of the andactivities of the business and ensures the business Audit Committee.
The Board has satisfied itself that the Committees responds to the recommendations made: and membership includes at least one Director with recent and relevant Assesses and reports on the Groups viability in line with financial experience and have competence in accounting and theUKCode requirements, prior to being submitted to or auditing and that all members are nancially literate and have theBoard for approval.
experience of corporate financial matters.
All Directors on joining the Board are given specic sector training to ensure competence relevant to the business, in addition to the other skills they bring to the Board Meeting attendance and Committees.
The Audit Committee met four times in 2018.
Other Directors, including the Chief Financial officer, attend the Audit Committee meetings by invitation.
The Committee has also met for private discussions with the external auditor, whose representatives attend all of its meetings, together with Internal Audit.
Details of the number of Committee meetings held during the year and the attendance of Committee members is shown below: Meetings entitled Meetings actually Director to attend attended Pierre Bouchut 1 1 Stephen Morana 4 4 Karl Diacono 3 3 Will Whitehorn 2 1 Virginia McDowell 2 2 GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018 77 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE GVC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Board is ultimately responsible for presenting a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of GVCs position and prospects, which extends tothe half-year and annual financial statements.
DELEGATION GVCs finance department, led by the CFO, prepares The Head of Investor Relations coordinates with the The Company Secretary with the Chairman of the the financial statements.
CEO, CFO and Chairman on the preparation of any Board and the Chairmen of the various Board statements on GVCs position, performance, Committees, prepares the corporate governance business model and strategy.
statements and all Board committee reports.
EXTERNAL REVIEW GVCs external auditors audit the annual financial accounts and review the half-year accounts together with any business or corporate governance commentary.
A report to Audit Committee is prepared.
COMMITTEES REVIEW The Audit Committee reviews the draft financial statements and accompanying For the annual report the Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee statements and meets with the external auditors to review their report.
The Audit review the Directors Remuneration Report and Nominations Committee Report Committee proposes amendments and makes recommendations to the Board respectively, propose changes and make recommendations to the Board.
and also approves the Audit Committees Report.
BOARD REVIEW The Board reviews the financial statements, accompanying reports and recommendations from its committees and makes changes to the disclosure where appropriate.
AUDITOR REPORTING TO THE BOARD The External auditors carry out final report and sign-off the audit report annual report or review report half-year results.
AUDIT BOARD APPROVAL AND PUBLISH The Board auditors approves the year-end financial statements and disclosures and the half-year report and these are then released to the stock exchange and published on GVCs corporate website.
In respect of the financial statements and accompanying reports for the year ended 31 December 2018, the Company has followed the process detailed above.
In doing so the Directors confirm that they have reviewed the complete 2018 Annual Report and considered that taken as a whole, the report is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for GVCs shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
78 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Accounting and key areas of judgement Throughout the course of the year, the Audit Committee determined the following areas of the financial statements were of significant interest.
These issues were discussed with management and the external auditors to ensure that the required level of disclosure has been provided andthat appropriate rigour has been applied where any judgement may be exercised.
MATTER CONSIDERED ACTION IFRS 3 fair value exercise of the Ladbrokes Coral business The GVC Group completed the acquisition of the Ladbrokes Coral Group, The Audit Committee have reviewed the judgements made in connection Neds International, a majority shareholding of Mars LLC referred to as with the accounting treatment, to determine whether the assets Crystalbet and a number of other smaller acquisitions during the year, and liabilities recognised in the financial statements are carried at an asdetailed in note 31 to the financial statements.
Included within the IFRS appropriate fair value.
In assessing the valuations, the Committee have 3 fair value exercise undertaken are a number of judgements including the reviewed the working papers provided by management and its advisers valueofacquired intangibles 2,507.6m and goodwill 2,366.7m.
in relation to the fair value exercise and has assessed the assumptions used and conclusions reached.
The Committee has also considered the conclusions reached by KPMG on their work in this area and have concluded that the treatment within the financial statements is appropriate.
Provision for historical tax claims During the current year, the Group has recognised a provision of 119.4m In assessing the provision recorded by management, the Committee in respect of potential historical tax liabilities in Greece.
In quantifying the have assessed the basis for the provision and the advice received by provision recorded, management have made certain judgements over the Groups legal advisors over the likely liability.
The Committee have thelikely settlement.
also reviewed the analysis prepared by KPMG and are satisfied that theapproach adopted and the disclosure provided is appropriate.
Separately disclosed items and proforma information The Group separately discloses certain items in order to allow a clearer As part of their assessment that the treatment of separately disclosed understanding of the underlying trading performance of the business.
items in the financial statements is appropriate, the Committee have In2018, the Group has recorded a net charge in respect of items which considered each of the items disclosed separately and challenged, where havebeen separately disclosed of 434.2m in the Income Statement.
necessary, the treatment adopted by management.
The Committee has also considered the conclusions reached by KPMG as part of its audit In addition, given the financial statements only include trading since the date inthis area and are satisfied with the disclosure adopted.
of acquisition for the acquired Ladbrokes Coral business, proforma financial information has been provided within the Annual Report and Accounts to Managements use of proforma information in explaining the underlying assist in the articulation of the underlying business performance.
business performance has also been considered by the Committee, as have KPMGs views on the use of proforma information and non-GAAP measures.
The Committee has also considered the prominence given tonon-GAAP measures compared to statutory measures and is satisfied withthe balance of the disclosure provided.
Carrying value of long-lived assets and depreciable lives The Group has significant value in enduring and indefinite life assets such The carrying value of all enduring and indefinite life assets are tested as licenses in the Retail estate and goodwill which need to be reviewed for impairment annually.
In reaching their conclusion that the treatment for impairment.
In 2018, the Group has recognised an impairment charge adopted is appropriate, the Committee have reviewed the forecasts, key againstthe assets in the Retail estate of 40.1m.
assumptions and methodology adopted by management in determining theimpairment charges required in the 2018 financial statements.
As part of this process and in reaching their conclusion that the current charges and disclosure are appropriate, the Committee have also reviewed KPMGs audit findings.
Contingent consideration Included within the Group Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2018 is The Committee have reviewed the process and judgements taken contingent consideration of 109.2m, which has been calculated based bymanagement in determining the likely pay-out under the contingent onpotential future profitability.
consideration agreements as well as the findings of the KPMG audit and are satisfied that the liabilities recognised are appropriate given the circumstances.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018 79 External auditors Effectiveness of the external audit process During the year ended 31 December 2018, KPMG LLP was appointed The Audit Committee is committed to ensuring that the external under an engagement letter to act as auditor to enable the Company audit process remains effective on a continuing basis.
In particular, tomeet its obligations to prepare financial statements in accordance throughout the year the Audit Committee paid specic attention to with the Listing Rules.
The 2018 financial year-end serves as KPMG thefollowing areas: LLPs inaugural financial reporting period as the Groups external Reviewing that safeguards put in place by the incumbent auditor auditor, following the conclusion of an external audit tender process against independence threats are sufficient and comprehensive: in2018, with Mike Harper as the lead audit partner.
Ensuring that the quality and transparency of communications with A resolution will be proposed at the 2019 AGM to re-appoint KPMG the external auditors are timely, clear, concise and relevant and that LLP as the external auditors.
any suggestions for improvements or changes are constructive: Policy on external audit tender Exercising professional scepticism, including but not limited to, looking at contrary evidence, the reliability of evidence, the The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that FTSE 350 appropriateness and accuracy of management responses to queries, companies put their external audit out to tender at least once every considering potential fraud and the need for additional procedures ten years.
The EU Audit Regulation, effective across all Member States and the willingness of the auditor to challenge management from the 17 June 2016, enforces mandatory audit rm rotation after assumptions: and aperiod of maximum tenure, set at 20 years.
Considering if the quality of the audit engagement team is sufficient GVC last ran a competitive audit tender process in 2017, however, and appropriate including the continuity of appropriate industry, in light of the discussions to acquire Ladbrokes Coral, the Audit sector and technical expertise including new areas of activity by Committee put a final decision on the external audit of the Company the client and changes in regulation or professional standards onhold for the 2017 year end, with Grant Thornton continuing in ofce.
and whether it has exercised sufficient objectivity to mitigate any Following the completion of the acquisition of the Ladbrokes Coral independence and familiarity threats.
Group, the audit tender process was concluded, where, from the four Feedback is provided to the external auditor at every instance by original participating rms who had submitted written proposals in July theAudit Committee and through one-to-one discussions between 2017, two were shortlisted.
Having evaluated both of these rms and theChairman of the Audit Committee and the audit rm partner.
considered their independence to act in the capacity as Group external auditor, the Audit Committee recommended to the Board that KPMG LLP be appointed for the 2018 year-end.
The 2018 financial year-end serves as KPMG LLPs inaugural financial reporting period as the Groups external auditor, and, having carried out a tender process in 2017, the Audit Committee, and the Board intend on putting the external audit out to tender at least once every ten years, in line with the guidance provided by the Financial Reporting Council, the EU Regulation and the Statutory Audit Services Order.
The Audit Committee continues to follow an Auditor Rotation and Tendering Policy which was first adopted in 2017.
80 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Through its work, Internal Audit provides assurance to the Board, Non-audit services provided by the external auditor through the Audit Committee, that effective and efficient control The Audit Committee has established a policy regarding the processes are in place to identify and manage business risks that appointment of external auditors to perform non-audit services for mayprevent the business from achieving its objectives.
The scope the Group and keeps this under continual review, receiving a report ofthis work includes: at each Audit Committee meeting.
This policy dictates that in the Providing assurance to the Board and executive management that Companys financial year, the total fees for non-audit services provided effective systems and controls are in place and are being operated by the external auditors, excluding non-audit fees for due diligence for tomanage all significant risks within the financial and business acquisitions and other specic matters noted below, should not exceed systems operated within the Group: 70% of the average of the total fees for audit services they provided in the preceding 3-year period.
In the year ended 31 December 2018, Assisting the business in fullling its corporate governance the total non-audit fees as a percentage of the audit fees paid to the responsibilities: external auditors was 18%.
Supporting operational management by providing best practice In addition to their statutory duties, KPMG LLP is also employed advice on internal controls, including practical recommendations where, as a result of their position as auditors or for their specic tomitigate control weaknesses identied during the review process: expertise, they either must, or the Audit Committee accepts they Promoting effective control at reasonable cost and assisting arebest placed to, perform the work in question.
This is primarily management generally in the pursuit of value for money e. g. by work inrelation to matters such as shareholder circulars, Group providing practical recommendations to improve the efficiency of borrowings, regulatory lings and certain business acquisitions and thenancial and business processes operated by the business : and disposals.
In such circumstances the Audit Committee will separately review the specic service requirements and consider any impact Carry out ad-hoc investigations based on any allegations made on objectivity and independence of the auditors and any appropriate through the Whistleblowing Policy or as requested or directed by safeguards to this.
As such the Audit Committee believes it appropriate theAudit Committee and or executive management.
for these non-audit services to be excluded from the 70% cap set Recommendations arising from Internal Audit reviews are outabove.
In the year ended 31 December 2018 the total fees paid communicated to the relevant business area for implementation  inrespect of due diligence for acquisitions of appropriate corrective measures, with results reported to the was0.1m.
Internal audit and its effectiveness The work completed by Internal Audit during the year focused on key The Board delegates responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness areas of the Group disclosed on pages 57 to 62 under principal risks, of the Groups systems of internal control to the Audit Committee.
which included: This covers all material controls including financial, operational and Reviews of Anti-money Laundering and Social Responsibility compliance controls and risk management systems.
Processes across the business units: The Groups Internal Audit function forms the primary source of Key financial control reviews across the business, inclusive internal assurance via the delivery of the Internal Audit Plan, which of theGroups finance back-ofce support function based in isstructured to align with the Groups strategic priorities and key risks Hyderabad, India: and is developed by Internal Audit with input from management and Operating review of the Groups Italian Retail and Online businesses: the Audit Committee.
Its mission is to provide independent, objective assurance and Licensing compliance frameworks across UK Retail and Online consulting services designed to add and protect value by improving business segments: theGroups operations.
Internal Audit assists the Group to accomplish Online marketing and afliate management processes across its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate theUKOnline business: and improve the effectiveness of risk management, control and governance processes.
Identity and Access Management review throughout the UK Online and Retail infrastructure: and UK Retail and Online GDPR readiness assessment.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018 81 In addition to the above, the Group formed a Regulatory Assurance Whistleblowing policy function during the latter half of the year, reporting into the Group The Group adopted and published a formal whistleblowing procedure Director of Internal Audit.
The Regulatory Assurance team has by which employees can, in confidence, raise concerns about possible been setup to ensure that there are regular, ongoing monitoring improprieties in financial or other matters.
This procedure is set out programmes across regulatory processes, such as anti-money in the Groups Code of Conduct, which was re-launched across the laundering, responsible gambling and Retail license obligations.
enlarged Group during the year.
Other regulated activities under scope include marketing compliance and afliate management.
A periodic review of key compliance The Company seeks the highest ethical standards in carrying out its activities aims to maintain ongoing oversight of controls on behalf various business activities, and corrupt practices of any sort will not be ofinternal and external stakeholders.
The Company is committed to tackling malpractice and it is the personal responsibility of every employee of the Group to manage The Board, with the support of the Audit Committee, has completed its and reduce the risk of malpractice in their business.
annual review of the effectiveness of the internal system of control, and whilst they are satisfied that it is robust there are areas which could be The Company actively encourages individuals, where they believe improved and these have been incorporated into the 2019 Audit Plan.
thatmalpractice has taken place, to make protected disclosures The areas which will be subject to focus in 2019 are: either internally to the Audit Committee or externally through the outsourced service provider, Expolink.
Employees will be protected System access controls: where they have reasonable grounds to believe that their employer, Harmonisation and standardisation of the control environment another worker or a third party has committed serious malpractice inthecombined business: andmakeadisclosure in good faith.
Management of cyber-security and control structures: The Group has a written policy available to all employees on the Groups intranet and approved by the Audit Committee, which sets out Ongoing compliance assurance over key regulations including the type of disclosure which is protected and also species to whom gambling and responsibility requirements, anti money laundering, disclosures should be made and the process that will be followed.
marketing and GDPR: and The Audit Committee is satisfied that robust and appropriate Effective implementation of key strategic projects and delivery arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent ofrobust control environments.
investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
The Directors acknowledge that, whilst GVCs system of internal controlcan reduce the probability of business risks impeding the Pierre Bouchut Company in achieving its objectives, it cannot eliminate these risks Chairman of the Audit Committee andcan therefore provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance 5 March 2019 against material misstatement or loss.
The Directors also acknowledge that the business faces several risks as a direct result of the integration of its various operations.
This means that in 2019 there will be more focus on areas of the business affected by integration where changes in systems, personnel or processes could lead to weaknesses in internal controls during the ongoing transitional period.
