71 DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITY Composition Regular meetings The Board has a majority of independent Non-executive Directors.
During 2018 the Board had four face-to-face meetings scheduled, Drawing on their various backgrounds and extensive executive and held in March, June, September and December.
Attendance at these business experience, the Non-executive Directors engage with meetings was as follows: the Executive Directors, who manage the day-to-day business, Meetings entitled Meetings actually in formulating the direction and strategy of the Company.
The Director to attend attended Non-executive Directors oversee the implementation of this strategy and challenge management when appropriate.
In accordance with the Kenneth Alexander 4 4 UK Corporate Governance Code, a majority of the Directors, excluding Jane Anscombe 4 4 the Chairman, are deemed to be independent, helping to ensure Pierre Bouchut 1 1 the Company is run in the interests of all shareholders.
The Chairman was deemed to be independent on appointment.
Paul Bowtell 3 3 Karl Diacono 4 4 CHAIRMAN LEE FELDMAN Lee Feldman 4 4 Peter Isola 4 4 Independent Non-independent Virginia McDowell 3 3 Jane Anscombe Remuneration Committee Chair Kenneth Alexander CEO Paul Miles 1 1 Pierre Bouchut Audit Committee Chairman Paul Bowtell CFO Stephen Morana 4 4 Virginia McDowell CSR Committee Chair Will Whitehorn 1 1 Peter Isola Stephen Morana These Board meetings covered the following areas of business: Senior Independent Director The acquisition and integration of Ladbrokes Coral: The acquisition of Crystalbet: Tenure and succession The appointment of two new independent Non-executive Directors: To ensure the independent Directors continue to be independent in character and judgement, the UK Corporate Governance Code Regular reports from the Executive Directors: recommends that Non-executive Directors should not serve for Regular reports from the senior executive team on operations, more than nine years from the date on which they are first elected by business integration, product development, regulatory developments, shareholders.
The tenures of the current Directors deemed by the litigation and investor relations: Board to be independent are as follows: 2017 audited Annual Report and results announcement: Director First election Tenure Bolt-on acquisition opportunities: Jane Anscombe 2018 1.5 Preparation for and feedback from 2018 AGM: Pierre Bouchut 2019 0.5 Renancing the Group through the debt market: Virginia McDowell 2019 0.8 The Greek tax appeal: Peter Isola 2016 3.0 Stephen Morana 2016 3.0 US licensing: The feedback from a corporate governance roadshow: and During 2018 the following five changes to the Boards membership occurred: Reports from the Chairs of the Audit, CSR, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
March: Paul Bowtell succeeded Paul Miles as GVCs CFO following the acquisition of Ladbrokes Coral: In addition to the scheduled meetings described above, 18 ad hoc Board meetings were also convened at short notice in 2018, to deal 2.
June: Will Whitehorn stepped down from the Board as the Senior with the following matters: Independent Director and Stephen Morana took on this role: The acquisition of Ladbrokes Coral and the debt renancing: 3.
June: Virginia McDowell was appointed to the Board as an independent Non-executive Director and Chair of the CSR MGM US joint venture: Committee: Insurance options for the CVR: 4.
September: Pierre Bouchut was appointed to the Board as an Business acquisitions by InterTrader: and independent Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee, succeeding Stephen Morana in this role: and Gaming licence applications.
December: Karl Diacono retired as a Non-executive Director, having Board meetings are usually held in Gibraltar, where the Groups online served on the Board for ten years.
The Articles of Association of GVC, which is incorporated in the Isle of Man prevent any Board or Board Committee meeting from being held in the United Kingdom.
