Audit Committee Report David Adams Chairman of the Audit Committee Fast fact Chairmans Introduction I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for the financial year ended 30 March 2018.
Throughout the year, the Audit Committee has continued its 3 work of reviewing the effectiveness of Halfords corporate Committee meetings held governance framework with particular emphasis on the quality of financial reporting, internal control, and risk management systems.
The Committee monitors risk and internal control The Audit Committee has continued its work of reviewing the through engagement with external auditors, internal effectiveness of Halfords corporate governance framework with auditors and executive management who regularly present particular emphasis on the quality of financial reporting, internal management briefings to the Committee, explaining in detail control, and risk management systems.
how selected key areas of business risk are managed.
During the year, the Committee reviewed presentations on cash-in-store fraud risks, GDPR and tax strategy.
Membership and Remit of the Audit Committee This report explains in detail how the Committee undertook a.
All the members of the Audit Committee are independent NonExecutive Directors.
Having been the Deputy Chief Executive and Finance Director of House of Fraser Plc, and currently chairing two other listed companies Audit Committees, David Adams is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience and so the requisite experience to chair the Committee.
The Audit Committee has continued Each of the other independent Non-Executive Directors has, through its work of reviewing the effectiveness their other business activities, significant experience in financial of Halfords' corporate governance matters.
The Audit Committee as a whole is considered to have framework with particular emphasis on competence relevant to the sector in which the Company operates.
the quality of financial reporting, internal The effectiveness of the Audit Committee is reviewed at least annually through discussions at the Board and Audit Committee.
74 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 30 March 2018 25675 5 June 2018 1:19 PM Proof 10 The Chairman of the Companys Board, Executive Directors, Principal Activities During the Year senior managers and key advisors are invited to attend meetings The Audit Committee met three times during the year with the as appropriate in order to ensure that the Committee maintains a following timetable: current and well-informed view of events within the business, and to reinforce a strong risk management culture.
The Audit Committee May 2017 Review of Year End Chief Financial Officers meets according to the requirements of the Companys financial Report calendar.
The meetings of the Audit Committee also provide the Review of External Auditors Report opportunity for the independent Non-Executive Directors to meet Review of Statement of External Auditors without the Executive Directors present and to raise any issues of Independence concern with the Auditor.
There have been three such meetings in Review of Internal Audit Full-Year Report, including the period ended 30 March 2018 and nothing of note was reported.
update on the Companys risk management and internal control systems b. Remit Approval of Internal Audit Charter The Audit Committees responsibilities include: Nov 2017 Review of Half-Year Chief Financial Officers making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Report the external Auditor, including on effectiveness, independence, Recommend the Interim Statement to the Board non-audit work undertaken against a formal policy and for Approval remuneration: Review of External Auditors Half-Year Report reviewing the accounting principles, policies and practices Review of Internal Audit Progress Report including adopted throughout the period: update on the Companys risk management and reviewing and approving external financial reporting for adoption internal control systems by the Board: Review of External Auditor Non-Audit Fee Policy assisting the Board in achieving its obligations under the UK Management presentation on GDPR readiness Corporate Governance Code in areas of risk management and Review of anti-bribery and corruption risk internal control, focusing particularly on compliance with legal assessment and approval of Anti-Bribery and requirements, accounting standards and the Listing Rules: Corruption Policy Review of Committees Terms of Reference reviewing of corporate risk register and regular Internal Audit reports on developments in the internal control framework to March 2018 Review of External Auditors annual strategy ensure that an effective system of internal financial and nonand fees financial controls is maintained on an ongoing basis: Review of Internal Audit Progress Report including approving a formal Whistleblowing Policy whereby colleagues update on the Companys internal control may, in confidence, disclose issues of concern about possible systems malpractice or wrongdoings by any of the Groups businesses Review of Group Register of Risks and Controls or any of its employees without fear of reprisal, and includes Update on new Accounting Standards: IFRS9, arrangements to investigate and respond to any issues raised: IFRS15 and IFRS16 approving the Companys systems and controls for the Review of Whistleblowing Policy prevention of bribery and corruption, including the receipt of any Review and approval of Tax Strategy, Tax Policy reports on non-compliance: and Treasury Policy listening to and reviewing presentations on key topics or salient risk areas, which in the last two years has included GDPR, cash-in-stores controls, tax strategy, supplier rebates and contributions, cyber security and global sourcing.
approving the Groups Tax Policy, and for the first time this year, the externally published tax strategy: and approving the Groups Treasury Policy, including foreign currency and interest rate exposure.
The Audit Committee has reviewed its Terms of Reference and its composition during the year and believes that both are appropriate.
Copies of the full Terms of Reference are available on the Companys website or on request from the Company Secretary.
com 75 25675 5 June 2018 1:19 PM Proof 10 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW Audit Committee Report Significant Issues in Relation to the Financial External Auditor Statements a.
Effectiveness of external audit In order to discharge its responsibility to consider accounting The effectiveness of the External Audit is considered throughout integrity, the Committee carefully considers key judgements applied the year through, amongst other factors: assessment of the degree in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements which of the audit firms challenge of key estimates and judgements made are set out on pages 100 to 105.
The Committees review included by the business: feedback from any external or internal quality consideration of the following key accounting judgements: reviews on the audit: and the wider quality of communication with the Committee.
Impairment of Goodwill associated with Autocentres Car Servicing : In addition, at its meeting in March 2018, the Committee performed a specific evaluation of the performance of the External Following the acquisition of Nationwide Autocentres in Auditor considering the areas set out above and feedback from 2010, the Group holds significant goodwill in the Halfords management.
Following this, the Committee concluded that: Autocentres business.
There are a number of factors that could impact on the future profitability of the business e. g. the overall audit approach, materiality, threshold, and areas of loss of key customers, change in market behaviour and audit focus were appropriate to the business: and there is therefore a risk that the business may not meet the audit team possessed the necessary quality, expertise and the growth projections necessary to support the carrying experience to provide an independent and objective audit.
value of the intangible asset see note 11 on page 124 of the Financial Statements : and b.
Approach to appointment or reappointment KPMG LLP formerly KPMG Audit plc was appointed as External The Audit Committee has received detailed reports from Auditor to the Group in 2009 following a formal tender process.
Halfords finance team and reports from the External Auditor Since that time, KPMG LLP has complied with the partner rotation addressing this issue.
The finance team has undertaken requirement set out in Ethical Standards for Auditors.
The most detailed work to consider the impairment of goodwill recent rotation took place this year with Michael Froom becoming associated with Autocentres.
Consideration has been given our audit partner.
to ensuring that cash flow models, discount rates, sensitivity analysis and centre profitability are all reasonable.
The The Audit Committee considers that the relationship with the Committee concluded that it is satisfied with the accounting Auditor is working well and is satisfied with its independence, treatment of impairment of goodwill.
objectivity and effectiveness and has not considered it necessary Valuation of inventory within the Retail division: to require KPMG LLP to re-tender for external audit work this year.
The Audit Committee has recommended to the Board, for approval With the business holding a wide range of stock, it is likely by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 24 July 2018, that changing consumer demands will mean that some lines the reappointment of KPMG LLP as External Auditor.
The Audit cannot be sold, or will be sold at below the carrying value.
Committee monitors, and will continue to comply with best practice Provisions are made to reflect this.
Given the difficulties and external guidance in respect of the frequency of audit tenders.
in forecasting market trends, there is a risk that inventory provisions made will be inappropriate or incomplete c. Approach to safeguarding objectivity and see note 14 on page 127 of the Financial Statements.
independence if non-audit services are provided Management has an established methodology for assessing The Audit Committee has established a policy to ensure that inventory provisions.
Range reviews are regularly undertaken any non-audit services delivered by the External Auditor will not to ensure that all discontinued inventory is identified: and jeopardise objectivity and independence.
The policy is consistent The Audit Committee has received detailed reports from with Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Halfords finance team and reports from the External Auditor The policy specifies: addressing this issue.
The finance team has undertaken detailed work around the valuation of inventory within the The External Auditor can be used to provide non-audit services Retail division.
After consideration of the accuracy of the subject to any non-audit engagement proposal provided by the provisioning model, the completeness and accuracy of range External Auditor being formally approved by the Audit Committee reviews, and the reflection of these reviews within before contractual arrangements are entered into, except for the provisions, the Committee concluded that it is satisfied activities set out in a list of prohibited activities.
Other than for with the accounting treatment of the valuation of inventory.
these, for each separate service proposed to be provided by the Auditor, the Group Chief Financial Officer will prepare a note either to be tabled and minuted at an Audit Committee meeting or to be circulated via email to the Audit Committee members and the Chief Executive Officer giving a description of the work to be undertaken, the reasons why the Auditor is involved in the proposal and how objectivity and independence has, and is seen to be, safeguarded.
76 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 30 March 2018 25675 5 June 2018 1:19 PM Proof 10 In addition, the fees for any proposal for non-audit services will not exceed 70% of the three year average statutory audit fees when taken into consideration with total fees for non-audit services already committed in the financial year.
Consent is required from the Audit Committee Chair on behalf of the Audit Committee before the Auditor can be engaged for non-audit services.
In addition, the External Auditor follows its own ethical guidelines and continually reviews its audit team to ensure that its independence is not compromised.
An analysis of the fees earned by the External Auditor is disclosed in note 3 on page 119 to the Financial Statements.
Role and Effectiveness of Internal Audit The Company has a dedicated in-house Internal Audit team, which is able to obtain advice from external specialists if necessary.
This team maintains an audit universe that lists all of the potential areas of audit, from which the annual programme is derived.
The team principally reviews the effectiveness of the controls operating within the business by undertaking an agreed schedule of independent audits each year.
The Audit Committee determines the nature and scope of the annual audit programme and revises it from time to time according to changing business circumstances and requirements.
The Audit Committee also ensures that there are sufficient resources to undertake the audit programme.
Our Internal Audit programme features reviews covering financial Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and commercial processes, governance issues and key risk safeguards.
The executive summaries of all internal audit reports are The Groups Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy statement reinforces circulated to Audit Committee members and discussed at meetings that the Halfords Board is committed to conducting its business where appropriate.
affairs so as to ensure that it does not engage in or facilitate any form of corruption.
It is Halfords policy to prohibit all forms of The Audit Committee is satisfied that the Internal Audit team has the corruption amongst our employees, suppliers and any associated quality, experience and expertise appropriate for the business.
parties acting on our behalf.
The Group has a detailed Anti-Bribery Other than a period of a few months during the year when the and Corruption Policy and maintains Gifts and Hospitality Registers.
Chief Financial Officer was interim Chief Executive Officer, Internal Anti-bribery expectations are set out in standard purchasing terms Audit reports on a day-to-day basis to the Chief Financial Officer, and conditions.
Face-to-face and online training has been provided but is independent in action and reporting of issues, with direct to colleagues to raise awareness of anti-bribery and corruption line of communication to the Audit Committee Chairman.
findings of the independent audits are reported initially to executive The Audit Committee has requested that anti-bribery and corruption management and any necessary corrective actions are agreed.
safeguards are periodically reviewed by Internal Audit.
Summaries of these reports are presented to, and discussed with, the Audit Committee along with details of progress against action Internal Control and Risk Management plans as appropriate.
The internal audit reports are distributed to the External Auditor as and when they are completed during the year.
Details of the Groups internal control and risk management framework are set out on pages 40 to 44.
Whistleblowing David Adams A Whistleblowing Policy and Procedure enables colleagues to report Chairman of the Audit Committee concerns on matters affecting the Group or their employment, 22 May 2018 without fear of recrimination.
Posters publicising whistleblowing channels are distributed to all stores, Autocentres, distribution centres and the Support Centre.
The Whistleblowing Policy and Procedure was reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee and was subject to an Internal Audit review during the year.
The Company Secretary provides the Audit Committee with a regular summary of whistleblowing contacts and resolutions.
com 77 25675 5 June 2018 1:19 PM Proof 10 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW
