Corporate Governance Report Dennis Millard Chairman Good corporate governance is a key Chairmans Introduction element of our business success and As Chairman my role is to lead the Board, ensure it we have in place a strong and effective operates effectively and contains the right balance of governance framework and practices skills, diversity and experience.
The Board is collectively to ensure that high standards of responsible for the long-term success of the Company governance, values and behaviours and for setting and executing the business strategy.
are consistently applied throughout Good corporate governance is a key element of our business the Group.
success and we have in place a strong and effective governance framework and practices to ensure that high Corporate Governance Statement standards of governance, values and behaviours are consistently applied throughout the Group.
These elements The Board confirms that during the year ended 30 March 2018, are critical to business integrity and maintaining the trust of and as at the date of this report, the Company has fully complied, all stakeholders in Halfords.
without exception, with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code, and will continue to do so.
A The following Corporate Governance Report contains a copy of the Code is available on the Financial Reporting Councils summary of the Companys governance arrangements and website at www.
the regulatory assurances required under the UK Corporate This report, together with the other statutory disclosures and Governance Code 2016. reports from the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees, I would encourage you to attend this years Annual General provides details of how the Company has applied the principles of Meeting where you can meet me and my Board colleagues.
good governance set out in the Code during the period under review.
Dennis Millard The Company has also complied with the requirements under the Chairman Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, the Listing Rules 22 May 2018 and the BIS Directors Remuneration Reporting regulations and narrative reporting requirements.
56 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 30 March 2018 25675 5 June 2018 1:19 PM Proof 10 Board Composition As at the date of this report, the Board of Directors comprised of six members: the Non-Executive Chairman, three other Non-Executive Directors and two Executive Directors.
The composition of the Board is as set out on page 52 and the biographies of individual Directors, including any other business commitments, are available on pages 48 to 49.
The Board believes it has an appropriate balance of Executive and independent Non-Executive Directors having regard to the size and nature of the business.
During the year, on 1 February 2018, our Chairman was appointed as Senior Independent Director of Superdry plc.
Chairman 1 Executive Directors 2 Non-Executive Directors 3 Board Changes In May 2017, Jill McDonald tendered her resignation as Chief Board Independence Executive Officer in order to take up a senior position at Marks and Spencer plc.
Jill was appointed in May 2015, and made a positive The Company recognises the importance of its Non-Executive impact across the business.
Jill left Halfords on 29 September Directors remaining independent and the Code recommends that, 2017 with a strong team and clear strategy to drive future growth.
at least half of the Board of Directors, excluding the Chairman On 13 September 2017, we completed our search for a new Chief should comprise of Non-Executive Directors, determined by the Executive Officer and welcomed Graham Stapleton to the business board to be independent in character and judgement and free from on 15 January 2018.
In the period between Jill McDonald leaving relationships or circumstances which may affect or could appear the Company and Graham Stapleton joining, Jonny Mason, Chief to affect the Directors judgement.
Following a rigorous review, the Financial Officer, acted as Interim Chief Executive Officer.
Board considers David Adams, Claudia Arney and Helen Jones to be independent in character and judgement in accordance with As announced on 27 March 2018, Jonny Mason resigned from the the Code.
As a result, in compliance with the Code, at least half of position of Chief Financial Officer to take up the position of Group the Board, excluding the Chairman, are deemed to be independent.
Finance Director at Dixons Carphone plc.
Jonny will remain as Chief In accordance with the Code, the Chairman, Dennis Millard, was Financial Officer until the end of his notice period in September considered independent upon his appointment.
The process is under way by the Nomination Committee to find his replacement.
On 22 May 2018, it was announced that Keith Williams will be joining Halfords as Chairman on 24 July 2018.
As mentioned in last years annual report, Dennis Millard will have been in office for nine years this year, and so in accordance with the Code and best practice, Dennis will stand down at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting AGM on 24 July 2018.
com 57 25675 5 June 2018 1:19 PM Proof 10 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW Corporate Governance Report Director Tenure and Board Succession Board Responsibilities Succession planning for the Board continues to be ongoing and The Board is committed to ensuring that it provides leadership to will be considered in more detail during the annual evaluation the business as a whole, having regard to the interests and views of of the Board performance.
It is also expected that, following the its shareholders and other stakeholders.
It is also responsible for appointment of the new Chairman and Chief Financial Officer, the setting the Groups strategy, values and standards.
Details of the new Chairman will review the composition, skills and experience of Groups business model and strategy can be found on pages 14 to the Board.
This is especially relevant given that both David Adams 19. and Claudia Arney have already served several years and will both be The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate and due to stand down in the next two years.
clearly defined, with the division of responsibilities set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
9yrs 0mths Dennis Millard The Chairman is responsible for the effective leadership, operation 7yrs 2mths David Adams and governance of the Board and its Committees.
He ensures 7yrs 4mths Claudia Arney that all Directors contribute effectively in the development and Helen Jones 4yrs 2mths implementation of the Companys strategy whilst ensuring that the Graham Stapleton 4mths nature and extent of the significant risks the Company is willing to embrace in the implementation of its strategy are determined and Jonny Mason 2yrs 7mths challenged.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the management of the Groups business and for implementing the Groups strategy.
Further details and the definitions of the roles are available at www.
com investors governance Re-election  In compliance with the Code and the Companys Articles of Association, the majority of the Directors on the Board as at 22 May 2018, will seek re-election at the 2018 Annual General Meeting The Directors, together, act in the best interests of the Company AGM, these being, David Adams, Helen Jones, Claudia Arney and via the Board and its Committees, devoting sufficient time and Jonny Mason.
Graham Stapleton and Keith Williams will be elected consideration as necessary to fulfil their duties.
Each Director brings for the first time at the 2018 AGM.
different skills, experience and knowledge to the Company, with the Non-Executive Directors additionally bringing independent thought and judgement.
This combination seeks to ensure that no individual or group unduly restricts or controls decision-making.
58 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 30 March 2018 25675 5 June 2018 1:19 PM Proof 10 1 April 2009 1 April 2010 1 April 2011 1 April 2012 1 April 2013 1 April 2014 1 April 2015 1 April 2016 1 April 2017 1 April 2018 Shareholders The Chairman Key Responsibilities Manages and provides leadership to the Board Builds an effective and complementary Board Sets the agenda, style and tone of Board discussions Facilitates and encourages active engagement in meetings, promoting effective relationships and open communication Ensures effective communication with shareholders and other stakeholders Acts as an advisor to the Chief Executive Officer Meets with the Non-Executive Directors without Executive Directors being present The Halfords Board Key Responsibilities The Board is the principal decision-making forum for the Group, setting the strategic direction and ensuring that the Group manages risk effectively.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for financial and operational performance.
See page 61 for examples of Matters Reserved for the Board.
A complete list is available on the Companys website www.
com investors governance  Chief Executive Officer Senior Independent Director Key Responsibilities: Key Responsibilities: Responsible for the day-to-day management of the Provides a sounding board for the Chairman Company Holds meetings with the other Non-Executive Directors Develops the Group objectives and strategy for Board without the Chairman at least once a year to appraise the approval Chairmans performance Creates and recommends to the Board an annual budget and Acts as an intermediary for the other Directors financial plan Available to other Directors and shareholders with concerns Delivers the annual budget and plan and other objectives and that cannot be addressed through the normal channels executes the agreed Group strategy Identifies and executes new business opportunities and potential acquisitions or disposals Manages the Groups risks in line with the Board approved risk profile Non-Executive Directors Company Secretary Key Responsibilities: Key Responsibilities: Evaluate and appraise the performance of Executive Works closely with the Chairman, Group Chief Executive Directors and Senior Management against agreed targets Officer and Board Committee Chairmen in setting the rolling calendar of agenda items for the meetings of the Board and Participate in the development of the strategy of the Group its Committees Monitor the financial information, risk management and Ensures accurate, timely and appropriate information controls processes of the Group to make sure that they are flows within the Board, the Committees and between the sufficiently robust Directors and senior management Meet regularly with senior management Provides advice on Board matters, legal and regulatory Periodically visit Halfords, Cycle Republic and Performance issues, corporate governance, Listing Rules compliance and Cycling retail stores, Autocentres outlets and distribution best practice centres Meet together without the Executive Directors present Participate in a training programme including store visits and updates from management Formulate Executive Director remuneration and succession planning STOCK CODE: HFD halfords.
com 59 25675 5 June 2018 1:19 PM Proof 10 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW Corporate Governance Report Nomination Audit Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Key Objectives: Key Objectives: Key Objectives: To ensure that the Board has the To provide effective governance To ensure that a Board policy exists skills, knowledge and experience over the Groups financial reporting for the remuneration of the Chief to be effective in discharging its processes.
These include the internal Executive Officer, the Chairman, Nonresponsibilities and to have oversight of audit function and external Auditor.
The Executive Directors, other Executive all governance matters.
Committee maintains oversight of the Directors and members of the executive Groups systems of internal control and management.
Main Responsibilities risk management activities.
The Nomination Committees Main Responsibilities responsibilities include: Main Responsibilities The Remuneration Committees The Audit Committees responsibilities responsibilities include: making appropriate include: recommendations to maintain the recommending to the Board the balance of skills and experience of making recommendations to the total individual remuneration the Board by: Board on the appointment removal package of Executive Directors of the external Auditor, the terms of and members of the executive considering the size, structure and engagement and fees: management: composition of the Board: reviewing and monitoring the consideration of senior executive considering senior management integrity of the Companys financial remuneration and oversight of succession plans: and statements, including its annual remuneration matters generally: identifying and making and interim reports and preliminary recommending the design of the recommendations to the Board on results announcements and any Company share incentive plans to potential candidates for the Board.
other formal announcement relating the Board, approving any awards to its financial performance, and More information on Diversity to Executive Directors and other recommending the same to the in the Group can be found on executive managers under those Board: page 64 plans and defining any performance assisting the Board in achieving its conditions attached to those Read more within the obligations under the Code in areas awards: Nomination Committee Report of risk management and internal determining the Chairmans fee, on pages 70 to 71 control: and following a proposal from the CEO: focusing particularly on compliance and with legal requirements, accounting maintaining an active dialogue standards and the Listing Rules.
with institutional investors and shareholder representatives.
Read more within the Audit Committee Report on pages Read more within the 74 to 77 Remuneration Committee Report on pages 78 to 90 Chair: Members: Chair: Members: Chair: Members: Dennis Millard David Adams David Adams Claudia Arney Claudia Arney David Adams Claudia Arney Helen Jones Dennis Millard Helen Jones Helen Jones The Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees full Terms of Reference are available on the Companys website at www.
com investors governance our-committees or on request from the Company Secretary.
60 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 30 March 2018 25675 5 June 2018 1:19 PM Proof 10 Board Responsibilities The key responsibilities of Board members are set out in the chart on page 59.
A formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board is in place and regularly reviewed.
com investors governance  To discharge these responsibilities effectively, the Board has additionally implemented a system of delegated authorities, which is described on page 59.
This enables the effective day-to-day operation of the business and ensures that significant matters are brought to the attention of management and the Board as appropriate.
It is through this system that the Board is able to provide oversight and direction to the Executive Directors, the Senior Management Team and the wider business.
Matters Reserved for the Board include: Authority: Strategy and Management: Structure and Capital: Investor Relations: Audit, Financial Reporting and Controls: Nominations to the Board: Executive Remuneration and material contracts.
Board Meetings and Attendance Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Board Member Scheduled: 8 Scheduled: 3 Scheduled: 5 Scheduled: 3 Executive Directors Graham Stapleton appointed 15 January 2018 3 3 n a n a n a Jonny Mason 8 8 n a n a n a 1 Jill McDonald resigned 29 September 2017 3 3 n a n a 0 1 Non-Executive Directors Dennis Millard 8 8 n a 5 5 3 3 2 David Adams 7 8 2 3 4 5 2 3 Claudia Arney 8 8 3 3 5 5 3 3 Helen Jones 8 8 3 3 5 5 3 3 1 Until Jill McDonalds resignation in September 2017, she was a member of the Nomination Committee.
In November 2017, the Terms of Reference of the Nomination Committee were amended, in accordance with best practice, to reflect that no Executive Director be allowed to become a member of the Nomination Committee.
2 David Adams was unable to attend the Board meeting, the Audit Committee Meeting, the, Remuneration Committee meeting and the Nomination Committee meeting on 22 March 2018 due to an unexpected and pressing commitment in relation to another company.
The table above shows the attendance of Directors at the meetings of the Board and of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees during the year ended 30 March 2018.
In addition to those scheduled meetings, three further unscheduled Board and Remuneration Committee meetings were convened to discuss and approve the exit remuneration arrangements for Jill McDonald and Jonny Mason, and to approve the appointment of Graham Stapleton as Chief Executive Officer and his associated remuneration package.
Furthermore, two additional Board calls were held during the period to review and approve the 20 week and Q3 trading statements.
These additional meetings were all quorate, and all directors received the relevant papers and provided the required approval.
Other members of the Senior Management Team and advisors attended Board meetings by invitation as appropriate throughout the year.
At each Board meeting, the Chief Executive Officer delivers a high level update on the business, and the Board considers specific reports, reviews business and financial performance, key initiatives, risks and governance.
In addition, throughout the year the Senior Management Team and other colleagues deliver presentations to the Board on proposed initiatives and progress on projects.
com 61 25675 5 June 2018 1:19 PM Proof 10 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW Corporate Governance Report Board Activity in FY18 Key Board discussions and actions during the period Review of trading performance Final review of the FY17 Annual Report and Financial Statements May Review of the Groups annual colleague engagement 2017 survey Approval to recommend the FY17 final dividend Review of Autocentres Update on Financial Control Process Review of Cycling Review of Board Evaluation results Review of cyber attack actions Approval of Directors Appointment and Directors Conflicts of Interest Register Amendment and extension to Bank Debt Facility Approval of Risk Register 5 Year Plan Update Approval of Notice of Meeting and Proxy Form for FY17 Review of the preliminary results announcement AGM Review of trading performance Approval of Halfords Group plc Share Dealing Policy and Share Dealing Code Review of Autocentres July Review of 2017 proxy voting figures and shareholder 2017 Q1 Forecast feedback Approval of role of Chairman, role of Chief Executive Met with shareholders at the 2017 AGM Officer and role of Senior Independent Director Review of trading performance Investor Relations Update Aug 2017 Review of trading performance Review and approval of Halfords Modern Slavery Statement Sept Update on Cycling Performance and Market 2017 Review and approval of Sanctions Policy Update on Digital and Autocentres Review of 20 week trading results Review of trading performance Review of draft interim results announcement and proposed messaging Nov Review of Infrastructure 2017 Approval of interim dividend and dividend policy Update on Group Cycling Strategy Approval of Data Protection Policy Update on Autocentres plan Review of trading performance Review of planned projects for FY19 Discussion of Halfords Autocentres Transformation Update on potential M&A Dec Programme 2017 Investor Relations Update Update on Tyres On The Drive 1 year on Review of trading performance Discussion of Gender Pay Gap Report Jan Update on Boardman Performance Centre Implemented the induction process for the new Chief 2018 Executive Officer Graham Stapleton GDPR Update Review of Q3 results Review of trading performance Review the proposal on the election and re-election of Directors at the FY18 AGM March CEOs Interim Review of the Business 2018 Review NED programme for FY19 Review of FY19 budget Review of draft reports for inclusion in the FY18 Annual Review and approve Environmental Policy and Health Report and Financial Statements and Safety Policy Review and approve Matters Reserved for the Board 62 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 30 March 2018 25675 5 June 2018 1:19 PM Proof 10 A Disclosure Committee, made up of a minimum of two Directors, Board Committees approves the final wording of market announcements prior to The Boards principal Committees are the Audit Committee, the release.
There were six Disclosure Committee meetings during the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee, as period.
detailed in the chart on page 60.
A Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee was established in December 2015, comprising The day-to-day investment decisions of the Group are approved of Directors and senior management and chaired by a Non-Executive by an Investment Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
Each Committee has its Terms of Reference approved and Similarly, the treasury needs of the Group are managed by the regularly reviewed by the Board.
Treasury Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer: the other members are senior members of the Finance and Treasury teams.
The Terms of Reference for the Committees are available at www.
com investors governance The Board may establish other ad hoc committees of the Board to consider specific issues from time to time.
No such committees were On the following pages each Committee Chairman reports how the formed during the year.
Committee he she chairs discharged its responsibilities in FY18 and the material matters that were considered.
Concerns The Chairman seeks to resolve any concerns raised by the Board, Following each meeting of a Committee, the Committee Chairman whether raised in a Board meeting or in another forum.
Where raised reports to the Board.
Whilst not entitled to attend, other Directors, and unresolved in a Board meeting, the unresolved business can professional advisors and members of senior management attend be recorded on behalf of a Director in the minutes of the relevant when invited to do so.
The Auditor attends Audit Committee meeting.
A resigning Non-Executive Director would also be able to meetings by invitation.
No person is present at Nomination raise any concerns in a written letter to the Chairman, who would Committee meetings or Remuneration Committee meetings during bring such concerns to the attention of the Board.
No such concerns discussions pertinent to them.
The Company Secretary acts as the have been raised throughout the period.
Skills and Experience of the Board DELIVERING THE JOURNEY The below graphic illustrates the number of Directors on the Board who have the relevant skills and experience.
Leadership Corporate 6 6 Strategy 6 Banking 4 Cross-functional 4 Governance 6 Finance 5 M & A 4 Supply Chain 4 Digital 4 Brand building Retail 6 6 Brand development 6 Customer service 6 Marketing 5 STOCK CODE: HFD halfords.
com 63 25675 5 June 2018 1:19 PM Proof 10 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW Corporate Governance Report The Nomination Committee also keeps under review the structure, Diversity size and composition of the Board and considers capability The Group recognises the importance of diversity, including and capacity to commit the necessary time to the role in its gender diversity, at all levels of the organisation.
The Groups recommendations to the Board.
The intention is to ensure the Diversity Policy the Policy is reviewed annually and sets out our appointment of the most suitably qualified candidate to complement commitment to eliminating unlawful discrimination and promoting and balance the current skills, knowledge, experience and diversity equality of opportunity.
The Policy is applied to the Group including on the Board.
Those appointed are deemed to be the best able the Board and it is considered that the background and experience to help lead the Company in its long-term strategy.
At Halfords a brought to the Board by each individual demonstrates the Boards third of the Board is female, which is in line with the recommended diversity and commitment to its Diversity Policy.
target as published by the Hampton-Alexander Review Improving The Group does not apply a fixed quota on diversity to decisions Gender Balance in FTSE Leadership in November 2017.
The Nomination Committee considers the below demonstrate the gender split at Board level, within senior Policy and ensures we have a sufficiently diverse Board in terms management and across the workforce as a whole.
of age, gender and educational and professional background.
Board Level Female 33% Male 67% Senior Management Level Female 26% Male 74% All Colleagues Female 27% Male 73% The Board is well placed by the mixture of skills, experience and knowledge of its Directors to act in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
64 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 30 March 2018 25675 5 June 2018 1:19 PM Proof 10 Directors Training and Development Effectiveness All Directors have various opportunities for ongoing development Directors Induction and support via: New Directors receive a full, formal and personally tailored induction on joining the Board.
This includes meeting with the Directors, the a programme of Support Centre, distribution centre, Halfords, executive team, and other key personnel, together with visiting the Cycle Republic and Tredz and Wheelies retail stores and Groups stores, Autocentres and other operational and distribution Autocentres outlet visits: sites.
The induction also includes training on governance and the reviews with the Chairman to identify any training and Groups corporate social responsibility strategy, which focuses on development needs: four key areas, these being colleagues, community, environmental advice on governance, regulatory and legislative changes management and responsible trading.
The induction programme affecting the business or their duties as Directors from the facilitates their understanding of the Group and the key drivers Company Secretary: of the business performance.
Graham Stapleton, received a full access to independent professional advice at the Companys tailored induction following his appointment in January 2018.
The expense: and new Chairman, Keith Williams, and the new Chief Financial Officer will receive the same upon their appointment.
membership of the Deloitte Academy, a training and guidance resource for boards and directors.
Board Evaluation In accordance with the Code, the Board is responsible for undertaking a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
In FY18 the process was facilitated externally by the Board, with the assistance of Oliver Ziehn of Lintstock.
Neither, Mr Ziehn nor Lintstock has any other connection with the Company.
This external review satisfied the Codes recommendation that an external review should be undertaken externally at least every third year, the previous one was undertaken in 2015.
Progress on FY17 evaluation internal review The outcomes of the internal Board evaluation for FY17 were reported in the 2017 Annual Report.
Details of progress made on these areas are set out below: Corporate governance Succession planning and NED programme Strategy Day FY17 outcomes Improved succession More corporate governance More focus on Board planning required updates to be provided Strategy Day Ensuring continuation of NED training programme Progress made in FY18 Although the succession During the period, the Following his appointment in plans for the Board have been Non-Executive Directors have January 2018, Graham Stapleton considered during the year, they undertaken a comprehensive has organised a comprehensive will need to be fully reviewed programme of visits to the major review of the strategy of the again, following the appointment locations where the business business.
This work is currently of the new Chairman in operates.
These structured ongoing but it is expected that succession to Dennis Millard.
It is meetings have enabled once completed it will replace expected that the new Chairman them to spend time with the the current strategy known as will work with the Chief Executive Executive Directors, the senior 'Moving Up A Gear' which was Officer and will review the overall management team and numerous introduced as a three year plan in Board structure particularly as colleagues in retail stores and 2015 by Graham's predecessor, part of the ongoing process of Autocentres.
appointing a new Chief Financial will continue and improvements Officer.
will be incorporated wherever necessary.
To ensure that the Directors are kept informed of ongoing developments in corporate governance, they have been provided during the year with reports and updates both on proposed new changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code and on the voting guidelines or recommendations from shareholders such as Aviva and shareholder bodies such as ISS.
com 65 25675 5 June 2018 1:19 PM Proof 10 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW Corporate Governance Report policies property, motor, employee and product.
Claudia did not FY18 Board Performance Evaluation externally take part in any discussions or negotiations relating to either the facilitated review insurance renewal or the contract in particular.
The responses to the external evaluation surveys were submitted by the Directors and then collated by Lintstock.
Many areas were All Directors are aware of the need to consult with the Company positively or highly rated such as: Board Dynamics, Management of Secretary should any possible situational conflict arise, so that prior Meetings: Board Support: Focus of Meetings: Strategic Oversight: consideration can be given by the Board as to whether or not such Risk Management and Internal Control.
The responses also indicated conflict will be approved.
various areas on which the Board should focus in the coming year.
Internal Control and Risk Management The priorities for the incoming Chairman in their first year included: Overall responsibility for the system of internal control and reviewing supporting the new Chief Executive: addressing strategic issues: its effectiveness rests with the Board.
This involves ensuring that developing relationships with stakeholders: understanding the there is a process to identify, evaluate and manage any significant business and markets: and reviewing the Board composition.
The risks that may affect the achievement of the Groups strategic priorities for the Board for the coming year included: supporting objectives.
the Chief Executive particularly in regard to strategy : focussing on strategy: completing recruitment: and addressing talent and The Board has conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of succession.
These matters will be considered, developed and the systems of internal control during the year, under the auspices monitored throughout the coming year.
The Audit Committee provides the Board with an independent assessment of the Groups financial position, Directors and their Other Interests accounting affairs and control systems.
In addition, the Board Details of the Directors service contracts, emoluments, the interests receives regular reports on how specific risks that are assessed as of the Directors and their immediate families in the share capital of material to the Group are being managed.
For further information on the Company and options to subscribe for shares in the Company the Companys compliance with the Code provisions relating to the are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 78 to 90.
Audit Committee and Auditor please refer to pages 74 to 77.
In line with the requirement of the Companies Act 2006, each The risk management and internal control system is designed to Director has notified the Company of any situation in which he or manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failing to achieve business she has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company a situational assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Boards policy conflict, and a register of these is maintained by the Company on internal control is implemented by management through a clearly Secretary.
defined operating structure with lines of responsibility and delegated During the period Claudia Arney notified the Company of her authority.
interest in Aviva plc, of which she is a director, following Aviva plcs appointment as underwriter for the Groups main liability insurance 66 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 30 March 2018 25675 5 June 2018 1:19 PM Proof 10 An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group and assessing the effectiveness of related controls has been established by the Board to ensure an acceptable risk reward profile across the Group.
The Groups corporate risk register is maintained by the Internal Audit function.
It records key risks, with impact and likelihood assessments, mitigations and ongoing developments.
It is updated regularly, following structured interviews with managers and executives across the Group.
The accuracy of the register is validated through a rolling programme of independent internal audits.
The register is scrutinised in detail annually by the Audit Committee.
Any material change in the register is flagged to the Audit Committee by the Internal Audit function within regular internal audit progress reports.
The process has been in place throughout the period ended 30 March 2018, and up to the date of approving the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Our process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group and assessing the effectiveness of related controls routinely identifies areas for improvement, but the Board has neither identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses that it has determined to be material or significant.
Among the routine areas for improvement, the Board has considered certain control enhancements in areas such as cash recording in stores, supplier master file amendments, and user access rights to IT systems.
The Board considered its appetite in relation to the Groups top risks, determining that the risks and mitigating actions were appropriate to the level of risk that was both acceptable to, and incumbent within, a listed business.
More information on the Companys key risks and uncertainties, and its risk assessment methodology, is shown on pages 40 to 44.
Shareholder Engagement The Board is committed to effective communications with its shareholders and, accordingly, has a strong Investor Relations IR programme that seeks to actively engage with shareholders.
This programme includes formal presentations of full year and interim results.
These presentations, along with the Annual Report and Accounts, are the primary means of shareholder communication during the year.
Additionally, the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and IR Director have met with analysts and institutional shareholders during the period to keep them informed of significant developments and help maintain a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns.
The IR Director and Company Secretary bring to the attention of the Board any material matters of concern raised by the Companys shareholders, including private investors.
KEY THEMES DISCUSSED WITH IR PROGRAMME SHAREHOLDERS IN FY18 Progress in the execution of the Moving Up A Gear strategy: The Group has a comprehensive IR programme through which the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer The dynamics of the Motoring and Cycling markets, and IR Director regularly engage with the Companys largest including the growth prospects, competitive environment shareholders on a one-to-one basis, to discuss strategic and future trends: issues and give presentations on the Groups results.
Further The impact of foreign exchange volatility following the EU communication is achieved through the Annual Report and referendum: Accounts, corporate website and investor meetings.
Gross and operating margin performance: Annual Report and Accounts this is the most significant Board and Management changes and succession planning: communication tool, ensuring that investors are kept fully and informed regarding Group developments.
Management Capital allocation priorities: in particular, the trends and continually strives to produce a clear and transparent preferences surrounding internal investment, M&A and Annual Report and Accounts, which provides a complete returns to shareholders.
picture: The corporate website provides investors with timely The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that appropriate information on the Groups performance as well as details of channels of communication are established between Directors corporate social responsibility activities: and shareholders and that all Directors are aware of any Management roadshow allows key investors to access issues or concerns that major shareholders may have.
Regular management, usually attended by the Chief Executive engagement provides investors with an opportunity to discuss Officer, Chief Financial Officer and IR Director: any areas of interest and raise concerns.
The Group is eager Attending broker conferences Management regularly to make sure that it understands shareholders views and that attends and presents at various conferences hosted by it is able to effectively communicate its strategy.
The Group a variety of brokers to ensure a wide variety of existing engages effectively through its regular communications, the shareholders and potential shareholders, including Annual General Meeting and other IR activity.
those from different geographies, also have access to management: and Responding promptly the Group is committed to responding to any investor-related queries within a short time frame.
com 67 25675 5 June 2018 1:19 PM Proof 10 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW Corporate Governance Report We aim to encourage our shareholders to receive communications IR calendar for FY19 by electronic means, helping to make the Company more FY18 Prelim Results environmentally friendly.
Information available on the Companys May UK Management Roadshow website includes current and historic copies of the Annual Report 2018 and Accounts, full and half-year financial statements, market announcements, corporate governance information, the Terms of Annual General Meeting Reference for the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees July and the Matters Reserved for the Board.
2018 The Annual General Meeting gives all shareholders the opportunity to communicate directly with the Board and their participation FY19 20 Week Trading Update is welcomed.
The Chairmen of the Remuneration, Nomination, Sept Strategy Presentation Audit and CSR Committees will be present at the AGM and will be 2018 in a position to answer questions relevant to the work of those UK Management Roadshow Committees.
It is the Companys practice to propose separate resolutions on each substantial issue at the Annual General Meeting.
FY19 Interim Results The Chairman will advise shareholders on the proxy voting details at Nov UK Management Roadshow the meeting.
2018 By order of the Board FY19 Q3 Trading Statement Tim OGorman Jan Company Secretary 2019 22 May 2018 68 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 30 March 2018 25675 5 June 2018 1:19 PM Proof 10 25675 5 June 2018 1:19 PM Proof 10
