Governance Nomination Committee report Introduction from Paul Walker bring, the Committee believes that we have the Only Committee members are entitled In my report last year, I mentioned that right team in place to continue to drive Halmas toattend meetings but the Chair invites KevinThompson had indicated his intention strategic objectives over a period of continued theGroup Talent and Communications to retire during 2018 and that the Committee economic uncertainty and inevitable change Director to regularly attend meetings.
would assist the Board in identifying and asIndustry 4.0 rapidly evolves.
Accordingly, Principal Role and Responsibilities theCommittee focused its efforts on the I trust that you will find this Report useful The primary duties of the Committee are: selection of a suitable executive search firm in understanding the structure of the and undertaking a due process to enable Committee and its activities during the year.
reviewing the size, balance and itto make a recommendation to the Board.
composition evaluating the skills, Iam delighted that the Committee made the knowledge and experience of the recommendation to the Board to appoint Marc Board and its Committees, ensuring Paul Walker Ronchetti asCFO from 1July 2018.
Further that they remain appropriate and to Chair details of the process that the Committee make recommendations to the Board For and on behalf of the Committee undertook are outlinedinthisReport.
onanychanges: 12 June 2018 leading the process for new Another key area of activity for the Committee Boardappointments: Committee Composition during the year was a thorough review of the overseeing the succession planning The Committee comprises, and has Groups leadership talent and succession requirements for the Board and other comprised of throughout the year, the planning, including a review of central, sector senior executives, including the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and the and business leader talent and development.
identification and assessment of potential five independent non-executive Directors: As part of the discussions around how our candidates and making recommendations talent informs our strategic aspirations, with to the Board for its approval: and Paul Walker Chair the Committees endorsement, Andrew keeping under review the leadership Daniela Barone Soares made the decision to reduce the number needs of the Group, for both executive Carole Cran of Sector Chief Executives from four to Directors and other senior executives, Jo Harlow two, to improve communication and agility including any recommendations made by Tony Rice across the structure.
At the same time, the the Group Chief Executive for changes to Roy Twite previous Sector Vice President roles were the executive membership of the Board.
Andrew Williams consolidated and upgraded to Divisional Chief Executive positions.
We are confident Activities during 2017 18 The Committee is chaired by Paul Walker that this streamlined organisational structure agreeing the executive profile for the Group but he would not chair a meeting which was will provide a strong base from which to Chief Financial Officer Group CFO role: dealing with the appointment of hissuccessor.
communicate and execute our Halma appointing Lygon Group to initiate a search 4.0growth strategy.
and undertake a market benchmarking The Committee is appointed by the Board and exercise for the Group CFO role: operates under written terms of reference, Following a review of the Board size, structure recommending to the Board the which are available at www.
and the skills, knowledge and experience that appointment of Marc Ronchetti as both the executive and non-executive Directors GroupCFO: reviewing succession plans for Board and Executive Board members: Committee attendance Eligible Attended reviewing talent and development at sector and company managing director level: Paul Walker 3 3 agreeing the new Executive Board structure: Kevin Thompson 3 3 carrying out the annual self-evaluation Daniela Barone Soares 3 3 and review of Director independence in accordance with the terms of reference: Carole Cran 3 3 following a focused review and assessment Roy Twite 3 3 of Daniela Barone Soaress contribution to Tony Rice 3 3 the Board, her experience and continuing independence, an extension of her term of 1 Jo Harlow 3 2 office was agreed for a three-year term: and based on the evaluation, proposing the 1 Jo Harlow could not attend the June 2017 Committee due to a prior commitment, which she advised the election and re-election of Directors.
Board of prior to her appointment as a Director.
78 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Board appointment process in-depth assessment of Marc Ronchettis and one Brazilian.
On the Executive Board, Prior to making a recommendation to the Board suitability for the role, based on an there are two women 33% and four for the appointment of Marc Ronchetti, the interview, psychometric testing and men 66%, with a spread of nationalities Committee undertook the following process: references: provide a summary report comprising three British, one American, one on the external candidates and Marc German, plus an Asian Pacific adviser to the identifying the skills, experience Ronchetti, as an internal candidate: Executive Board.
and knowledge required for, and Paul Walker, Tony Rice and Carole Cran complementary to, the role of Group conducted interviews with Marc Ronchetti Board Diversity Policy CFO including: financial leadership skills on behalf of the Committee and received Halma has adopted a Diversity and Inclusion and experience forged within a global input from the Group CEO and Director Policy which aims to increase the overall company: experience of a decentralised ofTalent and Communications: proportion of female executives on subsidiary operating structure and the challenges based on a number of key factors, company boards over 5 years from 2015 and opportunities that it can bring: proven the Committee established that Marc and aims to have at least 20% of senior ability to bring about efficiencies and Ronchetti was the most suitable candidate management executives geographically improvements to the control and financial and unanimously recommended his based outside Europe and the USA.
The reporting environment: appointment to the Board.
work that Halma is doing to improve diversity agreeing the draft Group CFO across the Group, along with our open and candidateprofile: Diversity inclusive culture, ensures that candidates selecting a global executive search firm, The Board recognises the benefits that are fairly considered and paid regardless Lygon Group which has no connection diversity and inclusion brings to the Group.
oftheir gender, race, age, sexual orientation, with the Company to: finalise the Atthe year end, and at the date of this Report, professional or academic background.
Board draft role specification: conduct a the Board comprised 10 Directors, including and senior management appointments are benchmarking exercise and identify four women 40% of the Board.
Thespread made on merit and are not made simply potential external candidates: provide an of nationalities are six British, three American to maintain, or improve on, one element ofdiversity but we do ensure that a diverse range of candidate profiles are received tohelp meet our aims on diversity.
Non-executive Director tenure Years The Board supports the recommendation ofthe Hampton Alexander Review on gender Daniela Barone Soares diversity, to have at least one third of the Board comprised of women.
While further Carole Cran aims or targets may be set in the future relating to diversity, we are mindful that Jo Harlow maintaining a flexible approach is favourable as it enables steps to be taken to achieve Tony Rice agenuinely diverse and talented Board Roy Twite andsenior management team.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Promoting diversity and inclusion While we have achieved good progress The Board recognises the benefits of diversity ongender diversity at Board and Executive and embraces diversity and inclusion in the Board level, and have demonstrated our widest sense.
During the year, we adopted commitment by becoming a member of a Board Diversity Policy, to complement the 30% club, we will continue to focus our the Groupwide Diversity and Inclusion efforts on driving gender diversity at senior Policy that was already in place.
This Policy levels throughout our business.
sets out our commitment to ensure that candidates at all levels are fairly considered and paid regardless of their gender, race, Diversity, in all its forms, is vital age, sexual orientation, professional or toHalma realising its strategy academic background.
While appointments are made on merit, taking account of an andfulfilling its Purpose.
While individuals relevant skills and experience for we have made great progress the role, we request CVs reflecting a diverse inachieving gender diversity range of candidates from recruiters before we consider the merits of each applicant.
atBoard and Executive Board Wehave set goals to increase the diversity level, we remain committed A view from the inour senior management talent to improve our decision making and innovation in our toenabling talent throughout group companies.
Board table the Group to contribute fully.
Jennifer Ward Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 79
