Governance Audit Committee report Introduction from Carole Cran Halmas IT risk management framework.
Committee Composition It is a pleasure to be presenting my second Their work covered: good IT practice: The Committee comprises, and has report as Chair of the Audit Committee, benchmarking against organisations comprised of throughout the year, the five covering the year ended 31 March 2018. of a similar size and nature: testing the independent non-executive Directors: Thishas been my first full financial year in design and operating effectiveness of key the role and it has been a busy period for controls which are monitored or operated Carole Cran Chair the Committee.
We have continued to focus at Group level: and a review of compliance Daniela Barone Soares our efforts on the Committees core areas of and assurance activities performed by the Jo Harlow responsibility of maintaining integrity across Groups IT function: Tony Rice all aspects of corporate reporting, internal reviewing the Groups Tax Strategy and Roy Twite control, risk management and audit quality.
recommending its approval to the Board: clarifying the evolving role of the Internal The Committee is chaired by Carole Cran, I am committed to delivering strong Audit function, to ensure that audits are who has recent and relevant financial leadership of the Committee throughout risk based, have a focus on core controls experience and competence in accounting.
my tenure and to actively encourage the and that there is flexibility within the audit Carole qualified as a Chartered Accountant Committee to challenge management plan to identify and review other risk areas: with KPMG and has worked in senior financial assumptions.
Each member of the ensuring a smooth transition from Deloitte positions at FTSE listed companies and Committee has a detailed understanding to  PwC as iscurrently CFO at Forth Ports Ltd. ofHalmas strategy and business model external Auditor.
A clear plan and regular andthe Groups culture and core values.
status reviews ensured an orderly transition: The Committee as a whole have competence relevant to the Companys sector and act The report outlines the composition and I trust that you will find this report useful in with diversity of thought and independent work of the Committee, covering the topics understanding the operation and activities judgement.
Biographies forallmembers and issues that have been reviewed up to ofthe Committee over the year.
of the Committee are setoutonpages 68 the date of the report.
of the Committee during 2017 18 can besummarised as follows: Only Committee members are entitled Carole Cran toattend meetings but the Chair invites the Chair reviewing the Committees constitution Chairman, executive Directors, Company For and on behalf of the Committee and governance processes to ensure Secretary, Director of Risk & Internal Audit 12 June 2018 that it operates effectively in discharging andrepresentatives from the external its responsibilities and that its approach Auditorto regularly attend meetings.
reflects current and best practice: reviewing the judgements and Governance assumptions related to disclosures in the The Committee meets at least three times Annual Report and Accounts 2018, the per year, to coincide with key events in the impact of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 and the likely reporting and audit cycle.
The meeting impact of IFRS 16: attendance is set out below.
Both the reviewing the Groups delegated authority matrix to ensure clarity across a number of financial and non-financial controls and to reflect the revised sector structure: refreshing the approach to the assessment and management of risk, following a top Committee attendance Eligible Attended down and bottom up review.
The new approach aims to deliver efficient and Carole Cran 3 3 effective reporting, via the Executive Daniela Barone Soares 3 3 Board, to the Committee and Board and is designed to support the opportunities that Jo Harlow 3 3 arise from Halmas 4.0 growth strategy: Tony Rice 3 3 engaging a professional advisory firm Roy Twite 3 3 to undertake an independent review of Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 81 Governance Audit Committee reportcontinued Committee and the Committee Chair meet attention, are circulated to the Committee set out in the Sustainability section on page regularly with the Director of Risk & Internal assoon as the report is issued.
Reports are provided to the Company Audit, and separately with the external Secretary for review and appropriate Auditor, without any executive Directors Appointments to the Committee are made investigation.
For any reports relating to fraud present.
The Chair maintains regular by the Board.
The remuneration of the Chair or financial matters, the Company Secretary contact with management, particularly the reflects the additional responsibilities and has access to the services of Internal Audit.
Group Chief Executive, Finance Director, time demand for the role over the other Most matters reported through Expolink relate Group Financial Controller, Director of Risk members of the Committee.
to personnel HR matters and, while these are &Internal Audit and the Company Secretary.
not areas for review by the Committee, such All members of the Committee further As part of the induction that all new nonmatters are duly investigated in the same their internal network and knowledge of executive Directors receive, members ofthe manner.
During the year, the Committee the businesses through company visits, Committee will meet separately with key undertook a review of the adequacy of corporateevents and Halmas annual individuals, including the Chair, the Finance the arrangements in place for individuals Leadership conference.
Director, the Director of Risk & Internal to raiseconcerns and it was satisfied that Audit and the external Auditor.
While each theyremain appropriate andeffective.
The Chair sets the forward agenda for the non-executive Director will largely manage year but allows for flexibility in the timing their own continuing development, the External Auditor and the schedule to ensure that new or Committee receives written technical, The external auditor is engaged to express an unforeseen areas can be reviewed.
legal and risk updates throughout the year opinion on the Group and Company financial and may request additional information statements.
The audit includes the review and The scheduled meeting length was extended on new or technical areas.
During 2017 18, testing of the data contained in the financial during the year to ensure that there is the Committee received technical updates statements to the extent, and materiality level, always sufficient time available to focus on from third partieson cyber security and necessary for expressing an audit opinion as key issues and judgements or any other .
to whether they present a true and fair view businessthatarises.
ofthe state of the Group and parent company Whistleblowing affairs as at 31 March 2018.
As reported The agenda and meeting papers are The Committee is responsible for in last years Report, following an audit circulated in timely manner, in accordance reviewing the adequacy and security of the tender process, the Board recommended with the terms of reference.
The Chair Groups arrangements for employees and to shareholders the appointment of PwC as provides a summary of the key matters contractors to raise concerns about possible Auditor to the Company.
Their appointment discussed to the Board and the Committee improprieties in financial reporting or other was approved at the Annual General Meeting minutes are circulated to all Board members matters.
Halma has appointed an external AGM in 2017 and Deloitte ceased to be the and the external Auditor.
Internal Audit third-party provider, Expolink, to operate Companys Auditor at that date.
The Senior reports that identify any significant control a confidential, multilingual, telephone and Statutory Auditor is Owen Mackney.
weakness, a compliance weakness or other web reporting service, 24 7, through which risk that requires immediate management concerns can be raised.
Further details are Principal Role and Responsibilities The Committees primary duties, as set out in its terms of reference available at www.
com are: Financial reporting Compliance, fraud and whistleblowing External audit reviewing significant financial reporting monitoring compliance with the UK managing the relationship with theAuditor: judgements and the application Corporate Governance Code: monitoring and reviewing the of accounting policies, including reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness independence and performance of compliance with accounting standards: of the Groups compliance functions: theAuditor and formally evaluating ensuring the integrity of the financial monitoring the processes in place to theireffectiveness: statements and compliance with UK prevent and detect fraud and receiving reviewing the policy on non-audit company law and regulation: reports on fraud attempts or incidents: services carried out by the Auditor: ensuring the Annual Report reviewing the adequacy of arrangements negotiating and approving the Auditors and Accounts are fair, balanced in place to enable employees to raise fee, the scope of the audit and the terms andunderstandable: concerns in confidence: of their engagement: monitoring the integrity of leading the audit tender process at least announcements containing Internal audit every 10 years: and financialinformation: reviewing and approving the audit work making recommendations to the Board plan and charter: for the appointment or reappointment Internal control reviewing reports from audits and ofthe Auditor.
monitoring the adequacy and monitoring the status of remedial actions: effectiveness of the internal financial monitoring the structure, composition controls and processes: andresourcing of the function: reviewing the role and effectiveness Risk management ofthefunction: reviewing and providing oversight of the considering whether an independent processes by which risks are managed: third-party review of internal audit reviewing the process undertaken, and effectiveness and processes the stress-testing performed, to support isappropriate: the Groups Viability Statement and Going Concern Statement: 82 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Audit Tendering conflict with the Auditors independence.
Financial statements and significant The Committee has primary responsibility for Asummary of the Policy is set out on page 84. accounting matters recommending to the Board the appointment This Policy goes further than the restrictions During the year and prior to the publication or re-appointment of the external Auditor in the FRCs revised Ethical Standard as of the Groups results for the Half Year ended before it is put to shareholders at the AGM.
it applies the restrictions worldwide not 30 September 2017 and the full year ended The Committee will, at the appropriate time, simply to the Groups EU subsidiaries with 31 March 2018, the Committee considered lead the process for putting the audit contract any exceptions requiring the Committees the significant risks and material issues and out to tender.
A tender process will be carried pre-approval.
During 2017 18, a 12-month judgements made in relation to the Groups out at least every 10 years and, unless it is transition period was applied for non-EU financial statements: undertaken earlier, it is the Committees policy services to comply with the policy, allowing to consider whether a tender is appropriate an orderly transfer of non-audit services.
value of goodwill due to the significance every five years, coinciding with the change The Committee believes that this additional of the amounts recorded on in Senior Statutory Auditor.
Accordingly, it is restriction safeguards Auditor independence theConsolidated Balance Sheet and the anticipated that the Committee will review and objectivity, as permitted exceptions judgements involved in assessing goodwill the position in 2023 and should a tender will still require the Committee to satisfy forimpairment: not be considered appropriate at that time, itself that: the services are not prohibited the risk that acquisitions are not the rationale will be included within the non-audit services: the Auditor is the most accounted for correctly in line with IFRS 3 Committees Report.
suitable supplier for the services: and the Business combinations independence of the Auditor would not be including the recording of fair value Statement of compliance compromised.
During the year, only two such adjustments and the identification and The Company confirms that it complied items have been approved.
In addition to our valuation of acquired intangible assets: throughout the year with the provisions of the well-communicated Policy, prior to accepting the valuation of any contingent Competition & Markets Authoritys Statutory any engagement the Auditor runs their own consideration arising on acquisitions Audit Services for Large Companies Market independence and compliance checks to incurrent and prior periods: Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive ensure that all non-audit work is compliant the judgements involved in valuing Tender Processes and Audit Committee with the revised Ethical Standard and that defined benefit pension plans including Responsibilities Order 2014. there isnoconflict ofinterest.
the discount rate, the mortality assumption and the inflation rate: and Auditor Objectivity & Independence The audit fees payable to PwC for the year the risk that revenue is incorrectly including non-audit fees ended 31 March 2018 were 1,181,000 recognised for significant contracts The Group has adopted a policy on Auditor 2017:nil and non-audit service fees, in line whichhave unusual elements.
Independence and Services provided by with the policy on auditor independence and the External Auditor which sets out the services, were 246,000 2017: 142,000.
These issues were discussed with limited services that the external Auditor can management at various stages during provided to Group companies, which do not the year and during the preparation and Activities during 2017 18 Financial reporting Internal control Internal audit reviewed the 2018 Annual Report and reviewed the output from a high-level evaluated the effectiveness and Accounts, the 2017 Half Year Report financial control framework review the scope of work to be undertaken and the trading statements issued whichwas undertaken by a professional bythefunction: inSeptember 2017 and March 2018. services firm: agreed changes to the presentation Aspart of these reviews the Committee reviewed the Groups delegated andgrading of internal audit reports: received a report from the external authoritymatrix reviewed management responses to Auditor on the audit of the Annual Report audit reports issued during the year: and Accounts and a report on the ISRE Risk management 2410 Interim Review performed on considered the output from the GroupExternal Auditor and non-audit work thehalf-year results: wide risk review process to identify, monitored the external Auditor transition: reviewed PwCs approach to materiality: evaluate and mitigate risks: agreed the scope and methodology reviewed the effectiveness of the reviewed the findings from the ofthe audit work to be undertaken Groups risk management and internal independent review of the Groups IT risk bythe external Auditor: controls and disclosures made in the management framework: reviewed the Auditors approach to Annual Report and Accounts: monitored developments relating to Brexit data-enabled auditing: reviewed the process and stress testing and considering the potential impact for evaluated the independence and undertaken to support the Groups the Group: objectivity of the external Auditor: Viability and Going Concern Statements: agreed changes to the Committees considered acquisition valuation and Compliance, fraud and whistleblowing terms of reference: accounting methodology: reviewed the Groups whistleblowing agreed the terms of engagement and reviewed the Groups tax strategy: policy and procedures: fees to be paid to the external Auditor monitored compliance including health forthe audit of the 31 March 2018 and safety performance, compliance financial statements.
training and sanctions compliance Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 83 Governance Audit Committee report continued finalisation of the financial statements.
After appropriateness of judgements and returns at Firetrace and the ongoing reviewing the presentations and reports from forecasts used including discount rates, resolution of the previously identified management, the Committee is satisfied growth rates, the level of aggregation contract delays: that the financial statements appropriately of individual cash generating units composition of the cash address the critical judgements and key and methodology applied, and any generatingunits: estimates, both in respect of the amounts other associated disclosures in note 11 the evidence supporting the going reported and the disclosures made.
The totheAccounts: concern basis of accounts preparation, Committee is also satisfied that the significant assessing capitalisation of development the Viability Statement and the risk assumptions used for determining the costs in line with the accounting policy management and internal control value of assets and liabilities have been and standards: disclosure requirements: and appropriately scrutinised, challenged and assessing the assumptions in determining accounting assumptions and are sufficiently robust.
The Committee has the pension obligations, particularly disclosures of the defined benefit discussed these issues with the Auditor given market volatility and determining pension plans.
during the audit planning process and at whether the key assumptions were the finalisation of the year-end audit and is reasonable.
These assumptions were Risk Management and Internal Controls satisfied that its conclusions are in line with also benchmarked against other listed The Committee maintains oversight of those drawn by the Auditor in relation to companies and variances highlighted the risk management and internal control theseissues.
forconsideration: and framework and monitors its effectiveness.
considering the appropriateness and During 2017 18, the risk management and The Committees process for challenging reasonableness of stated judgements internal control process was reviewed and, theassumptions of management and and conclusions and that reporting was with the assistance of the Director of Risk addressing the risks identified includes accurate.
As part of the above process & Internal Audit, both areas were refined to thefollowing activities: theCommittee specifically considered ensure that they remain robust and effective thefollowing: and complement Halmas decentralised, assessing treatments of contingent autonomous organisational structure which consideration payment arrangements the treatment and valuation of the is integral to Halmas 4.0 growth strategy.
against the requirements of IFRS 3 contingent consideration payable in Fulldetails of the internal control framework andIFRS 13: relation to CasMed, Cardios, Mini-Cam, and approach to risk management are set focusing on, monitoring regularly FluxData and Visiometrics outon pages 5253. and constructively challenging, the the fair value of acquired intangible reasonableness of the assumptions assets and carrying values: used in impairment calculations managements assessment and by management: challenging the reasons for the lower than expected Policy on auditor independence and services Permitted audit-related services Prohibited non-audit services Fee cap Audit-related services are non-audit Under this policy, the external auditor must The external auditor can be engaged to services, as specified in the revised Ethical not provide non-audit services to Halma or perform audit-related services without Standard, that are largely provided by any of its EU subsidiaries or to any of Halmas the requirement for a separate tender the external auditor and where the work non-EU subsidiaries with effect from 1 April process unless the anticipated fees exceed is closely related to the work performed 2018 which fall within the general categories 150,000.
If the anticipated fees are above in the audit and where threats to auditor of services listed under the policy including 150,000, the Committee must approve independence are clearly insignificant taxation, bookkeeping, payroll, design the decision to engage the external auditor andsafeguards need not be applied.
or implementation of risk management in advance, and always subject to the Theseaudit related services include: procedures, valuation services, legal services, overall fee cap.
The total fees for audit internal audit services, services relating related and non-audit services paid to the reporting required by law or regulation to financing capital structure investment external auditor in any year cannot exceed tobe provided by the auditor: promotion or dealing in shares, HR services, 70% of the average fees for audit services reviews of interim financial information: organisational design or cost control orany charged over a three-year period.
The reporting on regulatory returns: of the specific services as set out inthe Committee will be notified of all projects reporting to a regulator on client assets: revised Ethical Standard and Staff Guidance with the external auditor with estimated fees reporting on government grants: Note05 2016. between 75,000 and 150,000 and, at reporting on internal financial controls each meeting, the Committee will receive when required by law or regulation: and a summary of all fees, audit and non-audit, extended audit work that is authorised payable to the external auditor.
by those charged with governance performed on financial information and or financial controls where this work is integrated with the audit work and is performed on the same principal terms and conditions.
84 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Auditor effectiveness The Committee reviews annually the effectiveness of both the Internal Audit function and the External Auditor.
The process for each review is conducted primarily by way of tailored questionnaire.
Internal audit process Assessment 1 2 3 Bespoke questionnaire Questionnaire completedby: Results of the questionnaire Following a review by the prepared covering: are collated centrally and a Committee of the output from the summary of the findings is questionnaires and direct feedback Internal audit scope: audit Board members provided to theCommittee from the Finance Director, the approach: quality of the Executive Board members to consider the overall Group Financial Controller and the team: reliability and quality of Sector CFOs effectiveness ofthe function Chair, the Committee concluded reporting: use of technology: Group Financial Controller and any action required that the Internal Auditfunction and communication.
PwC Audit Partner External audit process Assessment 1 2 3 Bespoke questionnaire Questionnaire completedby: Results of the questionnaire The output from the effectiveness prepared covering: are collated centrally by the questionnaire was shared with the Group Financial Controller Committee and PwC.
Following the External audit partner time Committee members anda summary of the findings, Committees review of the output commitment: quality of the Group Chief Executive along with the FRCs AQR and the AQR Report findings, the team: accounting, technical and Finance Director Report on PwC are provided Committee confirmed that PwC governance insight: policies for Group Financial Controller the Committee to consider is effective as External Auditor to compliance with the revised Director of Risk & the overall effectiveness the Company and recommended Ethical Standards: quality of InternalAudit ofthe function and any to the Board their re-appointment reporting andcommunication.
Company Secretary actionrequired: as Auditor be proposed to shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
FRC Audit Quality Review Report on PwC summarised forthe Committee.
Internal Audit Fair, balanced and understandable a risk comparison review, which assesses The Internal Audit function comprises the To ensure that the report and accounts the consistency of the presentation of risks Director of Internal Audit & Risk and four audit are fair, balanced and understandable, the and significant judgements throughout managers, based in the UK, the USA and Committee considers the output from a the main areas of risk disclosure in the China, to provide coverage across the Groups series of focused exercises that take place Annual Report and Accounts: global operations.
The risk-based audit work during the Annual Report and Accounts a formal review of all Board and plan is agreed by the Committee annually production process.
These focused exercises Committee meeting minutes by the and takes account of the rotational visits can be summarised as follows: Company Secretary to ensure that all undertaken by the external Auditor under significant issues are appropriately their audit programme.
Progress against the a qualitative review, performed by the reflected and given due prominence work plan is reviewed at each Committee Groups finance and secretarial functions, innarrative reporting: and meeting, in order that any changes in of disclosures and a review of internal preparation and issue to the Audit priorities or resourcing can be discussed and consistency throughout the Annual Report Committee of the key working papers and agreed.
Internal Audit reports are routinely and Accounts.
This review assesses the results for each of the significant issues issued to management and the external Annual Report and Accounts against and judgements considered by the Audit Auditor, and where there are any higher objective criteria drawn up for each Committee in the period.
priority findings which require immediate component of the requirement individual management action, the report is circulated criteria that indicate fairness, balance The Directors statement on a fair, balanced to the Committee with commentary from and understandability as well as criteria and understandable Annual Report and the Finance Director on the underlying issue that overlap two or more components : Accounts is set out on page 111. andthe remedial action taken.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 85
