Nomination Committee Report Dennis Millard Chairman of the Nomination Committee Committee Composition Chairmans Letter During the year, the Committee comprised: The Committees role is to: Dennis Millard Chairman review the size, structure and composition of the Board: David Adams consider succession planning: and Claudia Arney identify and make recommendations to the Board on Helen Jones potential candidates for the Board.
Jill McDonald resigned 29 September 2017 Three Committee meetings were held during the year, attended The Committees key objective is to ensure that the Board by all members, with the exception of David Adams who was comprises individuals with the necessary skills, knowledge, unable to attend the Committee meeting on 22 March 2018 due experience and diversity to ensure that the Board is effective to an unexpected and pressing commitment in relation to another in discharging its responsibilities.
During the year, the company.
After each Committee meeting, I reported to the Board Committee oversaw the process for the appointment of the on the key issues that we had discussed.
A number of informal Groups new Chief Executive Officer, Graham Stapleton, and discussions, particularly relating to the appointment of a new Chief my successor Keith Williams.
Executive Officer, were also held between Committee members and me throughout the year as the need arose.
Activities During the Year During the year, the Committees main focus was on the search for The Committees key objective is a new Chief Executive Officer and a new Chairman as detailed on to ensure that the Board comprises page 71. individuals with the necessary skills, During the year, the Committee also: knowledge, experience and diversity to ensure that the Board is effective in considered the terms of reference regarding the appointments and roles of the new Chief Executive Officer and Chairman: discharging its responsibilities.
reviewed the composition of the Board and its succession plan with particular reference to the succession of the new Chairman: 70 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 30 March 2018 25675 5 June 2018 1:19 PM Proof 10 carried out an annual review of the Committees Terms of Reference: recommended re-election of the Board at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting: and reviewed the results of the Board performance evaluation process.
Board Appointments The search for a Group Chief Executive Officer was concluded in September 2017 with the announcement of the appointment of Graham Stapleton with effect from 15 January 2018.
MWM Consulting was appointed as advisor to the Committee in the search for external candidates and this process was led by myself, as Chairman, together with the Committee.
MWM Consulting does not have any other connection with the Company.
The Committee also considered and appointed Jonny Mason, Chief Financial Officer as Interim Chief Executive Officer with effect from September 2017 until Graham Stapleton joined the Company in January 2018.
As announced last year, I will be stepping down as Chairman at the Annual General Meeting in July, and so in November 2017 the Committee began the process of identifying suitable candidates.
Odgers Berndston was appointed as an advisor, and the process was led by David Adams, as Senior Independent Director, together with the Committee but excluding myself.
Odgers Berndston does not have any other connection with the Company.
On 22 May 2018 it was announced that Keith Williams will be appointed as my successor, as Chairman on 24 July 2018.
Looking Ahead Diversity It was announced on 27 March 2018, in the year ahead, that Jonny The Groups Diversity Policy Diversity Policy sets out our Mason will resign from the position of Chief Financial Officer to commitment to eliminate discrimination and to encourage take up the position of Group Finance Director at Dixons Carphone diversity and equality across the Board of Directors and amongst plc.
Jonny will remain as Chief Financial Officer until the end of his all our colleagues, irrespective of their gender, race, ethnic origin, notice period in September 2018.
The process is under way by the disability, age, nationality, national origin, sexual orientation, gender Committee to find his replacement.
reassignment, marital or civil partnership status, pregnancy or The Committee will also continue to assess the Board and Senior maternity, religion, beliefs and social class.
This year, the Board Management Team composition and how they both may be has not considered it necessary to set a formal target for including enhanced.
diversity on the Board, this is because one third of our Board is female and we are in excess of the recommended target as The Terms of Reference for the Committees are available at published by the Hampton-Alexander Review in November 2017. www.
com investors governance The Diversity Policy applies to all our activities, including our role Dennis Millard as an employer and as a provider of services, ensuring that no Chairman of the Nomination Committee colleague, potential colleague, customer, visitor or contractor 22 May 2018 will receive less favourable treatment on the grounds of gender, race, ethnic origin, disability, age, nationality, national origin, sexual orientation, gender reassignment, marital or civil partnership status, pregnancy or maternity, religion, beliefs and social class.
The Company does not currently publish specific diversity targets but in practice, we have created a more balanced and diverse Board and Senior Management Team.
We continue to work to monitor these issues across the entire business, in particular in relation to gender diversity.
Further information regarding Board diversity can be found on page 64 and gender diversity in the Group as a whole on page 26.
com 71 25675 5 June 2018 1:19 PM Proof 10 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW
