Corporate Governance report continued Hammersons governance structure The Board promotes the long-term sustainable success of the Company, generating value for its shareholders and contributing to wider society.
Hammerson plc Board Sets the Groups strategic direction, purpose and values and aligns these Oversees the Groups systems of internal control, corporate governance and with its culture riskmanagement Approves major acquisitions, disposals, capital expenditure and financing Approves the Business Plan The Board has delegated a number of its responsibilities to its Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Investment and Disposal Committees.
The terms of reference of each of its Committees and the Boards schedule of reserved matters can be found at www.
Group Executive Audit Nomination Remuneration Investment Committee Committee Committee Committee and Disposal Committee Implements the Groups Oversees financial Recommends Board Establishes remuneration strategy and Business reporting appointments policy Oversees acquisitions and Plan Monitors independence Oversees succession Sets Executive Director disposals programme Manages the business of internal and external planning and senior management Recommends to the audit remuneration Manages risk Ensures an appropriate Board acquisitions Oversees internal mix of skills and Oversees workforce and disposals above Establishes financial and controls experience on the Board remuneration-related 50million operational targets and policies and practices monitors performance Monitors risk Promotes diversity Oversees allocation across the Group against those targets management including of capital See page 76. emerging risks Oversees alignment of See page 69. reward, incentives and Oversees external asset culture valuation process Approves bonus plan and Oversees relationship long term incentive plan with External Auditor targets See page 79.
Risk and Controls UK and Ireland Hammerson France Group Investment and Committee Management Board Management Board Development Committee Supports the Audit Committee Oversees the financial, Oversees the financial, Supports the Investment and operational and governance operational and governance by promoting the integration of Disposal Committee the Risk Management performance of the Groups performance of the Groups Identifies new business and business in the UK and Ireland business in France Framework in the business development opportunities Monitors compliance with the Monitors strategic partnerships and Groups internal control joint ventures systems Recommends new development Manages the internal audit opportunities programme Reviews allocation of capital See page 110.
Approves acquisitions and disposals between 10 - 50 million Recommends acquisitions and disposals above 50 million Positive Places CR Board Group IT Committee Health and Safety Committee Oversees the Positive Places programme Oversees IT strategy and systems Monitors the Groups health and safety management system Monitors achievement of Hammersons Establishes and monitors IT policies Ensures the Groups compliance with relevant sustainability targets and corporate Plans IT implementation projects sustainability risk framework health and safety regulations Monitors IT risks Identifies and promotes relevant innovation Oversees management of the Groups health and Oversees cybersecurity safety risks projects Ensures sustainability is linked with and reflected in business activities See page 34 and visit sustainability.
70 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Governance Corporate Governance report How the Board supported the delivery of Hammersons strategy in 2018 Hammersons governance structure supports our strategy and is central to the way we run the business.
It enables the Board to ensure that good governance also extends beyond the boardroom and is continually borne in mind in the successful delivery of the Groups strategic priorities over the shorter and longer term.
A key aspect of our governance structure is our culture and values: ambition, respect, collaboration and responsibility.
We have set out below how the Boards governance role links to the strategic priorities of the business and the risks identified in the Risk Management Framework as well as some of the Boards activities during 2018 to support those objectives.
Strategic Board Risk Management Key activities priority governance role Framework in 2018 Oversees the Groups financial Macro-economic Approved 1,500 million Capital performance Property investment revolving credit facility for efficiency Reviews capital structure Treasury acquisition of intu which was Reviews major changes to Partnerships subsequently cancelled corporate structure Tax and regulatory Approved early redemption of 500 million 2.75% bonds due 2019 Approved the commencement and subsequent pause of a share buyback programme for a maximum aggregate consideration of 300 million Establishes as the Groups Macro-economic Considered the acquisition of Optimised strategy Retail market intu and made the decision to portfolio Approves the Business Plan Property investment withdraw from the transaction Ensures necessary resources are Property development Discussed and evaluated in place for the Group to meet Partnerships strategic focus and risks for its objectives Tax and regulatory Hammersons strategy and Determines risk appetite Business Plan Oversees acquisitions and Approved decision to sell 50% of disposals progress as part of active Highcross and create a joint management of our portfolio venture Approved exit from Hammersons UK retail parks portfolio over the medium term Oversees the portfolio Retail market Reviewed progress against Operational Reviews the development Property development NetPositive strategy targets excellence pipeline Catastrophic event Visited Les 3 Fontaines, Ensures balance of interests People Cergy-Pontoise between all stakeholders Environmental Visited Freeport Lisboa Fashion Outlet Reviewed the Groups major development projects including plans for Whitgift Centre, Croydon and Brent Cross, London See pages 56 to 62 for further information on the Risk Management Framework and pages 12 and 13 on Our strategy.
com 71 Corporate Governance report continued Visiting the business Visiting the assets of the business is a key activity in the Boards year as it provides an opportunity for the Directors to meet local teams and see at firsthand how our business is run.
Such visits complement the Boards experience of the business from the perspective of the boardroom and give the Non-Executive Directors in particular an insight into how the culture and values of the business are translated into day-to-day operations.
Thisyear the Board spent the day at Les 3 Fontaines, Cergy-Pontoise and included a visit to Freeport Lisboa Fashion Outlet while in Lisbon for the Boards annual Strategy Day.
Board visit to Les 3 Fontaines, Cergy-Pontoise In September the Board made a day visit to Les 3 Fontaines, Cergy-Pontoise, scheduled outside the formal Board meetings calendar.
The day provided an opportunity to mix informally with French colleagues and centre management.
During lunch the Board discussed the business and listened to the local teams views on matters that concerned them and the challenges of running the centre.
The asset management team then gave a presentation to the Board covering an overview of the financial performance of the asset, an update on the extension project andprogress against pre-letting targets.
Theteam also presented their strategy and key initiatives for developing this destination.
The day ended with a tour of the asset.
TheBoard found the visit informative and welcomed the opportunity to meet and discuss the progress of the business with See pages 30 to 32 for more information on developments and City Quarters.
Board visit to Freeport Lisboa Fashion Outlet In October the Board made a two-day visit to Lisbon during which the Board visited Freeport Lisboa Fashion Outlet, one of the assets in Hammersons premium outlets portfolio.
The Board toured the Time Out Market in central Lisbon, accompanied by senior management.
This provided an opportunity to assess various F&B concepts in the food court.
During the visit a dinner was held for the Board and senior colleagues which enabled informal discussions to be held on the progress of the premium outlets business.
Further insights were provided by senior colleagues at Value Retail who joined the Board to discuss the performance of the relationship.
Following the Strategy Day discussions on the second day of the visit, the Board had a presentation from local VIA Outlets management and a tour of the asset.
The Board found that meeting local teams See pages 26 to 29 for more information on premium outlets.
and seeing the asset gave it a valuable insight into the outlets business.
72 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Governance Corporate Governance report The risks were evaluated thoroughly and the Governance in action strategy We are confident Board took account of advice from its external The strategy of the business is at the core that our sharpened advisors and reviewed investor feedback.
of the Boards activities and this was no This led to a portfolio-wide review of focus on Europes exception during the year when it was the disposals and a decision to exit retail parks, a growing cities and focus of significant additional debate by reshaped strategy including operational theBoard.
improvements, a fresh approach to some of best destinations will the commercial aspects of the business, a The year began with a number of Board allow us to navigate more prudent balance sheet plan involving meetings held in addition to the scheduled this ongoing period the reduction of debt and a reassessment of meetings.
During these meetings the Board capital allocation priorities.
This reshaped of structural change.
reviewed the actions necessary to progress strategy was communicated to shareholders the proposed acquisition of intu.
The Chair of at the end of July.
the Board, Chief Executive and Chief David Tyler Chair Financial Officer had frequent contact with a The annual Board Strategy Day took place in number of major shareholders and their the autumn in Lisbon.
As in previous years, views on the transaction were regularly the Boards discussions focused on trends in communicated to the Board.
As well as The agenda for the day began with a the market and Hammersons strengths and monitoring shareholder views, the Board discussion on the Groups portfolio of weaknesses as Board members considered reviewed closely a number of economic and assetsand developments to help inform the the future direction of the Company and market factors throughout this period.
direction of the business planning exercise further refinements to the strategy for2019-2023.
The GEC and senior announced at the half-year.
In March, the Board received a highly colleagues from asset management and preliminary proposal from Klpierre to In preparation for the day the Board received development joined the Board to provide acquire Hammerson in cash and shares, a background reading pack, including: insights and stimulate discussion on a followed later by a further tentative revised number of strategic options.
The Board considered this approach Institutional investors feedback from Executive led a discussion on the capital carefully and reviewed its options fully, taking meetings held with the Chief Executive, markets backdrop as the context in which to account of shareholders views and advice Head of Investor Relations and Chief discuss shareholders views.
Following the from its bankers.
At the conclusion of this Financial Officer Strategy Day, certain ideas generated were process, Klpierres proposals were rejected further considered andrefined for A background summary of the economy by the Board as they significantly and markets in which the business operates incorporation into the Business Plan.
An update on key retail, shopper and The strategy of the business will, of course, technology trends Over the early months of the year, conditions in remain central to the Boards activities.
the UK retail market deteriorated after a poor Hammersons performance benchmarked In the coming year, the Board intends to Christmas.
A number of administrations and against that of its peers continue to explore and evaluate its strategy company voluntary arrangements CVAs were The economic outlook for the UK, France in light of market changes and the views of announced and investor demand for retail and Ireland shareholders and other stakeholders.
property showed signs of weakness.
All this made it clear to the Board that the risks of carrying out the intu transaction had materially heightened.
After considerable analysis and assessment the Board decided that it was no longer in the best interests of the shareholders to carry out the acquisition and on 18 April 2018 it announced that it was withdrawing its recommendation for the offer to acquire intu.
Following this announcement, the Board initiated a strategic review exercise led by the Group Executive Committee.
As part of this strategic review, the Board considered key sector themes and the impact on Hammerson of: Structural shifts such as online and urbanisation The concept of the big day out The growth in food and beverage Ways of managing the tenant mix Retailer behaviours Highcross, Leicester Trends in retail real estate www.
com 73 Corporate Governance report continued Engagement with stakeholders We seek to deliver value for all our stakeholders and the Board is also aware that our actions and decisions impact all our stakeholders and the communities in which we operate.
Effective engagement with stakeholders is important to the Board as it strengthens the business and helps to deliver a positive result for all our stakeholder groups.
Key stakeholders Why the Board engages Key activities in 2018 Shareholders The Directors consider shareholders views as The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer met regularly with the part of their decision-making process and Companys institutional shareholders to discuss strategic issues and welcome discussions with them in particular in present the Companys results relation to strategy, governance and The Chair of the Board held a significant number of shareholder meetings remuneration in 2018 to discuss matters in connection with the proposed acquisition of intu and Klpierres approach The Board discussed shareholder feedback with the Companys brokers Deutsche Bank AG and J. P. Morgan Cazenove The 2018 investor relations programme included attendance at a number of industry conferences An investor presentation on Environmental Social Governance and Sustainability ESG issues was delivered at J. P. Morgans SRI conference Discussions were held with institutional shareholders on ESG matters Institutional shareholders were invited to visit assets in Dublin andBirmingham Investor roadshows were held in Amsterdam, Edinburgh, Cape Town, Johannesburg and Paris The General Counsel and Company Secretary discussed governance matters with institutional shareholders and the feedback from these meetings was reported to the Board All the Directors attended the Annual General Meeting in 2018 The Board approved a dividend reunification programme in 2018 to return funds to former shareholders Brands The Board takes interest in ensuring there are close The Board monitored events in connection with repurposing vacant units relationships with Hammersons retailers, F&B in cases of tenant distress and leisure tenants and direct-to-consumer brands, The Board received regular updates at each Board meeting on retailers which are critical to the Companys success trading performance at the Groups assets Consumers The Board has a strategy which creates The Board received regular updates on consumer behaviour providing destinations to meet the needs of a wide range of invaluable insight into local and national consumer trends consumers who visit them Consumer insights gathered using market research agencies inform future investment decisions and identify key revenue drivers Partners The Board recognises that our partnerships and The Board visited assets in Portugal and France and met local teams relationships provide financial capital and The Board received regular updates about activity concerning acquisitions insights from other markets, which together and disposals make Hammerson a stronger business and give The Board met senior executives from our partners, Value Retail and APG, us a competitive edge.
The Board oversees our to discuss the performance of the premium outlets sector and the Chief partnerships and relationships including Value Financial Officer provided regular updates to the Board on the premium Retail and VIA Outlets outlets portfolio Communities Hammersons destinations are in the communities The Board received an update on the progress against Net Positive targets that they serve.
The Directors appreciate that as part of the annual sustainability report nurturing strong links with those communities The Board received regular updates regarding engagement with local directly fosters the long-term success of our assets, decision-makers to ensure that future development plans help drive while the investment in our centres boosts local regional economic growth employment and business opportunities Our people The Board recognises that Hammersons culture The Board met colleagues on visits to Les 3 Fontaines, Cergy, and Freeport and values underpin the effective delivery of the Lisboa Fashion Outlet, Lisbon Companys strategy.
Regular engagement with The Board held discussions with colleagues at the Board Strategy Day employees takes place throughout the year through The Board reviewed and discussed the results of the 2017 Great Place to a number of briefings to update and inform Work employee engagement survey colleagues.
The Board also supports the opportunity The Chair of the Board met the finance team at Aquis House for an for colleagues to join the Hammerson SIP and informal question and answer session at their team conference Sharesave schemes and become shareholders The Board reviewed plans for the establishment of an employee forum in 2019.
74 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Governance Corporate Governance report Board effectiveness review 2018 I believe that evaluation, whether internal or external, is important in reviewing the Boards performance over the year.
We continually strive to be more effective and use the feedback from the annual review to work on improving how we operate together as a Board.
The questionnaire also sought the Directors Secretary.
Recommended actions were then The process views on the format and focus of the annual compiled for discussion by the Board.
A Board effectiveness review is carried out Strategy Day, how to identify effectively each year.
Every three years the review is Board review of outcomes challenges and opportunities for the business, carried out externally.
In the intervening years the Boards oversight of culture and values The Board discussed the findings and the review is conducted internally and is led by and its engagement with stakeholders.
recommendations from the review before the Chair of the Board with the support of the TheDirectors were also asked to share best agreeing actions for the coming year as set out General Counsel and Company Secretary.
The practice ideas observed in their roles on in the table below.
The Board also considered review in 2019 will be carried out externally.
its performance generally during the year and In 2018 an internal effectiveness review was agreed that it was satisfied that the Directors The individual responses from the carried out by means of an online questionnaire.
had worked well together, and that the Board questionnaire were collated into a report for The Directors were invited to comment had discharged its duties and worked the Chair of the Board to review and discuss anonymously on progress against actions effectively with its Committees.
with the General Counsel and Company identified in the previous review as well as reflect on the Boards decision-making process.
Table 39 Recommendations from 2017 review Progress in 2018 2019 actions Continue Board-level focus on the The Board received an update on the A designated Non-Executive Director to report regularly to the culture of the business Internal Communications strategy and Board on the proceedings of the employee forum.
Presentations receives annual presentations on the to the Board focusing on insights and feedback from different Employee Survey results stakeholder groups are planned for 2019 Provide opportunities for the Non-Executive Directors who were able to Focus on this to continue in 2019 to allow the Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors to make schedule informal visits found these Directors to gain firsthand insights into the business informal visits to the business valuable and informative Review the Boards work plan The Boards work plan was reviewed by the Topics for in-depth reviews by the Board have been identified General Counsel and Company Secretary to and will be scheduled throughout the year focus the Boards work on strategy and topics to support that debate Recommendations from 2018 review 2019 actions Review the format and timings A planning session for the 2019 Board Strategy Day will be scheduled for the Directors to agree the content of the Board Strategy Day andfocus for the day in advance Review the guidance on the The structure of the Board papers and associated guidance for preparers will be reviewed to ensure that the structure and content of Board is receiving an appropriate level of detail and that stakeholder views are clearly identified and adequately Boardpapers considered as part of the decision-making process www.
