Governance Audit Committee report Audit Committee report Monitoring financial reporting, internal control and risk management The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities by monitoring the financial reporting process, ensuring the independence and effectiveness of the internal and external audit processes and internal control and identifying and overseeing prevailing and emerging risks.
appropriately identified and categorised, perform our duties properly.
In addition, the Board considers that the Committee their potential impact on the Group is Audit Committee members as a whole have competence understood and appropriate steps are taken members relevant to the Companys sector.
I also fulfil to mitigate them.
the requirement to bring recent and relevant financial experience to the Committee.
You Audit Committee effectiveness Pierre Bouchut Chair can read more about the expertise and review Gwyn Burr experience of the Committee in their The annual review of the effectiveness of biographies on pages 66 to 67.
Andrew Formica the Committee was carried out internally during the year.
The Committee and senior Judy Gibbons Audit Committee meetings management attendees were invited to The Committee met five times during the provide responses and comment via an online year as the meeting which would have taken questionnaire.
The questions covered, place in December 2017 was rescheduled to amongst other matters, meeting Dear Shareholders early January 2018.
The agenda for each arrangements, the focus of discussion at meeting reflected the annual reporting cycle meetings, identification of emerging risks I am pleased to present the Committees of the Group and particular matters for the and the approach for reviewing property report for the year.
This report should be read Committees consideration.
I am pleased that responses in conjunction with our UK Corporate Board following each meeting.
My fellow indicated that the Committee continues to Governance Code compliance section which Committee members and I met in private perform well with no significant concerns.
is on pages 108 to 112. either prior to or following each Committee Theprivate sessions of the Committee also meeting and I have also held private sessions provide further opportunities to discuss During 2018 the Committee has continued to with the Groups Valuers, Cushman & matters in connection with the functioning play a key governance role and has supported Wakefield, the External Auditor, PwC and the ofthe Committee.
the Board in matters relating to financial Risk and Controls Manager who manages the reporting, internal control and risk internal audit process.
Looking forward, we have already considered management.
As well as the key activities the our response to the latest corporate Committee carries out during the year in External monitoring and Risk governance requirements in the new UK accordance with its structured work plan, this Corporate Governance Code which came into Management Framework report also provides detail about other effect from 1 January 2019 and against which matters the Committee has considered.
Throughout the year the Committee has we will report in the next Annual Report.
monitored broader market conditions and Audit Committee members property and consumer trends as well as I look forward to meeting shareholders at the the risks and challenges arising from Brexit.
forthcoming Annual General Meeting when I All of the Committee members are The Committee uses the Risk Management will be happy to take questions on this report.
independent Non-Executive Directors and Framework as a basis for such discussions.
each brings a wide knowledge and significant Itis kept under regular review by business experience in financial reporting, Pierre Bouchut management and the Committee to ensure risk management, internal control and Chair of the Audit Committee that prevailing and emerging risks are strategic management.
This combined knowledge and experience enables us to www.
com 79 Audit Committee report continued subject to recent internal audit and key areas of Annual Report.
The editorial team met The External Auditor change were identified.
The proposals were regularly to establish the broad direction and This is the second financial year in which the discussed with the Risk and Controls Committee themes to review progress and ensure balanced Annual Report and Financial Statements before being reviewed and approved by the reporting with appropriate links between key have been audited by PwC following its Committee.
During 2018 audits were carried out themes, and sections of the Annual Report.
appointment as the Companys External on the following activities: PwC and the designers, Black Sun also provided Auditor in April 2017.
The appointment is feedback on the structure, format and content subject to ongoing monitoring and the Sustainability reporting to assist management in ensuring the Annual Committee considered the effectiveness of Report was user-friendly and presented a fair The integration of the Irish assets PwC as part of the 2018 year end process.
and balanced review of the year.
Joint venture asset management services The Committee took a number of factors into VIA Outlets procurement account when considering the effectiveness of As part of this process, the Committee was the external audit including the quality and Turnover rents in France provided with an early draft of the Annual scope of the audit plan and reporting.
Report to assess the tone and key themes.
The supplier payment process in France TheCommittee also sought the views of A further draft was provided to the Completion of 2017 internal audit key members of the finance team, senior Committee prior to the meeting at which it recommendations management and Directors on the audit gave its final opinion.
When forming its process and the quality and experience of opinion the Committee considered the The Committee received an internal theaudit partners engaged in the audit.
following questions in a paper presented to auditupdate report at each meeting to review Theirfeedback confirmed that PwC had the Committee to help it challenge and test progress of the plan.
Each of the audits performed well and provided an appropriate the assessment that the Report was fair, confirmed the related areas were appropriately level of challenge to management.
The balanced and understandable: controlled.
Some recommendations for Committee has concluded that overall PwC improvement were identified and agreed with has carried out its audit for 2018 effectively management andresponsibility for and efficiently.
The Committee also received a regular update on any outstanding Is the Report fair?
During the year the Committee reviewed and actions from earlier audits and the expected approved the proposed audit fees and terms Is the whole story presented?
of engagement for the 2018 audit and Have any sensitive material areas recommended to the Board that it propose to beenomitted?
In 2019 the Committee expects to continue to shareholders that PwC be reappointed as the follow a risk-based approach to internal audit.
Is information by business sector in Groups External Auditor at the AGM on 30 Risk areas scheduled for Group-wide audits in the Business Review consistent with April 2019.
2019 include retailer sales reporting, that used for reporting in the financial implementation of policies and procedures in statements?
Non-audit services relation to the General Data Protection Regulation and cybersecurity arrangements.
The Committee recognises the need for Is the Report balanced?
objective and independent auditors and how Additionally, there will be a review of Is there a good level of consistency software systems and processes implemented such objectivity might be, or appear to be, between the front and back sections of compromised through the provision of in 2018 and a review of car park operations.
non-audit services by the External Auditor.
A review of the effectiveness of the internal During the year the Committee considered Is the Annual Report properly a audit was carried out using a specifically the extent of the non-audit services provided document for shareholders and other created online survey which was completed by PwC, noting that the level of non-audit fees stakeholders?
by Committee members and certain members was significantly higher than in the previous of senior management who had received and Is the Report year, principally due to work undertaken by reviewed audit reports.
PwC to support the proposed acquisition of were analysed and collated into a report intu.
Further details of the provision of Is there an appropriate mix of which was reviewed and discussed with the non-audit services and associated fees paid to statutory and adjusted measures and Chair of the Committee.
The survey PwC during the year are shown in Note 5 to are any adjustments explained clearly?
responses indicate that the Groups internal the financial statements on page 139.
The full audit function is performing well with no policy on non-audit services is available at Is the Report presented in significant concerns raised.
straightforward language and a satisfied that the internal audit arrangements user-friendly and easy to continue to provide effective assurance over Internal audit understandmanner?
the Groups risk and controls environment.
The internal audit arrangements are undertaken Following its review, the Committee is of the internally and supplemented when required Fair, balanced and opinion that the 2018 Annual Report and with additional external resource or specialist understandable financial statements are representative of the expertise.
This allows the Risk and Controls year and present a fair, balanced and As in previous years, an internal editorial team Manager, who leads internal audit activities, to understandable overview providing the consisting of members drawn from Group draw on technical knowledge for certain internal necessary information for stakeholders to Finance, the Company Secretariat, Corporate audit reviews.
In the development of the plan for assess the Groups position, performance, Communications, Investor Relations and 2018, the Groups Risk Management Framework business model and strategy.
Marketing led the process to produce the was reviewed and key risks which had not been 80 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Governance Audit Committee report continued to reinforce the message of zero robust assessment and recommended to the Whistleblowing, anti-fraud tolerance for bribery and corruption within the Board that it could approve and make the and anti-bribery business through a new training programme Viability statement on page 63.
During the year the Committee received the launched during the year via the Groups online annual Whistleblowing and Fraud report and Learning Management System.
Going concern statement reviewed the arrangements in place for The Committee received the information, individuals to raise concerns and the mechanism Viability statement underlying assumptions and analysis for the investigation of such matters.
During The Committee reviewed managements work presented in support of the Going Concern 2018 no reports were made using that facility on assessing the potential risks to the business statement.
The Committee concluded that it and no concerns were raised that have been and the appropriateness of the Companys was appropriate to adopt the Going Concern treated as whistleblowing.
It also reviewed the choice of a five-year assessment period.
basis in preparing the financial statements Companys procedures and policies for detecting Following this review, the Committee was and make the statement on page 63. fraud and systems and controls for preventing satisfied that management had conducted a inappropriate behaviour.
The Group has Significant financial judgements The Committee considered a number of significant issues during the year.
These related to areas requiring management to exercise particular judgement or a high degree of estimation.
The Committee assesses whether the judgements and estimates made by management are reasonable and appropriate.
The issues and how they were addressed by the Committee are set out below: Key financial reporting and significant financial judgements How the issue was addressed considered in relation to the financial statements by the Committee Valuation of The valuation of the Groups property portfolio is a key The Committee ensured that there was a robust procedure in place the Groups recurring risk due to its significance in the context of the to satisfy itself that the Valuers valuations and assumptions were property Groups net asset value.
Valuations are inherently subjective appropriate, particularly given the recent RICS notifications.
portfolio due to the assumptions and judgements required concerning The Committee understands the established valuation practices capitalisation yields and market rental income ERV.
The Committee is also familiar with the process by which management provides information to the Valuer.
Valuations are undertaken by the Groups independent valuer, Cushman & Wakefield the Valuer, and are The Valuer presented the valuations for all the Groups properties thoroughly reviewed by management and the Groups to the Committee in July 2018 and January 2019.
The Committee asked the Valuer to highlight any significant judgements or disagreements At 31 December 2018, there is a higher degree of subjectivity encountered during the valuation process.
It was satisfied that the in the valuation of the Groups UK destinations and retail procedures and methodologies used were appropriate.
The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors RICS of the Committee held a private meeting with the Valuer at which issued a notification in December 2018 highlighting the he discussed the valuation process and was able to satisfy himself structural change in the retail property market and directing that the process was independent and objective.
The Chair of the valuers to reference the widest range of available evidence Committee also held a private meeting with PwC to discuss its when assessing values.
review of the valuation process and its conclusions.
There is a higher degree of subjectivity in the valuation The Committee concluded that the valuation of the Groups of the Groups premium outlets as it requires judgement property portfolio had been carried out in an appropriate manner about future trading and operating performance and with reference to the widest range of available evidence and was discount rates.
therefore suitable for inclusion in the Groups financial statements.
Accounting for During the year the Group undertook a number of a disposals The Committee reviewed managements report explaining the significant and acquisitions.
The accounting treatment of these proposed accounting treatment for transactions completed transactions transactions is a recurring risk for the Group because of the during the year.
These included the sale of Highcross, Leicester, financial significance and complexity of such transactions.
Battery Retail Park, Birmingham, Wrekin Retail Park, Telford, Judgement is required to determine the transfer of risks Fife Central Retail Park, Kirkcaldy and Jeu fide Paume, Beauvais.
and rewards associated with each transaction and the The Committee reviewed and challenged the proposed appropriate disclosure requirements.
accounting treatments and was satisfied that the approach adopted was appropriate.
Presentation The Group uses a number of Alternative Performance Measures The Committee reviewed the disclosure and commentary in the of information APMs, being financial measures not specified under IFRS, to Annual Report including the relative prominence of APMs and monitor the performance of the business.
Management IFRS financial measures, and amendments to the presentation of principally reviews the Group on a proportionally consolidated segmental reporting to align with the Groups reshaped strategy.
basis, except for the Groups premium outlets investments.
The Committee was satisfied with the disclosures and reconciliations provided.
Judgement is required to ensure disclosures and associated commentary clearly explain the performance of the business and provide reconciliations to the IFRS financial statements.
See Note 1 to the Financial Statements on page 131. www.
