Nomination Committee report Securing skills and diversity on the Board The Committees key role is to ensure that the Board has the appropriate skills, knowledge and experience to operate effectively and deliver our strategy.
The Changes to the Board process is explained more fully on the Nomination Committee Following the Boards strategy review in the adjacent page.
Iam delighted that Carol will members first half of 2018 which you can read about be joining the Board.
She has an outstanding elsewhere, the Board determined that the track record in brand and marketing and will number of Executive Directors would be also bring her significant knowledge of David Tyler Chair reduced to two to achieve a more appropriate innovation and changing customer balance in line with governance best practice.
Pierre Bouchut behaviours to the Boards mix of skills The Board announced in July that Peter Cole andexperience.
Gwyn Burr and Jean-Philippe Mouton would step down from the Board on 31 December 2018.
During 2019, the Board intends to appoint Terry Duddy resigned Jean-Philippe Mouton will continue in his two further Non-Executive Directors, as 25 January 2019 role as Managing Director of the Groups explained below.
Russell Reynolds has Andrew Formica French business and leading Group beenappointed to facilitate and advise on marketing.
In addition, Peter Cole announced thesearch.
Judy Gibbons his intention to retire after 30years at Hammerson.
Terry Duddy stepped down as a Board balance and skills Non-Executive Director and Senior Dear Shareholders As it does annually, the Committee has Independent Director on 25 January 2019, also reviewed the composition and balance after serving nine years on the Board.
The I am pleased to present the Nomination of the Board in light of the changes described Committee report covering the work of the Committee considered a successor for Terry above.
As part of this review the Committee as Senior Independent Director and decided Committee in 2018.
This report should be considered: read in conjunction with the separate section that Gwyn Burr had the right mix of skills and experience for the role.
It recommended to on compliance with the UK Corporate Whether the balance between Executive Governance Code on pages 108 to 112. the Board her appointment as Senior and Non-Executive Directors was Independent Director and Gywn assumed the appropriate The Committees key role is to ensure that the role on 25January 2019.
The membership of the Committees Board has the appropriate skills, knowledge and experience to operate effectively and As mentioned in my introductory letter, The tenure of Directors Iwould like to record my personal thanks deliver our strategy.
It is responsible for A matrix of core skills and experience of reviewing the size, structure and composition to Peter Cole, Jean-Philippe Mouton and the Board to ensure the right balance of Terry Duddy, each of whom has made a huge of the Board and its Committees, making relevant skills, experience and knowledge recommendations about new appointments contribution to the Board and the execution Diversity on the Board of the strategy of the business.
and ensuring that appointment processes are The independence of the Non-Executive formal, rigorous and transparent.
During 2018, the Committee also focused Directors and confirmed that all remained its attention on selecting two potential independent new Non-Executive Directors to join the Following this review the Committee is satisfied Board.
This process led to the announcement that the Board continues to have an appropriate of the appointment of CarolWelch to the mix of skills and experience to fulfil its role 76 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Governance Nomination Committee report effectively.
However, in order to ensure orderly Each Director brings a range of relevant skills The skills and experience of the Directors are succession planning and a continuing broad gained in diverse business environments and summarised in Table 41. balance of diversity, skills and experience the an excellent track record gained through For further information see the Company intends to appoint two further working in a number of different sectors.
This Directors biographies on pages Non-Executive Directors during the course of enables the Directors to bring the benefit of 66 and 67.
2019, who will strengthen the support and varying perspectives to Board debate.
During constructive challenge of the Executive the year three Executive Directors served on Directors and oversight of the implementation external boards and one Non-Executive of Hammersons strategy.
Director held an executive director role.
Diversity The Boards Diversity policy recognises the benefits of diversity in its broadest sense and sets out the Boards ambitions and objectives regarding diversity at Board and senior management level.
It reflects the Boards view that in order to be effective a board must properly reflect the environment in which it operates and that diversity in the boardroom can have a positive effect on the quality of decision-making.
Aligned to the broad objectives the policy has a number of specific objectives.
The table below sets out the progress made in 2018 against the key policy objectives.
The policy can be read in full on the Groups website.
Table 40 Board Diversity policy objectives Progress update Ensure that Non-Executive candidate lists are drawn from a broad range The candidate list compiled for the recent Non-Executive Director of candidates including those who may not have listed company appointment met the criteria and resulted in the appointment of experience but who possess suitable skills and qualities CarolWelch to her first listed company board role Improve gender diversity at Board and senior management level by Following the appointment of Carol Welch to the Board and the resignation working to achieve at least one third women on the Board, the Group of Terry Duddy the percentage of female Directors on the Board will be Executive Committee GEC and direct reports to the GEC by 2020 37.5%.
Options continue to be considered to improve gender diversity on the GEC where only 8% of the members are female.
The Committee has monitored a number of recommendations for promotion amongst the direct reports to the GEC which have resulted in increased female representation at this level to 38% Encourage and monitor the development of talented employees The Committee received periodic updates from the Group HR Director on learning and career development opportunities for high-potential individuals.
Colleagues below management level attended and presented at Board meetings and the Board met colleagues at different levels of the business when visiting assets Oversee succession plans to ensure that they meet current and future Succession plans have been reviewed in light of opportunities to develop needs of the business high calibre employees and improve diversity Oversee plans for diversity and inclusion and assess progress annually The Committee has reviewed the progress of plans to improve diversity and inclusion.
For more information see the Our people section of the Annual Report on pages 41 to 43 Appointment of Carol Welch as a Non-Executive Director The Chair of the Board, assisted by the Experience of working at senior The Chair of the Board and the General Committee and the General Counsel and Executive Director level or equivalent Counsel and Company Secretary Company Secretary, led the process that reviewed a range of candidates following Diversity of gender, nationality and ethnic resulted in the appointment of Carol which a first shortlist was drawn up for origin should be reflected on anyshortlist Welch as a Non-Executive Director.
Key review and discussion by the Committee.
steps in the process are outlined below.
The Chair of the Board then met and The Committee discussed its recommended interviewed a number of candidates on list of executive search consultancy firms, At its June meeting the Committee bearing in mind the Boards Diversity policy this list and reviewed their respective discussed succession planning for skills and experience and the fit of each objective of only engaging search firms who Non-Executive Directors and it was have signed up to the voluntary code of candidate with the Boards candidate agreed that the following should form part profile.
conduct on gender diversity and best of the candidate brief to the executive practice.
The Committee agreed that Russell Members of the Committee then search consultancy firms: Reynolds should be appointed to facilitate interviewed the final shortlist of and advise on the search.
Russell Reynolds candidates and the Committee made a Relevant experience of some of the has no other connection with the Group, is recommendation to the Board.
following: luxury brands, accredited for the FTSE 350 category of the entertainment and hospitality, The Board approved the appointment Enhanced Voluntary Code of Conduct for experiential technology such as of Carol Welch with effect from 1March Executive Search Firms and has made a virtual reality and multichannel 2019. commitment to promoting diversity.
com 77 Nomination Committee report continued Table 41 Relevant skills and experience on the Board as at the AGM 2019 David David Timon Gwyn Pierre Andrew Judy Carol Tyler Atkins Drakesmith Burr Bouchut Formica Gibbons Welch Audit and risk management Finance, banking, financial services and fund management Mergers, acquisitions, investment and transactions Property, regeneration and development projects Retail Marketing Customer service, customer behaviours and digital technology Shareholder relations International business and markets Business transformation and innovation Executive Director Non-Executive Director successors for a large number of these roles The Committee reviewed plans for changes Succession planning and identifies candidates as potential to the membership of the GEC and plans to As in previous years the Committee spent time successors to roles in the longer term.
The improve diversity on the GEC in the near term.
during 2018 considering the important topic of Committee was satisfied that plans remain For further information about the succession planning across the business.
The sufficiently robust to enable vacancies to be members of the GEC can be found Committee received a paper on Executive filled on a shortto medium-term basis while on pages 68 to 69.
Director succession planning and reviewed taking account of the continuing need to plans for the development of a number of key consider gender diversity and meet the The Committee is confident that it has individuals with the potential to be considered objective of at least 33% female carried out its role effectively during the as candidates for either the role of Chief representation in the roles included in the year and its work will help to ensure that a Executive or Chief Financial Officer in the plan in less than three years.
The Committee strong pipeline of talented individuals is future.
It also reviewed plans for senior reviewed progress against this objective available to support the Company and meet individuals to broaden their roles by taking on which has been exceeded with 39.5% of senior its future business objectives and fulfil its Peter Coles responsibilities following his management roles having potential female strategic goals.
retirement and the decision not to appoint a successors identified within the timescale.
successor to Peter in the role of Chief For further information on Investment Officer.
Ialso kept closely in touch David Tyler diversity see the Our people with the Executive Directors and other Chair of the Nomination Committee section on page 42. members of the senior management team on The Committee acknowledges that in a matters of career development and succession.
business the size of Hammerson, it is not The Committee also considered the senior always possible to identify internal successors management succession plan which includes for all roles.
members of the GroupExecutive Committee GEC and all senior management roles in the business.
The plan identifies immediate Chart 42 Chart 43 Chart 44 Directors: gender split Non-Executive Directors: Directors: ages years of service Male: 5 62.5% 0-3 years: 1 17% 41-50: 2 25% Female: 3 37.5% 3-6 years: 2 33% 51-60: 3 37.5% 61-70: 3 37.5% 6-9 years: 3 50% As at 30 April 2019 78 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018
