NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Dear Shareholder The Board considers that having the Role of the Nomination Committee Having assumed the role of Chair of the appropriate range of high calibre Directors The Nomination Committee has overall Board and the Nomination Committee on is key to achieving the Groups strategic responsibility for leading the process February 2018, I am pleased to present obectives and to providing appropriate for new appointments to the Board and my first report.
I would like to thank my oversight of regulatory matters and other ensuring that these appointments bring predecessor, Mike Evans for his leadership risks facing the Group.
Achieving the right the required skills and experience to the of the Board over the past nine years and balance of skills, knowledge, experience Board.
As part of this, the Committee for his support in my recruitment following and diversity on the Board in the interests regularly reviews the structure, sie and on from his decision in May last year to of enhancing the Boards capabilities composition of the Board, with due regard step down from the Board.
I would also to deal with the growth of the business to skills, knowledge, experience and like to thank Christopher Barling for his and an ever changing regulatory diversity required.
The Committee leads valuable contribution to the process and environment in which it operates is the process for Board appointments, for his work as the Senior Independent of upmost importance.
re-election and succession of Directors Director SID.
and the Chair and is responsible for The Board has carried out an externally making recommendations to the Board The Nomination Committees main focus facilitated Board evaluation and concerning the composition and skills of this year has been on succession planning effectiveness review.
The review covered the Board including proposed appointees and the composition of the Board and a number of topics.
The Board will be to the Board and the membership of the its Committees.
The Chair, the SID and reviewing and implementing any actions Board Committees.
The Committees key the Committee led rigorous processes required from the evaluation in due course responsibilities, as set out in the Terms of in the year leading to my appointment over the coming year.
Reference are and that of two new Independent NonThe Nomination Committee has also Executive Directors, Fiona Clutterbuck Regularly assessing the structure, sie, reviewed the leadership needs of the and Roger Perkin who oined the Board on composition and diversity of the Board business and succession planning for 1 September 201.
There has also been a to ensure that it remains appropriate in Directors and other senior executives.
number of changes to the Chairmanship terms of its ability to meet the demands of the Committees in the year.
On and strategic obectives of the Group Further information on the activities of 1anuary 2018, Shirley Garrood was the Nomination Committee are provided Reviewing the time commitment appointed as Chair of the Risk Committee, in the following report.
expected of Non-Executive Directors succeeding Mike Evans who had stood and assessing their other commitments down, Fiona Clutterbuck was appointed to ensure that they continue to enable as Chair of the Remuneration Committee, them to fulfil their duties to the Deanna Oppenheimer succeeding Christopher Barling and Roger Group effectively Chair of the Nomination Committee Perkin was appointed as Chair of the Audit Committee, succeeding Shirley Garrood Reviewing the criteria, including the who had stood down as a member and skills and capabilities, for identifying Chair of the Committee.
Shirley Garrood and nominating candidates for was also appointed as the new SID, appointment to the Board and following on from Christopher Barling.
its Committees 90 ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 GOVERNANCE Considering succession planning Membership and attendance erie aciiie drin e for Board Directors and senior The membership of the Committee financial year management, taking into account the comprises of the Board Chair and all The chart below outlines how the opportunities, challenges and future Independent Non-Executive Directors.
committee has spent its time this year needs facing the Group Roger Perkin and Fiona Clutterbuck were appointed as members of the Committee 9 Evaluating annually the independence 8 on 1 September 201.
Mike Evans was of Non-Executive Directors 7 the Committee Chair until he stepped 1 down from the Board on February 2018.
Recommending the election and 6 Deanna Oppenheimer was appointed re-election of Board members at the as his successor on February 2018.
Annual General Meeting AGM and 5 Christopher Barling stepped down Board and committee effectiveness.
from the Board and the Committee on February 2018.
The Terms of Reference for the 4 Committee are available on the Groups The Company Secretary acts as website at www.
co. uk or can be Secretary to the Committee.
The 2 obtained from the Company Secretary.
Chief Executive Officer and the Chief People Officer attend by invitation as 3 required.
Other individuals attend at the request of the Nomination Committee 1.
Routine 1 Committee meetings through the year 3.
Executive succession planning 1 are set out in the table below.
NED recruitment 10 Member Position liile eein ended eein 5.
Election and re-election Deanna Oppenheimer Chair of Directors Christopher Barling Non-Executive Director 7.
Other Fiona Clutterbuck Non-Executive Director 8.
Diversity Shirley Garrood Non-Executive Director 9.
Report and Financial Statements Stephen Robertson Non-Executive Director During the year the Committee met three Roger Perkin Non-Executive Director times.
It also convened a sub-committee, ayne Styles Non-Executive Director led by the SID, Christopher Barling, Mike Evans resigned as Chair on February.
which met as necessary to focus on Deanna Oppenheimer was appointed Chair on February.
the appointment of a successor for the Resigned on February.
The Nomination Committee also considered the appointment of a new SID, following Christopher Barlings decision to step down from the Board on February 2018 and two new Non-Executive Directors, including successor Chairs of the Board Committees.
In discharging its duties the Committee engaged in the following activities during the year Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 91 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED eaderi and ccein lannin Appointment of the Chair Appointment of the SID The Committees main activity this year Following notification by Mike Evans of his Following the resignation of Christopher was leadership and succession planning intention to step down from the Board Barling as the SID of the Board, the leading to the appointment of a new last year, a process to recruit a new Chair Committee reviewed the skills and Chair following the announcement by commenced.
The Committee appointed experience of the remaining Independent Mike Evans of his intention to step down a sub-committee to oversee the process.
Non-Executive Directors and agreed from the Board on the appointment of a The sub-committee was chaired by the that Shirley Garrood, having served suitable successor.
The Board had also SID, Christopher Barling, with input from on the Board as an Independent Nonpreviously stated its intention to recruit the Chief Executive Officer who also Executive Director and Chair of the Audit two new Non-Executive Directors.
Details attended the sub-committee which Committee for a number of years, had of the process for both the recruitment met twice in the year.
An independent the requisite skills required to be the of the new Chair, Deanna Oppenheimer executive search agency, ygos Partners SID.
The Committee recommended her and two new Non-Executive Directors, were appointed in connection with the appointment as SID which was approved Fiona Clutterbuck and Roger Perkin are recruitment process.
The criteria for by the Board and commenced on set out below.
The Committee reviewed the role was agreed by the Committee February 2018. succession planning for both Executive who were assisted by ygos Partners in and Non-Executive Directors, taking into terms of formulating and agreeing key Committee chair appointments account the strategic obectives of the skills, experience, characteristics and The Committee, as part of the succession Group, its future needs and the level the Groups requirements for the role.
planning for the Board recommended of diversity.
ygos Partners then commenced an a number of Chair changes during the extensive search leading to a number of year.
As a result, on 1 anuary 2018, the candidates being considered for interview.
inen ne necie Board approved the appointment of Fiona A shortlist of suitable candidates was Directors Clutterbuck as Chair of the Remuneration agreed and formal interviews carried out The process for the appointment of the Committee and Roger Perkin as the Chair by Committee members and the Chief two new Independent Non-Executive of the Audit Committee succeeding Executive Officer.
Suitable due diligence Directors was led by the Chair, Mike Shirley Garrood who stepped down was also carried out by ygos Partners.
An independent executive search as a member and as Chair of the Audit Following the conclusion of a rigorous agency, Spencer Stuart Associated Committee.
Shirley Garrood was process, the Nomination Committee imited were appointed in connection appointed as Chair of the Risk Committee, recommended my appointment as with the recruitment process.
Selection also on 1 anuary 2018, succeeding Chair of the Group.
Following receipt of criteria, taking into account the balance Mike Evans who stepped down from regulatory approval from the FCA, the of skills, experience, knowledge, diversity the Committee.
Board formally approved my appointment and time commitments required for the as Chair of the Board and the Committee appointments, was agreed and a list of Board, size, composition and time on February 2018. candidates interviewed and shortlisted commitments first by Spencer Stuart.
Interviews were As part of the Board evaluation process, A comprehensive and structured then carried out by Committee members the Committee reviewed the sie and induction process has been provided and and the Chief Executive Officer.
Third composition of the Board, in particular the is still ongoing to ensure that, as Chair, stage interviews were carried out by Independent Non-Executive Directors, Ihave a full understanding of the Groups members of the Executive Committee.
to ensure that the balance of skills, business, its market environment, its After due consideration and following experience and knowledge continued to people and its culture.
Financial Conduct Authority FCA be appropriate for the Groups business.
approval of the suitable candidates, the The Committee also considered whether Committee recommended and, the Board additional skills and experience would be approved, the appointments of both needed to complement those already Fiona Clutterbuck and Roger Perkin on on the Board.
As part of this process, the 1September 201 A c. omprehensive Committee has identified, in addition to and structured induction process has the appointments already made during been provided.
the year, the need for at least one new ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 GOVERNANCE Independent Non-Executive Director.
eciene Time commitments expected of the Chair The Board has carried out an and the Independent Non-Executive  Board evaluation Directors were also reviewed and and effectiveness review.
The review confirmed as appropriate.
has covered a number of topics.
The Committee will be assisting the Board in reviewing and implementing any actions Diversity required from the evaluation in due course The Committee reviewed the Diversity over the coming year.
The Group is committed to improving diversity in its employees and whilst new appointments continue to be based on skill, experience Signed on behalf of and knowledge, careful consideration the Nomination Committee.
The Committee, when searching for candidates for Board appointments takes into account a Deanna Oppenheimer number of factors, including the benets Chair of the Nomination Committee of diversity, including gender diversity, and the balance of the composition of August 2018 the Board.
The overriding requirement is to ensure that recommendations for appointments are made on merit against obective criteria, and that the best candidates are put forward for Board appointments.
As at 0 une 2018, the Board numbered eight in total and I am pleased to confirm that female Directors constitute 50 of Board membership.
The Board is committed to ensuring it maintains a diverse workforce at all levels across the Group.
A copy of our full statement on Board Diversity can be found at www.
Election and re-election of Directors The Committee is satisfied that the Board continues to be effective and has recommended that each of the Directors should stand for election in the case of new Directors appointed in the year and re-election in the case of existing of all other Directors in accordance with provision B.. 1 of the Code at the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 93
