RISK COMMITTEE REPORT Dear Shareholder Role of the Risk Committee Overseeing the effectiveness of the risk On behalf of the Risk Committee I am The Risk Committee has responsibility management procedures, including please to present the Risk Committees for advising the Board on the Groups anti-money laundering AM, data report, my first as Chair since taking on overall risk appetite and strategy.
The protection, fraud, IT security, cyber the role on 1 anuary 2018.
Committee reviews the Groups risk risk, AIFMD and the principal risks and assessment processes and methodology uncertainties relating to the Group and The Committee reviews the Groups and its capability for identifying and the steps being taken to mitigate them risk environment and the adequacy and managing new risks, alongside advising effectiveness of the risk framework and Seeking to identify and assess future on proposed transactions and reviewing systems and processes infrastructure potential risks which, by virtue of reports on material breaches of risk to ensure it can sustain our growth their unfamiliarity, uncertainty and limits.
The Committee is also responsible and business obectives within our deemed low probability may not have for monitoring and reviewing the riskappetite whilst maintaining our been factored adequately into review effectiveness of the risk function and .
elsewhere within the Group the capital adequacy requirements of the Group on an ongoing basis.
The Over the period, the Committee has had Continuously monitoring the adequacy responsibilities of the Committee are set a number of challenging and valuable and effectiveness of the Groups risk out in its Terms of Reference, which are discussions with respect to key and management infrastructure and designed to assist the Board in discharging emerging risks and the risk profile of the Recommending to the Remuneration its responsibilities and include Group.
It has reviewed and approved Committee whether adustments to the Groups risk appetite statements Advising the Board on the Groups the Executive Directors remuneration and overseen and monitored the overall risk appetite, tolerance and are required taking into account the development of the risk infrastructure.
strategy, taking into account the current effectiveness of risk management and prospective macroeconomic and In addition the Committee has provided during the period.
financial environment input and oversight across a wide The Terms of Reference for the range of issues with particular focus Overseeing and advising the Board on Committee are available on the Groups on conduct risk, improvements to our the current risk exposures of the Group website at www.
co. uk or can be client protection and cyber control and future risk strategy obtained from the Company Secretary.
environment and enhancement to the risk management framework.
Consideration Advising the Board on the amount of has also been given to regulatory surplus regulatory capital that should be communications and the gender pay gap.
held commensurate with the Groups risk profile and regulatory obligations The Committee also approved and recommended the Hargreaves ansdown Oversight and delivery of the end to Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment end ICAAP process including debating Process ICAAP for Board approval on and challenging the Pillar 2 scenarios 1 February 2018. for the ICAAP, consideration and recommendation of stress tests to I will be available at the AGM to answer be analysed in the ICAAP, agreeing any questions about the work of appropriate management actions to theCommittee.
enhance the ICAAP process, reviewing and recommending to the Board the Groups ICAAP and wind down documents and capital requirement irley arrd Chair of the Risk Committee ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 GOVERNANCE After each meeting the Committee Chair until he stepped down as Chair on ain aciiie drin e year reports its findings to the Board, identifies 1 anuary 2018.
Roger Perkin and Fiona In discharging its responsibilities the matters for which action or improvement Clutterbuck were appointed as members Committee concentrated on the is needed, and recommends appropriate of the Committee on 1 September 201. followingareas steps.
However, the Board retains Shirley Garrood succeeded Mike Evans ultimate responsibility for the Groups as Risk Committee Chair on 1 anuary i rerin and ri rfile risk management, risk strategy and 2018.
Stephen Robertson and ayne The Committee received reports from determining an appropriate risk appetite.
Styles each served on the Risk Committee the CRO at each Committee meeting throughout the year.
Christopher Barling as well as reports from other areas of stepped down from the Board and the Committee Membership the business on request.
Regular topics Committee on February 2018.
The Risk Committee meets at least four of discussion have included conduct times each year.
The attendance by each risk and our conduct risk policy - risk The table below sets out individual Director is set out in the table below.
appetite and associated conduct risk key meeting attendance during the year Mike Evans was the Risk Committee risk indicators, escalations, reports with associated learnings and risk dashboards.
Member Position liile eein ended eein The Committee has challenged the Shirley Garrood Chair business where trends and data suggest Mike Evans Chair further action is required.
The Committee Christopher Barling Non-Executive Director believes the management of the risk Fiona Clutterbuck Non-Executive Director profile is given sufficient consideration and Roger Perkin Non-Executive Director that necessary action has been taken with Stephen Robertson Non-Executive Director appropriate governance and oversight.
ayne Styles Non-Executive Director erin ri Chair from anuary.
Emerging risks have been an agenda item Chair to anuary.
Stepped down from the Board on February.
at each Committee meeting during the oin ed as a member on September.
Papers have been submitted by the Executive Risk Committee covering a The Company Secretary acts as and Head of Internal Audit attended variety of emerging risks.
These matters secretary to the Risk Committee.
Other meetings to report to the Risk Committee have been discussed and challenged and individuals attend at the request of the and provide clarification and explanations the Committee has provided considered Risk Committee Chair and during the year where appropriate.
guidance on a variety of external emerging the Chair, Chief Executive Officer, Chief risks.
Topics which have been discussed During the year the Committee Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer CRO by the Committee include a number of considered the following Dear CEO letters from our regulator, Topic October February April June Bitcoin, complex products and the CRO report gender pay gap.
Risk Management Framework Risk appetite ICAAP Conduct risk and culture Fraud and cyber risk Operational risk IT proects Internal controls and risk management function Remuneration AM MRO reports Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 95 RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Fraud and cyber risk dae i raer and ernance The Committee is well aware of the The Committee has received a number The Committee has continued to industry exposure to both fraud and of reports from the MRO.
During the receive evidence of the improving Risk cyber risk, and this is reflected in the period the MROs focus has been on Management Framework, in particular the frequency with which they are discussed maintaining a strong control environment adoption of risk self-assessment, greater at the Committee.
During the period, the whilst pushing forward the developments function and team based risk reporting Committee has received regular updates that will improve Anti Money aundering and improvements to the conduct risk from the Head of Client Protection Treating Clients Fairly operational activity focused on client outcomes.
focused on enhancing existing practices.
New IT tools implemented have controls and reviewing and improved the control environment and enerain cee ernance mitigating emerging threats.
our ability to analyse our client profiles.
The Committee provided support and input to the Remuneration Committee by The Chief Information Security Officer Operations update reviewing a report from the CRO covering has provided regular updates on cyber The Committee has received reports the appropriateness and operation of security, including updates on the external from the Head of Operations at each remuneration schemes on the Groups Meltdown and Spectre issu es in Committee meeting.
Regular topics of risk profile.
anuary 2018. discussion included improvements to the control framework, client outcomes, i eeciene e iee a en i ie resource planning and training and During the year, the Committee has drin e year engagement of our operations teams.
overseen a range of improvements in Key improvement activity has included both the capacity, skills and experience 8 work with an external consultancy firm of the risk management team, and 7 on process efficiency and management the embeddedness of the framework.
6 training, the design and implementation 1 These measures have all increased the of a stronger process framework, which effectiveness of risk management.
The aligns to the Risk Management Framework Chair of the Committee has been in and the establishment of a first line risk regular contact with the CRO and Head 5 and control team focused on operations.
of Internal Audit throughout the year.
At its meeting in une 2018, the Committee ICAAP received and approved the annual reports 4 The Committee approved and on the adequacy and effectiveness of recommended for Board approval the Groups risk management process, 2 the Hargreaves ansdown ICAAP on risk function and the effectiveness of the 3 1February 2018.
Prior to the Committees internal control environment.
approval, separate ICAAP challenge and review sessions were run with both the Risk Committee Evaluation Board and the Executives.
Understanding The Board has carried out a 1.
Strategic and emerging risk the ICAAP and using it as an element comprehensive externally facilitated CRO report 0 of risk management challenge to the Board Evaluation review this year which 2.
ICAAP 1 business is integral to the Committee, has included a review of the performance 3.
Operations department 15 with specific agenda items dedicated 4.
Risk Framework, attestation, of the Risk Committee.
The Board is appetite 11 to the constituent elements including reviewing the results of the evaluation and 5.
AMM RO reports operational risk, liquidity management, will be implementing any actions required 6.
Other reverse stress testing, stress scenarios in due course over the coming year.
Conduct risk and culture 5 and wind down plans.
Fraud and cyber risk 5 ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 GOVERNANCE ririie r The priorities for the Risk Committee for 2018 1 include Continued development and embedding of the Risk Management framework Active monitoring and management of the risk profile and performance against our Risk Appetite ensuring alignment with our strategy.
Overseeing the evolution of the ICAAP model Reviewing, challenging and approving the 2018 ICAAP and Receiving and reviewing reports relating to any significant issues that require remedial action which arise in the period under review.
irley arrd Chair of the Risk Committee August 2018 Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 97
