CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ernance and leaderi Audit Committee Risk Committee Oversees financial reporting Reviews the design and BOARD The Board implementation of risk Monitors internal control The primary role of the Board COMMITTEES management framework is to provide leadership to the Monitors internal and Oversees and advises the Group, to set the Groups long term external auditors Board on the current risk strategic obectives and to develop exposures of the Group robust corporate governance and risk and future risk strategy management practices.
The Board delegates specific powers to some Oversees the delivery of committees, details of which are the Groups end to end set out below.
ICAAP process Investment Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Challenge and oversight Approves and monitors Recommends Board for the investment business the level and structure appointments of remuneration for Risk and compliance for Plans for executive the executives the Investment business succession Approves annual Board evaluation performance obectives for executives ecie i iee Implement the Risk Management EXECUTIVE Framework and oversee conduct of e ecie iee SUB-COMMITTEES business issues including fair outcomes ed by the Chief Executive, the for clients Executive Committee is responsible for developing the business and Oversee regulatory reporting and capital delivering against a Board approved requirements and the Financial Crime and CASS Committee strategy, putting in place effective Anti-Money aundering AM regime Responsible for overseeing our processes monitoring, control mechanisms and and controls over segregating client setting out a framework for reporting Define detailed risk appetite statement monies and safeguarding custody assets to the Board.
and limits and recommends to Board Risk Committee material risk appetite limits and statements Treasury Committee Defines and oversees the management of ie ecie clients and the Groups own cash balances Responsible for managing within the regulatory framework and the business of the Group in Groups risk appetite accordance with the strategy approved by the Board.
ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 GOVERNANCE eaderi reference of the committees, including r eniy ernance The Board considers that its primary role their obectives and the authority The Group has five FCA regulated is to provide leadership and challenge to delegated to them by the Board, are subsidiaries Hargreaves ansdown the Group, to approve the Groups longavailable upon request from the Company Advisory Services imited, Hargreaves term strategic obectives and to develop Secretary or via the Groups website ansdown Fund Managers imited, robust corporate governance and risk at www.
All committees have Hargreaves ansdown Asset management practices.
access to independent expert advice and Management imited, Hargreaves the services of the Company Secretary.
ansdown Stockbrokers imited and The Board has the ultimate responsibility The chair of each committee reports to Hargreaves ansdown Savings imited.
for ensuring that the Group is managed the Board.
The constitution and terms of These carry out the Groups financial effectively and in the best interests of reference of each committee are reviewed services business providing regulated the shareholders, clients, employees and annually to ensure that the committees products and services.
The Executive other stakeholders such as regulators.
The are operating effectively and any changes Directors and a number of senior Board operates within a formal schedule considered necessary are recommended executives from the senior management of matters reserved to it.
This schedule is to the Board for approval.
team serve as directors on these Boards.
reviewed and updated on a regular basis.
The Board meets regularly and provides The Board delegates daily management Board composition direction, oversight and detailed review responsibility for the Group to the Chief There is an appropriate combination of and challenge of the Groups business.
The Chief Executive Executive Directors and Non-Executive Officer has established an Executive A summary of matters reserved for the Directors on the Board such that no Committee which meets monthly.
The Board are set out below individual or small group of individuals can Executive Committee, reporting to the dominate Board decision-making.
As at 0 Chief Executive Officer, is responsible for Strategy and management une 2018, there were eight members of developing the business and delivering Financial reporting and controls the Board, the Non-Executive Chair, Chief against a strategy approved by the Board Structure and capital Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and for ensuring effective management Approval of the dividend and five Non-Executive Directors.
of day-to-day operations, risk and internal Oversight of regulatory compliance control mechanisms.
and internal control iin e ecie and ICAAP The Executive Committee has established necie irecr n e ard Corporate governance three reporting committees to assist Remuneration it with managing the Groups business.
1 Approval of communications to The Executive Risk Committee seeks shareholders to ensure risks are identified, assessed, Board membership and other managed and reported effectively.
appointments It is also responsible for overseeing Delegation of authorities and compliance with the regulatory capital Policies.
requirements under the Internal Capital 2 Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP The Board delegates specific powers for regime.
The CASS Committee is some matters to committees, details of 3 responsible for overseeing our processes which are set out below.
The outputs from and controls over segregating client each committee meeting are reported monies and safeguarding custody assets.
to the Board, thus ensuring the Board The Treasury Committees role is to maintains the necessary oversight.
More define and oversee the management of detail on the committees and their work client and the Groups own cash balances is described in the section headed Board 1.
Chair 1 within the regulatory framework and and Executive Committees below.
Executive Directors 2 Groups risk appetite.
Independent Non-Executive Directors 5 ard and ecie iee Each of these committees operates The Board has five Committees that under defined terms of reference with it delegates specific powers to Audit, clear responsibilities.
A table showing the Risk, Nomination, Remuneration and governance structure is set out under Investment.
The written terms of the leadership section of this report.
Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED ard cane circumstances which may affect their resources, culture and strategic matters.
There have been a number of changes to fitness and propriety and therefore their There is a comprehensive Board pack and the composition of the Board during the ability to continue to serve on the Board.
agenda which is circulated beforehand year as set out below giving Directors the opportunity to consider the issues to be discussed, and Sector eperience On 1 September 201, Fiona detailed minutes and any actions are Number of Clutterbuck and Roger Perkin were Directors documented.
The regular meetings are appointed as Non-Executive Directors.
ecie and scheduled up to a year in advance, and if necie any Director is unable to attend then they On F ebruary 2018, Christopher Barling erience and Chair may provide comments on the papers to resigned as a Non-Executive Director Company knowledge the Chair before the meeting.
Meetings and Senior Independent Director.
Industry knowledge are structured so that appropriate time Shirley Garrood succeeded Christopher Audit and Risk management is devoted to all agenda items.
In addition as Senior Independent Director.
Investment management to these regular, scheduled meetings, ad Strategy and business On Feb ruary 2018, Mike Evans hoc Board meetings may be held outside development resigned as Chairman and Nonthe published cycle where circumstances Operational management Executive Director and Deanna require for example, to approve Technology and digital focus Oppenheimer was appointed as appointments to the Board, any material Chair and Non-Executive Director.
transactions, the signing of the financial eein aendance and inrain report and accounts or the approval Appointments to the Board are the provided to the Board of regulatory submissions.
Meeting responsibility of the full Board, on the The Board holds meetings at regular attendance throughout the year is set recommendation of the Nomination intervals, at which the Groups financial out opposite Committee.
On oining the Board, Nonand business performance is reviewed, Executive Directors receive a formal along with risk, compliance, IT, human appointment letter, which sets out the time commitments expected of them.
Board attendance Directors Service agreements an d Non-Executive Director appointments Director Position liile eein ended eein letters are available for inspection Deanna Oppenheimer Chair during business hours at the Groups Mike Evans Chair registered office.
Chris Hill Executive Director Philip ohnson Executive Director 3 ard eerience Christopher Barling Non-Executive Director 4 The composition, skills and effectiveness Fiona Clutterbuck Non-Executive Director of the Board are reviewed annually.
The Shirley Garrood Non-Executive Director 4 Non-Executive Directors have strong and Roger Perkin Non-Executive Director relevant experience across all aspects of Stephen Robertson Non-Executive Director financial services.
The Board ensures a ayne Styles Non-Executive Director diverse pool of candidates is considered A ppointed as Chair on February for any vacancy which arises and any Resigned as Chair on February appointments are made based on merit, R esigned on February A ppointed on September having regard to the skills, competencies and experience of the candidate.
All Directors are required to disclose to the Board any outside interests which may pose a conflict with their duty to act in the best interests of the Company.
The Board is required to approve any actual or potential conflicts of interest and they are recorded in a central register.
Directors are also required, on an annual basis, to confirm that they are not aware of any ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 GOVERNANCE Board allocation of time Roles and responsibilities e role o te ie ectie cer During the year the Board has devoted air and ie ecie cer The Chief Executive Officer, Chris Hill, significant time to considering The roles of the Chair and the Chief is the Executive responsible for the Executive Officer are separate, clearly day-to-day running of the business Business and financial performance defined in writing and have been agreed and is accountable to the Board for its including a three year operating plan by the Board.
Strategy The key responsibilities of the Chief Risk management framework and Executive are e role o te air corporate governance The Chair, Deanna Oppenheimer, is Capital and liquidity adequacy ead the senior management team in responsible for leadership of the Board, Regulatory developments in particular the day to day running of the Groups ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects the Senior Mangers Regime business in accordance with Board of its role as well as being responsible Corporate development Opportunities approved strategic obectives for its governance.
She sets the tone Information Security for the Group and ensures that the links Chair the Executive Committee and The control environment and between the Board and management communicating its decisions and Pro ects and IT investment.
She sets the recommendations to the Board Board agenda and ensures that sufficient ie en n e ae aciiie To review the operational performance time is allocated to important matters.
drin e financial y ear and strategic direction of the The key responsibilities of the Chair are Groups business 7 Chair the Board and the Nomination To ensure that appropriate systems of 6 Committee internal controls and risk management are in place and operating in accordance 5 1 ead ership of the Board, ensuring its with the Groups risk profile as approved effectiveness on all aspects of its role by the Board and and setting its agenda Together with the Chair, provide Ensure that the directors receive coherent leadership of the Group.
4 accurate, timely and clear information Ensure effective communication with Senior ndependent irector shareholders and other stakeholders The Senior Independent Director, Shirley Garrood, provides a sounding board for 2 Facilitate the effective contribution of 3 the Chair and serves as an intermediary non-executive directors and ensuring for the other Directors when necessary.
constructive relations between She is available to shareholders if they executive and non-executive directors have concerns, when the normal channels and of Chair, Chief Executive Officer or other 1.
Committee updates 0 Executive Directors have failed to resolve, Act on the results of the Board 2.
CEO report and business update 20 or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Finance and operations 18 the strengths and addressing the 4.
Risk, compliance and regulatory 12 weaknesses of the Board and, where 5.
Strategy 10 appropriate, proposing new members 6.
Brand values and culture be appointed to the Board or seeking 7.
Board effectiveness the resignation of Directors.
Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The key responsibilities of the Senior Board balance, independence excluding the Chair, should comprise Independent Director are and time commitment Non-Executive Directors determined by The Board comprises individuals with the Board to be independent.
The NonChair the Nomination Committee when wide business skills and experience Executive Directors are considered to considering the succession of the Chair and considers that the balance of be of sufficient calibre and experience to of the Board skills and experience is appropriate bring significant influence to bear on the to the requirements of the business.
Meet with other Non-Executive The Board considers that the balance Directors to appraise the Chairs The terms of appointment of the Nonbetween Executive and Non-Executive performance and Executive Directors specify the amount Directors allows it to exercise obectivity of time they are expected to devote to the Provide feedback to the Board on in decision making and proper control Companys business.
They are currently the Independent Non-Executive of the Companys business.
Each required to commit to 25 days per annum Directors views.
member of the Board has had access which is calculated based on the time to all information relating to the Group, required to prepare for and attend Board onectie irectors the advice and services of the Company and Committee meetings, meetings with The Non-Executive Directors are Secretary who is responsible for ensuring shareholders and training.
independent of management and are that Board procedures are followed considered by the Board to be free from and, as required, external advice at the nic inere any business or other relationships which expense of the Group.
All Directors have a duty to avoid could compromise their independence.
The Board has reviewed its structure, situations that may give rise to a conflict of Their role is to advise and challenge sie and composition together with interest.
Formal procedures are in place to management, along with monitoring their an evaluation of the Boards balance deal with any conflict of interest.
Directors success in delivering the agreed strategy of skills, knowledge and experience are responsible for notifying the Chair and within the risk appetite and control the membership of the various Board the Company Secretary as soon as they framework set by the Board.
They are also committees and the expected time become aware of any actual or potential responsible for determining appropriate commitment and the policy for conflict of interest for discussion by the levels of remuneration for the appointments for Executive and Nonmembers of the Board.
They will take Executive Directors.
Executive Directors throughout the year.
into account the circumstances of the conflict when deciding whether or not ompan Secretar The Directors aim is to ensure that to waive the potential conflict or impose All Directors have access to the services the balance between Non-Executive conditions on the Director in the interests of the Company Secretary in relation Directors and Executive Directors of the of the Company.
In addition, Directors are to the discharge of their duties.
The Board reflects the changing needs of the required to declare any new appointments Company Secretary is responsible for Groups business.
working with the Chair to develop Board On her appointment as Chair, Deanna and Committee agendas and to ensure Oppenheimer, satisfied the independence Induction and professional development that all Board procedures are complied criteria as set out in the Code.
On appointment, all new Directors receive with.
She also advises the Board on a comprehensive and tailored induction, corporate governance matters and The Board has reviewed the having regard to any previous experience applicable rules and relevant regulatory independence of each of the Nonthey may have as a director of a public matters.
In addition she supports Executive Directors that have served company or otherwise.
the Chair in the design and delivery on the Board during the financial year of the Non-Executive Director and concluded that Fiona Clutterbuck, The Board receives detailed reports induction programme.
Shirley Garrood, Roger Perkin, ayne from executive management on the Styles and Stephen Robertson are performance of the Group at its Board The Company Secretary is also the independent.
In addition they concluded meetings and other information as secretary for all the Board committees.
that Christopher Barling was independent necessary.
Updates are provided on The removal and appointment of the until he stepped down from the Board relevant legal, corporate governance Company Secretary is a matter reserved on February 2018.
As such, together and financial reporting developments.
The Board also obtains with the two Executive Directors, Chris advice from professional advisers as and An ongoing programme of training is Hill and Philip ohnson, the Board, during when required.
available to all members of the Board the financial year, has satisfied the Code to include internal online training and requirements that at least half the Board, ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 GOVERNANCE bespoke Board training on relevant topics en enre neD c irec t i or e e lection and re-election such as ICAAP, regulatory developments, Directors and Chair All Directors appointed by the Board are products and services of the business, required by the Companys Articles of GDPR and a number of other relevant Association and the Code to be elected 3 topics as required.
Directors are also by shareholders at the first AGM following encouraged to devote an element of their appointment.
Accordingly Deanna their time to self-development.
This is Oppenheimer is seeking election.
The in addition to any guidance that may be Code also requires that all other serving given from time to time from the Directors will seek re-election at the Company Secretary.
The Companys Articles of 2 Association also states that all Directors are subect to election at every Annual Board diversity General Meeting.
The Board explains the Diversity and inclusion are key priorities 1 reasons why it believes each Director for the Group.
Information on the Groups should be elected or re-elected in the approach to diversity and inclusion and Notice of Meeting for the next Annual Board appointments can be found in General Meeting.
The Board believes the Nomination Committee report and that their performance continues to be the Strategic report.
0- ye ars 5 effective and that their election is also on the Board is also taken into account 2.
- y ae rs 2 consistent with the Boards evaluation of when recruiting new Board members 3.
- y ae rs 1 the sie, structure and composition o f which is reflected in the Boards current the Board.
composition which is currently 50 male and 50 female in its membership.
ard eeciene naeen i aelder In line with the requirements of the Code The Board considers active ccein lannin and under the direction of the Chair, the engagement with its key stakeholders The Board uses succession planning to Board carried out an externally facilitated to be fundamental to the business.
The ensure that it has the necessary skills, Board evaluation and effectiveness Strategic Report sets out in more detail knowledge and expertise in place to review.
The process involved interviews how we engage with key stakeholders deliver the Groups strategy, and that it with each individual director, Board and including our employees, clients, investors has the right balance of individuals to be Committee observation, paper review and communities.
able to discharge its responsibilities.
The and open Board discussion on the Board regularly reviews its composition The Board recognises the importance of findings.
The review covered a number of to enable it to maintain its balance of maintaining good communication with topics - governance, board composition, skills and experience.
Any searches for our shareholders.
The Company has a board skills, diversity, dynamics and Board candidates, and appointments programme of communication based operation, succession planning as made, are based upon merit against on the financial reporting calendar which well as committee composition and obective criteria.
The Nomination includes the interim and annual reports, effectiveness.
The Board will be reviewing Committee has specific responsibility for trading updates, the Annual General and implementing any actions required the appointment of Non-Executive and Meeting and the Investor Relations from the evaluation in due course over the Executive Directors and it recommends section of the corporate website at coming year.
new appointments to the Board.
The Report and Financial regularly reviews the structure, sie and Statements are an important medium for composition required of the Board and communicating with shareholders, setting makes recommendations to the Board out detailed reviews of the business and as appropriate.
More information its future developments in the Chairs can be found in the Nomination statement, the Chief Executive Officers Committee report.
review and the Strategic report.
Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED In addition to this, the Chief Executive the Risk and Compliance functions the year ended 0 une 2018 and up to Officer and Chief Financial Officer as well as from Financial Promotions, the date of approval of the Report and meet with institutional investors after Compliance Monitoring, Client Protection, Financial Statements.
results announcements, upon request Financial Crime and Data Protection In the opinion of the Board, the Groups or on an ad hoc basis during the year, teams.
Independent oversight of the control framework is adequate and has including attendance at various investor internal controls of the business is the continued to be improved through the conferences.
They, together with the responsibility of the third line, the Internal period 1 uly 201 to 0 une 2018.
Company Secretary and Head of Investor Audit function.
Relations, also provide a point of contact The Internal Audit function reports for investors who wish to raise questions, to the Audit Committee, to ensure its queries or concerns.
independence from the business and First line Following dialogue with individual is subect to an external effectiveness of defence Operational institutional shareholders, the Chair, review on a periodic basis.
teams Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Both the Internal Audit function and the Financial Officer all ensure that the Board Compliance Monitoring team perform a is fully briefed on shareholders views number of audits and reviews during the such that any issues or concerns are fully Second line year covering the adequacy of controls of defence understood and considered.
Analyst and Compliance & Risk and compliance with regulation.
Results broker briefings are regularly provided to from these assurance activities are the Board.
reported to the Executive Committee and In addition, the Groups brokers sought the Board and are shared with the relevant feedback from investors following the operational teams who are responsible for Third line of defence 201 final and 2018 interim results, and taking mitigating actions.
The progress Internal Audit this feedback was reported to the Board.
against these actions is monitored and reported on by Internal Audit and Compliance Monitoring respectively.
Relationship with major shareholder There is a Relationship Agreement The Board considers acceptance of in place between Peter Hargreaves appropriate risks to be an integral part Compliance with the UK Corporate and the Company to ensure that the of business and unacceptable levels ernance fide independence provisions as set out in of risk are avoided or reduced.
Some The Directors consider that the the isting Rules are complied with.
The activity is outsourced to a third party, Company has been in compliance with the terms of the agreement have been fully but Hargreaves ansdown recognises provisions set out in the Code throughout complied with during the year.
that it retains responsibility for the the financial year ended 0 une 2018. associated risks, which are managed Internal controls The Board confirms that it believes through robust outsourced activity The Board is responsible for the Groups the Report and Financial Statements oversight processes.
The Board carries system of internal controls and for taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and out a review of the effectiveness of the reviewing its effectiveness.
The internal understandable and provide information Groups risk management and internal control environment is designed to necessary for shareholders to assess the control environment and these reviews mitigate, not eliminate risk and is reviewed position and peformance, business model are supported on an ongoing basis by the during the course of the year by Internal and strategy.
work of the Audit and Risk Committees.
The methods for reviewing the The CRO also prepares a report on the effectiveness of the control environment design and operating effectiveness of provide the Group with assurance against the system of internal controls and this losses and material errors.
is presented to both the Risk and Audit Committees annually.
The Internal Control Framework follows the three lines of defence model.
Risk The Board believe that the ongoing management is the responsibility of process for identifying, evaluating and the operational teams which constitute managing principal risks to achieving the first line.
Oversight and guidance the Groups strategic obectives works is provided by the second line through effectively.
The process was in place for ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018
