GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Dear Shareholder Role of the Audit Committee Reviewing the statements to be I am pleased to present my first report as The role of the Audit Committee is included in the Report and Chair of the Audit Committee, a role which to assist the Board in discharging its Financial Statements concerning I assumed on 1 anuary 2018, having duties and responsibilities for financial internal controls succeeded Shirley Garrood, who was reporting, corporate governance and Monitoring and reviewing the appointed as Risk Committee Chair.
The Committee is effectiveness of the Groups Internal Clutterbuck also oined the Committee as also primarily responsible for making Audit function a member replacing Christopher Barling recommendations to the Board in relation who stepped down from the Board on to the appointment, re-appointment and Reviewing and monitoring the External February 2018. removal of the External Auditor and to Auditors independence and obectivity approve their remuneration and terms of and the effectiveness of the audit It has been a busy year for the Audit engagement.
The Committees duties process, taking into consideration Committee during which we have include keeping under review the scope relevant UK professional and continued to work closely with the and results of the external audit work, its regulatory requirements Risk Committee to ensure the Group cost effectiveness and the independence maintains a robust control environment.
Making recommendations to the and obectivity of the External Auditor.
We have worked with the new Head of Board, for a resolution to be put to The Committee also monitors the volume Internal Audit, who oined the Group the shareholders for their approval and nature of non-audit services provided in November 201, and overseen the in general meetings in relation to by the External Auditor.
Groups enhancements to its Internal the appointment or removal of the Audit regime.
We have also monitored the The Committees responsibilities are set External Auditor and the approval integrity of the financial reporting process out in its Terms of Reference, which are of the remuneration and terms of and reviewed the work of both External designed to help the Board in discharging engagement of the External and Internal Audit.
We have overseen the its responsibilities for Auditor and on-going enhancements of the CASS Monitoring the financial reporting Overseeing the Groups environment and compliance with the process including the integrity of procedures for public interest FRCs CASS audit standard.
the Groups Report and Financial disclosure whistleblowing.
As Chair of the Audit Committee, I am Statements, interim financial The Terms of Reference for the pleased to present this report and I will be statements, trading updates and any Committee are available on the Groups available at the Annual General Meeting other formal announcements relating website at www.
co. uk or can be to answer any questions about our work to financial performance obtained from the Company Secretary.
Reviewing the consistency and continuing appropriateness of the Audit Committee membership er erin Groups accounting policies The Committee meets at least five Chair of the Audit Committee times each year.
The attendance by each Ensuring that the Groups Report Director is set out in the table opposite.
and Financial Statements, taken as a Shirley Garrood was the Committee whole, is fair, balanced, understandable Chair until she stepped down from and provides shareholders with the the Committee on 1 anuary 2018. information necessary to assess the Roger Perkin and Fiona Clutterbuck Groups position and performance, were appointed as members of the business model and strategy Committee on 1 September 201.
Roger Reviewing and making recommendations Perkin succeeded Shirley Garrood as the to the Board regarding the Groups Committee Chair on 1 anuary 2018. viability statement Stephen Robertson and ayne Styles each served on the Committee throughout the Reviewing the Groups internal financial year.
Christopher Barling stepped down controls and the Groups internal from the Board and the Committee on control systems February 2018.
Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The Committee believes that it has The members of the Committee at 0 une 2018 and attendees at the relevant five satisfied the UK Corporate Governance Committee meetings held during the 12 month period were Code requirement to have members with Member Position liile eein ended eein industry experience and considers Roger Roger Perkin Chair Perkin, ayne Styles and Fiona Clutterbuck Shirley Garrood Chair to have significant experience of the 3 Christopher Barling Non-Executive Director asset management sector and wider 4 Fiona Clutterbuck Non-Executive Director financial services industry.
The Corporate Stephen Robertson Non-Executive Director Governance Code also requires at least ayne Styles Non-Executive Director one member to have recent and relevant financial experience this requirement M ember from September and Chair from anuary.
was fulfilled by the previous Committee Chair and member of the Committee to anuary.
Chair Shirley Garrood and has continued Member of the Committee from September.
to be fulfilled by the current Committee Chair, Roger Perkin.
Membership of During the year the Committee considered the following topics in their meetings the Committee is regularly reviewed by the Committee Chair with any Topic October February April June recommendations for appointments Financial reporting being made for consideration to the Significant Issues and udgements Nomination Committee prior to Board CASS approval.
Appointments are made for a Internal controls three-year period and can be extended Internal Audit for no more than two additional External Audit three-year periods.
Tax strategy Whistleblowing The Company Secretary acts as secretary Compliance monitoring to the Committee.
Other individuals attend at the request of the Committee Chair and during the year the Group Chair, Chief Financial Officer and Head of Internal Audit would usually attend the meeting.
The External Auditor also attended all meetings.
The Committee inancial rerin Monitoring the integrity of the Groups also meets privately with the Head of Financial statements financial statements and a review of Internal Audit and the External Audit team The Committee has reviewed and the significant accounting policies at least once a year.
discussed the financial disclosures Reviewing and reporting to the made in the Report and Financial Ongoing training is provided to help Board on significant financial issues Statements and Interim Statements, Committee members perform their and udgements and challenging made by the Group together with any duties.
This may include attendance at management where necessary on related management letters, letters of formal conferences, briefings by specialist those estimates and udgements representation and reports from the Hargreaves ansdown staff and briefings External Auditor.
Significant financial Reviewing the Report and Financial by external accountancy firms.
The reporting issues and udgements were Statements, advising the Board Committee has access to the services of considered together with any significant on whether, taken as a whole, the the Company Secretary and is authorised accounting policies and changes statements are fair, balanced and to obtain independent professional advice proposed to them.
Key duties in this understandable and if it considers it necessary.
regard have included Assessing and challenging the going concern and viability assessment undertaken by management.
ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 GOVERNANCE erie aciiie drin ncome reconition ssessment o iailit Statement e financial year The Groups revenue stream continues The Committee has assessed the viability During the year the Audit Committee to be non-complex, mainly consisting of the Group over the three year period discharged its responsibilities by of high-volume, low-value transactions.
to une 2021 on behalf of the Board.
It performing the following activities The Committee has been provided with has also reviewed the statements made and considered a range of management in the Report and Financial Statements information and details regarding to ensure they comply with disclosure 6 reconciliations carried out on cash, stock, requirements.
Details of the assessment 5 client money and client assets through can be found in the risk management 1 its CASS oversight, which have provided and the principal risks and uncertainties confidence in the revenue calculation.
section of the Strategic report.
4 The Committee has also received reports from Internal Audit on the client charging Sareased paments process.
Further confidence has been The Committee reviewed the key provided by the External Auditor from assumptions used for the valuation their approach to fully recalculating the of options relevant to the Companys Groups significant revenue streams.
share-based incentive schemes and the Sample-based testing is also conducted 3 performance period over which fair values 2 for those revenue streams not are amortised.
It also ensured these were fully recalculated.
all appropriately accounted for in the 2018 Report and Financial Statements.
Financial reporting 28 The Group continues to invest in the a raey 2.
Internal Audit 25 Active Savings proposition, which The Committee has reviewed and 3.
The Group approved the Groups tax strategy noting 4.
External Audit 12 expects there to be a long-term economic the Groups low appetite for tax risk or 5.
Internal controls 8 benefit and, as such, the Committee has planning in accordance with the Finance 6.
Other reviewed and agreed the appropriate Act 201.
This has been made publicly accounting treatment for capitalising available on the Company website.
For the year to 0 une 2018,. million 201. m Fair, balanced and understandable has been capitalised in respect of the The Committee considered on behalf cc nin fide en Active Savings platform.
The Committee of the Board whether the Report and and inificanie reviewed and approved an updated Financial Statements for the year ended Sinicant dements capitilisation policy which ensures 0 une 2018, taken as a whole, are In reviewing the Report and Financial consistent treatment across development fair, balanced and understandable, and Statements, the Committee proects in the UK and Poland.
whether the disclosures are appropriate.
hasconcluded that there are no The Committee is satisfied that the significantfinancial udgements.
oodill Report and Financial Statements meets Aspartofits review, the Committee The statement of financial position this requirement, and in particular, that considered the following areas shows 1. million of goodwill relating to appropriate disclosure has been made the acquisition of shares in H Pensions with respect to any developments in Direct now called H Advisory Services.
In ustifying this statement, the In accordance with IAS, an annual test Committee has considered the robust of impairment of goodwill was undertaken procedures around the preparation, and the Committee reviewed the results review and challenge of the Report and which demonstrated that no impairment the consistency of the narrative sections was required.
The Report is drafted by the Executive with overall Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED governance and co-ordination provided by Reviewed the adequacy of the CASS In satisfying its duties to monitor and the Chief Financial Officer.
Assurances are controls and assurance reports review the effectiveness of the Groups sought by the Committee on each section provided by Finance, the CASS Internal Audit function, the Committee of the Report in advance of the final sign oversight team, Internal Audit and has reviewed and approved the terms of off by the Committee andultimately the External Auditor.
The Committee the Internal Audit function as set out in theBoard.
challenged the key executives on the the Internal Audit Charter, the annual audit content and veracity of those reports.
plan and internal audit methodology for Following its review, the Committee is Overall, the Committee is satisfied that Internal Audit and has monitored progress satisfied that the Report and Financial there are appropriate arrangements, against the plan during the year.
Internal Statements are fair, balanced and actions or mitigating controls in Audit carried out a significant number understandable, and provides the place and of audits during the year of varying information necessary for shareholders sie and complexity.
Audit reports are and other stakeholders to assess the Reviewed an assessment of the circulated to the Committee members Groups position and performance and effectiveness of the Groups fraud risk prior to each scheduled meeting and the has advised the Board accordingly.
controls, IT risk controls and compliance Committee monitors progress against monitoring reports.
actions identified in these reports and nernal cnrl and ri anaeen the External Auditors management Overall, the Committee is satisfied that Together with the Risk Committee, the letter.
The Committee has established a there are appropriate arrangements, Audit Committee provides independent questionnaire based procedure to monitor actions or mitigating controls in place.
and obective assurance on risks and and review Internal Audits effectiveness On behalf of the Board, the Committee controls to the Board.
The Groups system using feedback from the Board and senior confirms that through discharging of internal control and risk management management.
The Committee also its responsibilities under its Terms of is designed to manage rather than assesses annually the resources Internal Reference and also by undertaking eliminate risk of failure to achieve the Audit has to complete its remit including regular reviews of the effectiveness of the Groups obectives and can only provide co-source arrangements in place Groups system of internal control it is able reasonable and not absolute assurance enabling Internal Audit to commission the to confirm that necessary actions have against material misstatement or loss.
support of subect matter and technical been or are being taken to remedy In satisfying the requirements to ensure experts where needed.
Internal Audit any significant failings or material that the Group has adequate systems of has unrestricted access to all Group weaknesses identified.
control and risk management, and taking documentation, premises, functions into account the assurance provided by andemployees as required to enable it to Internal Audit the Risk and Internal Audit functions, the perform its functions.
The appointment Internal Audits work is focused on areas of Committee has and removal of the Head of Internal Audit greatest risk to the Group, as determined is the responsibility of the Committee.
Reviewed the adequacy and by a structured risk assessment process effectiveness of internal controls, involving Executive Directors and senior The Committee has assessed the financial reporting and risk management management.
The role of the Internal effectiveness of Internal Audit and is Audit department and the scope of its satisfied with its performance, progress Reviewed management responsiveness work continues to evolve taking into and effectiveness during the year.
to addressing control weaknesses account changes within the business and emerging best practice.
The Head Reviewed and approved the internal of Internal Audit attends the Committee control and risk management meetings and meets at least annually statements in the Report and with the Committee without executive Financial Statements management present.
ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 GOVERNANCE ernal di Non-audit fees enre e eernal adir The Committee has responsibility The External Auditor provides some The Group appointed PwC as the for overseeing the relationship with non-audit services, primarily in the External Auditor, following a tender the External Auditor and has done so provision of regulatory assurance and process in 201.
Alex Bertolotti was the throughout the year.
Inorder to ensure that auditor lead audit partner throughout the financial in satisfying its duties, has obectivityand independence are year.
In line with the EU audit regulation safeguarded the following controls have requirements, Hargreaves ansdown Approved the External Auditor been implemented will be required to undertake a formal engagement letter, audit fee and audit tender process at least every ten years plan including levels of materiality A formal policy on the use of the and hence this will be required by 202.
In External Auditor for non-audit work has addition, the Senior Engagement Partner Approved the External Auditor been agreed by the Committee This is required to be replaced every five management letter ensures that work would usually only years in accordance with the regulation.
be awarded when, by virtue of the Received regular detailed reports from The current lead audit partner has held External Auditors knowledge, the External Auditor including a formal the position for three years.
The Group skillsor experience, the Externa l written report dealing with the audit has complied with the provisions of the Auditoris clearly preferred ove r obectives the auditors qualifications, Competition Markets Authority Order alternative suppliers expertise and resources effectiveness 201 throughout the year under review of the audit process procedures and and as at the date of this report.
The Audit The Committee receives and reviews an policies for maintaining independence Committee has therefore recommended analysis of all non-audit work awarded to and compliance with the ethical to the Board that a resolution is put to the External Auditor over the financial standards issued by the Auditing shareholders recommending PwCs period and Practices Board reappointment and their terms of The Committee receives a report engagement and remuneration at the Reviewed the findings of the from the External Auditor as to any AGM of the Company.
This will continue External Auditor and considered matters that it considers bear on its to be assessed on an annual basis.
The managements response independence and which need to be External Auditor will be asked to attend disclosed to the Committee.
Monitored and confirmed the the Annual General Meeting and will obectivity and independence of the be available to answer shareholders The Committee confirms that the External Auditor questions about the audit and their report.
proportion of non-audit to audit fees for the year was 201 0 which Met with the External Auditor without ilelin remains within the limits set in our policy management present The Whistleblowing policy and procedure for external auditor independence, a copy Monitored the latest ethical guidance for staff to raise issues regarding of which can be found on our website.
regarding rotation of audit partners and possible improprieties in matters of There were 2,82 of non-audit fees financial reporting or other matters Agreed the policy for the provision of for 2018 20121, 5.
15,18 of was reviewed during the year.
this amount related to the FCA-mandated Committee is responsible for monitoring assurance reporting of subsidiaries The Committee also assessed the the effectiveness of the Groups regulated under the CASS rules 201 effectiveness of the External Auditor and whistleblowing procedures and any 185,000 which are excluded from the the audit process.
The review included notifications made.
The Committee is above calculation.
000 related to the seeking the views of Committee members, charged with ensuring that appropriate profit-verification work to enable payment Executives and senior managers.
The arrangements are in place for employees of dividends in line with the established review concluded that the external audit to be able to raise matters of possible timetable 201, 000 and 2,000 process was effective.
The Committee impropriety in confidence and performing related to the interim review 201 is satisfied with the performance of suitable subsequent follow-up action.
11 relates to fees for the the External Auditor during the year Analternative reporting channel also non-statutory audit of H Tech 201 nil and the policies and procedures in exists whereby perceived wrongdoing and 5,150 for the non-statutory audits of place to maintain their obectivity and may be reported via telephone to an the two H Trusts 201 5,000.
12,000 independence, and has recommended external third party.
of additional services were provided 201 that they be re-appointed at the 2,000.
Fees for the statutory audit for forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Audit Committee Evaluation The Board has carried out a comprehensive externally facilitated Board Evaluation review this year which has included a review of the performance of the Audit Committee.
The Board is reviewing the results of the evaluation and will be implementing any actions required in due course over the coming year.
di iee ririie r ooking ahead to 2018 1, in addition to the normal routine audit schedule, there will be additional focus on Planning for IFRS, IFRS15 and IFRS1 Review of the inaugural audit of H Tech Appraisal of internal financial systems and controls Evaluation of direct and indirect tax administration and Consider possible impacts of Brexit on financial reporting and audit.
Signed on behalf of the Audit Committee er erin Chair of the Audit Committee August 2018 ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018
