68 | Corporate governance Corporate governance The role of the Board The respective Boards of Directors of the Groups regulated entities are responsible to the UKs Financial Conduct The Board is the main decision-making body of the Company.
Authority FCA and the Gibraltar Financial Services It provides leadership within a framework of prudent and Commission GFSC for ensuring compliance with each effective controls enabling risk to be assessed and managed.
entitys regulatory obligations and that dealings with the It also carries ultimate responsibility for the effective direction FCA and GFSC are handled in a constructive, co-operative and control of the Group and is accountable to shareholders and transparent manner.
for financial and operational performance.
There is a clear Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board, together with delegated authorities to Board Committees and management.
Board and Committee evaluation Executive and Non-Executive Directors have the same In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code statutory duties but are subject to a clear division of Code this years annual Board and Committee responsibilities.
It is the responsibility of the Chair to lead and evaluation was facilitated externally.
manage the Board and for Non-Executive Directors to monitor, review and challenge Executive Directors and senior 1 Facilitator: Grant Thornton UK LLP management by acting in the interest of the Companys Evaluation period: January to November 2018 stakeholders.
The overall responsibility for the day to day Evaluation undertaken: October and November 2018 management of the Group is delegated to the Chief Executive Results presented to the Board and Committees: Officer.
The Chief Executive Officer is supported in this role by January 2019 senior executive management responsible for management Board evaluation: All Directors with the exception of oversight of the Group and its subsidiaries.
The roles and Libby Chambers who only joined the Board in September responsibilities of the Chair, Chief Executive Officer and Senior this year Independent Director are clearly defined and allocated.
These Committees: Committee members only responsibilities are set out in writing and are available on the Group Secretariat evaluation: All Directors with the Groups website.
exception of Libby Chambers who only joined the Board in September this year All Directors receive an induction on joining the Board which is tailored to the individual needs of each Director: where a Evaluation process: Director is joining a Board Committee the induction includes an overview of the operation of that committee.
As part of the 1. b y means of separate questionnaires for the Board and each of its Committee based on: induction process, Non-Executive Directors may be invited to attend Committee meetings, for which they are not members, a. the Code and overall governance structure: for an initial period of time.
Board and Committee dynamics: Directors to achieve a greater understanding of specific c. direction, leadership, management and assurance: matters considered by those Committees prior to being d. t he effectiveness of processes and procedures recommended for Board approval or consideration.
On established by the Board and its Committees to completion of the induction programme the Director should fulfil their duties: have sufficient knowledge and understanding of the nature of e. the composition of the Board and Committees: and the business, and the opportunities and challenges for the f. t he skills, experience and the performance of the Group, to enable them to effectively contribute to strategic Board and Committees Chairs.
Directors regularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge.
2. s eparate questionnaire to review the effectiveness of the Group Company Secretary and the Group The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board and Secretariat function takes the minutes of all meetings.
Working in collaboration with the Chair, the Company Secretary is responsible for 3. one to one interviews with all Directors focussing on: ensuring good governance and consults Directors to ensure a. individual responses to the questionnaires: and that good information flows exist and that the Board receives the information it requires in order to be effective.
Throughout b. G ary Hoffmans transition from the role of Chief the year the Board and Committees receive regular updates Executive Officer to Board Chair and whether any from the Executive Directors and senior executives of key governance issues or concerns had arisen developments in the business as part of their formal meetings.
Directors are able to seek independent and 4. o ne to one interviews with the external Audit Partner, professional advice at Company expense to enable Directors internal Audit Partner and the Company Secretary on to fulfil their obligations as a member of the Board.
matters relating to Board and Committee effectiveness relevant to their Board and Committee interactions.
1 Grant Thornton UK LLP also provide services to the Group as Internal Auditor.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 69 Board and Committee structure R A N Re D Disclosure Risk Committee Audit Committee Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee The Board has overall responsibility for the management Board and Committee structure of the business and affairs of the Group and the Company, The Board delegates certain matters to various Committees, establishes Group strategy and is ultimately accountable each with their own Board approved Terms of Reference for financial and operational performance.
The Board has five Committees, Audit, Disclosure, Nomination, Remuneration and Risk: all The Risk Committee provides oversight and advice to the of their Terms of Reference were reviewed by the relevant Board on current and potential future risk exposures and risk Committee and approved by the Board.
Reports from these strategy of the Group.
It reviews the Groups performance on Committees with the exception of the Disclosure Committee risk appetite and oversees the effectiveness of the Group Risk describing their principal activities during the year are set Management Framework.
It also ensures that responsibility out in their respective reports on pages 76 to 91.
Board and for managing and monitoring risk in each of the regulated Committee meetings are structured to allow sufficient time subsidiaries has been effectively delegated to the respective for consideration of all items and each Chair encourages boards of directors.
Committees are authorised to obtain outside legal or other independent professional The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its advice if required.
The Chair of each Committee reports to responsibilities for the integrity and disclosure of the financial the Board on matters considered by each Committee at the affairs of the Group.
It ensures that the Company complies subsequent Board meeting as appropriate.
All Directors have with accounting policies and financial reporting obligations access to the minutes of each Committee.
as well as monitoring the system of internal controls and the Groups processes for internal and external audit.
The membership of Committees is a matter for the full Board upon recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
Each of The Nomination Committee assists the Board in the the Board Committees comprises solely Non-Executive selection and appointment of Directors in line with Group Directors.
Each Committee is chaired by an Independent requirements.
It reviews the structure, size and composition Non-Executive Director.
The current membership of each of the Groups boards and membership and Chairship of Board Committee can be found on pages 66 to 67.
It also reviews succession planning at Board and Directors, members of management and professional advisers Senior Executive management levels.
also attend meetings of the Committees when required to do so by the chair of the relevant Committee.
The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in, and has oversight of, the Groups policy on remuneration and makes Further information on Board and Committee changes and recommendations to the Board on the remuneration of the review of four Non-Executive Directors who had reached Executive Directors and senior executive management the end of their first three year term can be found in the in the Company, HISL and AICL.
Nomination Committee Report on page 83.
The Disclosure Committee is responsible for monitoring, The Terms of Reference for the Committees can be found evaluating and enhancing disclosure controls and procedures on the Groups website.
in respect of the Group announcements that are required to be made in compliance with the Market Abuse Regulation, including approving public announcements at short notice where it is not possible to convene a formal Board meeting.
The Committee comprises the Chief Executive Officer and Chair only, with the Chief Financial Officer and Senior Independent Director acting as their respective deputies.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 70 | Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Board and Committee attendance Board and Committee attendance Details of the number of meetings of the Companys Board and Committees held during the year and the attendance Committee of each Director in office between 1 January 2018 and Board Audit Nom Rem Risk 31 December 2018 at those meetings are set out to the right.
Information on the role, responsibility and activity of each Total meetings held 12 6 5 5 4 Committee are provided in their respective reports on pages Gary Hoffman 12 76 to 91.
1 Tobias van der Meer 9 Cross Committee memberships Richard Hoskins 12 as at 31 December 2018 Herman Bosman 8 2 Audit Nomination Remuneration Alison Burns 12 2 5 4 Risk 2 1 1 3 Elizabeth Chambers 2 Remuneration 2 1 Thomas Colraine 12 6 5 5 Nomination 2 4 Ian Cormack 11 4 5 2 Pierre Lefvre 11 6 4 Sumit Rajpal 11 Teresa Robson-Capps 12 6 4 5 Selina Sagayam 12 3 2 6 Malcolm Le May 2 1 1 7 Mike Fairey 4 2 1 1 Tobias van der Meer was appointed as a Director on 1 March 2018.
2 Alison Burns joined the Nomination Committee on 25 April 2018.
3 Elizabeth Chambers was appointed as a Director on 26 September 2018.
4 Ian Cormack joined the Remuneration Committee on 25 April 2018.
5 Selina Sagayam joined the Remuneration and Risk Committees on 29 June 2018.
6 Malcolm Le May resigned as a Director and his Committee memberships on 25 April 2018.
7 Mike Fairey resigned as a Director and his Committee memberships on 24 May 2018.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 71 Board activity in 2018 At each meeting the Board received updates from the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and from the respective Chairs following meetings of Board Committees.
A schedule of Board activity for the year is provided below.
Board activity in 2018 Matter reserved Responsibility Approved the Three Year Plan for 20192021 Strategy Received updates on performance and operational matters from subsidiary Boards Reviewed monthly operational and financial performance of the Group Received briefing from external advisers on potential M&A and other market opportunities Reviewed the Groups operational and financial performance for the financial year ended 2017 Approved objectives for the Company and Chief Executive Officer for 2019 Received regular updates on the performance and implementation of the Guidewire system Received a presentation on various strategic initiatives within the Group Received an update on vehicle technology development and potential opportunities Reviewed and approved recommendations from the Nomination and Remuneration Committee in Structure and Capital relation to appointments of, and changes to, subsidiary Senior Executive management Reviewed proposals for a Bond issue by a subsidiary entity Financial Reporting Approved the Annual Report, Preliminary Statement and Analysts Presentation for the financial year ended 31 December 2017 upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee and Controls Approved the Financial Statements, Preliminary Statement and Analysts Presentation for the financial half year ended 30 June 2018 upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee Reviewed and approved Trading Statements for Q1 and Q3 2018 Received quarterly reports on claims reserving outcomes from the Companys Underwriting subsidiary Approved the Groups forecasting and budgeting approach Reviewed and approved final and interim dividends Approved material unbudgeted or operating capital expenditures Received updates from the Audit and Risk Committees in relation to the effectiveness and robustness Internal Control and of the Groups internal controls and risk management framework Risk Management Received updates from the Audit Committees in relation to reviews undertaken by the Internal Auditor Approved capital expenditures in excess of 1m Contracts Approved resolutions and documentation for, and met with shareholders at, the AGM Communication Approved press and non-routine market announcements Received updates on meetings with investors by Chair and Senior Independent Director Received an update on investor relations Approved the Gender Pay Gap Report for the Groups UK trading subsidiary Reviewed the colleague engagement framework Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 72 | Corporate governance Board activity in 2018 continued Board activity in 2018 Matter reserved Responsibility Approved the appointment of Gary Hoffman as Chair of the Board upon the recommendation of the Board membership and Nomination Committee other appointments Approved the appointment of Toby van der Meer as a Director of the Board and Chief Executive Officer upon the recommendation of the Nomination Committee Approved the appointment of Selina Sagayam as a Director of the Company upon the recommendation of the Nomination Committee Approved the appointment of Libby Chambers as a Director of the Company upon the recommendation of the Nomination Committee Considered the contribution, time commitment, effectiveness and independence of three Non-Executive Directors Tom Colraine, Ian Cormack and Pierre Lefvre and approved their re-appointment to the Board for a second three year term Approved recommendations from the Nomination Committee in relation to Non-Executive Director appointments to external private and public listed company boards Received updates from the Nomination Committee on Executive Director and Senior Executive management succession and talent development plans Considered recommendations from the Remuneration Committee and approved the Companys policy on Board and colleague diversity Reviewed and approved the Annual Report on Remuneration contained in the 2017 Annual Report Remuneration upon the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee Received updates on Board Committee activities Delegation of Authority Reviewed and approved the Board Schedule of Matters Reserved and confirmed the Schedule had Governance been adhered to during 2018 Reviewed and approved the Terms of Reference of the Board Committees Undertook a formal, externally facilitated evaluation of the Board and its Committees and agreed improvement plans Reviewed progress on actions arising from the Board and Committee evaluation undertaken in 2017 Reviewed and approved an action plan for compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 Determined the independence of the Non-Executive Directors upon the recommendation of the Nomination Committee Reviewed the Companys arrangements for, and received updates on, current corporate governance developments Approved the Board and Committee meeting calendar for 2019 Approved Group Policy Statements Policies Approved the Groups Statement on Modern Slavery Approved the Groups Tax Strategy and Policy Approved the Groups Policy on the Provision of Audit and Non-Audit Services Reviewed the overall level of Directors and Officers Liability insurance and indemnification Other of Directors Ensured the Company and the Group complied with the terms of any relationship agreements with shareholders Received a report on corporate responsibility activities within the Group Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 73 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The Company is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code and the assessment of its compliance with the Code is set out below.
The Board confirms that it fully complied with the Code as at 31 December 2018 with the exception of the independence of the Board Chair upon appointment.
Leadership Every company should be headed by an effective board which is collectively responsible for the long term success of the company.
There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the company between Discover more the running of the board and the executive responsibility for the running of the companys Pages 6272 business.
No one individual should have unfettered powers of decision.
7594 The chair is responsible for leadership of the board and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
As part of their role as members of a unitary board, non-executive directors should constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy.
Effectiveness The board and its committees should have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the company to enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
Discover more There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Pages 6272 directors to the board.
74 All directors should be able to allocate sufficient time to the company to discharge their 8386 responsibilities effectively.
All directors should receive an induction on joining the board and should regularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge.
The board should be supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals, subject to continued satisfactory performance.
The board should present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the C. Accountability companys position and prospects.
The board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the principal risks it is Discover more willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The board should maintain sound risk Pages 156 management and internal control systems.
7682 The board should establish formal and transparent arrangements for considering how they should apply the corporate reporting, risk management and internal control principles, and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the companys auditors.
Executive directors remuneration should be designed to promote the long term success D. Remuneration of the company.
Performance related elements should be transparent, stretching and rigorously applied.
Discover more There should be a formal and transparent procedure for developing policy on executive Pages 90111 remuneration and for fixing the remuneration packages of individual directors.
No director should be involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the mutual understanding of E. R elations with objectives.
The board as a whole has responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue shareholders with shareholders takes place.
Discover more The board should use general meetings to communicate with investors and to encourage Pages 74 their participation.
and 75 Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 74 | Corporate governance Compliance with the Code continued Directors conflicts of interest The results of the votes on the resolutions, including the number of votes for and against each resolution and the During the year no Director had any related party transactions number of shares for which the vote was directed to be or any beneficial interest in any contract significant to the withheld, will be provided at the meeting, published on the Companys business, other than a contract of employment or Companys website and publicly available by means of formal letter of appointment.
The Company has procedures in place announcement.
Individual Directors offer themselves for for managing conflicts of interest.
At the start of each Board election or re-election at each AGM.
meeting each Director reviews and confirms his her other directorships and advisory roles or trusteeships held.
Should The 2019 AGM for will be held at 11am on 23 May 2019 at a Director become aware that they, or their connected parties, Merchant Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, London have an interest in an existing or proposed transaction with EC2R 8JB.
The Company confirms that it will send the Notice the Company, they are required to notify the Board in writing of AGM and related documentation to shareholders at least or at a Board meeting.
The Companys Articles of Association 20 working days before the meeting, either by post, to those permit the Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest shareholders who prefer a paper copy, or by email to those and impose any limits on a Directors participation in Board shareholders who have agreed that the Company can decision making relating to that conflict.
This process operated communicate with them electronically.
The Notice of AGM successfully for the year under review.
and the Proxy form are available from the Investors section on the Companys website.
Annual General Meeting AGM The Company welcomes the interaction with shareholders Company website at its AGM and the Chair of the Board and each of its Shareholders and other interested parties can access Committees will be available at the AGM.
Shareholders are further information about the Company at entitled to vote on all resolutions put to the AGM and votes www.
cast will be counted, whether in person or by proxy, by means of a poll on every resolution in the Notice of AGM.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 75 Relations with shareholders Stakeholder engagement During 2018, discussions with investors were focused on the continued execution of our strategy and growth trajectory, Investor engagement and updated market guidance on performance through to The Board is committed to promoting effective channels of 2019, which was provided with our 2016 full year results.
communication with our shareholders and upholding good corporate governance as a means of building stronger and Investor meetings with the Chair and Senior Independent more engaged relationships with them.
Our comprehensive Director focused on corporate governance also took place Investor Relations engagement with the market helps us to during the year, and we held an in person presentation of our understand investor views about Hastings, which are 2017 full year results in March 2018, and our 2018 half year communicated regularly to the Board.
A webcast of each was made available to replay on our website shortly thereafter.
Institutional engagement In 2018, our Investor Relations engagement with institutional The Investor Relations section of our website is an important investors took place throughout the year.
This allowed the communication channel that enables the effective distribution opportunity for existing and potential new investors to engage of information to the market in a clear and consistent manner.
with Hastings regularly, promoting dialogue on longer term strategic developments as well as on the recent financial Our AGM performance of the Group.
The Board and the Management team continue to consider our AGM as a key date in the diary.
The AGM provides us The Directors, in conjunction with the Senior Executive team with our main opportunity to engage with shareholders, and Investor Relations, participated in various forms of particularly our private shareholders, on the key issues facing engagement, including investor meetings and conferences the Group and any questions they may have.
The Directors, across many geographic locations, reflecting the increasingly including the Board Chair, were available for informal diverse nature of our institutional ownership.
discussion either before or after the meeting.
The Management team also presented extensively to investors, primarily through hosting site visits at our head office in Bexhill, which promotes greater awareness and understanding of our business, our operations and our systems, which provides institutional investors with invaluable insight into what makes Hastings different.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc
