76 | Corporate governance Audit Committee The report on the work of the Audit Committee for the year Dear Shareholders ended 31 December 2018 is detailed in this report confirming how the Committee has discharged its responsibilities under On behalf of the Board, I am its Terms of Reference and the requirements of best practice corporate governance.
In consultation with the Company pleased to present our Audit Secretary and Chief Financial Officer, I ensure that all matters delegated to the Committee are considered and are reported Committee report for year to the Board as appropriate.
Role This is my first report as Chair The Audit Committee supports the Board by monitoring and of the Groups Audit Committee reviewing the integrity of the financial statements, robustness of internal controls and fraud prevention measures and, in and I would like to thank Tom conjunction with the Risk Committee, ensuring that robust risk management systems are in place.
The Committee also reviews the consistency of, and any changes to, accounting policies and my predecessor as Chair for standards, challenges the Viability Statement and going concern conclusion, the effectiveness of external and internal audit and his contribution and ongoing ensures the Company provides clear, complete, fair, balanced and understandable financial reports to shareholders.
The support as a continuing Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, making any necessary recommendations for action or improvements.
Membership Teresa Robson-Capps Chair of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee during the year comprised the following Independent Non-Executive Directors and met the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code in that all Committee members are Independent Non-Executive Directors with relevant sector and financial experience and the Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the sector in which the Company operates.
The Committee meets at least four times a year as a minimum and at other times as required.
Member Member since Teresa Robson-Capps Chair July 2016 Chair since April 2018 Thomas Colraine September 2015 Chair until April 2018 Ian Cormack September 2015 Pierre Lefvre September 2015 Each member of the Committee has significant experience working with listed entities on matters relating to financial probity and internal control.
In accordance with the FRCs Code, the Board has determined that the Committe Chair, Teresa Robson-Capps has recent and relevant financial experience and the Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the sector in which the Company operates.
Biographies of the Committee members are set out on page 66.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee and takes the minutes of all meetings.
Although not Committee members, the External Auditor, KPMG LLP KPMG, the Internal Auditors, Grant Thornton UK LLP Grant Thornton, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer are notified of all meetings and may attend by invitation.
At each meeting, the Committee has the opportunity to talk to the external and Internal Auditors without management present.
Additionally, the Group Reserving Actuary and the independent external actuary, Towers Watson Limited TW are invited to attend and present the results of their biannual claims reserves reviews at the February and July Audit Committee meetings.
The Terms of Reference for the Committee have been agreed by the Board and are available online at the Groups website.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 77 Key financial statement risks Changes to IFRS The key financial statement risks relating to this years financial The Committee reviewed the impact of the application of IFRS results which were reviewed by the Committee related to 15: Revenue Recognition and IFRS 16: Leases, both of which insurance contract liabilities and receivables due from were adopted with effect from 1 January 2018.
The application reinsurers relating to their share of insurance contract of IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 did not have a significant net impact upon liabilities.
The level of reserves, and reasonableness of the opening or closing consolidated balance sheet and did not assumptions made in setting the reserves, approved by have a material impact upon this years result.
The full impact of Underwritings Board were reviewed by the Committee.
both standards is disclosed in Note 35 to the Consolidated The Committee also considered the review undertaken by Financial Statements.
Following discussions with management Underwritings independent external actuary, TW, of the level and review of the proposed disclosures the Committee of reserves, as well as actual settled claims experience.
approved the accounting policies adopted and associated Insurance contract liabilities are covered by Note 21 to the disclosures in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
financial statements and further information on these risks are provided later in my report.
The report to the Committee The Committee also received regular updates on the Groups from the Companys external Auditors, KPMG, highlighted preparations for IFRS 9: Financial Instruments and IFRS 17: similar potential audit risks relating to outstanding claims Insurance Contracts which are currently expected to apply provisions and recoverability of reinsurance assets as well as from January 2022.
The Committee noted that management is management override of controls and recoverability of the making good progress in preparation for these new standards cost of investment in subsidiaries.
Following challenge and and reviewed the disclosure of the qualitative and quantitative review by the Committee, KPMG reported that the valuation impact these future standards may have in Note 1 to the of insurance contract liabilities and receivables due from Consolidated Financial Statements.
Viability Statement Other potential financial statement risks in relation to the The Committee scrutinised the Viability Statement, disclosed valuation of goodwill, the valuation of intangible assets, the on page 33, along with the supporting forecasts and stress test recoverability of customer receivables and taxation liabilities models prepared by management.
The Committee concluded: were considered by the Committee but were not deemed to that the three year period covered by the Viability be significant.
The Committee considered that no indicators Statement aligns with the Groups internal long term of impairment, recognition or recoverability issues were forecasts and is an appropriate period over which to identified as at 31 December 2018 and disclosure in the review the Groups viability.
Financial Statements was considered to be appropriate.
that the scenarios modelled reflected the crystallisation of the Groups principal risks, and that these were designed to be suitably severe so as to provide a robust test of viability.
The Committee confirmed that managements assessment of viability was appropriate after consideration of forecast future cash flows, expected it was satisfied with the debt service requirements and undrawn finance facilities in each scenario.
Groups approach to, and that the disclosures made as to why the assessment period was selected, what qualifications and assumptions were the completeness and made and how the underlying analysis was performed, was appropriate, clear and consistent with Financial Reporting reasonableness of, financial Council recommendations.
reporting and significant financial judgements.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 78 | Corporate governance Audit Committee continued Internal and external audit services The Companys annual Internal Audit Plan is overseen by the Committee and approved by the Board each year.
During the During the year the Committee reviewed the independence year the Committee received internal audit reports covering and performance of the internal and external auditors.
GDPR Readiness, Review of the Viability Statement, Corporate Criminal Offences and Risk Management within the Group.
The internal audit function is managed and resourced via a The Committee also reviewed reports provided to each of the third party relationship with Grant Thornton and brings an subsidiary boards in relation to their own respective internal independent systematic, disciplined approach to the audit plans.
No significant issues or concerns were brought to evaluation and improvement of the effectiveness of risk the Committees attention but action plans to address findings management control and governance processes.
The from these reports were also considered.
independence of the internal audit function helps to ensure that accurate reports are provided to the Board, Audit and A similar review process of the performance and Risk Committees without undue management influence on independence of the External Auditor, KPMG, was undertaken.
the audit and its processes.
No significant issues or concerns were identified as part of this review and the continued independence of KPMG as External As part of the Committees review of the performance and Auditor was confirmed.
The Committee noted that KPMG had independence of Grant Thornton as Internal Auditor, been the Auditor of the Company since its formation in 2015 Committee members and senior management were and the lead audit partner, Salim Tharani, was appointed for requested to complete a questionnaire covering the quality of the year ended 31 December 2016.
The Committee concluded planning, delivery and execution of audit, the quality and that KPMG continue to provide an effective external audit of knowledge of the audit team, the effectiveness of the Group and the Committee recommended to the Board communication between management and the auditor and that the reappointment of KPMG be proposed at the the robustness of audits.
Suggested improvements and forthcoming AGM in May 2019.
The Committee does not enhancements to the services provided were discussed by the recommend that the provision of external Audit service to the Committee.
No significant issues or concerns were identified Company be put to tender in the coming year.
as part of this review and it is expected that Grant Thornton will further enhance its services throughout the coming year.
As part of the Board effectiveness evaluation conducted at The internal audit function service provider was chosen the end of 2018, the Audit Committee was itself subject to an through a tender process undertaken in 2014 that involved appraisal by its members.
The evaluation considered the reputable audit firms.
The Committee concluded that Grant effectiveness of processes and procedures established by the Thornton would continue to provide an effective internal audit Committee to fulfil its duties, and the effectiveness of the service to the Group, but would continue to keep the service, systems of internal control, financial and regulatory risk and approach to internal audit, under review to ensure it management systems and those for monitoring the remained fit for purpose.
effectiveness and objectivity of the Internal and External Auditors.
The performance of Committee members and the Committee Chair were also reviewed.
The Committee has agreed a number of actions for the coming year in relation to the aforementioned areas.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 79 Meetings The Committee met six times during the year.
The following matters were considered and challenged as appropriate by Committee members at these meetings: Meetings Area of focus Matter considered Reviewed the integrity of Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2017 and the Financial and appropriateness of accounting policies and going concern assumptions narrative Reviewed material matters in relation to the 2017 Annual Report and preliminary announcement reporting Reviewed and recommended for Board approval the 2017 Annual Report, Preliminary Statement and Annual Results Presentation Reviewed and approved the Viability Statement for the 2017 Annual Report in conjunction with the Risk Committee Confirmed and recommended to the Board that the 2017 Annual Report was fair, balanced and understandable Reviewed the approach to claims reserving and reinsurance assets for the Groups Underwriting business Reviewed the integrity of condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the half year ended 30 June 2018 and the appropriateness of accounting policies and going concern assumptions Reviewed and recommended for Board approval the financial statements, Preliminary Statement and Analyst Presentation in relation to the half year ended 30 June 2018 Reviewed the impact of adopting IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 with effect from 1 January 2018 Reviewed developments in IFRS and their impacts and key accounting issues particularly in relation to IFRS 9 and IFRS 17 and internal preparations for those developments due in 2022 Reviewed plans for the production of the Annual Report and Accounts, and Results Presentation for the year ended 31 December 2018 Received and reviewed reports from the Internal Auditor in relation to the Companys internal audit plan Internal control and those of its subsidiaries and compliance Reviewed the internal control framework Reviewed the processes and procedures for claims reserving by the Groups Underwriting business Reviewed the Internal Auditors performance during 2018 and approved the Internal Audit Plan for 2019 Reviewed and considered the Audit Highlights Memorandum and Auditors report for the 2017 Annual Report External audit Reviewed the performance of the External Auditor for the financial year ended 2017 Reviewed and approved audit non-audit expenditure incurred by the Company during 2017 Considered qualifications, expertise and independence of the External Auditor and recommended their re-appointment to shareholders and for the Committee to agree auditors remuneration Reviewed and agreed the Companys policy for the tendering of external audit services Reviewed and approved the audit fee, plan and approach for the financial year ended 2018 Reviewed and agreed the provision of certain non-audit services for by the External Auditor Reviewed, and approved amendments to, the Groups Policy on provision of Audit and Non-Audit Services Met with the External Auditor without management present Reviewed the Committees Terms of Reference and confirmed the Committees Terms of Reference had been Governance adhered to during 2018 other matters Conducted an annual review of Committee effectiveness and agreed an action plan to further improve Committee operations Confirmed compliance with UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 and explanations for any non-compliance in relation to the financial year ended 2017 Reviewed the Groups Tax Strategy and Policy and recommended for Board approval Received updates on financial reporting governance developments and best practice Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 80 | Corporate governance Audit Committee continued How the Committee addresses significant factors The Audit Committee also asked the external Auditor to provide an update on the procedures used to test the relating to the Financial Statements and matters reserving process and best estimate calculations in communicated to the Committee by the Auditor accordance with the applicable accounting and auditing Financial reporting and significant standards.
The external Auditor further confirmed the financial judgements challenges made, representations received and conclusions Provision for outstanding claims based on this.
The provision for outstanding claims is an area of significant judgement as it estimates the cost required to settle all unpaid Having considered all the information presented and having claims, both reported and incurred but not reported, at the satisfied itself with the enquiries made, the Committee balance sheet date.
confirmed it was satisfied with the Groups approach and the completeness and reasonableness of the provision for claims The Groups Underwriting business has accumulated outstanding held.
significant experience of projecting future claims development and has a detailed understanding of how ultimate liabilities Reinsurance assets develop over time based on initial notifications, environmental The Group uses both non-proportional excess of loss and conditions and changes to legislation or reporting processes.
quota share reinsurance arrangements to limit its exposure This experience is built into the Reserving Policy and the to claims.
The excess of loss programme limits the Groups actuarial models used to calculate the year end claims exposure on any individual claim and the quota share reserves, which are overseen by Underwritings Reserving arrangement provides 50% cover on all motor claims after Committee.
The Reserving Committee is a sub-committee of excess of loss recoveries.
The Group would remain liable for all the Underwriting Board responsible for oversight of the amounts due to policyholders should any reinsurer fail to pay.
process and recommending the appropriate level of claims reserves.
There are robust controls in place surrounding the An accurate calculation of reinsurance assets is vital to ensure data used by the internal actuaries and all estimates and an appropriate gross and net position is recognised within the assumptions are internally peer reviewed.
The calculation of reinsurance recovery applies rigour and independence to the calculation of a best assets is intrinsically linked to the calculation of outstanding estimate.
An appropriate margin is applied over the actuarial claims liabilities, and requires the same estimations and best estimate to allow for uncertainty and volatility.
judgements as considered by Underwritings Reserving Underwritings external actuary prepares an independent Committee, and is subject to the same level of control projection of claims reserves.
Having been recommended by Underwritings Reserving There is further judgement required in establishing the Committee and approved by the Underwriting Board, detailed recoverability of the reinsurers share of insurance contract papers were provided to the Audit Committee explaining the liabilities, particularly the longer term assets arising from methodology used, how the Reserving Policy has been applied larger claims.
The Group manages its exposure to credit risk and the judgements applied in the actuarial calculations that with respect to its reinsurers through diversification, support the provisions made.
These papers included reports purchasing both excess of loss and quota share reinsurance and calculations provided by the external actuary, as well as through two panels of reinsurers to provide cover under each detail on the assumptions made by peril.
The Committee met arrangement: by reviewing the financial strength of reinsurers with management and considered explanations from both the prior to finalisation of any contract: by using reinsurers with internal and the external actuaries to deliberate over the strong credit ratings: and by reviewing the creditworthiness of methodology applied, the best estimate calculations and the reinsurers on an ongoing basis.
The creditworthiness of external actuarys independent report.
Extensive information reinsurers is considered by reviewing credit grades provided on reserving levels was provided to support these discussions by rating agencies and other publicly available financial and to enable the Committee to assess the adequacy of the information on a quarterly basis as well as monitoring the reserves, level of prudence and appropriateness of the margin recent payment history of reinsurers to ensure they are in held.
Any variances between the internal and external best accordance with expected settlement terms.
estimates were debated and understood.
Having considered all the information presented and having satisfied itself with the enquiries made, the Committee confirmed it was satisfied with the Groups approach and the accuracy and recoverability of the reinsurance assets held and reasonableness of the claims reserves held.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 81 Significant issues related to the Fees payable to the External Auditor for non-audit services in a calendar year should not exceed 70% of the average of the Financial Statements audit fees paid by the Group in the previous three consecutive No other significant issues were identified relating to the years.
Services required by law or regulation for example Financial Statements or raised by the External Auditor during review or audit of regulatory returns are excluded from the the year and in relation to the 31 December 2018 year end.
definition of non-audit services to be included in the calculation of the 70% cap.
Once the amount of fees payable for non-audit services in any calendar year exceeds 50% of the Priorities for 2019 average of the audit fees paid by the Group in the previous three consecutive years, this shall be reported to the In the coming year the Committee will focus on: Committee as soon as practicable and regular updates continued monitoring of the Groups reserving process: provided thereafter to ensure any potential breach of the 70% understanding the impacts of the UK Governments review of cap can be avoided.
Prior approval by the full Audit Committee the audit regulator, the Financial Reporting Council FRC, and is not required for clearly trivial non-audit services which are the statutory audit market investigation conducted by the defined as any non-audit related service where fees are Competition and Markets Authority: expected to be below 25k in aggregate per annum for the assessing the impact of IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts and IFRS 9 Group although the Chair of the Committee must be Financial Instruments to the Group and reviewing consulted before such services are engaged : the service is managements implementation plans to ensure the Group is ready to comply with the new standard as it becomes effective: directly related to the annual audit where permitted by the Policy and the service does not involve a closer working ensuring the Groups internal audit function continues its systematic and disciplined approach on key focus areas: and arrangement between a Group company and the External assessing the impact on internal processes and reporting from Auditor that may significantly reduce the auditors changes resulting from corporate governance reforms.
In the Committees assessment of the effectiveness of the Adoption of Policy on the Provision External audit process KPMG was asked to articulate the steps of Audit and Non-Audit Services that it had taken to ensure objectivity and independence.
The Committee monitors the Auditors performance, behaviour Under the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code and effectiveness during the exercise of their duties, which the Code, the Committee is required to oversee the informs the Audit Committees decision whether to relationship with the External Auditor and keep the nature recommend reappointment on an annual basis.
The total and extent of non-audit services under review.
The Committee amount paid for non-audit work during the year was 0.2m must satisfy itself that the independence and objectivity of the 33% of average audit fees for 2018 and was for assurance External Auditor are not compromised.
services connected to KPMGs role as statutory Auditor.
This included the review of the Interim Results, an ISAE 3000 The Committee reviewed and recommended to the Board a assurance review over Underwritings Solvency and Financial fully Code compliant Group Policy on the Provision of Audit Condition Report and the provision of a comfort letter in and Non-Audit Services which was updated to reflect the relation to the May 2018 Bond Offering Circular in accordance requirements of the FRCs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
The with the Standards for Investment Reporting as issued by the policy requires the Committees approval for certain services Auditing Practices Board.
Further details of fees paid to KPMG such as where the service is not directly related to the annual for audit and non-audit work carried out during the year are audit or involves a closer working arrangement between a set out in Note 12 of the Financial Statements.
Group company and the External Auditor that may significantly reduce the Auditors independence.
The policy also prohibits the External Auditor from performing certain services to the Company regardless of Committee approval.
A non-exhaustive list of such services includes the design and implementation of internal control, financial, accounting and risk management systems, actuarial or legal services, secondments to management positions, talent searches for executives, directors and or senior financial managers, tax or payroll services and due diligence for acquisitions or joint ventures.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 82 | Corporate governance Audit Committee continued Fair, balanced and understandable Discharge of responsibilities The Board sought advice from the Committee as to whether During the year under review, the Committee has continued the information presented in this Annual Report, when taken its detailed scrutiny of the appropriateness of the Groups as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and contains system of internal controls, and the robustness and integrity the information necessary for shareholders to assess the of the Groups financial reporting, along with both the internal Groups position and performance, business model and and external audit processes.
The Committee has devoted strategy.
The steps taken by the Committee, or on its behalf, significant time to reviewing these areas, which are integral to to provide this advice to the Board included delegating to the Groups core management and financial processes, as well a group of senior individuals within the Group to draft the as engaging regularly with management.
The Committee has, Annual Report, with each of these individuals having where necessary, taken the initiative in requesting information responsibility for the production of certain sections of the in order to provide the constructive challenge appropriate for document and or reviewing its entire content.
a detailed review of the Annual Report, the Committee concluded that it is fair, balanced and understandable Teresa Robson-Capps and contains the information necessary for shareholders Chair of the Audit Committee to assess the Groups position and performance, business 27 February 2019 model and strategy and advised the Board accordingly.
The Committee also considered the use of alternative performance measures APMs as part of the Companys financial reporting.
The Committee agreed that the use of APMs by the Company was appropriate as they provide beneficial and useful insight into the Groups performance for shareholders and other stakeholders.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018
