Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 87 Risk Committee Dear Shareholders Role I am pleased to present the The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups risk management framework and delegates the oversight of this to report of the Risk Committee the Risk Committee.
The Committee is a formal sub-committee of the Board with its own Terms of Reference.
The principal for the financial year ended purpose of the Risk Committee is to advise the Board on risk management matters, recommend the Group framework of risk 31 December 2018. limits and risk appetite to the Board for approval, and oversee the risk management arrangements of the Company and its regulated trading entities.
The Committee meets at least four Pierre Lefvre Chair of the Risk Committee times a year as a minimum and at other times as required.
Membership Member Member since Pierre Lefvre Chair September 2015 Alison Burns July 2016 Teresa Robson-Capps July 2016 Malcolm Le May September 2015 until April 2018 Selina Sagayam June 2018 Biographies of the Committee members are set out on page 66.
Malcolm Le May resigned as a Committee member upon his resignation as a Director.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee and takes the minutes of meetings.
The Terms of Reference for the Committee have been agreed by the Board and are available on the Groups website.
The Committee obtained information and advice during the period under review from the Group Chief Risk Officer, the Company Secretary and, where appropriate, the Executive Directors.
It may also seek advice from any other colleagues as required.
The Group continues to focus on balancing the needs of an effective risk control framework with operational agility.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 88 | Corporate governance Risk Committee continued Risk appetite is reflective of the nature and extent of risk that The Committee reviewed plans to further enhance operational the Group is willing to take and manage in pursuit of its resilience, control discipline, and ensure regulatory objectives.
The Group recognises that it is not possible, or compliance whilst retaining agility of thought and action.
necessarily desirable, to eliminate all risks inherent in its activities.
Acceptance of some risk is necessary to promote Consideration was given to the pricing activities of the trading agility, innovation and efficiencies.
Overall the Group has a entities, in light of the FCAs market review of pricing practices conservative approach to risk taking.
in general insurance, to ensure that these remained suitable and appropriate.
Plans and actions to further enhance the The Committee received a detailed update on the approach were duly noted.
accountabilities and responsibilities of first and second line functions within the Group, with focus on second line Our commitment is to adopt standards of market conduct in effectiveness.
This review of effectiveness was supported by a line with regulatory obligations and good practice.
Retail, series of internal audits by Grant Thornton to assess the risk authorised and regulated by the FCA, and Underwriting, management systems in the context of both current and authorised and regulated by the GFSC, each foster and potential future risks.
The objective of the audits was to make maintain open and transparent relationships and an independent assessment of the risk management and communication with their respective regulator.
internal control framework: its design and operational effectiveness, and to consider whether it had been designed to meet relevant guidance on risk management from regulators and under the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Meetings The Committee met four times during the year.
The following matters were considered and challenged as appropriate by Committee members at these meetings: Meetings Area of focus Matter considered Reviewed the status and effectiveness of the Groups Assurance, Risk and Compliance management framework Risk and strategy management Reviewed resourcing levels in the Assurance, Risk and Compliance function Received updates on the Groups three lines of defence model: evaluating trading entities first and second line control frameworks Defined, assessed and ranked Group risks and examined a number of critical risks in detail Reviewed and challenged the Group and trading entities risk reports and risk profile Examined in detail critical risks and risk events Reviewed and approved the mapping of Group risks to Principal Risks as reported in the Financial Statements Considered emerging risks across the Group, including Brexit Initiated a programme of deep dive topics and reviewed outcome reports Reviewed, assessed and challenged the Groups plans for enhanced operational discipline and control whilst maintaining agility Received updates and challenged the Groups approach to Information Security and Cyber risk, and undertook related training Received updates on the Groups fraud risk Reviewed and approved the stress test of non-financial resources for the Retail entity Received summary updates on the UK regulatory environment Reviewed and approved the statements in the 2018 Annual Report related to Risk Management Governance other matters Reviewed and approved the Viability Statement for the 2018 Annual Report in conjunction with the Audit Committee Reviewed its Terms of Reference and confirmed these had been adhered to Conducted an annual review of Committee effectiveness and agreed an action plan to further enhance Committee operations Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 89 The potential impact of Brexit on the Groups business, Internal control and risk management whether or not the proposed Withdrawal Agreement is The Risk Committee seeks to ensure that the Groups material agreed and signed, was considered.
The UK Governments risks have been identified and that appropriate arrangements commitment to preserve access to the UK market for Gibraltar are in place to assess, mitigate, monitor and report on those financial services firms on existing terms until 31 December risks effectively.
The Committee also monitors the consistent 2020, with an intent to develop an agreed replacement application of these practices in each of the trading entities, framework to endure beyond that date, gave the Committee which are overseen by the respective company boards.
The comfort that the risk that Underwriting may not be able to board risk committees of each trading entity is composed of access the UK market post Brexit has not increased.
Independent Non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors who oversee and report on the effectiveness of the risk and Our Viability Statement addresses the adequacy of financial control framework for its respective entity.
resources to mitigate principal financial risks by assessing capital, profit and solvency.
Underwriting solvency levels are Retails conduct risk and customer outcome matters are forecast to exceed the predicted Solvency II SII Solvency considered by the conduct committee, a formal subCapital Requirement throughout the business planning committee of the board.
Underwritings reserving committee period: whilst Retail maintains sufficient capital resources seeks to ensure that adequate and reasonable reserves are to meet the regulatory threshold conditions.
in place for insurance risk exposures, and activities are consistent with applicable policies and regulatory standards.
As well as my role as a Director of the Company and Chair of In addition their investment committee oversees investment its Risk Committee, I am also an Independent Non-Executive strategies and ensures investment portfolios operate within Director of Underwriting, and Committee Chair of that established risk appetites and investment tolerances set by companys risk committee.
Along with my oversight of risk the board.
within Underwriting, I am updated on matters and concerns raised by the Retail risk and compliance committee enabling The description of the Groups internal control and risk me to fully discharge my role as Risk Committee Chair.
Minutes management is covered in the Managing Our Risks report on of the meetings of the respective risk committee in each of page 33.
The Viability Statement is provided on page 33 in Underwriting and Retail are included in papers for meetings relation to the expectations that the Group will continue to of the Risk Committee.
operate and meet its liabilities as they fall due for the next three years following the Committees review of the Groups As part of the Board effectiveness evaluation conducted at risk appetite and principal risks.
the end of this year, the Risk Committee was also subject to an appraisal by its members.
The evaluation considered how it On behalf of the Risk Committee discharged its responsibilities as well as the performance of the Committee members.
No significant issues were identified Pierre Lefvre and the Committee has agreed a number of actions and Chair of the Risk Committee priorities for the coming year.
27 February 2019 Priorities for 2019 In the coming year the Risk Committee will focus on: continued enhancement and embedding of the risk management framework as the business grows and matures: continuing to monitor actions being taken by Retail and Underwriting in connection with the FCA review of pricing practices in general insurance, new legislation and regulatory requirements: continued strategies to enhance the Groups protection and controls for technology, information and cyber security: continued challenge and oversight of the Groups risk and control framework: and monitoring the Groups risk management effectiveness via a series of deep dives into specific areas of risk.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc
