Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 83 Nomination Committee Dear Shareholders Role I am pleased to present the The Committee is a formal sub-committee of the Board with its own Terms of Reference.
The principal purpose of the report on the work of the Nomination Committee is to review the composition and evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Nomination Committee Board.
It also leads the process for the appointment of new Executive and Independent Non-Executive Directors to the for the year ended Board and makes appropriate recommendations to the Board on such matters as skill mix and diversity.
It oversees the succession planning process for Executive Directors and senior executives.
The Committee meets at least three times a year as a minimum and at other times as required.
Thomas Colraine Chair of the Nomination Committee Membership Member Member since Thomas Colraine Chair September 2015 Chair since May 2018 Alison Burns April 2018 Ian Cormack September 2015 Mike Fairey September 2015 until May 2018 Chair until May 2018 Biographies of the Committee members are set out on page 66.
Mike Fairey resigned as a Committee member and Committee Chair upon his resignation as a Director.
The Terms of Reference for the Committee have been agreed by the Board and are available online on the Groups website.
The Chief Executive Officer may be invited, from time to time, to attend meetings of the Committee.
The Committee obtained information and advice during the period under review from the Group HR Director, the Company Secretary and, where appropriate, the Executive Directors.
It also sought advice from any other employees as required.
As permitted by its Terms of Reference, the Committee engaged the advice and support of Russell Reynolds as independent executive search consultants at the expense of the Company to consider executive and non-executive succession options.
The Board must remain mindful of its diversity in the context of the Groups colleagues and the market it serves.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 84 | Corporate governance Nomination Committee continued Board changes consideration the breadth of knowledge that the Board has and that it is required to provide a well-balanced environment As explained in last years Annual Report, Gary Hoffman which encourages scrutiny and appropriate challenge.
The assumed the role of Board Chair upon Mike Faireys Committee is also committed to ensure that the Board is retirement at the AGM in May this year and Toby van der Meer representative in terms of diversity and candidates from a assumed the role of Chief Executive Officer in March.
The wide range of disciplines and experience were considered.
explanation for Garys appointment as Chair was provided in The Committee abides by the Companys policy to ensure that last years Committee Report and I do not intend to repeat it the best candidate is selected to join the Board and the Board here.
I can confirm that the Committee has reviewed the does not intend to adopt a quota system with prescriptive, appointment as well as the transition process for these two quantitative targets.
This transition was also subject to review during a series of interviews with all Directors as part of the externally As part of the appointment of another Independent Nonfacilitated Board evaluation exercise that took place at the end Executive Director during 2018, a long list of candidates was of this year.
Having reviewed the outcomes of this exercise, the created in conjunction with an external executive search Committee is content that the transition process has been consultancy, Russell Reynolds Associates Limited Russell smooth and that there have been no governance issues Reynolds, who were able to validate and verify independence arising from Garys or Tobys appointment.
The Committee selected a shortlist of candidates for interview and made two recommendations for The Committee is conscious of the current size of the Board appointment to the Board.
Taking into consideration the views but believes that this does not hinder the effective running of of the Committee and independent referencing, the Board Board meetings or proceedings.
The number of Independent appointed Libby Chambers, an experienced senior financial Directors should exceed those who are not independent in line services executive, strategist and marketing leader within the with the Code and the Company complies with this provision.
UK and worldwide, as an Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Committee confirms that Russell Reynolds remains As well as its composition, the diversity of the Board was completely independent of the Company.
also reviewed and the Board was pleased to appoint Libby Chambers as an Independent Non-Executive Director in Following this appointment, the Board continues to have an September this year.
When proposing appointments of appropriate number of Independent Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors, the Committee considers the such that no individual or small group of individuals can independence, skills, knowledge and experience that a dominate the Boards decision taking.
candidate possesses compared to those of the current Board members.
Selection of candidates also takes into Board and Committee changes during 2018 Director Board or Committee Appointment Resignation Toby van der Meer Board 1 March 2018 Malcolm Le May Board 25 April 2018 Remuneration Committee Risk Committee Mike Fairey Board 24 May 2018 Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Alison Burns Nomination Committee 25 April 2018 Ian Cormack Remuneration Committee 25 April 2018 1 Selina Sagayam Board 29 June 2018 28 June 2018 Remuneration Committee Risk Committee Libby Chambers Board 26 September 2018 1 Resigned as Founder Shareholders representative and reappointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 85 Selina Sagayam was appointed by the Founder Shareholders calibre candidates as a suitable successor: his appointment as their representative on the Board, under the terms of the was finally recommended to, and approved by, the Board in relationship agreement with the Company, in August 2017.
June 2018, the Founder Shareholders notified the Company of their intention not to retain a nominee on the Board under the During the year a number of changes were considered by terms of the relationship agreement: as a consequence, Selina this Committee in relation to the membership of all Board Sagayam was required to step down as a non-Independent committees as well as the Chairs of those Committees.
Her contribution to the Board was Malcolm Le May chaired the Remuneration Committee and such that, upon the recommendation of the Committee, Selina was a member of the Risk Committee and Mike Fairey chaired was immediately reappointed as an Independent Nonthe Nomination Committee and was a member of the Executive Director.
The Company was informed by the Remuneration Committee.
Following the resignation of Founder Shareholders that they did not intend to nominate a Malcolm as a Non-Executive Director in April 2018 and replacement director at this time but reserved the right to do Mike Fairey as Board Chair in May 2018, the Committee so whilst the relationship agreement remains in force.
recommended the following changes for Board approval: I step down as Chair of the Audit Committee but remain Board and Committee composition and review a Committee member: As required by the Code a listed companys board and its Teresa Robson-Capps be appointed as Chair of the Audit committees should have the appropriate balance of skills, Committee already a member : experience, independence and knowledge of the company to enable them to discharge their respective duties and I be appointed as Chair of the Remuneration Committee responsibilities effectively.
The Board and its committees and the Nomination Committee: should also meet relevant independence criteria in terms Alison Burns be appointed as a member of the Nomination of the number of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Committee: and Independent Non-Executive Directors, Ian Cormack, Ian Cormack be appointed as a member of the Pierre Lefvre and myself, reached the end of the first three Remuneration Committee.
year term as Board members in September 2018.
The Nomination Committee reviewed the contribution, time The Committee also considered requests from various commitment, effectiveness and independence of Pierre Non-Executive Directors seeking their consent for and made recommendations to the Board in relation to myself appointments with private and public listed entities outside and Ian being Committee members.
Taking into account the of the Group.
The Committee reviewed the time commitment balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of required from each relevant Director in fulfilment of their the Company of these Directors, the Committee recommended duties and responsibilities for the Company and other existing to the Board that they be re-appointed for a further three year external appointments.
Having taken these into consideration term.
None of these Directors was involved in discussions or the Committee recommended the following external approval of their re-appointment at the relevant meetings of appointments to the Board for its approval during 2018: the Committee or the Board.
Non-Independent Non-Executive Gary Hoffman as Non-Executive Director and Chair of Director, Sumit Rajpal has served on the Board since Coventry Building Society and Monzo Bank Limited: September 2015 and is appointed as a representative of the Ian Cormack as Non-Executive Director of Ulster Bank Goldman Sachs shareholders under a relationship agreement Limited and National Westminster Bank plc: as noted above.
He is therefore not subject to Committee or Board review in relation to his term of appointment.
All Selina Sagayam as member of the board of trustees of Refuge: Directors are subject to election or re-election at every AGM.
and Alison Burns as Non-Executive Director of Equiniti Group plc.
Succession plans and talent development for the Executive Directors and senior executive management were reviewed by No Committee member was party to discussions or the the Committee throughout the year and advice was sought recommendation for approval in relation to their own from independent, external search agencies in relation to Committee or external Board appointments.
As required establishing a pipeline of potential successors, either under Listing Rule 9.6.
14, in relation to director appointments externally or internally.
The Committee also reviewed whether to publicly listed boards, the Company announced Alisons there is a sufficient and continuous supply of suitable, highly appointment to Equiniti in March 2018. qualified internal candidates who will be able to be considered for Board membership or senior executive management.
In The Committee recognises all of the Non-Executive Directors particular, a search and selection process was conducted to as independent with the exception of Sumit Rajpal and identify a successor to Richard Hoskins, the Companys Chief Herman Bosman, as they represent major shareholders in Financial Officer, who had indicated a desire to retire from the the Company, and Gary Hoffman, who was previously role in 2019: Russell Reynolds were also engaged to manage Chief Executive Officer.
After a thorough and robust consideration of all potential candidates, John Worth emerged from a list of high Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 86 | Corporate governance Nomination Committee continued Meetings The Committee met five times during the year.
The following matters were considered and challenged as appropriate by Committee members at these meetings: Meetings Area of focus Matter considered Composition of the Recommended the approval of Gary Hoffman as Chair of the Board Board, Committee and Recommended the approval of Toby van der Meer as a Director and Chief Executive Officer senior executive and Recommended the approval of Selina Sagayam as an Independent Non-Executive Director succession planning Led the search and selection process resulting in the recommendation that Libby Chambers be appointed as a Director Considered the contribution, time commitment, effectiveness and independence of three Non-Executive Directors Tom Colraine, Ian Cormack and Pierre Lefvre and recommended for Board approval their re-appointment to the Board for a second three-year term Reviewed the composition and Chairs of the Board Committees and made recommendations to the Board for its approval Considered requests from Non-Executive Directors for appointments to external private and public listed company Boards and made recommendations to the Board for approval Reviewed progress on succession planning and talent development for Executive Directors and senior executives Led the search and selection process for a replacement Chief Financial Officer and other senior executive appointments Endorsed proposals for appointments to the board of each of the Companys trading subsidiaries, upon recommendation of those respective boards Reviewed the composition of the Board evaluating balance of skills, knowledge and experience Considered how and if the Board reflected the diversity of the Group and the market within which it operates Governance Reviewed its Terms of Reference and confirmed the Committees Terms of Reference had been adhered to during 2018 other matters Following the recent changes to the Board, the Company has Priorities for 2019 achieved the UK governments target of having a minimum of 33% female representation on FTSE 350 boards by 2020.
The Board has not, nor does it intend to, adopt a quota system.
In the coming year the Nomination Committee will focus on: As part of the Board effectiveness evaluation conducted at assessing the skills and experience of current Board the end of this year, the Committee was also subject to an members and senior management against desired appraisal by its members.
The evaluation considered how it outcomes: and discharged its responsibilities as well as the performance of further developing senior management succession plans the Committee members.
No significant issues were identified and the Committee has agreed a number of actions and priorities for the coming year.
Board diversity The composition of the Board at the time of its IPO received Thomas Colraine Chair of the Nomination Committee some criticism in terms of its lack of gender diversity.
The Board is responsible for setting the Groups values and 27 February 2019 standards and ensuring that obligations to its shareholders and others are understood and met.
The Committee has reviewed the composition of the Board in light of its diversity as a whole.
It recognises that it remains the policy of the Company that the Board reflects the diversity of its colleagues and, the market within which it operates.
Candidates from a wide range of backgrounds, disciplines and experience are considered.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018
