54 LEADERSHIP The role of the Hays plc Board The Hays Board The Hays plc Board is collectively responsible to the Composition of the Board Companys shareholders for the long-term success of the The Board is currently made up of two executive directors Company.
It sets the Companys strategic objectives and and six non-executive directors, including the Chairman.
determines the risk appetite and control framework within Their biographies, including prior experience, are set out which those objectives are achieved.
The Board provides effective oversight of the Company Board changes during the year and its businesses within a robust governance structure Andrew Martin and Susan Murray joined the Board on that helps achieve the long-term success of the Company 12 July 2017.
Paul Harrison and Pippa Wicks retired from and deliver sustainable shareholder value.
the Board at the Companys AGM on 15 November 2017.
The Board also provides leadership of the Company and Re-election of directors at the 2018 AGM direction for management, ensuring that the necessary resources are in place for the Company to meet its In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association objectives and it keeps under review managements and the principles of the Code, all Directors of the performance in regard to achieving those objectives.
Company will offer themselves for re-election at the 2018 AGM with the exception of Victoria Jarman.
Having Our aim is to be the worlds pre-eminent specialist received advice from the Nomination Committee, the recruitment business.
In pursuit of this aim, our Board is satisfied that each director standing for reemployees across the globe work towards achieving election is qualified for re-election by virtue of their our Strategic Priorities, set out on page 20.
The Board skills, experience and commitment to the Board.
closely monitors management and its delivery of a sustainable and profitable business, ensuring it continues Operational governance to operate within the appropriate risk-reward culture.
The Management Board The Board has established a core set of brand values, Responsibility for the day-to-day management of our which it promotes throughout the Group.
These values, business and operations rests with the Chief Executive, which underpin our skills, behaviours and way of doing who operates through the Management Board the business, are being ambitious, being passionate about principal executive committee within Hays.
In performing people, being expert at what we do and being inquisitive this role, the Management Board also has responsibility about the world of work.
These values serve to engender for monitoring detailed performance of all aspects of an entrepreneurial culture within Hays, which is critical our business.
to our continued success without promoting excessive risk-taking.
The Management Board, which meets monthly, is chaired by the Chief Executive and also comprises the Group Role of the Non-Executive Directors Finance Director, the Company Secretary & General Hays non-executive directors have a broad and Counsel, the Chief Marketing Officer, the Group complementary mix of business skills, knowledge and Technology Director, the Group Head of People & Culture experience acquired across sectors and geographies.
and the Managing Directors of the Groups operating This allows them to provide strong, independent and divisions.
Each Management Board member has a clearly external perspectives to Board discussions, which defined remit, business objectives and financial budget complement the skills and experience of the executive within which they operate.
Our organisational structure is directors.
In turn, this leads to a diversity of views being now built around four regions globally: UK & Ireland: aired at Board meetings, robust and constructive debate Germany: Australia & New Zealand: and Rest of World.
At the same time, it Regional Managing Directors operate their business also reduces the likelihood of any one perspective through regional boards, which comprise key business prevailing unduly.
and functional managers with specific responsibilities within those regions.
Each business is given operational A key role performed by the non-executive directors is autonomy, as far as possible, within a well-established the scrutiny of executive management in meeting agreed internal control framework which consists of, among other objectives and monitoring the reporting of performance.
things, a Group-wide set of policies and procedures, They also ensure that financial controls and systems operational delegated authorities and policies on antiof risk management are both rigorous and appropriate bribery and corruption, competition compliance, conduct for the needs of the business.
The terms and conditions of appointment of nonexecutive directors, including the expected time commitment, are available for inspection at the Companys registered office, and a pro forma letter of appointment is also available on the Companys website.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 55 Our governance framework Andrew Martin Alistair Cox Chairman Chief Executive Leadership and the effective operation of the Board Day-to-day management of the Groups business Chairing the Board and Nomination Committee Formulating strategic business objectives for Board approval Setting the agenda, style and tone of Board discussions including and implementing approved strategic objectives and policies promoting openness, debate and effective individual contribution Managing and optimising the operational and financial Effective communications with shareholders performance of the business in conjunction with the Group Ensuring that all directors receive clear and accurate Finance Director information on a timely basis Fostering a good working relationship with theChairman Ensuring the effectiveness of the Board through induction, Ch airing the Management Board and developingsenior talent ongoing training and regular evaluations within the business forsuccession planning Vacant from 23 July 2018: see below Doug Evans Senior Independent Director Company Secretary and General Counsel Acting as a sounding board for the Chairman Acting as Secretary to the Board, its Committees and the Serving as an alternative contact and intermediary Management Board for other directors and shareholders Providing legal and governance support to the Board as Leading the Chairmans annual performance appraisal a whole and directors individually and ultimate succession Ensuring that the Group complies with all relevant legal, regulatory and governance requirements During the year, the Board considered the independence Senior Independent Director of each of the non-executive directors, save for the Following the retirement of Paul Harrison at the 2017 AGM, Chairman who was deemed independent by the Board the Board appointed Andrew Martin to the position of at the date of his appointment.
In doing so, it concluded Senior Independent Director on 15 November 2017. that each non-executive director remained independent Andrew performed this role for the remainder of the of management and free from any relationship that could financial year: he relinquished it on appointment as interfere with the exercise of their independent judgment.
Chairman, initially on an interim basis, following the All of Hays directors are expected to act in the best passing of Alan Thomson in July 2018.
In performing this interests of the Company.
role Andrew provided shareholders with someone to whom they could turn if ever they had concerns which Chairman and Chief Executive they could not address through the normal channels, The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are for example, with the Chairman or executive directors.
separate, with a clear division of responsibilities between The Senior Independent Director is available as an them which is set out in writing: the responsibility for intermediary between his her fellow directors and this separation of duties rests formally with the Board.
As Chairman for the duration of the year under review, While there were no requests from directors Alan Thomson presided over the Board and was or shareholders for access to the Senior Independent responsible for its leadership and overall effectiveness.
Director during the year, the role serves as an important In doing so, he fostered and helped to maintain an check and balance in Hays governance process.
In the effective working relationship between the executive fulfilment of his role Andrew ensured he maintained a and non-executive directors.
Following his passing in thorough understanding of the views of the Companys July 2018, this role was assumed by Andrew Martin.
This position is currently vacant, following Andrews permanent appointment to the role of As Chief Executive, Alistair Cox has responsibility for the Chairman on 28 August 2018. day-to-day management of the Companys business and the implementation and delivery of the Board strategy.
Key roles and responsibilities of these positions, and that of the Company Secretary, are provided above.
This separation of roles enhances the independent oversight of executive management by the Board and more closely aligns the Board with shareholders.
It also means that no one individual within the Company has unfettered powers of decision making.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 56 LEADERSHIP CONTINUED Approving major capital projects, acquisitions Matters reserved for the Board and disposals: A schedule of formal matters reserved for the Boards decision and approval is available on our website, Approving material contracts: haysplc.
These largely relate to matters of Reviewing annually the effectiveness of internal governance and business where independence control and the nature and extent of significant risks from executive management is important, and identified by management and associated mitigation include the following: strategies: and Approving financial results and other financial, Approving the annual budget.
corporate and governance matters: No changes to the schedule of matters were made during Approving Group strategy: the year.
Board decisions are usually by consensus at Approving appointments to the Board: Board meetings.
On occasion, decisions may be taken by a majority of Board members.
In the case of an Approving and recommending dividends as equality of votes, Hays Articles of Association provide appropriate and deciding dividend policy: the Chairman with a second or casting vote.
Ensuring appropriate financial management Board focus during 2018 Received and considered regular reports on the Groups What the Board has done in the year financial performance Percentage of time spent by the Board Approved financial announcements for publication Approved the annual budget Approved dividend policy, payments and recommendations as appropriate, including consideration of a special dividend Reviewed the status of the Companys closed defined benefit pension scheme Met with the Companys financial adviser and corporate brokers Considered ad hoc property and finance-related transactions 3.
I mplementing governance and ethics and monitoring risk Performed the annual review of the effectiveness of internal control, risk identification and mitigation Reviewed regular reports on legal and compliance matters Developing a successful strategy 30% from the Company Secretary Ensuring appropriate financial management 30% Implementing governance and Received formal training updates on corporate reporting, ethics and monitoring risk 25% legal and regulatory matters Stakeholder engagement 15% Reviewed Board and Committee effectiveness Reviewed the terms of reference of the Board Committees Reviewed the Directors Conflicts of Interest procedures 1.
Developing a successful strategy Attended a Group strategy day, with members of the Reviewed the Companys compliance with the Code Management Board and other senior executives, to consider Received further updates in connection with the implementation key strategic priorities and challenges faced across the business of the General Data Protection Regulation Approved the Group strategy and reviewed associated Took part in a crisis management simulation performance 4.
Stakeholder engagement Visited operations in Germany, France and the UK, receiving Considered the results from TALKback, the Groups employee presentations from senior management on business engagement survey performance, the state of the market, strategy, succession Considered and approved invitations under the Companys planning and opportunities all-employee share plans Reviewed strategy plans and received reports on the operational Received regular updates on views and feedback from investors performance for the Groups regions Considered the Companys investor relations strategy Received reports on technology and innovation and related industry developments Considered and reviewed the leadership and development strategy Attended the Investor Day Reviewed the Groups succession plans and assessed risks Attended Global Management Conference and options Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 57 Secretary, plans the agenda for each Board meeting Board commitment and ensures that supporting papers are clear, accurate, The Board has established a policy permitting its timely and of sufficient quality to enable the Board to executive directors to hold only one external nondischarge its duties.
executive directorship, subject to any possible conflict of interest.
This ensures that executive directors retain All Board directors have access to the Company Secretary, sufficient time for and focus on the Companys business, who advises them on Board and governance matters.
whilst allowing them to gain external Board exposure as As well as the support of the Company Secretary, there is part of their leadership development.
Executive directors a procedure in place for any director to take independent are permitted to retain any fees paid for such services.
professional advice at the Companys expense in the Details of the annual rate of fees payable are shown below: furtherance of their duties, where considered necessary.
External Our values and culture Director Fee appointment Hays is a people business and people are at the core Alistair Cox 60,000 Just Eat plc of what we do.
As such we foster a meritocratic and entrepreneurial culture, which is reflected in our four While the Company does not have a similar policy for brand values of: non-executive directors, their key external commitments are reviewed each year to ensure that they too have Expert: sufficient time commitment for the fulfilment of their Ambitious: Board responsibilities.
Key external commitments of the Passionate about People: and Board are included within their biographies on pages 52 Inquisitive.
To support this culture we maintain an open style of The Board considered the commitments of Andrew Martin communication, which is designed to both identify on his appointment as Chairman and is satisfied that he issues early, and also to recognise potential opportunities, has sufficient time to devote to his Board responsibilities so that in both cases appropriate action can be taken with Hays.
in terms of reducing any negative impact on the business Information and support whilst ensuring opportunities are exploited.
The Board meets regularly throughout the year and These characteristics and brand values are core to agrees a forward calendar of matters that it wishes to our Group culture and are supported via the following discuss at each meeting.
mediums and underpinned by the Hays Group Policies and Procedures: Standing items, including operational, functional and financial reviews and Committee updates are considered Corporate communications: at each scheduled Board meeting, with unplanned items Global intranet: and such as commercial or property-related decisions being Hiring, induction, training and promotion criteria.
considered as and when required.
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Chief Executive and Company Board attendance The Board met a total of seven times during the year.
In addition, the Board attended an annual Strategy Review meeting with the Management Board being present.
Five Board meetings were held in the UK, one in Mannheim, Germany, and one in Paris, France.
Board and Committee attendance for scheduled meetings during the year are shown below.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Board and Committee attendance Board Committee Committee Committee Alan Thomson 7 of 7 2 of 2 Alistair Cox 7 of 7 Paul Venables 7 of 7 1 Paul Harrison 4 of 4 2 of 2 1 of 1 2 of 2 2 Andrew Martin 6 of 7 4 of 4 1 of 1 4 of 4 3 Victoria Jarman 6 of 7 3 of 4 1 of 2 3 of 4 Torsten Kreindl 7 of 7 4 of 4 2 of 2 4 of 4 4 Susan Murray 6 of 7 3 of 4 1 of 1 3 of 4 MT Rainey 7 of 7 4 of 4 2 of 2 4 of 4 1 Pippa Wicks 4 of 4 2 of 2 1 of 1 2 of 2 Peter Williams 7 of 7 4 of 4 2 of 2 4 of 4 1 Stepped down from the Board on 15 November 2017.
2 Unable to attend one Board meeting due to a prior commitment.
3 Unable to attend one Board, Audit and Remuneration Committee meeting due to serious family illness.
4 Unable to attend one Board, Audit and Remuneration Committee due to a prior commitment.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 58 LEADERSHIP CONTINUED Complementing these financial controls is a set of GroupRisk management and internal control wide policies and procedures addressing non-quantifiable The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups risks.
These include security policies, the Groups Code of internal control systems and for reviewing their Conduct and Ethics, Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy, effectiveness.
This has been designed to assist the Board and whistleblowing arrangements.
The Board regularly in making better, more risk-informed, strategic decisions receives management and Committee reports which with a view to creating and protecting shareholder value.
also form part of the internal control system.
In practice, the Board delegates the task of implementing its policy on risk and control to management.
Further The Groups internal control procedures are subject to support and assistance is provided by an independent regular review and provide an ongoing process for Internal Audit function, details of which are provided in identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks.
This is in accordance with the Guidance on Risk Management and Internal Control and Related Financial The Management Board oversees an enterprise risk and Business Reporting September 2014.
The Board management system which allows for a holistic, top-down recognises that such a system has its limitations in that and bottom-up view of key risks facing the business.
risk management requires independent judgment on the These are recorded in a Group risk register, which is part of directors and executive management.
Internal reviewed at least annually by the Management Board and controls are designed to manage rather than eliminate submitted to the Board thereafter to enable it to carry the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can out its risk oversight responsibility.
This exercise involves provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance a current and forward look at various risks affecting against material misstatement or loss.
the business and prioritising them according to risk magnitude and likelihood.
Risks covered include In accordance with its regulatory obligations, the Board, operational, business and compliance risks as well as with the assistance of the Audit Committee, carried out financial risks.
Each risk is assigned an owner with current an annual assessment of the effectiveness of the Groups and future risk mitigation procedures detailed, with the risk management and internal control system during continuing monitoring of these undertaken on an ongoing the reporting period.
During the course of its review, basis.
The principal risks currently facing the business the Board did not identify or hear of any failings or are detailed in the Strategic Report.
weaknesses that it determined to be significant and it therefore concluded that they are operating effectively.
The Group Risk Committee assists the Management Board in providing strategic leadership, direction, reporting and oversight of the Groups risk framework.
The Committee is chaired by the Group Finance Director and membership includes representation across the global network and comprises operational, IT and finance functions.
Meetings are held at least three times a year, with activities and recommendations reported to the Management Board.
The Hays plc Board also has oversight of the Committee and its activities.
A Chief Risk Officer was appointed in August 2018, who will further strengthen the Groups risk management framework.
The Board reviews Group strategy and approves a budget each year, to ensure that the performance of the business is in line with the plan and financial and operational reporting procedures are in place.
Comprehensive annual budgets and quarterly forecasts are approved by the Management Board and business divisions.
Monthly progress and variances are reported to the Management Board and subsequently to the Board at each meeting as part of the ongoing internal control process.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018
