Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2018 39 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE in the most recent FRC audit quality inspection report on The audit committee is made up of all the directors, all of Ernst & Young.
The committee does not believe that there whom are independent non-executive directors, and was has been any impairment to the auditors independence.
chaired by James Will until my appointment on 1 December, when I took over as the chair.
The board chairman, Julian The committee examines in detail the scope of the audit, Cazalet, retires at the forthcoming AGM and from that time ensuring that the auditors objectives have met the committees the board chairman will no longer be a member of this expectations, along with key audit and accounting matters committee, though will be invited to attend meetings.
The principal findings of the audit are discussed and challenged, particularly in areas where The committee considers that at least one of its members management judgement has been required.
The committee has recent and relevant financial experience and that the will give the auditor an opportunity to comment privately on the committee as a whole has competence relevant to the quality and standard of the managers and administrators sector in which the Company operates.
Its authority and performance generally and during the audit.
Similarly, the duties are defined within its written terms of reference which committee will seek the views of the manager and administrator are available on request from the Company and on the on the effectiveness and performance of the audit team.
NON-AUDIT SERVICES ROLE AND DUTIES There is not often a need for non-audit services to be provided The committees responsibilities, which were discharged by the auditor.
The committees policy is that non-audit work during the year, include: should be limited to those matters where the external auditor is most appropriately placed to carry out the work, unless monitoring and reviewing of the integrity of the halfthere is a conflict of interest.
All non-audit services are yearly and annual financial statements and any formal approved in advance.
No non-audit services were provided announcements relating to the Companys financial by the auditor during the period under review.
performance including: ensuring compliance with statutory and listing requirements: appropriateness of accounting AUDIT TENDERING policies: and any financial judgements and key assumptions: The committee is responsible for overseeing and managing the reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of internal audit tender arrangements and process.
Ernst & Young LLP has control and risk management systems: been the Companys auditor since before 16 June 1994.
Having making recommendations to the board within the context considered the experience and tenure of the audit partner and of the EU Audit Regulation and Directive in relation to the staff and level of service provided, the committee remains appointment of the external auditor and approving the satisfied with the auditors effectiveness and accordingly has remuneration and terms of their engagement: recommended that Ernst & Young LLP be reappointed at the forthcoming AGM.
The audit partner responsible for the audit developing and implementing policy on the engagement must be rotated at least every five years and was rotated in of the external auditor to supply non-audit services: 2017.
The current audit partner is Ashley Coups.
There are no management of the relationship with the external auditor contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of including: the scope, nature and planning of the audit: external auditor.
The committee will put the audit to tender discussion of matters of audit focus: evaluation of in 2019, noting that the current auditor becomes subject to external auditors results: and review and monitoring the mandatory rotation after the 2020 year end under the terms independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the of the EU Audit Regulation and Directive.
This is subject to external auditor: continuing satisfactory performance in the meantime.
The reviewing the arrangements in place within HIML whereby Company believes that it is in compliance with the provisions their staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about of the Competition and Markets Authority Order 2014 on possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or statutory audit services and competitive tender processes.
other matters insofar as they may affect the Company: reviewing the terms of the investment management SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL ISSUES RELATING TO THE 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS agreement: and The Code requires us to describe any significant issues considering annually whether there is a need for the considered in relation to the financial statements and how Company to have its own internal audit function.
While there were no significant issues, two matters of risk of particular focus at the balance RISK MANAGEMENT, INTERNAL CONTROL AND sheet date were the risks that investments might not have INTERNAL AUDIT been correctly valued or beneficially owned.
No issues The extensive array of internal controls adopted by the were discovered.
Company are set out in the corporate governance report.
The board as a whole is responsible for the effectiveness of SUMMARY internal control mechanisms but it is informed by more Following a detailed review of the financial statements and specific work carried out by the audit committee.
discussions with the manager, administrator, company secretary and auditor, the committee has concluded that the financial EXTERNAL AUDITOR ASSESSING EFFECTIVENESS statements themselves, and the annual report as a whole, are The committee monitors the independence and objectivity of fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information the auditor, their performance and effectiveness by meeting necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position at least annually with the audit partner to discuss that years and performance, business model and strategy.
Part of that process requires the auditor to give the conclusion has been reported to and confirmed by the board.
committee an assessment of how the audit team identifies and manages the threats to its independence.
The committee Stephanie Eastment receives confirmation from the auditor that it has complied Chair, audit committee with the relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements 19 February 2019 on independence.
It will also take into account any findings
