Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2018 36 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT COMPLIANCE Under the provisions of the Companys articles of association, The board is committed to achieving and demonstrating a director appointed during the year is required to retire and seek high standards of corporate governance.
This statement election by shareholders at the next AGM.
All directors retire outlines how the principles of the April 2016 UK annually and if appropriate, offer themselves for re-election.
Corporate Governance Code the Code, which can be found at www.
uk, were applied throughout the INDEPENDENCE OF DIRECTORS financial year.
The board confirms that the Company All the directors are considered by the board to be has complied throughout the year under review with the independent of the manager and free of any business or relevant provisions of the Code, except where indicated other relationship which could interfere with the exercise of below.
The Company was a constituent of the FTSE250 their independent judgement.
throughout the period and reports on that basis.
The latest version of the Code, as published in 2018, becomes MEETINGS effective for financial years beginning 1 January 2019 and There is an annual cycle of board meetings which is designed appropriate steps are being taken to ensure compliance.
to address, in a systematic way, overall strategy, review of investment policy, investment performance, revenue budgets, The Association of Investment Companies has published dividend policy and communication with shareholders.
its own Code of Corporate Governance July 2016 which The board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to provides a framework of best practice for investment discharge its duties effectively.
The table below shows the companies which can be found at www.
attendance record for the board and committee meetings The board is of the opinion that the Company has complied held during the year.
All the directors attended the AGM.
with the recommendations of the AIC Code.
In addition, the board held an offsite strategic awayday in December 2018, which was attended by all the directors and THE BOARD the investment manager.
The board has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs.
Board Audit Nomination It has a number of matters reserved for its approval including Number of meetings 5 2 6 strategy, approval of the financial statements, investment Julian Cazalet 5 2 6 policy, borrowings, gearing policy, treasury matters, dividend and corporate governance policy.
The board also Tom Black 4 1 6 reviews the financial statements, investment transactions, Stephanie Eastment revenue budgets and performance.
Full and timely Ian Russell 2 3 information is provided to the board to enable it to function effectively and to allow directors to discharge their Karl Sternberg 4 1 6 responsibilities.
James Will 5 2 6 The chairman is responsible for organising the business Tom Black and Karl Sternberg missed meetings in February and July respectively of the board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting due to pressing family matters.
He reviews channels for the provision of Stephanie Eastment appointed 1 December: no meetings after that date, but she attended the awayday.
information with the company secretary at least once a year.
Ian Russell appointed 1 August, attended all meetings after that date.
The executive responsibilities for investment management and administration have been delegated to HIML and BNYM respectively, and in the context of a board comprising NOMINATION COMMITTEE entirely non-executive directors, there is no chief executive The nomination committee consists of all the directors and officer.
Tom Black is the senior independent director.
the chairman of the board is chairman of the committee.
The committee meets on an annual basis and at such other The directors believe that the board has a balance of skills times as may be required.
The committee has written terms and experience which enable it to provide effective of reference which include reviewing the board, identifying leadership and proper governance of the Company.
and nominating new candidates for appointment to the Information about the directors, including their relevant board, board and director appraisal, succession planning experience, can be found on page 35. and training.
The committee also considers whether directors should be recommended for re-election by The board historically composed four directors: this was shareholders.
The committee is responsible for considering increased to five during the year as explained in the directors potential conflicts of interest and for making Chairmans Statement, with six directors in place at the recommendations to the board on whether or not the year end to ensure a smooth transition.
All the directors potential conflicts should be authorised.
The terms of are non-executive.
reference are reviewed annually and are available on request and at www.
The board has reviewed the performance of all directors.
In each case, their performance continues to be effective Appointments to the board are made on merit irrespective and they remain committed to the Company.
Their of race, colour, religion, age, educational professional contribution to the board is valued highly and the board background and gender.
The committee is working towards recommends their election or re-election to shareholders.
a target of one third of female directors.
It operates in accordance with the following standards: There is an agreed procedure for directors to seek independent professional advice if necessary at the when seeking to recruit, the nomination committee will Companys expense.
evaluate the skills, experience, independence, knowledge and diversity of the board and prepare a description of TERMS OF APPOINTMENT the role and capabilities required to fulfil the appointment The terms and conditions of directors appointments are set and will normally appoint an independent agency to out in formal letters of appointment which are available for assist in the recruitment process: inspection on request.
Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2018 37 it will ensure that a diverse group of candidates is INTERNAL CONTROLS, RISK MANAGEMENT AND considered: and INTERNAL AUDIT The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the candidates will be considered on merit and against Companys risk management and internal controls systems objective criteria having regard to the benefits of diversity, and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The systems are designed including gender.
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable but not During the year the committee met five times.
It undertook absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
a comprehensive update of its plans for succession to the board including identifying the skills of current and future The board confirms that there is a continuing process directors, taking into account planned changes to the board.
for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant The committee recommended to the board, and the board risks faced by the Company, in accordance with the resolved, to increase the number of directors from four to guidance on risk management, internal control and related five and the engagement of Trust Associates, an independent financial and business reporting, published by the FRC.
external recruitment firm, to conduct a search to identify suitable candidates for appointment as independent nonThe directors confirm that they have reviewed the executive directors, one of whom would be the future effectiveness of the Companys risk management and chairman.
As a result, two new directors were appointed internal control systems and they have procedures in place during the year as detailed in the Chairmans Statement on to review their effectiveness on a regular basis.
No significant page 9. weaknesses were identified in the year under review and in the period up to and including the date of this report.
The senior independent director took over the chairmanship of the committee whenever it was dealing with the matter of The practical measures to ensure compliance with the chair of the boards successor.
regulation and company law, and to provide effective and efficient operations and investment management, have PERFORMANCE EVALUATION been delegated to HIML, the company secretary and BNYM.
The nomination committee met to assess the performance of the chairman, each director, the board as a whole and its The audit committee and board monitor performance committees, after inviting each director and the chairman of the functions performed by HIML, the company to consider and respond to a set of questions.
The appraisal secretary and BNYM through regular review.
Since of the chairman was led by Tom Black.
The appraisals July 2014, when HIML became the Companys AIFM and evaluations considered, amongst other criteria, the under the Alternative Investment Fund Managers balance of skills of the board, training and development Directive AIFMD, the audit committee and board requirements, the contribution of individual directors and also monitor the controls managed by the AIFM.
the overall effectiveness of the board and its committees.
Following this process it was concluded that the The AIFM has a risk policy covering the risks associated performance of each director, the chairman, the board and with its management of the portfolio and it has in its committees continues to be effective and each director place its own risk management procedures, which are and the chairman remain committed to the Company.
Risk limits are set by the AIFM and approved by the audit committee taking into account A review of the chairmans and other directors several factors, including investment strategy and risk commitments was carried out and the nomination appetite.
The investment policy limits are described in committee is satisfied that they are capable of devoting the strategic report and are monitored at each board sufficient time to the Company.
meeting, taking account of appropriate sensitivity analysis.
EXTERNAL EFFECTIVENESS EVALUATION HIML has a compliance function in accordance with The board has not facilitated an external review of its FCA regulations.
The compliance function provides effectiveness since admission to the FTSE 250 in October the audit committee and board with a report on its 2017.
Further consideration will be given to this later in 2019, monitoring procedures on a regular basis.
Compliance by which time changes in the boards composition and monitoring by HIML includes risk based internal leadership will have had time to settle.
monitoring as well as external monitoring of services that have been delegated to third parties principally INDUCTION AND TRAINING fund accounting and company secretarial services.
Training for new directors is tailored to the particular For fund accounting, monitoring includes reviewing circumstances of the individual appointee.
Regular briefings the monthly net asset value produced by BNYM versus are provided on changes in regulatory requirements that HIMLs own system, reviewing BNYMs client accounting could affect the Company and the directors.
Directors compliance reports and internal audit confirmations and receive other relevant training as necessary.
reviewing KMPGs annual Service Organisation Control SOC1 and Centrally Managed Information Technology REMUNERATION Services CMITS reports on BNYM.
The audit committee As all the directors are non-executive there is no need for a also receives regular compliance reports from BNYM, separate remuneration committee.
Directors fees are including performance against service level standards.
considered by the board as a whole within the remuneration policy limits approved by shareholders, set out on page 42.
Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2018 38 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Under AIFMD, the Company has appointed a depositary, PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary UK Limited, whose At the AGM of the Company to be held on 16 April 2019, responsibilities include cash monitoring and safe keeping the Company will as usual be seeking authority to make of the Companys assets.
During the year, the appointment limited purchases of the Companys ordinary shares was novated to the The Bank of New York Mellon see the notice of AGM on page 68.
Buy-backs are International Limited, which also became custodian in considered by the board to be a useful tool, where surplus place of The Bank of New York Mellon SA NV, London cash is not being utilised for investment, to assist in the Branch.
The scope of the fund accounting services includes maintenance of liquidity in the Companys shares.
Provision of custody services by BNYM is covered by a SOC1 report, a copy of AGM DIGITAL PROXY VOTING which is provided to audit committee members.
Finally, Shareholders are strongly encouraged to submit proxy a detailed risk map is prepared by the company secretary votes online by visiting www.
There is a for the audit committee, identifying the significant risks straightforward registration process and a number of our faced by the Company summarised on page 33 and shareholders are using the site already.
All you need is your the key controls employed to manage those risks.
name, address and investor code, which can be found on your share certificate.
If you are having trouble locating your share These procedures ensure that consideration is given certificate or investor code, please call the shareholder helpline regularly to the nature and extent of the risks facing the on 0871 664 0300 or from overseas 44 0 371 664 0300.
Company and that they are being actively monitored.
Where changes in risk are identified during the year, Any shareholder who is unwilling or unable to vote digitally these procedures also provide a mechanism to can opt-in to receive a paper proxy card by telephoning the assess whether further action is required to manage shareholder helpline.
The board confirms that these procedures have been in place throughout AGM CONTINUATION VOTE the year under review and that they continue to be In accordance with the Companys articles of association, in place up to the date of approval of this report.
shareholders have the right to vote on the continuation of the Company every three years see resolution 10 The audit committee carries out an annual review of of the AGM notice on page 68.
Your board strongly the need for an internal audit function.
The committee recommends that shareholders vote in favour of the continues to believe that the compliance and internal resolution.
The directors intend to vote their own control systems and the internal audit function in place shareholdings in favour.
within the manager and the administrator provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal control, which AGM RECOMMENDATION safeguards shareholders investment and the Companys The directors unanimously recommend all holders to vote assets, is maintained.
An internal audit function, specific in favour of all the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM.
to the Company, is therefore considered unnecessary.
SUMMARY STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT The board has concluded that, as demonstrated by the The respective responsibilities of the directors and the disclosures made in the foregoing, the Company has complied auditors in connection with the financial statements are throughout 2018 with all of the applicable requirements of the set out on pages 45 to 49.
UK Corporate Governance Code, save that the chairman was a member of the audit committee.
AUDIT COMMITTEE A separate audit committee report appears on page 39.
By order of the board Its chair is Stephanie Eastment and all of the non-executive directors are members, including the chairman, Julian Julian Cazalet Cazalet.
Following his retirement, the successor chairman Chairman Ian Russell will not be a member of the committee.
19 February 2019 RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The board places great importance on communication with shareholders.
The Companys manager meets regularly with larger shareholders and reports to the board.
The chairman also meets with shareholders both with the manager and on his own.
Shareholders wishing to communicate with the chairman or any other director may do so by writing to him at the registered office of the Company which is shown on page 71.
The Companys AGM provides a forum for communication with all shareholders.
The level of proxies lodged for each resolution is announced at the meeting and is published on the managers website, www.
com, subsequent to the meeting.
The notice period for the AGM is at least 20 working days.
Shareholders and potential investors may obtain up-to-date information on the Company from the managers website.
