Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Corporate governance statement This Corporate Governance Statement forms part of the Directors Report.
Governance codes Revised AIC Code The Board considers that the principles and In February 2019 the AIC published the revised AIC Code recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate to reflect the changes that had been introduced by the Governance July 2016 AIC Code, suggested by the AIC new 2018 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code Corporate Governance Guide for investment companies in so far as they are appropriate to an investment company.
AIC Guide, provides the most appropriate framework for The new Code applies to financial periods beginning on and the Companys governance and reporting to shareholders.
In light of the updated AIC Code The AIC Code and the AIC Guide address all the principles principles and provisions, as well as the new requirements set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code April 2016 simultaneously introduced by The Companies as well as setting out additional principles and Miscellaneous Reporting Regulations 2018, the Board recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance will review the Companys governance arrangements to the Company.
during the year and will report against the new AIC Code in its forthcoming Annual Report, including an explanation Throughout the year, the Company has complied with of how stakeholder interests and the matters set out under the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 are considered in provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, except board discussions and decisionmaking.
The Board recognises that, in light of the recent The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions developments of the corporate governance landscape, relating to: some changes to its current governance practice may the role of the chief executive: be necessary.
The Company is committed to maintaining executive directors remuneration: and the highest standards of governance and during 2019 the need for an internal audit function.
it will work to ensure that it continues to meet all For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained applicable requirements.
in the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers that these provisions are not relevant to the position of HgCapital Trust plc, being an externally managed investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys daytoday management and administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no executive directors, employees or internal operations.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
A copy of the AIC Code and the AIC Guide can be obtained 111 111 via the AICs website, www.
The Board AIC Principle Evidence of compliance explanation of departure from the AIC Code Code The chairman should be The nonexecutive Directors excluding the Chairman undertook an evaluation of 1 independent.
the Chairman as part of the annual Board evaluation process and agreed that they do not consider that Roger Mountford has any conflict of interest that compromises his independence.
A majority of the board During the year under review, the Board consisted only of nonexecutive Directors 2 should be independent and all of the Directors are deemed to be independent of the Manager.
Boards opinion, Roger Mountford and Richard Brooman continue to qualify as independent, despite their length of service, as they are independent of Hg and free from any business or other relationships that could materially interfere with the exercise of their judgements.
Jim Strang and Guy Wakeley are considered independent from the Manager upon appointment.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Corporate governance Corporate governance statement continued The Board continued AIC Principle Evidence of compliance explanation of departure from the AIC Code Code Directors should be submitted In line with the recommendations of the 2019 AIC Corporate Governance Code, 3 for reelection at regular all Directors will stand for reelection at the forthcoming AGM.
Nomination for Director performance is assessed as part of the annual Board Evaluation process, reelection should not be prior to nomination for reelection.
assumed but be based on disclosed procedures and continued satisfactory performance.
The board should have a The Board has proactively addressed the matter of director tenure in its 4 policy on tenure, which is deliberations.
It believes that adopting a policy whereby Directors may serve only disclosed in the annual report.
for a limited period is not necessarily appropriate for investment in private equity.
In an investment trust which has no executive management of its own, maintaining a longterm perspective is of particular importance.
The Board recognises the value of refreshing its composition, and has regularly done so, while also believing that the continuity and experience brought to the Board by retaining some Directors with longer periods of service is desirable.
In line with the recommendation of the 2019 AIC Code, a policy on chair tenure will be considered by the Board in 2019.
There should be full The Directors biographies, as set out on pages 103 to 105, highlight their wide 5 disclosure of information range of business experience and reasons why their contribution is, and continues about the board.
to be, important to the Companys longterm sustainable success.
Details of the Boards Committees are set out elsewhere in this Report and terms of reference of these committees are available on the Companys website.
The board should aim to have The Board has considered its plans for the succession of appointments to the Board, 6 a balance of skills, experience, having due regard to the benefits of diversity on the Board and the need to maintain length of service and and develop an appropriate mix of skills and experience amongst Directors.
During the year under review, Jim Strang and Guy Wakeley joined the Board in March and Mark Powell retired at the Companys AGM in April.
The board should undertake An appraisal of the Board, its Committees and the individual Directors is undertaken 7 a formal and rigorous annual annually.
The evaluation took the form of a detailed questionnaire, which looked 11 11 22 evaluation of its own to assess the effectiveness of the Board and committees activities, processes and performance and that policies and identify any possible areas for improvement.
The Chairman held of its committees and onetoone discussion with the Board members to consider the feedback on the individual directors.
performance of the individuals and the SID led the discussion on the performance of the Chairman.
The results of the evaluation process were presented to and discussed by the Board and it was concluded that the Board was functioning effectively.
The Board also continues to be satisfied that, collectively, the members of the Audit and Valuation Committee have a sufficient level of recent and relevant financial experience and competence relevant to the sector in which the Company operates.
One of the actions arising from the 2018 evaluation is to increase the focus on aspects of strategy, including obtaining information from additional sources in order to develop a deeper understanding of emerging technology trends and their application to sectors relevant to the Company and to enhance the Boards oversight capability of ensuring alignment with the Managers longterm strategy of investment in tech and techenabled companies.
In line with the governance recommendations for FTSE 350 companies, applicable to the Company going forward, the Directors will consider an externally facilitated board evaluation.
Director remuneration The Board considers the level of Directors fees annually, in accordance with 8 should reflect their duties, the Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders at the AGM held in 2017. responsibilities and the value Further details on Directors remuneration are contained in the Directors of their time spent.
Remuneration Report on pages 119 and 120.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Corporate governance statement continued Board meetings and the relationship with the Manager AIC Principle Evidence of compliance explanation of departures from the AIC Code Code The independent directors The Nomination Committee, which is comprised of all independent nonexecutive 9 should take the lead in the Directors, is responsible for identifying and recommending to the Board the appointment of new directors appointment of new Directors.
The Nomination Committee considered the balance and the process should be of skills, experience, diversity and independence of the Board as well as Hgs disclosed in the annual report.
investment strategy and identified the additional skills and experience that could strengthen the Boards composition.
After Mark Powell had in 2017 signalled his intention to step down from the Board the following year, the Nomination Committee engaged an external search consultant, Nurole, to identify suitable candidates.
As a result, Jim Strang and Guy Wakeley joined the Board in March 2018.
The search and appointment process is described in the Nomination Committee report on page 118.
The external recruitment agency, Nurole, has no connection to the Company.
Directors should be New Directors are provided with an induction pack containing key information and 10 offered relevant training governance documents relating to the Company.
The Manager provides a tailored and induction.
induction programme covering the Companys investment activities and the approach to investment.
Directors receive updates on market and regulatory developments and are provided training, as identified through the Board evaluation process, as required.
The chairman and the board This principle applies to the launch of new investment companies and is therefore 11 should be brought into the not applicable to the Company.
process of structuring a new launch at an early stage.
Boards and managers should Formal Board meetings provide a forum for Directors to receive reports and 12 operate in a supportive, interact with key members of the Managers team.
In addition, there is ongoing cooperative and open informal interaction between the Directors and the Manager through the provision environment.
of updates on investments and any other queries that the Board may have.
The primary focus at regular The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality 13 board meetings should be a appropriate to enable it to discharge its duty of investment oversight.
review of investment 11 11 33 A review of the Companys investments is presented at each Board meeting and a performance and associated cash flow forecast, based on expected investments and realisations, is considered.
matters such as gearing, asset allocation, marketing investor relations, peer group information and industry issues.
Boards should give sufficient Strategic issues and all operational matters of a material nature are determined 14 attention to overall strategy.
and monitored on an ongoing basis by the Board.
The Board holds an annual strategy meeting, where senior members of the Managers investment team present Hgs strategy and direction to ensure that this remains aligned to the objectives of the Company and present information on the Managers business strategy and resources.
The board should regularly The Management Engagement Committee reviews the terms of the Management 15 review both the performance Agreement annually and makes recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
of, and contractual Further details can be found on page 117. arrangements with, the The Board believe that the continuing appointment of Hg Pooled Management manager or executives of a Limited remains in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Corporate governance Corporate governance statement continued Shareholder communications AIC Principle Evidence of compliance explanation of departure from the AIC Code Code The board should agree policies The Management Agreement sets out the matters over which the Manager has 16 with the manager covering key authority and the limits above which Board approval must be sought.
matters, including strategy, investment and dividend polices, gearing and corporate governance procedures, are reserved for the approval of the Board.
The Board has delegated to the Manager the exercise of any voting rights attaching to securities held by the Company.
Hg does not operate a fixed policy when voting but reviews each case separately.
Boards should monitor the The Board monitors the share price on an ongoing basis.
The Board has not 17 level of the share price attempted to manage any discount through a repurchase of shares as Directors discount or premium if any believe that the discount is minimised through consistently good longterm returns, and, if desirable, take action to transparent reporting, rigorous valuation, avoidance of risk at the Company level reduce it.
and the maintenance of an active programme of market engagement.
The board should monitor and The Board, through the Management Engagement Committee, monitors all third 18 evaluate other service party service providers and has implemented a rolling programme of deep dive providers.
reviews, based upon the risk and materiality of each provider.
Further information is provided in the Management Engagement Committee Report on page 117.
The board should regularly Following Mark Powells retirement at the 2018 AGM, Anne West assumed the role 19 monitor the shareholder profile of the Senior Independent Director SID.
In this capacity, Anne provides an of the company and put in alternative channel for shareholder communication and is available to enter into place a system for canvassing dialogue with shareholders.
shareholder views and for The AGM is the main forum for canvassing shareholder views and for shareholders communicating the boards to receive a presentation from the Manager on progress during the year.
Hg, as Manager of the Company, regularly meets with investors in the Company and provides a full investor relations service to shareholders.
All feedback from the presentations is reported back to the Board of the Company.
The board should normally The Board approves the content and timing of all communications regarding major 20 take responsibility for, and have corporate issues and events.
Communications normally take the form of stock 11 11 44 a direct involvement in, the exchange announcements, press releases, interim and annual reports and direct content of communications correspondence with shareholders.
regarding major corporate issues even if the manager is asked to act as spokesman.
The board should ensure that The Board believes that the Companys Annual Report provides shareholders with 21 shareholders are provided with sufficient information to understand the nature of their investment in the Company.
sufficient information for them The full investment portfolio is contained on page 48 of these financial statements.
to understand the risk:reward balance to which they are exposed by holding the shares.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018
