Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Governance Report Q: What is the role of the Board?
The Board sets the entrepreneurial culture, within which our subsidiaries operate.
The Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Group consists of the Company and the principal subsidiary companies, listed on pages 166 to 168, and during 2018 operated in seven different countries.
Whilst the Groups businesses are directly supervised by local operating boards and performance is monitored at individual operating company and divisional levels, reports are received by the Group Board on a monthly basis detailing financial performance, including variances to forecast and estimated year-end outturns: health & safety activities: people activities: and risks and opportunities.
More details of the Groups business model and strategy can be found on pages 8 to 17.
There is careful oversight of the individual businesses.
The Executive Directors regularly attend the subsidiary companies monthly board meetings, and there is liaison across divisions to ensure, where appropriate, the consistent application of governance, operational procedures and Group policies and practices.
There are clear lines of delegated authority and businesses are given a high degree of autonomy to promote their activities in an entrepreneurial fashion.
There is regular communication between the managing director of the subsidiary and our Chief Executive, who also attends subsidiary board meetings.
The two Executive Directors are accountable to the Board for the operational application of these controls.
As we move into 2019 and acknowledge the new principles and provisions of the 2018 Code, the Board and in particular our CEO, supported by the Group Company Secretary, will review the Purpose & Values project.
We commenced this in the latter part of 2018 and involved meetings with, and information received from the Directors of our subsidiaries and their immediate reports.
The findings will allow the Board to articulate to a wider audience the purpose of Hill & Smith Holdings PLC.
Q: What are the Boards responsibilities?
The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company and is focused on ensuring its own effectiveness.
The Board has established a process designed to maximise that effectiveness and this operates within a framework of Board meetings, discussions and site visits: strategic focus: information provided by the Executive Directors and senior management: and knowledge of the governance background within which the Group operates and the affairs of the subsidiaries.
Enabling the Board to support the Groups long-term success, whilst managing any conflicts of interest.
Q: How does the Board discharge these responsibilities?
The Board manages the overall control of the Groups affairs with reference to a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board for decision.
In particular, the Board takes decisions on and reviews: Group strategy and operating plans: business development, including acquisitions and divestments, major investments and disposals: risk management: financial reporting and audit, including announcements for year end and interim results and trading updates: Financing, treasury and taxation: Corporate governance: Compliance with laws, regulations and the Companys Code of Business Conduct: Corporate sustainability and responsibility, ethics, health and safety, the environment: and Pension benefits and liabilities.
As well as these regular reviews, during 2018 the Board visited the France Galva and Conimast sites in Saint Florentin, France: considered the Groups year-end forecasts and possible full year outturn ahead of the announcement of Group trading statements and received, reviewed and approved matters including: A revised year-end forecast: the acquisitions of Work Area Protection Corp: Composite Advantage: Signalvakter and EEI in the US, and The Grating Company in the UK: acquisition integration plans: strategy development plans: national distributor agreements: the conclusions of the externally facilitated board effectiveness review: succession planning and talent management updates: goodwill and intangible asset carrying values: the viability statement: 2019 budget presentations from V&S Galvanizing LLC: Hill & Smith Ltd: and Creative Pultrusions Inc. : and budget reports from other subsidiaries.
56 Stock Code HILS Leadership Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Q: Who constituted the Board during 2018?
Q: How do our Non-executive Directors contribute to the Board?
The Non-executive Directors take an active role in challenging A.
During the whole of 2018 the Board comprised: Jock Lennox, strategy and monitoring the performance of the Company.
There Chairman: Alan Giddins, Senior Independent and Non-executive exists an appropriate combination of Executive and Non-executive Director: Annette Kelleher, Non-executive Director: Mark Reckitt, Directors, together with clear divisions of responsibilities between Non-executive Director: Derek Muir, Chief Executive: and Mark Pegler, the leadership of the board and the executive leadership of the Group Finance Director.
See pages 52 to 53 for biographies.
All of the companys business.
Non-executive Directors have sufficient time to directors attended all the Board meetings held during 2018. meet their board responsibilities and provide constructive challenge, strategic guidance, specialist advice and hold management to account.
Q: What value does our Chairman add to the Board?
The Non-executive Directors, led by Alan Giddins our Senior Independent Director, meet independently without the Chairman A.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive which is set out in writing and available present and also meet with the Chairman, independent of at www.
The Chairman is responsible for the management.
leadership and effective working of the Board.
The small size of the Board ensures all Directors contribute fully to the discussions and decisions.
The Chairman drives the Board agenda and determines Q: How is our Board supported by our sub-committees?
how the Board should use the time available to it during Board meetings, promoting a culture of openness and debate: facilitating A.
During 2018, the Board was supported by three committees, each constructive board relations and effective contribution of board reporting directly to the Board.
members: ensuring Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information: and providing an opportunity for the Non-executive The Nomination Committee, comprising the Chairman, the Directors to meet without the Executive Directors present.
He three Non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive, has regularly seeks engagement with major shareholders to understand responsibility for assisting the Board with succession planning views on governance and performance against strategy.
and with the selection of a new Executive Director, Non-executive Director or Chairman.
The Audit Committee, comprising the The intention was that his appointment would be for several years.
three Non-executive Directors, has responsibility for planning and However, under the 2018 Code the provisions around tenure of reviewing the Companys interim and preliminary reports and the Chairman have been changed such that the Chair should accounts, and its internal controls and risk management systems, now not remain in place beyond nine years from the date of their and the Remuneration Committee, comprising the three Nonfirst appointment to the board.
This period can be extended for executive Directors, is responsible for the creation, approval and a limited time to facilitate effective succession planning and implementation of the Companys Remuneration Policy in respect of board development particularly where the Chair was an existing Executive Directors, Company Secretary and senior executives.
Since Jock Lennox was appointed Chair on 17 May 2017 and to the Board on 12 May 2009, For more information on the work of the Audit Committee see this amendment is relevant.
The nomination committee excluding pages 67 to 72 and for more information on the work of the the Chair has considered this matter and has resolved that Jock Remuneration Committee see pages 73 to 82.
Lennox should continue as Chair so that the leadership of the board remains settled for the time being.
Accordingly Jock Lennox reappointment as a director and Chair will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM on 16 May 2019.
An initial discussion was held Q: How frequently did our Board and sub-committees come with certain shareholders in 2018 and they expressed their support together?
for this approach and asked that an explanation be provided in the Annual Report.
During 2018, the Board met on 11 occasions, the Audit Committee on five occasions and the Nomination and Remuneration Committees both met on four occasions.
Q: What value does our Chief Executive add to the Board?
Board Audit Nomination Remuneration 1 Meetings Committee Committee Committee A.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the management of the Total 11 5 4 4 Company, recommending and executing the Groups strategy and development, meeting financial objectives, implementing Jock Lennox 11 5 4 4 policies and maintaining controls.
The Chief Executive has a long Derek Muir 11 5 4 4 association with the Group, having joined the Company in 1990 Mark Pegler 11 5 1 1 and being appointed to the Board of Hill & Smith Limited in 1998 and to the Group Board in August 2006, and brings to the Board an Alan Giddins 11 5 4 4 in-depth knowledge of the operations of all the Groups subsidiaries, Annette Kelleher 11 5 4 4 maintaining a programme of visits to the Groups subsidiary businesses, throughout the world.
Along with the Group Finance Mark Reckitt 11 5 4 4 Director, the Chief Executive provides information to the Board via attendance as a guest their regular written reports: presentation of proposals for Board 1 No Director took part in a meeting where their salary was approval: and input into subsidiary budgets.
initially challenged by the Executive Directors in order that the final budgets are a realistic representation of the expected financial performance of the businesses taking onto account historical performance and future economic conditions.
com for Leadership framework hsholdings.
