Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Governance Report continued Q: What is the profile of our Board?
A: Our Directors are experienced and influential individuals from varied commercial industries, professional backgrounds and international involvement.
Their diverse and balanced mix of skills and business experience see below, are key elements to the effective functioning of the Board and its Committees, ensuring matters are fully and effectively debated and challenged and no individual or group dominates the Boards decision-making processes.
Taking into account the provisions of the Code, the Board has determined that during the year under review none of the Non-executive Directors had any relationship or circumstance which would affect their performance and the Board considers all of the Non-executive Directors to be independent in character and judgement.
Half of the Board consists of independent Nonexecutive Directors.
The biographies of the Directors of the Board are shown on pages 52 and 53, along with any significant other commitments and appointments they have.
Skills and business experience: Strategy 5 Supply chain 4 Leadership 6 Marketing 5 Operating performance Risk management and & delivery 6 assurance 6 Mergers & Acquisitions Digital 2 6 Financial Planning 6 Health & Safety 6 International markets 6 Human Resources 5 Business integration 6 Culture & Ethics 6 Q: Has the Board been conflicted at any time during the year?
A: The Companies Act 2006 sets out Directors general duties concerning conflicts of interest and related matters.
The Board has agreed an approach and adopted guidelines for dealing with conflicts.
The Board confirmed that it was not aware of any situations that conflicted with the interests of the Company, other than those that may arise from Directors other appointments, as disclosed in their biographies on pages 52 and 53.
In accordance with the Articles, the Board authorised the Company Secretary to receive notifications of conflicts of interest on behalf of the Board and to make recommendations as to whether the relevant matters should be authorised by the Board.
The Company has complied with these procedures.
Q: Have there been any changes to the Board during the year?
A: The Board has appointed a Nomination Committee, composed of a majority of independent Non-executive Directors to oversee any changes to the Board.
The Committee leads the process of Board appointments, and supports the Board in succession planning for the Board and senior management.
Following a review of the Groups strategy and current succession plans, no changes were made to the Board in the financial year to 31 December 2018.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee can be found at www.
For more information on the work of the Nomination Committee see page 65.
com for Board Committee Terms of Reference 58 Stock Code HILS Effectiveness Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Q: What arrangements are in place for director training and Q: How did we respond to the recommendations of the 2017 Board development?
A: The Chairman has discussed training and development needs A: The Board has responded to these matters as follows: with all Board members, as part of individual performance Evaluated an external review of the Groups strategy and focus, evaluations.
All Directors are provided with the opportunity and concluding that regular updates on corporate activity within the are encouraged to attend regular training to ensure they are Groups core markets should be received by the Board as well as kept up-to-date on relevant legal developments or changes, best information around associated and aligned markets: practice and changes to commercial and financial risks.
Typical training experiences for Directors include attendance at seminars, More focus was applied to subsidiary company succession forums, conferences and working groups, as well as the provision planning, with company talent spotting being monitored and of information from the Company Secretary.
The Board regularly confirmed by the Executive Directors: receives: Work commenced on articulating the purpose, culture and Updates from its advisors on topics of interest and during values of the Company, with meetings held between the the year received briefings on the new Code both in respect Executive Directors, Company Secretary and the Corporate of the requirements of the Board to articulate the Companys Development Director and between the Company Secretary and purpose, culture and values and to implement mechanisms the senior leadership teams in the UK and the US.
to engage with the wider workforce as well as an update on Providing the Company Secretary with feedback on the the Remuneration Committees new duties to understand the information that the Directors wished to see more regularly remuneration arrangements across the wider workforce within within the Board packs, focusing on strategy and future the Group: and performance as well as providing more data on people, health & Information from the businesses within the Group on their safety and macro-economic factors.
Board packs are now more strategic and operational plans: organisational changes: and concise and aligned to the Companys purpose, strategy and health & safety audits.
Q: What is the Boards view on diversity?
Q: What did we learn from our most recent board evaluation?
A: The Board is committed to ensuring that the Companys A: Our most recent evaluation was carried out in January 2019 via an externally facilitated self-assessment questionnaire.
The review workforce is as diverse as possible, that it has access to a wide labour market and that members of the workforce are recruited on was approached from the perspective of the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
It established that during 2019 the Board should merit, regardless of age, disability, marital or civil partner status, pregnancy and maternity, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national seek to: origin, religion or belief, gender or sexual orientation.
As part of this Engage with the subsidiaries to further develop the business commitment, the Board annually approves its Statement on Diversity planning activity into a perpetual long-term process: and the Groups Equal Opportunities & Diversity Policy.
Receive more formal shareholder feedback given to the Details of the number of men and women at board level: the number Chairman, the CEO and other Directors, ensuring that responses of men and women who are managers i. e. those employees with are appropriate, clear and understood by all sides: authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling Consider the need for additional group resource to support the the activities of the Company : and the number of men and women Executive Directors and the Board as a whole: across the organisation as a whole are reported in this Annual Report on page.
Where appropriate, the Board will take steps to Consider the use of non-financial metrics within incentive address any gender discrimination or other diversity imbalance, schemes: and including but not limited to by ensuring that the Companys vacancies are advertised to a diverse labour market.
When considering the continuing Board succession planning have regard for the growth of the Group and the potential need for additional non-executive skills and experience.
Q: What did the 2017 Board Effectiveness Review recommend?
A: The 2017 Board Effectiveness Review conducted by Colin Mayer Q: How do you asses the performance of the Directors?
CBE FBA, Professor of Management Studies at Sad Business School, University of Oxford, made recommendations in the A: As required by the Code, Alan Giddins, as Senior Independent following areas: Director meets with his Board colleagues to discuss the performance of the Chairman and the Chairman meets with the The Board should continue to focus on the Groups strategic and Non-executive Directors to discuss the performance of the Executive long-term sustainability: Directors, who are not present at these meetings.
The Board should give consideration to determining and In compliance with the Code and the Companys Articles of defining the Groups purpose and values: Association, Directors retire at every AGM and, if deemed Existing work around succession planning should be extended appropriate by the Board, Directors are proposed for re-appointment further: by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
Following this evaluation of the performance of the Board, and on the recommendation of The Board should build on existing mechanisms to further the Nomination Committee, the Board is proposing that all Directors embed culture and values: and should stand for re-election at the Groups forthcoming Annual Improvements could be made to the presentation and format of General Meeting AGM.
com 59 France Galva has provided 650 tonnes of galvanized steel to the construction of the Saint Serge Ice Rink in Angers, France.
The new building that will be completed in 2019 will host a fun ice rink open to all and a sports rink for competitive ice sports.
Ice rink Saint Serge in Angers These photographs show the galvanized steel being put in place top and an artists impression of the finished building bottom.
