Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Nomination Committee Report arise.
The Board remains satisfied as to the time availability and commitment of the Non-executive Directors.
Committee Membership Date of Length of service at Appointment 31 December 2018 Jock Lennox 12 May 2009 9 years 7 months as Chairman 11 May 2017 1 year 7 months Annette Kelleher 1 December 2014 4 years 1 month Mark Reckitt 1 June 2016 2 years 7 months Alan Giddins 3 October 2017 1 year 3 months Jock Lennox The work of the Committee during the year Chairman During the year, and the period up to the date of this report, the Committee considered: Committee Membership Board succession and diversity recognising the desire to During the year the Committee comprised myself as the Groups maintain the right balance of expertise both at Executive Chairman, the Non-executive Directors Annette Kelleher, Mark Director and Non-executive Director level, the Committee Reckitt and Alan Giddins and the Group Chief Executive, Derek Muir.
discussed and planned for any other forthcoming changes, The Committee met four times in the financial period under review in this regard the Committee has overseen the succession with all eligible members of the Committee being present on each planning and discussions with Mark Pegler, Group Finance occasion.
Director, resulting in the announcement on 6 March 2019 that Mark will step down from the Board on 30 April 2019.
The Role of the Committee Committee has commenced the search for his successor: The role of the Nomination Committee is to assist the Board in the Subsidiary succession planning and talent management: key areas of Board composition, performance, succession planning and recruitment.
Having the appropriate range of high calibre Board evaluation Review of the  selfDirectors on our Board is key to determining and achieving the assessment Board evaluation questionnaire, a summary of Groups strategic objectives and ensuring that success is sustained which is contained on page 59: over the long-term.
The Committee will consider candidates on The revised tenure of the Chair in my absence, in the light of merit and against objective criteria and with due regard for the the new UK Corporate Governance Code, concluding that the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender, taking care that extension allowed by the Code to facilitate effective succession appointees have enough time available to devote to the position.
planning and board development was both appropriate and All Non-executive Directors, as well as well as myself and the relevant.
Accordingly it was resolved that I should continue as Group Finance Director, were selected through externally facilitated Chair so that the leadership of the board remains settled for the recruitments.
All Non-executive Directors are independent, as was time being: and I on appointment.
The Board believes this has created an effective The Committees revised terms of reference.
group of Executive and Non-executive Directors able to provide the required range of skills, knowledge and experience to ensure Plans for the year ahead development of the Group, implementation of its strategy and sound governance.
The Committee will continue to monitor any need to The Committee intends to remain focused on succession planning make any further changes to the composition of the Board, in the and talent management, recognising that with 31 entrepreneurial context of the Companys strategy.
subsidiaries across seven geographies the identification of highcalibre individuals within these businesses and their successful For more information on the balance of skills and experience transition into senior management roles along with the introduction see page 58. of new skills into these businesses is of utmost importance to the delivery of the Groups long-term strategy.
Non-executive Directors Following an initial three-year term, the terms of Non-executive Directors are reviewed annually, in line with their annual retirement at the AGM.
The letters of appointment for the Non-executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and Jock Lennox the AGM.
Chairman Non-executive Directors letters of appointment set out the time 6 March 2019 commitments normally required.
Such time commitments can involve peaks of activity at particular times and all Directors are expected to be flexible in managing these.
Any significant changes to their other commitments are notified to the Board before they hsholdings.
com 65 V&S Galvanizings Columbus plant provided hot-dip galvanized steel trellises, ornamental railings and architectural steelwork for the Mirror Lake at the Ohio State University.
