Corporate governance | Governance report Governance report UK Governance Code Control enhancements The Board continues to operate the following enhanced controls: Governance principles Governance structure review: The Independent Directors meet The Board is committed to the standards of corporate governance at least bi-annually in a private session chaired by the Senior set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code adopted Independent Director.
This meeting includes consideration of in April 2016 and the Markets Law of the Dubai Financial Services the appropriateness of the governance structure, the division Authority the Market Law.
The report on pages 69 to 104 describes of responsibilities between the Executive Chairman and the CEO how the Board has applied the Main Principles of the UK Code and and safeguards for shareholders.
Markets Law throughout the year ended 31 December 2018.
The UK Committee Chair roles: The Chairs of the Board Committees, all Code is available at www.
The Board considers that this of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors, undertake a Annual Report provides the information shareholders need to evaluate significant amount of work in the oversight of the functions that how we have complied with our current obligations under the UK Code report to their Committees and have in-depth relationships with and Market Law.
Transparency and engagement: Hikma has always had the highest The Board acknowledges that Said Darwazah holding the position of regard for shareholders, with many of the original investors from Chairman and Chief Executive until February 2018 and, since that point, before listing still investing and supporting Hikma today.
Over the Executive Chairman, requires explanation under the UK Code.
Should circa 14 years since flotation Hikma has maintained the highest shareholders require any further information, questions may be standards of shareholder engagement, which is reflective of the directed to the Company Secretary.
Other than the Executive Chairman importance placed in maintaining strong investor relations and position and one Independent Director who retired at the 2018 AGM governance.
serving for more than nine years, throughout the year and up until the Senior Independent role: The Senior Independent Director has joint date of this report, Hikma was in full compliance with the UK Code.
responsibility, with the Executive Chairman, for setting the Board agenda, agreeing action points and the minutes of the meetings.
Executive Chairman position The Board acknowledges that Said Darwazahs position as Executive Independence Chairman, having previously served as Chief Executive Officer, and his The Board rigorously reviewed and considered the independence of tenure as a director are departures from the UK Code.
each Non-Executive Director during the year as part of the annual corporate governance review, which included consideration of The role was created in February 2018, following the appointment of progressive refreshment of the Board.
The Board considers Robert Siggi Olafsson as CEO.
Previously, Said Darwazah was the Chairman Pickering, Pat Butler, Dr Pamela Kirby, John Castellani and Nina and Chief Executive.
The change of roles and appointment of a CEO Henderson to be independent.
The Board considers Cynthia Schwalm, has caused a reduction in Saids executive responsibilities, whilst still who will join on 1 June 2019, to be independent.
These individuals retaining his strategic input.
The Board considers the transfer of provide extensive experience of international pharmaceutical, financial, responsibilities from Said to Siggi has been very successful and that the corporate governance and regulatory matters and were not associated CEO has been fully empowered by the Executive Chairman.
The Board with Hikma prior to its listing in 2005. is pleased with the progress made and considers it is important to retain corporate memory and important relationships.
Therefore, it is The Board does not view Ali Al-Husry as an Independent Director essential to retain Said Darwazahs services in a strategic capacity.
due to the length of his association with Hikma, holding an executive position with Hikma prior to listing and his involvement with Darhold The Board consulted shareholders prior to Saids appointment as Limited, Hikmas largest shareholder.
However, he continues to bring Chairman and Chief Executive in May 2014 and following the change to the Board broad corporate financial experience, in depth awareness to the position of Executive Chairman to in February 2018.
The of the Groups history, and a detailed knowledge of the MENA region, Independent Non-Executive Directors met twice during 2018 to review which is an important and specialist part of the Groups business.
the Board structure and concluded that the Executive Chairman role should continue.
The Board does not view Jochen Gann as an Independent Director as his appointment is in accordance with the shareholder agreement with The Board is focused on the commercial success of Hikma and believes Boehringer Ingelheim, a major shareholder and his primary employer.
that continuing the position of Executive Chairman for a period of time However, Jochen brings significant M&A and corporate finance is the best way to achieve success for Hikma, because: experience with a particular focus on the pharmaceutical sector.
Continuity of strategy: Said Darwazah has been a driving force behind the strategic success of the business since 2007 and the Board believes that it is important for the continued success of the Group that he remains in a strategic role.
Executive Chairmans role: The Executive Chairman position is highly visible inside and outside Hikma, acting as an ambassador with business partners and adviser to the divisions.
Business partners: A significant number of Hikmas key political and commercial relationships across the MENA region are built on the long-term trust and respect for the Darwazah family where the role of the Executive Chairman remains key.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 69 Governance report continued UK Code changes New action points The 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code applies to the next Observations Action being undertaken accounting period ending 31 December 2019.
Whilst the Board has time to make adjustments, it fully embraces early adoption of the Code Further The Board began a search process for an enhancements.
The Board has considered the amendments to the Independent additional Independent Director with UK Code, and has resolved to: Director required pharmaceutical experience in 2018 and has appointed Cynthia Schwalm.
Employee Engagement: Nina Henderson accepted the Boards request to be responsible for enhancing, where appropriate, the Monitoring of The CEO has enhanced the executive report consideration of employee perspectives in the Boards decisionindividual to include detail on the progress against each making processes.
During 2019, Nina will engage with employees strategic plans strategic initiative that was discussed at the at Hikmas sites by participating in employee activities.
become a member of each Board Committee in order that there Senior The Nomination and Governance Committee is an opportunity to ensure that the employee voice is heard in each Independent has been asked to consider succession for the key decision-making forum.
Director Senior Independent Director over the course Remuneration: Other than considering a post-employment share succession of 2019. ownership policy, Hikmas approach to remuneration is already compliant with the 2018 UK Code.
During 2019, the Remuneration Focus of the Board The Company Secretary has categorised the Committee will develop a relevant policy.
agenda Board agenda in strategic, performance and governance segments with a view to focusing Evaluation and performance decision making.
The Board considered its first full, externally moderated, interviewbased evaluation in 2017 and will repeat the exercise every three years.
For 2018, the Board undertook a questionnaire-based evaluation, Conclusions and action which was externally moderated.
The Board considered that it continued to operate effectively with particular strengths in the following areas: Process the transfer of responsibilities to and empowerment of the new CEO The process was coordinated by the Senior Independent Director the strategic review held in October was considered to be a significant at the request of the Executive Chairman.
Lintstock, an external success with several enhancements embraced by directors moderator which has no other connection with Hikma, led the process interaction and atmosphere providing for good, healthy discussions with a thematic questionnaire.
Lintstock reported independently to the and challenges Executive Chairman and the Senior Independent Director.
The results Non-Executive Directors provide support and constructive challenge were discussed at the Board and action points agreed.
to management oversight of risk management and advancement of the risk agenda The results of the 2018 evaluation process formed part of the Executive Chairmans appraisal of the overall effectiveness of the Board and its Executive Chairmans appraisal members.
Additionally, during the period between assessments, the The Senior Independent Director met with the Executive Chairman Directors suggest and promote improvements as they arise.
at year-end to perform an appraisal based on the key performance indicators and profile for the roles.
The Independent Non-Executive Progress on 2017 recommendations Directors regularly met in private during the course of the year.
The performance of the Executive Chairman and the Board was discussed Observations Action taken during these meetings.
The conclusion of this process was that the Operational focus In order to enhance the executives focus on Executive Chairman provided strong leadership to the Board.
operations, the Board separated the combined role of Chairman and Chief Executive.
The Director appraisal Executive Chairman role enables the The Executive Chairman reviewed the performance of each of the entrepreneurial talents of Said Darwazah to Directors during the year and concluded that each Director contributes be retained.
effectively to the Board and devotes sufficient time to their role.
Stretched The executive team has been enhanced by management the clarification of roles and centralisation of The Nomination and Governance Committee considered the evaluation support-related functions under an executive and concluded that each Director be recommended to shareholders for with significant external experience.
Communication To enhance the communication of and lines discussion around more challenging matters, the Board has allocated more time at meetings to hold open discussions without executives present.
Columbus The Board has reviewed a presentation from integration the executive team reviewing the key learnings of the Columbus acquisition and integration.
70 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 Corporate governance | Governance report Board and Committees Board Board Roles For additional information Executive Chairman on the Board: The Executive Chairman is responsible for running the Board, mentoring the CEO and developing strategy.
com investors Hikmas executives report to the CEO, who reports to the Executive Chairman.
corporate-governance  Senior Independent Director The Senior Independent Director responsibilities include: Board regular items and involvement in setting the Board agenda, actions points and the minutes responsibilities leading the Board in matters of board composition, effectiveness and evaluation, particularly in relation to the www.
com investors corporate-governance boardperformance of the Executive Chairman  providing a communication channel between the Executive Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors NEDs leading the NEDs on their assessment of the appropriateness of the governance structure and safeguards Full schedule of matters reserved for shareholders www.
com investors corporate-governance boardacting as an alternate point of contact for shareholders and maintaining contact with principal investors and  representative bodies Internal and external advisers Executive Vice Chairman www.
com investors When required, the Executive Vice Chairman acts as alternate to the Executive Chairman and is another point corporate-governance boardof contact and sounding board for management and Directors.
 Employee engagement Nina Henderson is responsible for ensuring, where appropriate, that employee perspectives are taken into account in the Boards decision-making processes.
Company Secretary The Company Secretary reports to the Executive Chairman and supports each board member in the delivery of their duties and specific responsibilities.
The role profiles are reviewed annually and detailed on the Hikma website at www.
com investors corporategovernance  : Board Committees The Board has an extensive workload and, therefore, has Audit Nomination and CREC Remuneration delegated the detailed oversight Financial reporting Governance Anti-bribery Remuneration policy of certain items to four Board and performance Appointments and corruption Executive Committees: Audit: Nomination Internal controls Training and induction Ethics remuneration and Governance: Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee Risk management Board composition Speak up Performance plans CREC : and Remuneration.
Each Internal audit Succession planning Code of Conduct Management Committee has terms of reference External audit Board evaluation Trade Sanctions incentivisation which were reviewed during the Corporate governance Compliance year.
Copies are published on the Hikma website at www.
com investors corporate-governance key-committees and are available for inspection at the registered office at 1 New Burlington Place, London W1S 2HR or by contacting cosec@hikma.
See page 73 See page 77 See page 79 See page 81 Executive Committee The CEO chairs the Executive Committee, which develops strategic proposals to the Board, makes operational decisions and oversees risk control within the parameters of the Matters Reserved to the Board.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 71 Governance report continued Governance Investor engagement summary 2018 Shareholder engagement The Directors undertook a series of meetings with major investors and relevant bodies in order to discuss the governance and remuneration aspects of the Chairman and CEO roles.
During the year the Chair of the Remuneration Committee met with members of the governance community to enhance dialogue related to January remuneration.
The Board is taking these comments into consideration Healthcare in its plans for further development of remuneration policy over the conference in course of 2019 and beyond.
San Francisco March The Board maintains regular dialogue with shareholders through its Preliminary investor relations programme, directed towards ensuring a mutual announcement understanding of objectives.
The principal ongoing communications Roadshow in London, with shareholders are through the publication of Hikmas Annual New York and Boston April Report and Accounts, interim results and trading statements.
2017 Annual report The Executive Chairman and the CEO meet major shareholders published periodically to discuss governance and strategy issues in order to Roadshow in understand their views on Hikma and to ensure their views are Oslo, Stockholm, communicated to the Board as a whole.
Shareholders are encouraged May Copenhagen and to attend the Annual General Meeting AGM and if unable to do so Annual General Meeting Helsinki are encouraged to vote by proxy.
Copies of presentations made at the Roadshow in Edinburgh AGM are available on the website after the event, together with the results of the voting.
All Directors are expected to attend the AGM June and full attendance has been achieved other than when exceptional Healthcare conference personal circumstances have intervened.
in San Francisco and New York Hikma is committed to clear and open communication with Two healthcare shareholders and stakeholders.
If there are matters on which July conferences in London additional explanation is required, Hikma is always happy to discuss Roadshows in Paris, them.
Please contact the Company Secretary in the first instance Zurich and Frankfurt by writing to cosec@hikma.
August Electronic communications Interim Hikmas preference is to communicate through Hikmas website, announcement rather than in paper form.
Shareholders are encouraged to visit the Roadshow in London website to access Hikmas Annual Reports and half-year and final September results presentations.
Shareholders who wish to receive paper Roadshows in New York communications can elect to do so through Hikmas registrars, and Boston.
Healthcare conferences in New York and London For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Hikma November Pharmaceuticals PLC Trading update Capital markets day in London Healthcare conference December in London Roadshows in Boston and Edinburgh Peter Speirs Company Secretary 12 March 2019 72 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018
