Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Governance Report continued Q: How does our Board approach financial and business reporting?
The respective responsibilities of the Directors and External Auditor in connection with the Financial Statements are explained in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 90 and the Independent Auditors Report on pages 92 to 98.
Q: What responsibility does our Board have for managing risk?
Overall responsibility for ensuring that there is a process to identify, evaluate and manage any significant risks that may affect the achievement of the Groups strategic objectives and for internal control, and reviewing the effectiveness of these processes, lies with the Board.
The process has been in place throughout 2018, and up to the date of approving the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The key elements of this process are: A comprehensive system of monthly reporting from key executives, identifying performance against budgets and forecasts: Analysis of variances, major business issues, key performance indicators and regular forecasting: Well-defined policies governing appraisal and approval of capital expenditure and treasury operations: Six-monthly submissions from all subsidiaries detailing the risks they have identified and what controls and assurances they have in place to mitigate these risks: Regular meetings to identify and discuss key risks and mitigations with a broad sample of the senior management team and the Executive Directors: Review of the corporate risk register in terms of completeness and accuracy with the senior management team and the Executive Directors: The use of a Risk Committee to monitor, validate and report on the Group-wide risk assessment process: Audit Committee discussion of the corporate risk register and the risk management system with subsequent reports to the Board: and The embedding of a senior management top-down approach to complement the work of the Risk Committee.
More information on the Groups key risks and uncertainties is shown on pages 32 to 39.
32 - 39 Q: How does our Internal Audit function support the work of our Board?
During 2018 the Audit Committee reviewed the annual audit plans for 2018 and 2019, as prepared by the Group Internal Audit Manager and recommended the plans to the Board.
The 2018 plan followed a risk-based programme concentrating on reviewing the Groups assurances and controls over its principal risks.
For 2019, the Board has requested that the plan focuses on core baseline controls and key policy compliance, along with thematic reviews covering certain strategic and operational risks.
Q: How does our Board ensure that our risk management and internal control systems are effective?
The Board and the Audit Committee have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems in accordance with the Code for the period ended 31 December 2018, and up to the date of approving the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The risk management and internal control system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failing to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
com 61 Accountability Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Governance Report continued The assessment and control of risk are considered by the Board A decrease in the UK Governments road infrastructure spend: to be fundamental to achieving corporate objectives.
An ongoing A fall in galvanizing volumes across all geographies: process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group and assessing the effectiveness of related A reduction in revenues in all of the Groups Utilities businesses: controls has been established by the Board to ensure an acceptable and risk reward profile across the Group.
This routinely identifies areas A reduction in revenues across a range of the Groups UK for improvement, but the Board has neither identified nor been businesses to reflect the possible impacts on macro-economic advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be conditions of a disorderly Brexit.
In making this viability statement the Directors considered the mitigating actions that would be taken by the Group in the event that the principal risks of the Company become realised.
The Directors Q: What has the Board done in consideration of the Groups shortalso took into consideration the Groups financial position at 31 term sustainability?
December 2018 with an undrawn committed facility headroom of A.
The Board has considered the Groups status as a going concern 60.8m and a history of strong cash generation, and noted that and the Directors have assessed the future funding requirements the Companys principal financing facilities are committed until of the Group and the Company and compared them to the level January 2024 following the amendments made in January 2019 of committed available borrowing facilities, which reflect the thus covering the period of review.
The Directors have assessed the amendment to the Groups core debt facilities on 10 January 2019 viability of the Group and, based on the procedures outlined above in as explained on page 25.
The assessment included a review of addition to activities undertaken by the Board in its normal course of both divisional and Group financial forecasts, financial instruments business, confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the and hedging arrangements, for the 15 months from the Balance Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as Sheet date.
Major assumptions have been compared to external they fall due over the period to 31 December 2021. reference points such as infrastructure spend forecasts across our chosen market sectors, government spending plans on road infrastructure, zinc and steel prices and economic growth Q: What has the Board done to ensure that the Annual Report forecasts.
The assumptions have been flexed to take into account represents a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the any potential negative impacts that the Group could suffer as a Groups position and prospects?
result of the UKs likely departure from the European Union on 29 March 2019.
The forecasts show that the Group will have sufficient A.
The Board received a recommendation from the Audit Committee headroom in the foreseeable future and the likelihood of breaching that the Groups position and prospects had been assessed and banking covenants in this period is considered to be remote.
Having reported on in the Annual Report in a way that was fair, balanced undertaken this work, the Directors are of the opinion that the Group and understandable.
Prior to making the recommendation to has adequate committed resources to fund its operations for the the Board the Committee reviewed a report received from the foreseeable future and so determine that it is appropriate for the management responsible for the preparation of the Annual Report Financial Statements to be prepared on a going concern basis.
detailing how the report had been compiled.
The Committee considered the information laid out in the Annual Report and concluded: Q: What has the Board done in consideration of the Groups longerThat the process by which the allocation of responsibility for term sustainability?
the preparation of certain sections of the Annual Report to individuals in the head office team and their review by external A.
Please see the Viability Statement below.
advisors was fit for purpose: The Viability Statement.
That the information given represented the whole story of the Groups performance in 2018 and did not mislead the reader The Directors have considered the prospects of the Group over the by excluding appropriate bad news.
That the disclosures three-year period immediately following the 2018 financial year.
This of the Groups business segments and key messages are longer-term assessment process supports the Boards statements consistently delivered throughout the document, KPIs are clear on both viability, as set out below, and going concern, above.
A three and appropriate and linked to both the Groups strategy and year period was determined as the most appropriate as it is the remuneration incentives: period covered by the Groups annual strategic planning process, which sets the long term direction of the Group and is reviewed at That it was a suitable document to inform both existing and least annually by the Directors.
The Board concluded that a period of prospective shareholders about the financial and non-financial longer than three years would not be meaningful for the purpose of performance of the business, with the messages delivered in the concluding on longer-term viability.
The strategic planning process Directors Report, including the Operating and Financial Review considered metrics which enable assessment of the Groups key and the Financial Statements being balanced and consistent performance indicators see pages 30 to 31 in addition to net debt, and that the report set out a detailed and fair representation of liquidity and financing requirements.
In conducting the review of the Groups activities and performance and that certain matters the Groups prospects the Directors assessed the three-year plan have been identified and discussed between management, the alongside the Groups current financial position, the Groups strategy Audit Committee and the external auditor in order to correctly and the principal risks facing the Group all of which are detailed in disclose the performance, controls and prospects of the Group: the Strategic Report on pages 36 to 39.
This robust assessment and considered the impact of the principal risks on the business model, That the document allowed shareholders to follow the whole which include those that may arise as a result of Brexit, and on future performance, liquidity and solvency.
Stress tests were applied story of the Groups financial and non-financial performance in 2018 giving them a clear and understandable picture of the to the Groups three-year plan, whereby risks associated with the Groups business model, key drivers and commercial operations.
economic risks faced by the Group were applied to the plan in a number of diverging scenarios.
The developed scenarios were designed to be plausible, yet severe: 62 Stock Code HILS
