Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Audit Committee Report Mark Reckitt Chairman, Audit Committee This Audit Committee report explains how the Committee has discharged its responsibilities, and takes into account the specific topics of: Primary areas of judgement considered by the Committee in relation to the 2018 accounts: Internal controls: Risk assessment, management and mitigation: Assessment of effectiveness of external audit: and Whistleblowing.
I trust you find this report helpful as an insight into the activities undertaken on your behalf.
I should be delighted to answer any questions you might have and I look forward to seeing you at our AGM in May 2019.
Mark Reckitt Chairman, Audit Committee 6 March 2019 hsholdings.
com 67 Dear Shareholder It is a pleasure to make my report as the Audit Committee Chairman of Hill & Smith Holdings PLC and to explain to how your Audit Committee and the Companys senior management team have continued to develop and enhance our risk management processes and internal audit programmes.
We appointed a Group Internal Audit Manager in September 2017 and during 2018 we reviewed the reports produced covering a Group-wide thematic review into product failure risk as well as multiple subsidiary-level reviews focussed on risk mitigation reviews, Group policy compliance, and the strength of core, baseline internal controls.
The Committee was pleased with the effectiveness of the strengthened internal audit function and approved an internal audit plan for 2019 with a wider scope of work at subsidiary level, together with appointment of additional resource to enable effective delivery of the plan.
During the year, the Committee has also noted the wider debate in the UK on the role and effectiveness of external auditors, considered the steps taken by the major audit firms that seek to improve the effectiveness of the external audits that they undertake and discussed this topic with KPMG, our external auditor.
We have reviewed the changes that they have put in place, received a report from the Audit Quality Review team at the Financial Reporting Council on KPMGs audit of Hill & Smith Holdings PLC for the year ended 31 December 2017 and assessed the implications as part of our consideration of the effectiveness of the external audit undertaken by KPMG.
We remain satisfied that KPMG are able to undertake an effective external audit for Hill & Smith Holdings PLC.
As reported on last year, the executive team, with the support of the Audit Committee, has continued to build upon the risk assessment methodology which was implemented across the Group in which further training sessions on risk identification, definition and mitigation actions were delivered to all senior executives across the Group.
The subsidiaries have access to an online reporting tool to enable the production of business unit specific risk registers in a consistent format for review and challenge by the Group Risk Committee.
During the year, the Risk Committee comprised the Group Company Secretary, the Group Financial Controller, the Group Assistant Company Secretary, the Group Internal Audit Manager and the Groups Director of Corporate Development.
As part of the continual improvement process, senior operational management also provided the Risk Committee with information on risks that were apparent across all subsidiaries and that might affect the Groups ability to deliver its strategic plan.
Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Audit Committee Report continued The role and meeting of the Committee The Audit Committee reviews the Groups accounting policies and procedures, its Annual and Interim Financial Statements before submission to the Board and its compliance with statutory requirements.
It monitors the integrity of the Groups Financial Statements and announcements relating to financial performance and reviews the significant reporting judgements contained therein.
It also reviews the scope, remit and effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems and internal audit function.
The Committees terms of reference can be found on the Companys website.
During the year the Audit Committee comprised: Mark Reckitt: Alan Giddins: and Annette Kelleher.
Mark Reckitt has been specifically identified, in keeping with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, as the Committee member having recent and relevant financial experience.
He has previously held the positions of Group Strategy Director at Smiths Group plc from February 2011 to April 2014 and Chief Strategy Officer at Cadbury plc from 2004 to 2010.
He is currently the Audit Committee Chairman and Senior Independent Director at Cranswick plc.
The Committee meets according to the requirements of the Companys financial calendar and during 2018 met on five occasions: In January to review the Subsidiaries risk registers and internal audit activities: and approve the internal audit plan for 2018. in February to consider the Annual Report together with the external audit findings, August to consider the half-year results, October to consider the subsidiaries 2018 risk registers, approve the external auditors plan for 2018 and approve their fees and in December to, approve the internal audit plan for 2019 and approve the Groups principal risks & uncertainties.
Attendees at each of the meetings included by invitation, the Chairman: the Group Chief Executive: the Group Finance Director: the Group Financial Controller: the Group Internal Audit Manager: the external auditor, KPMG and, where appropriate other advisors.
Time is also allowed for the Committee to speak with the external auditor and the Group Internal Audit Manager without the presence of the executive management.
The FRCs Audit Quality Review team carried out a review of certain areas of the audit conducted by KPMG LLP for the year ended 31 December 2017.
In selecting which aspects of an audit to review, the FRC take account of those areas considered to be higher risk by the auditors and Audit and Risk Committees, their knowledge and experience of audits of similar entities and the significance of an area in the context of the financial statements.
The results of this review were shared with the Audit Committee in November 2018 and has been discussed with KPMG.
Based on that review no significant matters were raised for the attention of the Audit Committee and good practice observations were noted in respect of data analytics work undertaken in testing revenue at the major UK component and the clarity of reporting to the Audit Committee in respect of the assessment of impairment of goodwill.
In addition to receiving reports from internal audit on internal controls, the Committee requested and received specific reports following the identification of a controls breakdown relating to inventory at one of the smaller UK subsidiaries.
In addition to determining the root cause of the breakdown, work was undertaken to satisfy the Committee that the issue was not being repeated at other similar subsidiaries.
The conclusions, with which the Committee concurred, were that the issues were limited to the specific subsidiary and that the impact of the breakdown was not significant to the results of the group.
As Audit Committee Chairman, Mark Reckitt has maintained regular contact with the external audit partner and the Group Internal Audit Manager outside Committee meetings and without the management of the business present.
In these meetings a wide range of matters are discussed, including changes in financial reporting and governance landscape, the Companys readiness to accommodate these developments, the approach to auditing activities undertaken by KPMG and the internal audit function and our approach to managing risk and assurance generally.
Responsibilities of the Committee To ensure governance and control over the Groups financial reporting and risk management processes with assurance provided by internal activities and external auditors.
During the year and to the date of this report the Committee considered the following items: Financial Statements and Reports: Risk Management: Internal Audit: and External Audit and non-Audit Work.
Financial Statements and Reports Reviewed the 2018 Annual Report, the 2018 Interim Report and other trading updates issued during the year: Reviewed the disclosures made in the 2018 Annual Report in respect of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal controls.
Advised the Board on whether it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Groups Financial Statements see page 62.
Advised the Board on whether the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable see page 62 : Reviewed areas of the accounts which require particular judgement including the carrying value of goodwill and indefinite life assets: the defined benefit pension scheme valuation: and taxation see below.
68 Stock Code HILS Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Primary areas of judgement considered by the Committee in relation to the 2018 accounts.
In order to discharge its responsibility to consider accounting and financial reporting integrity, the Committee carefully considers key judgements applied in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, which are set out on pages 99 to 148.
The Committees review included consideration of the following key accounting judgements: Valuation of goodwill and indefinite life assets The value of goodwill and indefinite life assets amounts to 148.0m at 31 December 2018.
The review of such assets is based on a calculation of value in use, using cash flow projections based on financial budgets and strategic plans prepared by senior management and approved by the Board of Directors.
The uncertain economic conditions around the world increase the risk of impairment and the Committee addresses this by receiving reports from management outlining the basis for the assumptions used for cash generating units.
The Committee also considers and challenges managements assessment of the sensitivities to these assumptions and the impact that those sensitivities may have, and further considers the disclosures made in respect of sensitivities, in particular in respect of France Galva SA, in note 10 to the Financial Statements on pages 123 to 128. Business plans are signed off by the Board and assessment models are reviewed and challenged as part of the audit, for which the external auditor, KPMG, provides reporting to the Committee.
Defined benefit pension scheme valuation Net defined benefit pension obligations under IAS19 amount to 23m at 31 December 2018.
The Committee reviews benchmarks and assumptions that are provided by the Groups actuaries and used to value the pension liabilities for the Groups defined benefit schemes.
The underlying assumptions based on market conditions and the characteristics of the schemes are reviewed by management and the external auditor and reported on to the Committee.
Taxation Assessment of judgements made in relation to uncertain tax positions, regarding the outcome of negotiations with and enquiries from HM Revenue & Customs and other tax authorities in other jurisdictions.
Judgements have been made by management following discussion with the Groups tax advisors and internal review.
The Committee has reviewed the analysis behind these judgements and confirms its agreement that the Groups tax provisions are appropriate.
Risk management Reviewed the outputs from the Groups risk management process to ensure that subsidiaries were identifying, articulating, evaluating and mitigating risks.
Reviewed reports made via the Groups whistleblowing process and the conclusions from any investigations, ensuring that lessons learned were implemented.
Advised the Board on whether, given an assessment of the Companys current and forecast position and principal risks, the Board can approve its viability statement see page 62.
Risk management The risk management process is continually kept under review to ensure that outcomes from the subsidiaries risk submissions provide the necessary information for the Audit Committee to carry out a robust assessment of the risks affecting the Group as a whole.
Subsidiary management are continually monitored and supported to ensure their risk management policies and risk mitigations are suitable to meet the Boards appetite for the risks identified.
Risk management process Every year the Committee seeks to improve the Groups risk management processes to ensure that the Groups principal risks and uncertainties are correctly identified by virtue of a top-down bottom-up approach utilising the experiences of the Audit Committee and the Groups 31 subsidiaries.
In this, the Audit Committee is supported by the Groups Risk Committee, which comprises the Group Financial Controller, the Group Company Secretary, the Assistant Company Secretary, the Group Internal Audit Manager and the Groups Corporate Development Director.
The Risk Committee overseas the risk management process, which is one of continual improvement and during the year a programme of training for senior management was delivered across the Group: through face-to-face seminars in the UK, USA and Sweden and through a training manual to the other international jurisdictions.
These sessions complement the work already done on risk management and focused on the concept of risk mitigation controls and assurance.
The Risk Committee reviews, discusses and validates the risk submission data received from the subsidiaries.
Any risks submitted by subsidiaries that do not align with the Groups principal risks are individually reviewed and taken into account in current and subsequent reviews of the Group principal risks.
The Audit Committee has monitored the resultant key risks on the corporate risk register and during the year received reports and minutes from the Risk Committee, detailing the Group-wide risk assessment process and the movements in major risks and provided updates on subsidiaries risk mitigation activity.
More information on the activities of the Risk Committee and the Groups principal risks and uncertainties can be found on pages 32 to 34.
Whistleblowing The Group has a written policy which states that if any employee in the Group has reasonable grounds to believe that the Groups Code of Business Conduct is being breached by any person or group of people, they are able to report such incidents through an externally hosted internet and telephone based whistleblowing hotline or if necessary, to the Company Secretary or the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
This policy can be found on the Group website.
Any incidents reported, whether through the whistleblowing hotline or direct to the Company Secretary or any other member of Group-level management are investigated under the supervision of the Company Secretary and resolved appropriately.
The Committee receives reports hsholdings.
com 69 Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Audit Committee Report continued from the Group Company Secretary on these cases, on the investigative process, the conclusions, and any lessons to be learned from these events.
Internal audit Assessed the adequacy of the internal control environment and the processes in place to monitor this, including reviewing the performance of the internal audit activity.
Monitored the performance of the Group Internal Audit Manager and reviewed the work of the Groups Internal Audit function concluding that it is operating effectively and was appropriately resourced.
Evaluated the Internal Audit Plan for 2019 that was submitted with reference to the risk management reporting process and agreed that further resource should be added to the function to enable it to widen the scope of the Internal Audit activities.
Internal audit The Audit Committee and Hill & Smith executive management ensure that the Group Internal Audit manager who reports to the Group Finance Director and the Audit Committee Chairman has free access to the businesses, information and management within the Group.
Internal audit function The internal audit function is overseen by the Group Internal Audit Manager.
The Audit Committee annually review and approve the Internal Audit Charter that sets out: the functions purpose: to independently and objectively evaluate the effectiveness of internal controls, risk management and governance processes: and how the function will discharge its responsibility, primarily by preparing and executing a risk based audit plan, identifying opportunities to improve internal control, risk management and governance processes and by verifying improvements agreed with management are implemented within a reasonable timeframe.
In accordance with the Internal Audit Charter, the Audit Committee and executive management ensure that the internal audit function has free and unrestricted access to the Groups records, physical properties and personnel pertinent to carrying out its activities, and remains free from inappropriate management influence or other restrictions on its ability to perform its work in an objective and effective manner.
The 2018 Internal Audit Plan balanced the focus of the function between Group-wide principal risks and subsidiary-level risks.
It included a Group-wide thematic review of product failure risk mitigation, and multiple subsidiary-level reviews focused on Group subsidiaries risk mitigation, compliance with Group Policy and the strength of core, baseline internal controls.
Where internal audit work did find instances of control weakness, or non-compliance with Group policy, the findings have been discussed at the Audit Committee, and the resulting audit actions have either been implemented, or are in the process of being addressed in accordance with agreed timelines.
However, as noted on pages 8 to 17, Hill & Smith Holdings PLC operates a decentralised business model where significant accountability is devolved to subsidiary operational and financial management.
Control weaknesses identified at subsidiary level are taken seriously and management and the Audit Committee seek to ensure that their cause is understood and mitigating actions are taken to limit the potential for recurrence.
In view of the work of internal audit, external audit and Group management it is considered unlikely that a weakness at an individual subsidiary would have a material impact when taken in the context of the Group as a whole.
In 2019, the function is being further strengthened with additional resource which will continue to widen the scope and intensity of the functions assurance activity.
Internal control The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that the Groups system of internal control is embedded within all subsidiary companies.
The Committee monitors the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal control processes through review and discussion of: the proposed internal audit plan ensuring that it was aligned to the principal risks of the business and received regular progress updates on the delivery of the objectives of the plan: the 14 internal audit reports and findings presented throughout the year together with the progress by management in addressing the issues identified on a timely basis: executive management reports and presentations including updates on specific areas provided at the request of the Committee.
In the period covered by this report this included the implementation of new accounting standards including IFRS 15 - Revenue from contracts with customers, and accounting judgements including the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets of France Galva, SA and Technocover Ltd: external audit reports and findings at the half-year, interim and year end audit phases: and reports from the Groups external professional advisors as commissioned which, in 2018, included reports on the Groups health and safety arrangements and cyber security control environment.
Effectiveness of internal audit The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function.
As noted above the Audit Committee reviewed and approved the risk based audit plan and monitored progress with its completion.
Changes to the plan arising in the year, including the completion of additional work, were discussed and approved at the Audit Committee meetings.
Throughout the year the Audit Committee discussed the internal audit functions outputs with the Group Internal Audit Manager and executive management.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that the Internal Audit function is operating effectively and that the level of experience 70 Stock Code HILS Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 within the department was appropriate to meet the Groups needs during the year.
As previously noted it was agreed that the scope of many of the internal audits should be widened and that additional resource should be recruited to enable this.
External audit and non-audit work Considered, along with the external auditor, the significant risks to the audit and their approach to these risks risk of fraud in revenue recognition: fraud risk from management override of controls: valuation of goodwill in relation to France Galva S. A. and Technocover Ltd: provisions for uncertain income tax positions: and UK post-retirement benefits obligations: Reviewed, considered and agreed the methodology of the 2018 audit work to be undertaken by the external auditor: Oversaw the relationship with the external auditor, reviewing their performance and advising the Board on their appointment and remuneration: Evaluated the independence and objectivity of the external auditor: Reviewed feedback from the FRC AQR Report: Reviewed the level and nature of non-audit services provided by the external auditor during 2018, noting that KPMG, the Companys external auditor had, along with other major audit firms decided to provide only audit and related services to their audit clients with effect from November 2018: and Reviewed and approved updates to the non-audit services policy and the Procedure for the external auditor policy.
Assessment of effectiveness of external audit There are a number of areas that the Committee considers in relation to the external auditor: performance in discharging the audit and interim review of the financial statements: independence and objectivity: and reappointment and remuneration.
External auditor performance The external auditor, KPMG, provided the Committee with their plan for undertaking the 2018 year-end audit during the Committee meeting in October 2018.
This highlighted the proposed approach and scope of the audit and identified the key issues in detail, being the risk of fraud in revenue recognition: fraud risk from management override of controls: valuation of goodwill in relation to France Galva S. A: valuation of goodwill in relation to Technocover Ltd, which was omitted from the final key audit issues as it had been fully impaired during the year: provisions for uncertain income tax positions and UK post-retirement benefits obligations.
The Committee debated, and appropriately challenged, the basis for these areas before agreeing the proposed approach and scope of the external audit.
In December 2018, the Committee considered a report from the Group Finance Director on the effectiveness of the performance of the external auditor.
This report included a detailed assessment compiled from the individual businesses and head office finance team feedback and covered, amongst other things: The calibre of the external auditor including size, resources, geographical representation and reputation: The external audit team in terms of the requisite skills, professional and industry knowledge: The scope of the external audit to adequately address the financial reporting risks facing the Company and its key operations: The approach taken in assessing the adequacy of management representations: and Communication and interface with internal audit activities and the Audit Committee on matters affecting critical accounting policies and treatment, governance and risk management.
The Committee reviewed this feedback together with the 2017 Audit Quality Inspection review undertaken by the FRC on KPMG, and discussed the broader topic of the perceived quality and effectiveness of external audits generally.
Following this discussion the Committee concluded that KPMG had continued to deliver an effective external audit of the Groups financial controls, performance reporting and risk identification and management.
The external auditor prepared a detailed report of their findings in respect of the 2018 audit.
The Committee discussed the issues raised in the report, particularly in relation to the areas highlighted, at their meeting in February 2019.
A similar discussion of the external auditors report, following their review, is undertaken by the Committee at the half year.
As part of this review the Committee questions and challenges the work undertaken, the findings and the key assumptions made, with particular attention to the areas of audit risk identified.
Financial Reporting Council FRC review On 13 November 2018, the Group received a letter from the Financial Reporting Council concerning its review of the Groups Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017.
As a result of the review, we have further enhanced the information we disclose with regard to the potential impact of sensitivities on the goodwill impairment calculations in respect of France Galva SA see note 10 on pages 123 to 128 and expanded the information that we provide in relation to the assets of the Groups UK defined benefit pension scheme, including an explanation of the funding strategy that the Group and Trustees have agreed see note 23 on page 143.
In addition, the Parent Company financial statements for the current year include a credit for pension deficit contributions due from fellow subsidiary undertakings in prior years that had not previously been recognised, as explained on page 157.
There was no impact of this item on the consolidated financial statements.
On 6 February 2019, correspondence was received from the FRC concluding the review to their satisfaction.
The FRCs review was based on the Annual Report and Accounts and did not benefit from a detailed knowledge of the business or an understanding of the underlying transactions entered into.
It was, however, conducted by staff of the FRC who have an understanding of the relevant legal and accounting framework.
com 71 Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Audit Committee Report continued Auditor independence and rotation The external auditor confirmed its policies on ensuring auditor independence and provided the Committee with a report on their own audit and quality procedures.
This report was reviewed during the period under review and the Committee remained satisfied of the auditors independence and with the rotation of the external audit personnel, which complied with the professional guidelines.
To maintain auditor independence the Group has a policy whereby, before any former employee of the external auditor may be employed by the Group, careful consideration is given to whether the independence of the auditor will be adversely affected and approval of the Audit Committee is required.
KPMG have been the Groups auditor since 1999, having been appointed following a competitive tender process.
The external auditors are required to rotate the lead partner every five years.
Such changes are carefully planned to ensure business continuity without undue risk or inefficiency.
The last partner rotation occurred in December 2016 when Darren Turner, recommended by KPMG and approved by the Audit Committee took over for the 31 December 2016 year-end audit.
This years audit will be his third.
Following the EU Audit Directive which took effect from June 2016, the Group has adopted a policy that no external auditor appointed after June 2016 can remain in post for longer than twenty years and there will be a tendering process every ten years, and that KPMG, as the currently appointed external auditor, may remain so until the completion of the 2023 annual audit.
However, the Committee has considered that it would be prudent to prepare for new auditors for the 2020 year-end.
As such, a tender process would be commenced in the second half of 2019.
There are no contractual obligations in place that restrict our choice of statutory auditor.
Non-audit fees The Committee reviewed its Non-Audit Services policy in December 2018 to ensure it meets the detailed requirements of the EU Audit legislation, which restricts the use of the external auditor for activities including compiling accounting records, certain aspects of internal audit, IT consultancy, tax services except in exceptional circumstances, and advice to the Remuneration Committee.
For any non-audit services which are not excluded under the policy, the policy provides for approval, by the Group Finance Director, of expenditure below 50,000, and above that level by the full Audit Committee.
A report is also submitted to the Audit Committee of any nonaudit services carried out by the external auditor, irrespective of value to ensure that the aggregated spend with the external auditor will not exceed 70% of the audit fee.
Where the Committee believes it is cost effective for non-audit services to be provided by the external auditor, such as those relating to acquisition due diligence work, it will consider the engagement of the external auditor, subject to application of the principles of the policy, including the financial limits.
During 2018, there were fees of 248,000 2017: 122,600 paid to the auditor for non-audit services.
The fees paid covered due diligence on acquired businesses and aborted acquisition costs 238,000 2017: 92,400, assurance reviews 10,000 2017: 13,500 and restructuring work nil 2017: 16,700.
Audit fees for 2018 were 982,000, representing a 1:4 ratio between non-audit and audit fees 2017: 1:6.
Further details of these amounts are included in note 6 of the accounts on page 118.
In November 2018, KPMG announced that, in order to remove the perception of any conflict of interest arising from the provision of nonaudit services to audited entities, they would be discontinuing the provision of all non-audit services other than those closely related to the audit to all FTSE 350 companies.
Any contracted non-audit services that had commenced before the date of the announcement or were in discussion at that date that had not been completed would be delivered in line with contractual commitments.
Summary We aim to continue to develop responsibilities for financial reporting and the related governance and assurance and we will continue to make improvements to our risk management processes and approach to our internal control environment.
Mark Reckitt Chairman, Audit Committee 6 March 2019 72 Stock Code HILS
