Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Governance Report continued Q.
How does our Board engage with our Shareholders?
The Board is managing the Group ultimately on behalf of its shareholders and it undertakes this responsibility in such a way as to maximise shareholder value over the long term and to advance the interests of all of the Groups stakeholders.
In this respect, during the year the Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director have meet with institutional shareholder representatives both in the UK and USA, as well as hosting a site visit at Hill & Smith Limited, Bilston, UK and the Chairman met directly with a number of institutional shareholder representatives.
The Board also regularly receives reports from the Companys brokers and financial public relations agency on feedback from institutional shareholders following the Executive Directors presentations and Alan Giddins, our Senior Independent Director, is available to shareholders as and when required.
The AGM is also an opportunity for the shareholders to hear about the business and engage with the Directors.
What value does the Board place on our AGM?
The Board is very keen that as many shareholders who wish to are able to attend the Companys AGM and ask questions of all of the Directors.
The Companys Annual Report and Notice of AGM are published as soon as the time required for their printing allows, to provide the maximum time in advance of the AGM for feedback, which is shared with the Board of Directors.
At the AGM our Chief Executive and Group Finance Director give a presentation to all shareholders in attendance and shareholder participation is encouraged, questions and feedback are invited and all Directors are in attendance and available to meet with shareholders.
In 2018 Proxy votes of shareholders for the AGM were tabulated independently by the Companys registrars, provided at the AGM and published on the website shortly after the conclusion of that meeting.
At our AGM in 2018, we announced that we will conduct voting in 2019 by way of a poll.
The Board believes that calling a poll ensures that all votes are counted and declared so significant opposition is demonstrated where appropriate.
Who can shareholders turn to if they have any concerns?
All Directors are available to meet with shareholders to discuss matters and can be contacted through the Company Secretary.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are available to meet with shareholders concerning corporate governance issues, if so required.
Alan Giddins, as Senior Independent Director, was contacted to discuss concerns over the number of Company Boards that Jock Lennox was appointed to and whether these commitments impinged on his ability to commit time to the Company.
The matter was discussed at a Board meeting and it was concluded that Jock continued to have sufficient time to commit to his responsibilities as Chairman of the Company.
How can shareholders communicate with the Board outside of results season?
All Directors are available to meet with shareholders to discuss matters and can be contacted through the Company Secretary at any time.
The Secretary also engages with shareholders and the investor community as and when required.
Copies of all trading updates and Interim and Annual Reports are posted on the Companys website, together with details of key financial and shareholder information, governance statements, Group policies and corporate and organisational structure.
Has the shareholder base changed significantly during 2018?
As at 1 March 2019, Institutions and individuals comprised 38.05% and 61.74% respectively of our register, compared to 38.52% and 61.27% at a similar time in 2018.
See the table on page 165 for more details.
Type of Shareholder 2018 Type of Shareholder 2017 Institution 38.05% Institution 38.52% Individuals 61.74% Individuals 61.27% Other 0.21% Other 0.21% 64 Stock Code HILS Relations With Shareholders
