Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 51 Report of the Nomination Committee Chairmans introduction Attendance at meetings of Conclusion the Nomination Committee I am pleased to report on the activities The Committee considers that the work Number Percentage of the Nomination Committee for the performed as detailed above demonstrates attended attended 52weeks ended 30 December 2018. that the Committee continues to Colin Smith 1 100% operate effectively and discharges Role of the Committee John Worby 1 100% its responsibilities.
The Nomination Committee is Christine Cross 1 100% I will be available to shareholders at the established by the Board of Directors.
forthcoming Annual General Meeting to Terms of reference formalise the How the Committee has discharged respond to any questions relating to the roles, tasks and responsibilities of its responsibilities work of the Committee.
theCommittee to comply with the During 2018 the Committee met once UKCorporate Governance Code and to On behalf of the Nomination Committee and considered a range of topics including achieve best practice.
The Committee resource and succession planning.
Robert Watson obe terms of reference are available and can Chairman As part of the succession planning be found on the Companys website 26 March 2019 process the Committee considered the at www.
composition of the Board and the best The Nomination Committee leads interests of the Company.
Accordingly on theprocess for Board appointments.
the recommendation of the Committee the The Committee meets on an as Board asked Robert Watson to become required basis.
Executive Chairman and it is planned that Robert will become Non-Executive Membership of the Committee Chairman of the Company in 2020.
In turn Members of the Committee comprise Philip Heffer was invited to become allthe Non-Executive Directors chaired by CEO having all the necessary skills.
the Chairman of the Board.
Following the The Committee approved amended roles retirement of Colin Smith on 1 July 2018, and responsibilities of the Executive Robert Watson leads the Committee as Chairman and CEO.
In order to maintain a strong and Responsibilities of the Committee well-balanced Board the Committee The main responsibilities of the Nomination considered and recommended the Committee which are contained in the appointment of Angus Porter as an UKCorporate Governance Code and also additional Non-Executive Director.
in the Committees terms of reference are: The Company developed a strong shortlist to review the structure, size and of candidates with the assistance of its composition of the Board including existing advisors and therefore did not skills, knowledge, experience and use external search consultants or open diversity including gender and make advertising during this process.
recommendations to the Board with Hilton continues to develop management regard to any changes: structures to promote its talent pipeline to give consideration to succession as part of a succession planning process planning for Directors and other senior covering the Directors and senior executives and identify appropriate management positions to enable, candidates for the approval of the Board: where possible, recruitment of vacant to oversee new appointments to positions from internal candidates.
the Board: Accordingly processes are in place to assess the current management to review the results of the Board population against criteria for larger performance evaluation relating to management roles they could potentially thecomposition of the Board: and fill in the future and put in place individual to review the time requirements of development plans.
Given the growth Non-Executive Directors.
inbusiness categories and geographies, the Committee continues to monitor the planning of resource implications.
The Chairman has discussions with each Director to review and agree their training and development needs.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018
