46 Governance Corporate governance statement A new 2018 UK Corporate Governance Robert will also focus on new business The UK Corporate Governance Code Code was issued during the year which development in new territories and new The Board has prepared this report becomes effective from 1 January 2019. product categories: and withreference to the 2016 UK Corporate It is planned that, on completion of Governance Code the Code issued The Board the joint venture transition process by the Financial Reporting Council in Membership in 2020, Robert will become April 2016 which applies to accounting At the date of this report the Board Non-Executive Chairman.
periods beginning on or after 17 June consists of three Executive Directors and 2016.
The provisions of this Code can be There is a clear written division of three Non-Executive Directors whose obtained from www.
uk corporate responsibilities between the Executive names, responsibilities, brief biographies ukcgcode.
Chairman and the Chief Executive which and membership of Board Committees are has been agreed by the Board.
This Corporate governance statement set out on pages 42 and 43.
The Directors combined with the Board Committee bring strong judgement and expertise to Non-Executive Directors reports and the Directors remuneration the Boards deliberations and the Board is The Non-Executive Directors, including report on pages 52 to 68 detail how the of sufficient size and diversity to achieve the Senior Independent Director, Board applies the principles of good the balance of skillsand experience are considered to be independent all governance and best practice as set out appropriate for therequirements of having served for three years or fewer.
The Non-Executive Directors do not Prior to 2018 the Company was included in participate in any of the Groups pension Chief Executive transition to the FTSE SmallCap Index and accordingly arrangements or in any of the Groups Executive Chairman took advantage of the Code provisions bonus or share option schemes.
On 1 July 2018 Colin Smith retired as for smaller companies.
On 29 June 2018 Non-Executive Chairman and Robert The Non-Executive Directors met once Hilton was added to the FTSE 350 Index.
Watson transitioned from Chief Executive during the year specifically to scrutinise The Code defines a smaller company as to Executive Chairman of Hilton Food the performance of the Executive one that is below the FTSE 350 throughout Group plc.
It is planned that Robert will management.
A further meeting was the year immediately prior to the reporting become Non-Executive Chairman during heldwithout the Executive Chairman year.
The Board considered this change present to assess his performance.
qualified as a smaller company during the to be in the best interests of the Company.
year and as such the Code provisions for Senior Independent Director Major shareholders were consulted smaller companies were still available to ahead of the appointment who were John Worby, the Senior Independent the Company.
It is relatively Director, is available to shareholders as unusual for the CEO to become Executive an alternative to the Executive Chairman, The Directors consider that the Company Chairman but the Board considered that Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial has complied with the ten requirements of the circumstances were exceptional Officer.
He ensures that he is available this Code during 2018, taking into account and the reasons for this change include to meet shareholders, as required, and the provisions for smaller companies the following: reports any relevant findings to the Board.
except for the following: During the year Robert Watson Given Roberts experience, and the Board balance transitioned from Chief Executive to level of recently won new business The balance of the Board is currently Executive Chairman.
Code provision coming on stream over the next few 50% independent with three Executive A.
3.1 states that a chairman should be years, the Board is unanimous that it Directors including the Executive independent on appointment and that isin Hiltons best interests for Robert Chairman and three independent a chief executive should not go on to toremain within Hilton Food Group Non-Executive Directors.
be chairman of the same company.
inanexecutive capacity: Roberts transition does not follow Rotation of Directors Robert will work to integrate the this provision.
The Code provision Australian business where in 2018 The Companys Articles of Association also states that if exceptionally a wetook over operational control of provide that one third of the Directors board decides that a chief executive twoplants in Bunbury and Truganina as retire by rotation at each Annual General should become chairman, the board part of an agreement to restructure our Meeting and that all new Directors are should consult major shareholders in joint venture agreement there which subject to reappointment by shareholders advance and should set out its reasons will complete in 2020 following a two at the first opportunity following their to shareholders at the time of the year transition period.
Following accession to the appointment and in the next annual are building new plants in Brisbane and FTSE 350 Index all Directors will in future report.
The Directors believe that New Zealand due to open in 2019 and retire at each Annual General Meeting.
there were exceptional circumstances 2020 respectively: and accordingly major shareholders were consulted in advance of the appointment.
These reasons were detailed in a RIS announcement andarereplicated below.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 47 Directors conflicts of interest Board responsibilities Board Committees Under the Companies Act 2006, the The Board is collectively responsible The Board has delegated certain Groups Directors have an obligation to forpromoting the success of the Group, responsibilities to the following avoid any situation where they have a within a framework of prudent and Board Committees: conflict of interest.
The Group has in place effective controls that enable risk to be Audit Committee: procedures that require all Directors to assessed and appropriately managed.
Remuneration Committee: notify the Group of any conflicts of interest It is responsible for setting and approving Nomination Committee: and and, for any such conflicts of interest to the strategy and key policies of the Group be authorised by non-interested Directors, and monitoring the progress towards Risk Management Committee.
provided the Companys Articles allow achieving these objectives.
The Board Each Board Committee operates under for this.
During the current financial year aims to enhance shareholder value by clearly defined terms of reference and the only conflict of interest identified providing entrepreneurial leadership for report regularly to the Board.
These terms related to the negotiations to acquire the Group, whilst simultaneously ensuring of reference are reviewed on a regular a UK based sous vide manufacturer in the appropriate framework of checks basis with any revisions proposed to the which Philip Heffer was also a director.
andbalances are maintained in place.
The Board ensures Appropriate procedures were put in The Board has specific powers reserved that each Committee has sufficient place accordingly which included Philip to it contained in a schedule of matters resources to undertake their duties not voting on any matters relating to this reserved for decision by the Board including access to the Company Secretary transaction proposed to the Board.
which include: and external advisors as appropriate.
Information and support provided to changes to capital structure: Reports for the Audit, Remuneration and Board members acquisitions and disposals: Nomination Committees are included on Members of the Board and its Committees pages 49 to 68. major trading agreements: are given appropriate documentation in major capital expenditure projects: The Risk Management Committee is advance of each Board and Committee chaired by the Chief Financial Officer dividends: meeting.
For regular Board meetings these and includes representatives from across include a detailed period report on current treasury and risk management policies: the business.
The Committee meets at and forecast trading, with comparisons approval of budgets, half-yearly least four times per year and seeks to against both budget and prior years.
For all and annual accounts and interim focus and co-ordinate risk management meetings appropriate explanatory papers management statements: and activities throughout the Group in order are circulated well in advance on matters the giving of any guarantees or letters to facilitate the identification, evaluation which the Board or Committee will be of comfort.
and management of key business required to approve or provide responses.
Its work is overseen by the Audit The Board meets not less than eight The Board operates both formally through Committee and reports to the Board.
times a year to direct and control the Board and Committee meetings and strategy and operating performance of the Attendance at Board meetings informally through regular contact between Group.
The Board also has responsibility Directors.
To assist them in carrying out The following table sets out the Board for setting policy and monitoring from their responsibilities the Directors have, meeting attendance by Board members time to time such matters as financial in addition to full and timely access to all together with the percentage attended.
and risk control, health and safety policy, relevant information from management Attendance at Board Committee meetings environmental issues and management inadvance of Board meetings, the right is set out in each Committee report.
The Board has to obtain independent professional advice Number Percentage delegated to the Chief Executive and atthe Companys expense and the advice attended attended the Executive Directors responsibility for and services of the Company Secretary Robert Watson 9 90% the execution of the agreed strategy and to enable them to perform their duties Philip Heffer 10 100% budget and the day-to-day management as Directors.
The Company Secretary Nigel Majewski 10 100% of the Groups operations.
Day-to-day is responsible to the Board, through the Colin Smith 6 100% decisions in relation to procurement Chairman, for all governance matters.
and supply chain management, factory John Worby 10 100% The appointment and removal of the operations and customer liaison are Company Secretary is determined by Christine Cross 10 100% delegated to the senior management theBoard as a whole.
Angus Porter 3 75% teams at each operational site.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 48 Governance Corporate governance statement continued The Groups planning and financial Performance evaluation Risk management and internal control reporting procedures include detailed The Executive Chairman leads a formal The Board of Directors has overall budgets and a three year strategic annual performance evaluation of the responsibility for the Groups systems plan which are approved by the Board.
Board and its standing Committees of internal control including financial, Periodic management accounts report and meets with the Non-Executive operational and compliance controls performance compared to the budget Directors at least once a year to convey and risk management which operate to and additionally forecasts are updated his conclusions.
2018 was a year of safeguard the shareholders investments through the year.
These management transition for the Board and hence an and the Groups assets and for reviewing accounts together with half-yearly and internal evaluation process was conducted their continuing effectiveness.
Such an annual accounts produced by the Groups involving each Director completing a internal control system can only provide subsidiary companies are reviewed.
detailed written questionnaire with the reasonable and not absolute assurance All financial information published by opportunity to comment on any issue against material misstatement or loss the Group is approved by the Board and not directly covered by the questionnaire.
as it is designed to manage rather Audit Committee.
The responses were analysed and than eliminate risk and failure to meet considered by the Board who have business objectives.
The Chief Financial Officer and Group concluded that the Directors, the Board Financial Controller are responsible for The Board has carried out a robust and its standing Committees continue to overseeing the Groups internal controls.
assessment of the principal risks facing perform effectively.
The Non-Executive The management of the Groups the Company, including those that would Directors met once during the year without businesses have identified the key threaten its business model, future the Executive Chairman present in order to business risks within their operations.
performance, solvency or liquidity, which evaluate his performance.
The last external These have been reviewed and discussed are summarised in the Risk management evaluation process was in 2011 12. through the Risk Management Committee section on pages 24 and 27. and their financial implications and the Shareholder communications The Group operates within a clearly effectiveness of the control processes The Board promotes open communication defined organisational structure with in place to mitigate these risks have with shareholders.
The Executive established responsibilities, authorities been assessed.
The Board has reviewed Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief and reporting lines to the Board.
a summary of these findings and this, Financial Officer meet regularly and have The organisational structure is designed together with its direct involvement in dialogue with institutional shareholders to plan, execute, monitor and control the thestrategies of the business, investment both to discuss the Groups performance Groups objectives effectively and ensure appraisal and budgeting processes, and prospects and to develop an internal control becomes integral to all the has enabled the Board to report on the understanding of their views which are Groups operations.
The Board confirms effectiveness of the Groups internal relayed back to the Board.
The Boards that the Groups internal risk based control control systems.
current assessment of the Groups position systems have been fully operative up By order of the Board and prospects are set out in the Strategic to the date of the Annual report being report on pages 06 and 39.
Twice a year approved, key ongoing processes and Neil George general presentations are given to analysts features of which are set out below: Company Secretary covering the annual and half year results.
26 March 2019 appropriate mechanisms to identify Additionally other reports and forecasts, andevaluate business risk: together with relevant articles in the a Group internal audit function which financial press, are circulated to the Board.
isinvolved in the review and testing of The Executive Directors are available to the internal control systems and of key meet the Companys major shareholders risks across the Group in accordance if required and the Senior Independent with an annual programme agreed with Director is available to listen to the the Audit Committee: views of shareholders, should they have a strong control environment: concerns which have not been previously an information and communication resolved or which it was inappropriate to process: and voice at prior meetings.
All shareholders have the opportunity to ask questions at a monitoring system and regular Board the Companys Annual General Meeting, reviews for effectiveness.
which all Directors and the Chairmen of every Board Committee attend.
In addition the Groups website containing published information and press releases can be found at www.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018
