Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 49 Report of the Audit Committee to review the Companys internal Chairmans introduction Monitoring the integrity of the financial controls and internal control financial statements including I am pleased to report on the activities andrisk management systems: significant judgements ofthe Audit Committee for the 52 weeks to monitor and review the effectiveness ended 30 December 2018.
The Committee reviewed the half and of the Companys internal audit function: full year financial reports including Role of the Committee the application of accounting policies, to consider and make recommendations The Audit Committee is established estimates and judgements in their to the Board, to be put to shareholders bytheBoard of Directors, Terms of preparation and, the clarity and for their approval in general meeting, referenceformalise the roles, tasks completeness of the disclosures.
in relation to the appointment, andresponsibilities of the Committee The Committee also held discussions reappointment and removal of the to comply with the UK Corporate withmanagement and the external external auditors and to approve the Governance Code and to achieve auditors and reviewed supporting remuneration and terms of engagement best practice.
The Committee terms papersinrespect of these matters.
of the external auditors: of reference areavailable and can be to review and monitor the external The key areas of focus during the found on theCompanys website at auditors independence and objectivity year were: www.
and the effectiveness of the audit an assessment of the Groups cost The Committee meets at least three times process, taking into consideration plus contracts in relation to IFRIC 4 to per year.
relevant UK professional and determine whether they contain a lease.
regulatory requirements: The Committee particularly focused on Membership of the Committee to develop and implement policy on new contracts entered into during the Members of the Committee are appointed theengagement of the external auditors year.
As in previous year the Committee by the Board on the recommendation to supply non-audit services, taking remains comfortable that there are no of the Nomination Committee and into account relevant ethical guidance such implied lease arrangements.
comprise the Chairman of the Committee, regarding the provision of non-audit JohnWorby, the other Independent a review of revenue recognised on the services by the external audit firm: Non-Executive Directors, Christine Cross Groups major contracts.
The external to meet with the external auditors and and Angus Porter from his appointment, auditors identified complex supplier the head of internal audit at least once and the Non-Executive Chairman of the arrangements as an areas of audit a year without management being Board, Colin Smith until his retirement.
focus and the Committee fully present: and At least one member has recent and considered these issues, including relevant financial experience and between a review of accruals in relation to to report to the Board on how it has them they have a wide experience of the these contracts at the year end.
discharged its responsibilities and make food industry and commerce in general.
The Committee concurred with the whatever recommendations it deems accruals made.
Revenue recognition appropriate on any area within its remit Other individuals such as the Executive for Hilton Foods Australia was also where action or improvement is needed.
Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial reviewed following the assumption of Officer, Internal Auditor and the external Attendance at meetings of full operational control of the two joint auditors are invited to attend meetings as the Audit Committee venture plants from July2018.
The external auditors and the Number Percentage of the continuing oversight by the joint attended attended Internal Auditor have the opportunity for venture, the Committee concurred direct access to the Committee without John Worby 3 100% with the treatment of revenue on a the Executive Directors being present.
Colin Smith 2 100% netbasis, as noted in the estimates Christine Cross 3 100% Responsibilities of the Committee andjudgements on page 90, until Angus Porter 1 100% Hiltonassumes full responsibility which The main responsibilities of the Audit is expected to occur in 2020.
As Hiltons Committee which are contained in the How the Committee has discharged contracts with its customers include UKCorporate Governance Code and also its responsibilities pre-agreed and pre-defined revenue in the Committees terms of reference are: parameters, performance measures and During 2018 the Committee met three to monitor the integrity of the financial targets therewere no other significant times at appropriate intervals in the statements of the Company and any estimates or judgements involved in financial reporting and audit cycles.
formal announcements relating to the relation to these contracts.
The work of the Committee during the year Companys financial performance, focused on the key areas setout below.
a review of the Seachill acquisition reviewing significant financial reporting intangible assets.
A goodwill impairment judgements contained in them: review was conducted which concluded that the value in use exceeds the carrying value.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 50 Governance Report of the Audit Committee continued a review of accounting developments.
The Committee reviewed the work done The Committee continues to be satisfied The Committee reviewed the impact by the Risk Committee and the updated with the independence and performance ofnew IFRS standards effective in the Risk Register and in the light of the of  LLP and year.
There were no material changes work done, the Committee concluded have therefore recommended to the inaccounting under IFRS 9 Financial that the Groups internal controland Board that they should be reappointed as Instruments and only minor risk management systems were the Groups auditors at the forthcoming reclassification adjustments under operating effectively.
A review of whistle-blowing showed Non-audit services and fees The Committee considered the that no concerns had been raised about Hilton has implemented a policy onthe expected impact of IFRS 16 Leases possible wrongdoing in financial reporting use of external auditors for non-audit which is effective from 1 January 2019. or other matters.
services designed to preserve the The Committee noted it is expected independence of the external auditors.
thatleases with a value of 94m-98m External audit This policy categorises non-audit services at30 December 2018 will be included The Committee oversees the relationship into i continuing services which the on the balance sheet under this new with, and the performance of, the Committee permits external auditors standard and agreed the required external auditors.
It is the Committees to undertake subject to a price cap: disclosure of the impact in the financial responsibility under its terms of reference ii irregular or significant services requiring statements ahead of implementation to make recommendations to the Board Committee approval on a case by case ofthe standard next year.
on the appointment, reappointment or basis: and iii non-permitted services.
The Annual report and financial statements removal of external auditors.
During the year the Committee reviewed were, taken as a whole, considered to Article 17 of EU Regulation 537 2014 and updated this policy.
be fair, balanced and understandable enacted into UK law sets the maximum andprovide the information necessary The level of non-audit fees was reviewed duration for an audit firm to conduct for shareholders to assess the Group which in 2018 at 78,000 including the statutory audit of a public interest andCompanys performance, business 48,000 for work in connection with the entity as 10 years although can be model and strategy.
half year review represents 18% of audit extended to up to 20 years where a public fees in the year and an average of 71% The Committee reviewed a paper prepared tendering process is conducted every over three years which compares with by the Chief Financial Officer relating to 10 years.
The current external auditors, the70% EU cap even though such cap going concern and the Groups longer term  LLP PwC, were does not apply until 2020.
Excluding items viability and concluded that the Group appointed in 2007 and reappointed in 2016 required by EU or national legislation the should be considered as a going concern.
following a public audit tender process.
3-year average of non-audit fees was Their lead partner is rotated every five Thereafter the Committee recommended 22%of audit fees.
Further details of these years to ensure continued objectivity and that the Board approve these financial costs can be found in note 6 on page92.
independence with the next rotation due reports for publication and that the letter The Committee considers that this level in 2019.
The engagement partners on key of representation tothe external auditors of non-audit fees does not affect the components are required to rotate every be signed.
independence of the external auditors.
Risk management Other Meetings were held with the external and internal controls The Committee reviewed and updated auditors before the audit to agree their During the year the Internal Auditor itsterms of reference.
audit plan and after their audit work to reported to the Committee on the internal discuss their key audit findings.
Conclusion audit work performed and on key focus  LLP annually The Committee considers that the work areas for future work.
The Committee confirm their compliance with UK performed as detailed above demonstrates noted the findings from the work done regulatory and professional requirements that the Committee continues to and agreed the internal audit plan for including ethical standards and that their operate effectively and discharges theyear ahead.
work is subject to independent partner I will be available to shareholders at the and periodic quality control reviews.
forthcoming Annual General Meeting to Potential independence threats through respond to any questions relating to the the provision of non-audit services are work of the Committee.
On behalf of the Audit Committee John Worby Chairman 26 March 2019 Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018
