HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 54 Chairmans overview Chairmans overview Board focus As a Board we regularly discuss and review: Our business model and its sources of value that give us advantage Our business performance and our progress towards our strategic goals Our customers and how we can ensure that they are at the heart of everything we do Our people and how we can develop and support them to provide the service our customers expect Dear Shareholder Our shareholders and how we communicate with them I am pleased to present Our governance and controls.
this years Corporate As I set out in my introduction to the Strategic report on page 4, this has governance report.
been a very important year for HomeServe, in which we have taken a series As a Board, we continue of decisions to move us closer to achieving our vision of being the worlds to believe that good most trusted provider of home repairs and improvements.
To help realise this corporate governance vision, we have created four global business lines to help drive performance across multiple geographies Home Assistance Membership, Home Experts, underpins good Heating Installations and Smart Home.
The Board has worked closely with business performance.
management to ensure that we have the right organisation structure to We are accountable support a more globally focused business.
to our shareholders We have continued to build our Home Assistance Membership business in all for ensuring that geographies, with particular success in North America where we completed governance processes our largest acquisition to date, of the policy book of Dominion Products and are in place and are Services Inc DPS.
effective and we are The Board debated how to finance the DPS acquisition and having fully committed to considered the options carefully, agreed that to maintain flexibility for future meeting the required opportunities, it would be beneficial to undertake a public placing.
This was standards of corporate the first public placing we had undertaken and we were pleased that it was governance.
that follow are intended In Home Experts, in November 2017, we were able to take control of 100% of to give shareholders an Checkatrade which gave us the platform we need to build our Home Experts understanding of our business and works well with the digital expertise to which we have access corporate governance through our shareholding in Habitissimo.
arrangements and how In Heating Installations and Smart Home, the Board advocated a measured they operated in FY18.
approach, approving the acquisitions of Help-Link in the UK and Electrogaz in France to provide installation capability.
Our Smart Home strategy will focus on technology that is complementary to our core business, water leakage and smart thermostats.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 55 Chairmans overview Board changes During the year we welcomed three new Non-Executive Directors to the Board: Katrina Cliffe, Edward Fitzmaurice and Ron McMillan and one new Executive Director: Tom Rusin.
We have also said farewell to Mark Morris and Ben Mingay who both retired as Non-Executive Directors.
Further details on these changes are set out on page 61.
I would like to extend my thanks to both Mark and Ben for their contribution and support during their time on the Board.
In particular, as Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee, Mark made a significant impact on the Groups governance arrangements and culture.
We have announced today that Martin Bennett will be stepping down from the Board at the Annual General Meeting on 20 July 2018.
Martin has made an outstanding contribution to HomeServe and we would like to thank him and wish him well for the future.
Culture Culture is important both to the operation of the Board and the Group as a whole.
I aim to facilitate an open and collaborative culture and encourage constructive dialogue in Board meetings.
Employee engagement surveys are conducted at least annually throughout the Group and the results are reviewed at the Board and locally to enable us to take action where needed.
Board effectiveness During the year, a review of the Board and its committees was facilitated by Lintstock Limited.
Further details on the review is provided on page 68.
Based on this review and my experience as Chairman, I am satisfied that the Board and its Committees are performing efficiently and that there is an appropriate balance of skills, experience, knowledge and independence to enable the Board to discharge its duties effectively.
JM Barry Gibson Chairman 22 May 2018 HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 56 Compliance and other statements Compliance and other statements The Company is committed to the Principles of corporate governance contained in the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code which is available at http: www.
Under the Code, the Board is required to make a number of statements, as follows: Compliance with the Code The Directors confirm that, throughout FY18, the Company continued to apply the main Principles of the Code and complied with all of the relevant Provisions of the Code, save that the Senior Independent Director did not meet with any shareholders during the year although this opportunity was actively promoted.
Viability statement and going concern Statements in respect of viability and going concern are set out on page 51.
Principal risks The Directors confirm that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group including those which would threaten the business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, their appetite with respect to those risks and the systems required to mitigate and manage them.
Details on the review process are set out on page 74.
Further details on the principal risks and uncertainties can be found on pages 26 to 33.
Annual review of systems of risk management and internal control The Board, through the Audit & Risk Committee, monitored the Groups systems of risk management and internal control and carried out a review of their effectiveness.
The Board concluded that overall, these systems were effective.
Details on the review process are set out on page 72.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Directors consider that, taken as a whole, this Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance and position, business model and strategy.
Details on the process for arriving at this conclusion are set out on page 80.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 57 Application of principles Application of principles The section below sets out how the Company has continued to apply the main Principles of the Code during the year.
1 Role of the Board The Board is responsible for providing effective leadership.
It met formally eight times during the year.
The Board has a Schedule of Matters specifically reserved to it for decision and has approved the written terms of reference of the various Committees to which it has delegated its authority in certain matters.
The full schedule is available on our website http: www.
2 Division of responsibilities The Chairmans responsibilities are clearly defined in a written specification agreed by the Board which makes clear the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Chairmans responsibilities include the smooth running of the Board, effective communication between Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the general progress and long-term development of the Group.
3 The Chairman The Chairman, Barry Gibson, sets the agendas for meetings and ensures that appropriate time is available for discussion of all agenda items, with particular focus on strategic issues.
He facilitates open and constructive dialogue during meetings and promotes productive relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
On his appointment in April 2010, the Board considered Barry to be independent in character and judgement in accordance with the Code.
4 Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors provide the Board with a breadth of experience, independent judgement and constructive challenge.
They meet regularly without the Executive Directors and at least once a year without the Chairman.
The Senior Independent Director provides advice and support to the Chairman as required and to the other members of the Board.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are also available for shareholder meetings.
1 Composition of the Board At the year end, the Board comprised six Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman and five Executive Directors.
The Board considers all of the Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman to be independent in character and judgement.
2 Appointments to the Board The process for Board appointments is generally led by a sub-committee created for the purpose.
This approach allows those Directors with the most relevant experience to be involved in recruiting for particular roles.
The committee then makes recommendations to the Board.
For more information on Board appointments and the work of the Nomination Committee, please refer to pages 70 to 71.
3 Commitment The commitment required of Directors is discussed prior to appointment.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 58 Application of principles Application of principles continued B.
4 Development The Board actively encourages all Directors to deepen their knowledge of their roles and responsibilities and to gain a clear understanding of the Group and the environment in which it operates.
Newly appointed Board members are required to undergo an induction programme which includes obtaining a thorough understanding of the Groups various operations.
Training and development is provided on an ongoing basis as required and Board members have the opportunity to receive formal training from external providers if they wish.
The Chairman considered the training and development needs of individual Directors and he has provided mentoring to the Chief Executive.
5 Information and support The Chairman, supported by the Company Secretary, ensures that all Board members receive accurate and timely information on matters being considered at Board or Committee meetings.
In advance of each Board or Committee meeting, all relevant papers are made available to the Directors via a secure electronic portal.
The Company Secretary is the secretary to the Board and its Committees and is also the secretary to the Executive Committee.
All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and Directors may take independent legal and other professional advice at the expense of the Company.
6 Evaluation The Board conducts an annual, externally facilitated evaluation of its performance and that of its Committees.
Further details are set out on page 68.
7 Re-election of Directors Each Director is subject to election by the Companys shareholders at the Annual General Meeting immediately following their appointment, and is subject to re-election every year thereafter.
C. Accountability C. 1 Financial and business reporting The Strategic report is set out on pages 2 to 51 and provides information about the performance of the Group, the business model, strategy and the principal risks and uncertainties relating to the Groups future prospects.
C. 2 Risk management and internal control The Board sets the Groups risk appetite and through the Audit & Risk Committee, monitors and annually reviews the effectiveness of the Groups systems of risk management and internal control.
Further information on risk management and internal control is provided on pages 72 to 75.
C. 3 Audit & Risk Committee and Auditor The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the Audit & Risk Committee which is responsible for overseeing the Groups financial reporting processes, internal controls and the work undertaken by the external auditor.
The Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee provides regular updates to the Board.
Further detail on the work of the Audit & Risk Committee is provided on pages 76 to 83.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 59 Application of principles D. Remuneration D. 1 Level and components of remuneration The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting a remuneration policy that will attract, retain and motivate Executives.
The focus of the policy is to align the interests of the Executives to those of shareholders and the long-term success of the Company.
D. 2 Procedure Details of the work of the Remuneration Committee are provided on pages 84 to 113.
E. Relations with shareholders E. 1 Dialogue with shareholders The Group actively engages with investors and solicits their feedback.
The Chairman met with a number of shareholders during the year and ensures that the Board is kept informed of shareholder views.
The Senior Independent Director is available for meetings with major shareholders and the Board receives a monthly report from the Group Communications and Investor Relations Director along with analyst and broker briefings.
E. 2 Constructive use of general meetings The AGM gives all shareholders the opportunity to communicate directly with the Board.
All Directors attend the AGM and are available for questions both during the formal part of the meeting and informally afterwards.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 60 Relations with shareholders Relations with shareholders The Board, on the Companys behalf, recognises the need to maintain an active dialogue with its shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer meet regularly with institutional investors and analysts to discuss the Companys performance and all shareholders have access to the Chairman and Senior Independent Director, who are available to discuss any questions which they may have in relation to the running of the Company.
During the year, the Chairman met with a number of major shareholders and contact was made with the top 10 shareholders offering a meeting with the Senior Independent Director.
None of the shareholders contacted wished to arrange a meeting.
The Board encourages shareholders to attend the Annual General Meeting and is always willing to answer questions, either in the meeting itself or, more informally, afterwards.
In addition, shareholders may contact HomeServe direct, either through the website or by telephone.
The Board recognises the need to ensure that all Directors are fully aware of the views of major shareholders.
Copies of all analysts research relating to the Company are circulated to Directors upon publication.
The Board receives a monthly Investor Relations report which includes an analysis of the Companys shareholder register as well as any feedback received from shareholders and analysts.
Feedback is actively sought following the Interim and Preliminary Results presentations and presented to the Board.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 61 Leadership Leadership The Board The Board is responsible for the effective leadership and long-term success of the Group.
It has a Schedule of Matters specifically reserved to it for decision and has approved the written terms of reference of the various Committees to which it has delegated its authority in certain matters.
Matters reserved to the Board include: the Companys future strategy the approval of major financial commitments the acquisition of significant companies or businesses the Companys internal controls the recommendation or approval of dividends the approval of preliminary and interim financial statements appointments to the Board and its Committees.
The Board has delegated certain of its responsibilities to the Committees of the Board.
Further detail on the work of the Committees is provided later in the Annual Report.
The terms of reference of each of the Boards Committees are available on request from the Company Secretary and are available on our website http: www.
com about-us corporate-governance committees Board composition As at 31 March 2018, the Board comprised six Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman and five Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors have a diverse range of skills and experience which enables them to oversee business performance and provide constructive challenge.
The Executive Directors have extensive commercial, financial and operational experience both within HomeServe and beyond.
During the year there were a number of changes to the Board: On 23 May 2017, Tom Rusin, Chief Executive, HomeServe North America was appointed as an Executive Director.
On 23 May 2017, Katrina Cliffe was appointed as a Non-Executive Director and member of the Audit & Risk Committee.
On 23 May 2017, Edward Fitzmaurice was appointed as a Non-Executive Director.
On 27 October 2017, Ron McMillan was appointed as a Non-Executive Director and member of the Audit & Risk Committee.
He became Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee on 27 February 2018.
Mark Morris retired as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee on 27 February 2018 after nine years on the Board.
Stella David was appointed as Senior Independent Director on 27 February 2018.
Ben Mingay retired as a Non-Executive Director on 26 March 2018 after six years on the Board.
Short biographies of each of the Directors, including their membership of Committees, are set out on pages 64 to 66.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 62 Leadership Leadership continued Board meetings Up to eight regular meetings are held each year to review and monitor current and forecast performance.
Regular reports on monthly financial and operational performance and other matters of importance to the Group ensure that the Board is supplied in a timely manner with the information necessary to make informed judgements.
In addition, the Board has an annual strategy meeting, also attended by members of the Executive Committee who are not on the Board, to devise and discuss the Companys medium and long-term strategic focus and development strategy.
Regular formal and informal presentations are given in order to inform Directors of issues of importance affecting the Group.
Occasionally, meetings of the Board are held at the Groups operating sites other than Walsall, in order to afford the Board, particularly the Non-Executive Directors, the opportunity to meet with local management.
During FY18, the Board held one meeting in Spain and the annual strategy meeting was held in the UK.
These meetings provided the Board with an invaluable insight into the two businesses and enabled the Directors to meet the local senior management teams.
In the UK, the Board also met front line staff including engineers.
Attendance at meetings All Directors are expected to attend all Board and relevant Committee meetings.
Details of attendance by Directors at meetings during the year are set out in the table below.
Directors who were unable to attend specific meetings reviewed the relevant papers and provided their comments to the Chairman of the Board or Committee.
Any Director who misses a meeting will, as a matter of course, receive the minutes of that meeting for reference.
Nomination Committee meetings are held on an ad hoc basis as required as the preference is for the Board as a whole to consider succession planning.
Specific sub-committees are established for new appointments to the Board.
The activities of this Committee are described on pages 70 to 71.
Audit & Risk Remuneration Board Committee Committee R Harpin 8 8 M Bennett 8 8 D Bower 8 8 J Ford 8 8 T Rusin 7 7 J M B Gibson 8 8 6 6 K Cliffe 5 7 2 2 S David 8 8 6 6 E Fitzmaurice 7 7 C Havemann 8 8 3 3 4 R McMillan 4 4 2 2 5 B Mingay 8 8 3 3 6 6 6 M Morris 7 7 3 3 5 5 1 Tom Rusin joined the Board on 23 May 2017.
2 Katrina Cliffe joined the Board on 23 May 2017.
3 Edward Fitzmaurice joined the Board on 23 May 2017.
4 Ron McMillan joined the Board on 27 October 2017.
5 Ben Mingay retired from the Board on 26 March 2018.
6 Mark Morris retired from the Board on 27 February 2018.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 63 Leadership Executive Committee Members Richard Harpin Chairman Martin Bennett David Bower Johnathan Ford Guillaume Huser H Stephen Phillips Tom Rusin Responsibilities The day to day running of the business rests with the Group Chief Executive, Richard Harpin.
The Executive Committee assists the Chief Executive in the performance of his duties including: the development and implementation of strategy, operational plans, policies, procedures and budgets the monitoring of operating and financial performance the prioritisation and allocation of resources and the oversight of group wide initiatives and investments.
The Committee has adopted formal terms of reference which are available on our website http: www.
Culture The last few years have seen increased focus on culture across the Group.
Central to this has been the development of our Customer and People promises which are now well established in each business.
A Group wide employee engagement survey is run at least annually with the same set of questions used in each territory.
Questionnaires are completed by employees on an anonymous basis and the process is facilitated by an external provider.
The results of the surveys are reviewed and discussed by the Board and are used by local Executive teams to develop engagement action plans.
The Board gains valuable insight and feedback from the Executive Directors in respect of the culture and behaviour across the Group and the internal audit function also considers culture as part of its reviews.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 64 Board of Directors and Executive team header Board of Directors and Executive team Barry was previously Group Retailing Director JM Barry Gibson 66 at BAA plc, Group Chief Executive of Littlewoods Chairman plc and Non-Executive Director of Somerfield plc, Appointed to the Board: April 2004 National Express plc, William Hill plc, SSP Group Appointed as Chairman: April 2010 Ltd, bwin.
party digital entertainment plc and Non-Executive Chairman of Harding Brothers Committee memberships: Holdings Ltd.
Nomination Chair, Remuneration Key areas of prior experience: Retailing, travel, leisure Principal current external appointments: None Richard is the Founder and Chief Executive Officer Richard Harpin 53 of HomeServe, which was set up in 1993 as a Chief Executive Officer joint venture with South Staffordshire Group.
Appointed to the Board: May 2001 Also the founder and Non-Executive Director Committee memberships: of Growth Partner LLP, investing in and helping Executive small consumer businesses to step change their growth and the Enterprise Trust, a charity that Key areas of prior experience: encourages young enterprise, apprenticeships and Consumer marketing, management consultancy, SMEs.
Previously a brand manager with Procter & entrepreneurship Gamble, followed by management consultancy Principal current external appointments: with Deloitte and his own company.
Growth Partner LLP Martin was appointed as Chief Executive of the Martin Bennett 49 UK business in January 2014, following two years Chief Executive, HomeServe UK as Group Chief Operating Officer and three Appointed to the Board: June 2009 years as Group Chief Financial Officer.
Previously Committee memberships: Finance Director of the UK business, having been Executive Finance Director of the Warranties business and Commercial Director.
Prior to joining HomeServe Key areas of prior experience: in 2003, he spent three years as Group Finance Accountancy, audit, mergers and acquisitions Director of Clarity Group and ten years at Arthur Principal current external appointments: Andersen where he qualified as a Chartered None Accountant.
David was appointed as Chief Financial Officer in David Bower 46 February 2017.
He joined HomeServe in 2005 and Chief Financial Officer has undertaken a number of senior divisional and Appointed to the Board: February 2017 group finance roles including spending six years Committee memberships: as Group Finance Director.
Before HomeServe, he Executive spent 12 years at Arthur Andersen, later Deloitte LLP, where he qualified as a Chartered Accountant.
Key areas of prior experience: Accountancy, audit, investor relations, mergers and acquisitions Principal current external appointments: None HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 65 Board of Directors and Executive team Johnathan was appointed as Chief Operating Johnathan Ford 48 Officer in June 2016 having served as Chief Chief Operating Officer Financial Officer for four years.
Previously the Appointed to the Board: September 2012 Group Finance Director of NWF Group plc.
Prior to Committee memberships: joining NWF in March 2009, he spent four years at Executive HomeServe, firstly as Group Commercial Director and later as Finance Director of the Emergency Key areas of prior experience: Services Division.
Before joining HomeServe he Accountancy, audit, investor relations, mergers was Head of Corporate Finance at Kidde plc.
and acquisitions Previously a Non-Executive Director of Lakehouse Principal current external appointments: plc where he chaired the Audit Committee.
None Tom Rusin 49 Tom was appointed as Global CEO, HomeServe Membership in April 2018 following nearly seven Global CEO, Membership years as Chief Executive Officer, HomeServe USA.
Appointed to the Board: May 2017 Previously at Affinion Group where he undertook Committee memberships: a number of roles culminating in three years as Executive President and Chief Executive Officer of Affinion Groups North American Division.
Before joining Key areas of prior experience: Affinion, he owned Just for Travel Inc.
He was Affinity marketing previously a Non-Executive Director of The Principal current external appointments: Ambassadors Group.
None Katrina was previously General Manager at Katrina Cliffe 51 American Express Global Business Travel, EMEA, Non-Executive Director Independent having been General Manager, Global Corporate Appointed to the Board: May 2017 Payments, UK.
Prior to American Express she held Committee memberships: senior roles at Lloyds TSB Group PLC, Goldfish Audit & Risk, Remuneration, Nomination Bank Ltd and MBNA International Bank.
Key areas of prior experience: Financial services Principal current external appointments: Non-Executive Director of Cembra Money Bank AG, ABTA Association of British Travel Agents and Shop Direct Finance Company Limited where she chairs the Risk Committee Stella was previously Chief Executive Officer of Stella David 55 William Grant & Sons following more than 15 years Senior Independent Director Independent with Bacardi Ltd where she undertook a number Appointed to the Board: November 2010 of roles culminating in five years as Global Chief Committee memberships: Marketing Officer.
She also spent seven years as Remuneration Chair, Nomination a Non-Executive Director at Nationwide Building Society.
Key areas of prior experience: Marketing, drinks industry, international Principal current external appointments: Non-Executive Director of C&J Clark Ltd, Bacardi Ltd and Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 66 Board of Directors and Executive team Board of Directors and Executive team continued Edward was previously Chief Executive Officer of Edward Fitzmaurice 55 Hastings Insurance Group and part of the MBO Non-Executive Director Independent team of that business in 2009.
He served as the Appointed to the Board: May 2017 Non-Executive Chairman of Hastings Insurance Committee memberships: Services Ltd until October 2015 and a NonNomination Executive Director of Hastings Group Holdings plc until March 2017.
Prior to joining Hastings, he Key areas of prior experience: spent three years at HomeServe as Chief Executive Retailing, insurance of HomeServe Warranties.
His earlier career was Principal current external appointments: spent at Dixons plc and Anglo American.
None Chris has followed a largely entrepreneurial Chris Havemann 50 career.
He took Research Now onto AIM in Non-Executive Director Independent 2005 and oversaw its takeover by a US business Appointed to the Board: December 2015 becoming CEO of the combined group, a global Committee memberships: leader in online research data collection.
He was Audit & Risk, Remuneration, Nomination subsequently CEO of online marketplace, Rated People.
Key areas of prior experience: Digital Principal current external appointments: CEO of RM222 Ltd, parent company of Reality Mine Limited Ron McMillan 65 A Chartered Accountant, Ron worked in PwCs assurance business for 38 years and has Non-Executive Director Independent extensive knowledge and experience in auditing, Appointed to the Board: October 2017 financial reporting and governance.
During his Committee memberships: time at PwC, his roles included Global Finance Audit & Risk Chair, Remuneration, Nomination Partner, Chairman of the North of England and Deputy Chairman and Head of Assurance for the Key areas of prior experience: Middle East.
Accountancy, audit Principal current external appointments: Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of N Brown PLC, SCS PLC and 888 Holdings PLC.
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of B&M European Value Retail SA.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 67 Board of Directors and Executive team Stephen was appointed as CEO, Global H Stephen Phillips 51 Partnerships in January 2018 having led CEO, Global Partnerships HomeServe Spain since 2005.
He is a licensed Committee memberships: insurance broker and is a Non-Executive Director Executive of Assured Enterprises Inc.
Prior to joining Key areas of prior experience: HomeServe, he spent 12 years in senior business Business development, marketing, international development, sales, and marketing roles in Diversified Business Communications S. A. and E. J.
Principal current external appointments: Krause fide Mxico, working across the US and Latin None America.
Guillaume Huser 51 Guillaume was appointed as Chief Executive, HomeServe France in April 2015.
Previously at Chief Executive, HomeServe France Affinion Group where he undertook a number Committee memberships: of roles culminating in four years as President of Executive Affinion Groups International Division.
Before Key areas of prior experience: joining Affinion in December 2002, he spent 13 Financial services, business development, affinity years at American Express firstly in finance, sales marketing, international and business development roles and later in the Corporate Services Division where he was VP Principal current external appointments: Commercial Card, Western Europe.
None Anna Maughan 48 Anna started her career at Severn Trent plc and joined South Staffordshire plc as Assistant Company Secretary Company Secretary in 1996.
Following the Appointed as Company Secretary: July 2008 demerger of HomeServe plc and South Key areas of prior experience: Staffordshire plc in 2004 she continued as Assistant Company secretarial, pensions Company Secretary of HomeServe plc, becoming Company Secretary in 2008.
Principal current external appointments: Trustee of, and Secretary to, the industry wide Water Companies Pension Scheme HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 68 Eectiveness Eectiveness Director induction During the year, Tom Rusin visited the UK, Edward Fitzmaurice visited the UK and US, Katrina Cliffe visited the US, UK and Spain and Ron McMillan visited the UK, France and the US.
Both Katrina and Ron have spent a day on the road in the UK with an engineer which provided them with an opportunity to gain a real insight into the customer experience.
Board development During the year, training has been provided for the Board as a whole on information security and cyber risks and health and safety both of which had been identified as key risks.
In addition, the Executive Directors have taken part in leadership development activity and a digital workshop designed to improve their knowledge of this important area.
Time commitment Time commitment is discussed with prospective Non-Executive Directors as part of the recruitment process.
The Board is satisfied that all Non-Executive Directors have sufficient time to meet their commitment to the Company.
Executive Directors may serve as a Non-Executive Director on one other board so long as this does not interfere with their time commitment to the Company.
If they do, they may retain the fees.
None of the Executive Directors currently have other relevant board appointments.
Re-election of Directors Ron McMillan has been appointed since the last AGM and as such will be proposed for election at the 2018 AGM.
All other Directors will offer themselves for re-election apart from Martin Bennett who will be stepping down from the Board.
The Board is content that each of the Non-Executive Directors is independent.
Board evaluation The Board has implemented a formal process for reviewing its own effectiveness, that of its Committees and its individual members.
In addition, it continued to ensure that regular meetings of the Non-Executive Directors were held without the Executive Directors, and at least once a year, without the Chairman present, in order to evaluate his performance.
The Board evaluation is facilitated by Lintstock Limited.
Online questionnaires are completed by all Directors on an annual basis and responses are collated into a report which is discussed at a Board meeting.
Every third year, Lintstock interview all of the Directors so that any themes can be developed and feedback investigated in more depth.
Lintstock Limited has no other connections with the Company.
The FY17 review highlighted the need to develop the Groups people strategy.
In direct response to this, the People Committee was established to provide additional focus and impetus to people related activity.
It was also agreed that the Board should continue to visit different HomeServe operations and interact with the wider management teams and to this end, during FY18, the Board visited Spain and the UK.
In FY18, Directors completed evaluation questionnaires in January 2018 and these were followed up in February 2018 by individual interviews with Lintstock who then compiled a formal written report summarising the Directors views.
This report was discussed by the Board in March 2018.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 69 Eectiveness The overall performance of the Board was rated very highly.
In particular the Non-Executives support and challenge of management was positively rated as was the relationship between the Board and the Chief Executive and the atmosphere at meetings.
As a result of the review, the following priorities were identified: ensuring that the new Board members were appropriately embedded: monitoring the changes in the management structure to support the growth across four global business lines: overseeing delivery of the Home Experts strategy: and progressing the talent agenda.
It was agreed that all of these priorities should be given appropriate time on the Board agenda over the coming year.
In FY18, for the first time, an upward review of the Board was also completed.
Senior executives who had regular exposure to the Board and had presented at Board or Committee meetings were asked a series of questions about the support and challenge provided by the Board and how interaction with the Board could be improved.
Generally, feedback was positive but some useful suggestions were made in respect of increasing the visibility of the Board across the Group and improving the process around attending and presenting at Board meetings.
These suggestions are being integrated into the planning for future Board meetings.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 70 Nomination Committee report Nomination Committee report Members J M Barry Gibson Chairman Katrina Cliffe appointed 23 March 2018 Edward Fitzmaurice appointed 23 March 2018 Stella David Chris Havemann Ron McMillan appointed 23 March 2018 Ben Mingay retired 26 March 2018 Mark Morris retired 27 February 2018 Responsibilities Dear Shareholder The primary responsibilities of the Committee are to: As a Board, we make recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Directors recognise that having review the size, structure and composition of the Board the right people is vital to the success of our consider succession planning arrangements for Directors and other senior business and whilst the managers.
Nomination Committee The Committee has adopted formal terms of reference which are available has a formal role to play on our website http: www.
com about-us corporatein ensuring that the Board governance committees has the right mix of skills and experience to deliver Key issues considered during the year The Nomination Committee did not meet formally during the year.
Succession our strategy, we believe planning arrangements were considered by the Board as a whole rather than that succession planning by the Nomination Committee to ensure that both Executives and Nonis best addressed by Executives were fully aligned.
Specific sub-committees were appointed during the year to consider the This ensures that the appointment of Tom Rusin to the Board and the appointment of three NonExecutives as well as Executive Directors, Katrina Cliffe, Edward Fitzmaurice and Ron McMillan.
The the Non-Executives creation of specific sub-committees enabled those Directors with relevant can be fully involved in experience to be involved in the recruitment and appointment process.
For example, it was felt that it was important for Mark Morriss experience as the discussions on talent.
outgoing Audit & Risk Committee Chairman to be leveraged when searching for his successor.
We recognise that we have more to do on Support was provided for board appointments by Spencer Stuart.
Spencer the people agenda Stuart has no other connection to the Company.
Led by the Chairman, the and we have therefore sub-committees met informally on a number of occasions to consider the candidates for the roles and Directors not on the committees were given established a People the opportunity to meet with the shortlisted candidates.
Following this, Committee to move recommendations were made to the Board.
us forward in respect of talent and diversity throughout the Group.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 71 Nomination Committee report Succession planning We recognise the importance of ensuring that there is an appropriate pool of talented and capable individuals to fill senior roles and a succession planning process has been established across the Group to facilitate this.
The process identifies emergency, short-term and long-term successors for each role and therefore allows any training and development requirements or recruitment issues to be highlighted.
Each business and corporate function prepares and maintains succession plans with the support of local and Group HR and with input from the Group Chief Executive.
The Executive Committee reviews the plans in detail twice a year and the Board as a whole reviews the high level plan at least annually.
Diversity We are committed to ensuring that our Board is appropriately diverse.
We are supportive of the recommendations in the review of the Davies Report and the Hampton-Alexander Review to promote greater female representation on corporate boards and when seeking to recruit for Board positions we ensure that long lists include women candidates.
We have also considered the McGregor-Smith Review and will ensure that the recommendations of this review are taken into account going forward.
We believe that a diversity of experience and psychological profile is also important around the board table.
We seek to ensure that there is a balance of skills and experience and in respect of non-executive positions we ensure that candidates from a wider pool are considered, including those with little or no listed company board experience.
Currently, the Board does not have a formal diversity policy but it is intended that this will be actively considered over the coming year through the People Committee.
We have recently commissioned a specialist consultancy to undertake a benchmark review of our diversity and inclusion policies and procedures and to facilitate interviews and focus groups across the business with the aim of gaining a better understanding of whether our employees feel that we operate a fair and undiscriminating approach.
The outcome of this benchmark review will be discussed at the People Committee and will provide useful background for the development of our policy.
More information is provided in the Corporate responsibility report on pages 20 to 25.
People Committee The People Committee was formed in 2017 in response to the FY17 board effectiveness review which recognised that the Group as a whole needed to do more to promote the people agenda.
The Committee is chaired by Stella David, our Senior Independent Director and is made up of both Non-Executive and Executive Directors.
The Group Legal and HR Director and the newly recruited Group Director of Talent also attend.
Reporting to the Board, the Committee has adopted formal terms of reference which include the determination and oversight of the Groups people related strategies including succession planning, employee engagement and culture, diversity and learning and development.
JM Barry Gibson Chairman 22 May 2018 HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 72 Accountability Accountability Board assessment of risk management and internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of risk management and internal control including setting of risk appetite.
The Audit & Risk Committee has a key role to play in overseeing risk management and internal controls and advising the Board thereon.
More detail in respect of the role of the Audit & Risk Committee is provided in the report of that Committee on pages 76 to 83.
The Board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems, specifically that: There is an ongoing, systemised process for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Group.
This system has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
The system is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The system accords with the FRC guidance on risk management, internal control and related financial and business reporting.
During the year, the Board has directly, or through the Audit & Risk Committee, overseen and reviewed the development and performance of risk management activities and practices and the systems of internal control in place across the Group.
As a result, the Board is satisfied that the risk management and internal control systems that are in place remain effective.
The Board delegated the responsibility for conducting the work required for it to provide the fair, balanced and understandable, going concern and viability statements to the Audit & Risk Committee.
In conducting this work, the Audit & Risk Committee acts on behalf of the Board and its activities remain the responsibility of the Board.
The relevant Board statements on these matters are set out on pages 51 and 56.
The principal risks and uncertainties are set out on pages 26 to 33.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 73 Accountability System of risk management and control The Board has delegated the day-to-day management of the Group to the Group Chief Executive and the other Executive Directors.
The system of internal control is designed to manage and mitigate rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The risk governance model is based on the three lines of defence as follows: 1st line of defence A risk management framework is in place which includes the agreed risk appetite, policies and procedures.
The Groups management operates a formal process for identifying, managing and reporting on the operational and financial risks faced by each of the Groups businesses.
Risks are reviewed in detail at local risk committees and, on an overall basis, by the Group Executive Risk Committee and the Audit & Risk Committee.
Support is provided by the 2nd line of defence oversight functions.
2nd line of defence Independent oversight is provided by the various control functions including risk, compliance and specialist functions such as health and safety and information security.
The 2nd line provides advice on risk appetites, independent review of risk ratings and action plans and reports on risk management to the Board and the Audit & Risk Committee.
3rd line of defence The Group has a dedicated internal audit function and a formal audit plan is in place to address the key risks across the Group and the operation and effectiveness of internal controls.
The function reports to the Board through the Audit & Risk Committee.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 74 Accountability Accountability continued Risk management cycle Risk appetite Risk appetite is defined as the amount and type of risk we are willing to pursue or retain in order to meet our strategic objectives.
Our assessment of risk appetite is guided by our vision and mission and informed by our strategic objectives.
It is used as a measure against which all of our current and proposed activities are tested.
Risk appetite is reviewed bi-annually to ensure that it is aligned with the strategy.
Risk framework A risk framework is in place across the Group which includes risk appetite, materiality and scoring matrices and key risk indicators.
Each business is expected to adhere to the Group risk framework and to report regularly on its risk registers and key risk indicators but if appropriate, the Group framework may be customised to local requirements as long as minimum standards are met.
A mechanism exists to extend the Groups risk framework to any significant new business that is acquired or established immediately upon acquisition or start-up.
Risk assessment and risk registers All businesses assess risks for likelihood and impact based on the materiality matrix included in the Group risk framework.
Controls are then implemented to manage the risks.
Risks are scored on a gross and net basis and rated as red, amber or green.
Risk registers capture key risks and these are reviewed at local risk committees with the principal risks being reviewed by the Group Executive Risk Committee and the Audit & Risk Committee.
Consideration is given to whether risks are within or outside appetite and particular attention is given to actions being taken to mitigate risks.
Incidents are recorded and reported on at the various committees.
Risk oversight Oversight of the risk management process is provided by the Assurance & Risk Director and local risk and compliance teams, the Audit & Risk Committee and ultimately, the Board.
Internal control Internal audit acts as the 3rd line of defence.
In order to ensure the independence of the internal audit function, the Assurance & Risk Directors primary reporting line is to the Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee.
The internal audit function fulfils its role and responsibilities by delivery of the annual, risk based audit plan.
There are no restrictions on the scope of internal audits work.
A report is issued after each audit which provides an opinion on the control environment and details any issues found.
Internal audit then work with the businesses to agree remedial actions which are tracked to completion.
The Assurance & Risk Director submits reports to local boards and committees and attends those meetings as required.
He attends and reports to every Audit & Risk Committee.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 75 Accountability Financial reporting Three year business plans, annual budgets and investment proposals for each business are formally prepared, reviewed and approved by the Board.
A clearly defined organisation structure is in place with clear lines of accountability and appropriate division of duties.
The Groups financial regulations specify authorisation limits for individual managers and for local boards, with all material transactions being approved by the Board.
Consolidated financial results, including a comparison with budgets and forecasts, are reported to the Board on a monthly basis, with variances being identified and understood so that mitigating actions can be implemented, where appropriate.
Ahead of the financial results being presented to the Board, monthly business review calls are held, attended by Executives, representatives from the Group finance function and local senior management.
These calls provide an opportunity for a detailed review of performance and to identify any issues or trends.
Half year and annual consolidated accounts are reviewed by the Executive Directors and verified by the finance team.
The accounts are then considered by the Audit & Risk Committee which makes a recommendation in respect of their approval to the Board.
The Board then reviews and approves the accounts prior to the announcement of the half year and annual results.
The Board considers that the processes undertaken by the Audit & Risk Committee are appropriately robust, effective and in compliance with the guidelines issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
During the year, the Board has not been advised by the Audit & Risk Committee on, or had identified itself, any failings, fraud or weaknesses in internal control which have been determined to be material in the context of the financial statements.
Viability statement The approach to the viability statement and the statement itself are shown on page 51.
Whistle blowing A whistle blowing policy is in place and allows employees, franchisees and sub-contractors who wish to raise any issues of concern relating to the Groups activities to do so on a confidential basis by contacting an external hotline.
Issues are independently investigated by internal audit and feedback is provided through the external hotline.
A number of calls were made to the external hotline during the year but no issues were raised that required any action from the Board.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 76 Audit & Risk Committee report Audit & Risk Page header Committee report Members Ron McMillan Appointed to the Committee on 27 October 2017 and became Chairman on 27 February 2018 Mark Morris Chairman until 27 February 2018, when he retired Katrina Cliffe appointed 23 May 2017 Chris Havemann Ben Mingay retired 26 March 2018 All members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors and the Committee as a whole has competence relevant to our sector.
Both Mark Dear Shareholder Morris and I have recent and relevant financial experience.
Mark worked in audit, business advisory and corporate finance before becoming a plc Finance Director Having being appointed and previously chaired the Audit Committee of LSL Property Services plc.
as Chairman of the I was appointed to succeed Mark as Chairman of the Committee on his Committee on 27 February retirement.
I joined the Committee on 27 October 2017 and attended the 2018, I am pleased to November and February meetings to ensure that there was an appropriate present the Committees handover.
I worked in PwCs assurance business for 38 years with 28 years as an audit partner and have extensive knowledge and experience in auditing, financial report for the year.
During my time at PwC, my roles included Global The Committee is an Finance Partner, Chairman of the North of England and Deputy Chairman and Head of Assurance for the Middle East.
I also chair the Audit Committees of N important element of Brown PLC, SCS PLC, 888 Holdings Plc and B&M European Value Retail SA.
Our role is All members of the Committee are expected to have an understanding of to review and advise financial reporting, relevant corporate legislation, the functions of internal and external audit and the regulatory and compliance framework of the Group.
the Board on financial Katrina Cliffe brings experience in financial services to the Committee.
She reporting including the chairs the Risk Committee and is a member of the Audit Committee of Shop various statements made Direct Finance Company Limited.
Chris Havemann is from an entrepreneurial in the Annual Report on background and also brings a wealth of experience in respect of digital.
viability, going concern, The internal and external auditors, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Executive risk and controls and Officer and the Chairman are invited, but are not entitled, to attend all meetings.
whether, when read Where appropriate, other Executive Directors and managers also attend meetings as a whole, the Annual at the Chairmans invitation.
The external and internal auditors are provided with the opportunity to raise any matters or concerns that they may have, in the Report is fair, balanced absence of the Executive Directors, whether at Committee meetings or, more and understandable and informally, outside of them.
provides the information necessary for shareholders Board reporting I provide an update in respect of the matters discussed to the Board after each to assess the Groups Committee meeting and the minutes of meetings are circulated to the whole performance, business Board.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 77 Audit & Risk Committee report Committee Effectiveness The effectiveness of the Committee is reviewed as part of the annual Board review process facilitated by Lintstock Limited.
The FY18 review concluded that the Committee was operating effectively and benefitted from a high quality cycle of work.
Particular mention was made of the transparency in respect of audit findings.
Positive comments were made in respect of the clarity of the reporting to the Board by my predecessor and I will be looking to ensure that I continue with this.
Responsibilities The primary responsibilities of the Committee are to: monitor, on behalf of the Board, compliance with and the effectiveness of, the Groups accounting and internal control systems review the independence of the external auditor and agree their terms of engagement and remuneration review the scope of and outputs from the external audit approve the scope of the work undertaken by and the outputs from the work done by internal audit make recommendations to the Board on accounting policies and their application review the annual and interim financial statements before they are presented to the Board advise the Board on the Groups overall risk appetite, tolerance and strategy monitor, on behalf of the Board, current risk exposures receive reports from compliance functions and review and approve the means by which the Group and its regulated subsidiary undertakings seek to comply with their respective regulatory obligations review the adequacy and security of the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
Summary of meetings in the year The Committee usually meets three times in the year and did so in FY18.
Details of meeting attendance are set out on page 62.
The timing of Committee meetings is arranged to accommodate the release of financial information, the approval of the external and internal audit plans and the review of the outputs of those plans.
In addition to scheduled meetings, I met with the CFO and members of his team, the Assurance & Risk Director and the external auditors.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 78 Audit & Risk Committee report Audit & Risk Committee report continued During the year the agenda included the following items: Half year results Full year results Consideration of new accounting standards IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 External audit plans and reports Internal audit plans and reports Risk registers from each territory Updates on regulatory compliance activity including the General Data Protection Regulation Updates on certain key risks, in particular, information security Updates on the efforts to improve the focus on cash management and efficiency Consideration of governance and controls in partly owned subsidiaries and joint ventures Whistle blowing reports Internal audit effectiveness and independence including the external quality review completed by PwC External audit effectiveness and independence.
Significant issues related to the financial statements The Committee oversaw the process used by the Board to assess going concern and the viability of the Group, the stress testing of key trading assumptions and the preparation of the viability statement which is set out on page 51.
The Committee also satisfied itself that the disclosures in relation to accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty were appropriate and obtained, from the external auditor, an independent view of the key disclosure issues and risks.
Management present reports to the Committee setting out the basis for the assumptions used and these reports are then discussed and challenged by the Committee.
All of the issues were also discussed with the external auditor and their views taken into account.
The Committee is satisfied that the judgements made are reasonable and appropriate disclosures have been included in the accounts.
The Committee assessed whether suitable accounting policies had been adopted and whether management had made appropriate estimates and judgements.
The Committee also reviewed reports from the external auditor on the half year and full year results, which provided an overview of the audit work undertaken and highlighted any issues for discussion.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 79 Audit & Risk Committee report The significant issues considered in the year were: Issue How it was addressed by the Committee Revenue recognition The Committee reviewed the approach As an insurance intermediary, the Company is required to recognise taken to estimate claims handling revenue at the point at which a policy goes on risk.
As such, revenue costs, indirect costs associated with job reflects commission due from underwriters and is therefore completion and processes for policy considered to be on a net basis.
Some elements of revenue are cancellations and satisfied itself that a deferred to cover future costs and also to provide for policies which consistent approach had been taken.
Accounting for new customer acquisitions The Committee reviewed the treatment Customer acquisition costs are either expensed directly to the of acquisition costs in relation to three income statement or are capitalised and amortised over the life of the partners, Endesa in Spain, Suez in France customer depending on the nature of the agreement with the partner.
and Veolia in France and satisfied itself that the treatment was appropriate.
Carrying value of goodwill The Committee reviewed the headroom The total goodwill balance at 31 March 2018 of 387m has been to ensure that the value in use supported allocated to the relevant cash generating units CGUs and tested for the carrying value of the net assets and impairment by comparing the carrying value of net assets including satisfied itself that no impairment was allocated goodwill and acquisition intangibles with the value in use, required.
defined as the present value of future cashflows attributable to the CGUs.
Business combinations and asset purchases The Committee reviewed the Groups During the year the Group completed a number of acquisition accounting for these acquisitions and transactions.
satisfied itself that it was appropriate.
Capitalisation of development costs The Committee considered the benefits due to be delivered by the programme The Group has incurred significant costs in relation to the and the costs and satisfied itself that the development of new IT systems, a programme which is expected to discounted benefits of the new systems complete during FY19.
were significantly higher than the carrying value of the asset.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 80 Audit & Risk Committee report Audit & Risk Committee report continued Board statements Going concern The Committee reviewed whether it was appropriate to adopt the going concern basis for the preparation of the Annual Report.
Consideration was given to the Groups three year forecasts, availability of committed bank facilities and expected headroom under the financial covenants and a report from management was considered.
The Committee ensured that the assumptions underpinning the forecasts were stress tested and that the factors which impact on risks and uncertainties were properly considered.
Following the Committees review, it recommended to the Board that it was appropriate to adopt the going concern basis.
The going concern statement is shown on page 51.
Viability statement The Committee reviewed a report from management setting out the basis for the conclusions in the viability statement.
The approach to the viability statement and the statement itself are shown on page 51.
Fair, balanced and understandable Having reviewed the Annual Report and taking into account the verification exercise completed, the Committee confirmed to the Board that it was fair, balanced and understandable and provided the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Groups performance and position, business model and strategy.
Risk management and internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Audit & Risk Committee supports the Board by advising on the Groups overall risk appetite, tolerance and strategy, current risk exposures and future risk strategy.
The Committee reviews risk registers produced by the management of each business and the plc function at each of its meetings.
On a periodic basis, we also review action plans in respect of significant risks.
Information security and cyber risks were a particular focus during the year.
The Committee also monitors, on behalf of the Board, the effectiveness of the Companys material accounting and internal control systems.
In fulfilling this responsibility for FY18, the Committee considered reports from management and the internal and external auditors.
The Committee considers that appropriate controls are in place across the Group, that the Group has a well defined organisational structure with clear lines of responsibility and a comprehensive financial reporting system.
The Committee also considers that the Group complies with the FRC guidance on risk management, internal control and related financial reporting.
Further details in respect of risk management and internal controls are set out on pages 72 to 75.
Details in respect of the principal risks and uncertainties are set out on pages 26 to 33.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 81 Audit & Risk Committee report Regulation and compliance The Group operates in a regulated marketplace and is subject to different regulatory requirements designed to protect customers across its different territories.
This creates risk for the business as non compliance can lead to reputational damage, financial penalties and potential loss of licence to operate.
The Committee receives regular updates on legal and compliance from management and believes that key compliance indicators are strong across the Group.
All established businesses outside the UK are required to complete Annual Compliance Reports to confirm that the requirements of the Group Compliance Framework have been met and that processes and controls are sufficient to identify breaches in local law and regulations.
The Committee reviewed the Groups readiness for the General Data Protection Regulations GDPR which are due to come into force in May 2018 and is comfortable that each business will meet the implementation date.
External auditor The Committee is responsible for assessing the effectiveness of the external audit process, for monitoring the independence and objectivity of the external auditor and for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditor.
The Committee is also responsible for developing and implementing the Groups policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
Deloitte LLP has been the Groups auditor since FY03, although the lead audit partner rotates every five years.
The current lead audit partner, Matthew Perkins, was appointed in FY15.
The Committee reviews the performance of the external auditor annually based on their understanding of the Group, their approach to key areas of judgement and the extent of challenge, the quality of reporting and the efficiency and conduct of the audit.
Feedback is also sought from Group finance and local management on the external auditors performance.
We also reviewed the external auditors transparency report, which is intended to demonstrate the steps it takes to ensure audit quality with reference to the Audit Quality Framework issued by the Professional Oversight Board of the Financial Reporting Council.
The Committee is satisfied that the audit continues to be effective and that Deloitte LLP continues to provide constructive and independent challenge to management and consistently demonstrates a realistic and commercial view of the business.
On this basis, the Committee concluded that the needs of the Group would not be best served by putting the external audit out to tender at this time.
The Committee has, therefore, recommended to the Board that the reappointment of Deloitte LLP should be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Committee has noted the recent changes to EU audit legislation and the UK adoption of this legislation, which will require mandatory rotation for auditors of public interest entities at least every 20 years with a mandatory tender process being undertaken at the 10 year point.
The transitional rules for this new legislation mean that the Group would be required to change its auditor after 2024.
A recommended course of action will be proposed to the Board in due course.
The Company confirms that it has complied with the provisions of the CMAs Statutory Audit Services Order for the financial year under review.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 82 Audit & Risk Committee report Audit & Risk Committee report continued In accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK & Ireland 260 and Ethical Statement 1 issued by the Accounting Practices Board, and as a matter of best practice, the external auditor has confirmed its independence as auditor of the Company.
During the year, the Committee approved a revised policy in respect of non-audit services which reflected the revised Ethical Standards.
The revised policy sets out an updated list of prohibited services and in particular, prevents Deloitte LLP from providing almost all taxation services.
The policy provides that the total fees payable to the auditor for non-audit related work in any financial year should not normally be more than 50% of the total fees payable in respect of audit and compliance services.
In addition, any proposed spend over a predetermined limit must be approved by the Committee.
The fees payable to the auditor in respect of audit and audit-related assurance services totalled 901,000 and the fees for non-audit related work excluding audit-related assurance services totalled 9,000 which equated to 1% of the audit fees.
Further detail on the fees paid is provided in Note 6.
Interaction with regulators The Financial Reporting Council reviewed the FY17 Annual Report as part of its thematic review of alternative performance measures.
Feedback from the review was shared with the Chairman of the Committee and discussed with management and the external auditor.
No substantive issues were raised but we will continue to consider how we can improve the disclosure of alternative performance measures.
Internal audit The Committee considers and approves the internal audit plan which is based on an assessment of the strategic risks faced by the Group which are regularly reviewed locally and by the Committee.
In addition, key control processes are reviewed on a cyclical basis.
Progress in respect of the plan is monitored throughout the year and care is taken to ensure that the internal audit function has sufficient resource to complete the plan.
The audit plan may be reviewed during the year as a result of the ongoing assessment of the key risks or in response to the needs of the Group.
The Assurance & Risk Director reports ultimately to the Chairman of the Committee although he reports on a day-to-day basis to the Chief Financial Officer.
He attends all meetings of the Committee and reports regularly to the Group Executive Risk Committee.
A regular report on completed internal audits is presented to the Committee and, where appropriate, action plans are reviewed.
In addition, all grade 1 audit reports are circulated to the Committee as soon as they are finalised so any issues can be addressed in a timely manner.
Reports are graded as 1 if the controls currently operated are inadequate and expose the business to significant loss or regulatory breach.
There were no such reports in the year.
During the year, the Committee received 42 reports in respect of the following areas: Finance Key financial controls and processes including balance sheet control reviews, purchase to pay, order to cash and record to report cycles Operations Key operations processes including fulfilment, contractor management, business continuity planning and disaster recovery, compliance and risk management IT controls Key IT controls including disaster recovery, mobile device management and general controls such as logical access, back up and restore processes and controls Information Security Developments in information and cyber security including penetration testing, firewalls, server security and crisis management HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 83 Audit & Risk Committee report In relation to each of the above, internal audit made recommendations for improvements, the vast majority of which have been or are being implemented by management.
During the first half of the year, in line with best practice, an external quality assessment of the internal audit function was completed by PwC.
PwC were selected to undertake the assessment following a formal tender process which included a second tier provider.
PwC concluded that the internal audit function was providing effective assurance to the Group but there were some opportunities to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the function.
The output from that review was discussed by the Committee in May 2017 and it was agreed that it would be beneficial to augment the internal skills and experience available by entering into a co-sourced arrangement to ensure that the Group could access appropriate technical and specialised resource on a global and flexible basis.
A tender process was undertaken in July 2017 which included first and second tier providers as well as a boutique firm.
As a result of the process, PwC were chosen as the most appropriate co-source partner and they started working with the internal team during the year.
Looking ahead Going forward, I shall ensure that the Committee continues to acknowledge and embrace its role of protecting the interests of shareholders as regards the integrity of the published financial information and the effectiveness of audit.
I shall be available at the AGM to answer any questions and would like to thank my colleagues on the Committee for their help and support.
Ron McMillan Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee 22 May 2018
