114 Directors Report continued Non-financial reporting: Non-financial measures are an important part of our business, as we discuss on page 43, and we have recognised the importance of non-financial information in our Annual Reports for many years.
The Board are committed to acting responsibly and working with our stakeholders to manage the social and ethical impact of our activities.
We aim to treat all our stakeholders fairly and with integrity, as we explain in the introduction to our Sustainability Report on page 43.
We have a number of Group policies to provide guidance to our employees.
The policies are designed to be easily understood and they generally include examples of acceptable and unacceptable behaviours.
In order to consolidate our reporting requirements under sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006 in respect of Non-Financial Reporting, the table below shows where in this Annual Report to find each of the disclosure requirements.
Focus area Policies and statements More information and outcomes Environmental Sustainability and Corporate Greenhouse gas and emissions reporting page 55 matters Social Responsibility KPIs on reusing or recycling waste and on use of recycled packaging Statement of Intent page 45. page 54 KPI on use of certified timber in our manufacturing processes page 53 Discussions of our efforts to reduce waste and our responsible, energyefficient operations page 54 Social matters Sustainability and Corporate Our impact on our stakeholders page 46 Social Responsibility Our work with local and national charities page 56 Statement of Intent page 45.
Respect for Sustainability and Corporate Discussion of Supplier Code of Conduct page 52 human rights Social Responsibility Discussion of sustainable sourcing, active monitoring of suppliers and Statement of Intent page 45. training of our procurement staff page 52 Modern Slavery Statement see Group website Internationally recognised labour standards form part of our contracts of employment Anti-corruption Anti-Bribery and Corruption, For more information on these policies, and the due diligence that we and bribery Conflicts of interest, Corporate perform, see the Corporate Governance report on page 67 gifts and hospitality, Anti-money laundering, Anti-tax evasion and Competition law policy.
Employees Health & Safety Statement of KPI on Health & Safety page 48 Intent page 44, Market abuse Discussion of Health & Safety performance and initiatives compliance, Data Protection page 48, pages 50 and 51 and Privacy, Whistleblowing.
Discussion of employee rewards and benefits, development opportunities, apprentice schemes pages 48 and 49 Diversity policies and statistics page 75 Directors remuneration policy pages 82 to 89 We outline our business model on pages 14 and 15.
All of our non-financial KPIs are presented together on pages 25 and 26.
A discussion of our principal risks, including those related to our business relationships, products and services, as well as a description of our risk management process, starts at page 32.
By order of the Board Forbes McNaughton Company Secretary 27 February 2019
