120 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2015 17 cycle IFRS 16: Leases 1 GENERAL INFORMATION Basis of consolidation We will adopt IFRS 16 in the year to December 2020.
It will IFRS 17: Insurance Contracts Subsidiaries Howden Joinery Group Plc is a company incorporated in the United increase both our assets and liabilities by a material amount.
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control.
Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The registered office Amendments to IAS 19: Plan Amendment, Curtailment or It will also have a timing effect on how we recognise the cost of Control is defined in this case as the power to govern financial address is 40 Portman Square, London, W1H 6LT.
The nature of Settlement leases in our income statement.
and operating policies so as to obtain benefits from the the Groups operations are set out in the Strategic Report, and Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework in IFRS subsidiaries activities.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the Groups principal activity is the sale of kitchens and joinery We lease our depot, warehouse, factory and office properties, as Standards the date on which control is established until the date that control products, along with the associated manufacture, sourcing, and well as other assets such as fork lift trucks, lorries, vans and cars.
Amendment to IFRS 3: Business Combinations ceases.
Control is achieved where the Group has the power to distribution of these products.
Under the current leasing standard, these leases are operating Amendments to IAS 1 and IAS 8: Definition of Material govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity leases.
This means that they are not represented on the balance These financial statements are presented in UK pounds sterling, so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of the standards and sheet, and that rent payments are charged to income on a straightbeing the currency of the primary economic environment in which interpretations mentioned above will have no significant impact line basis over the course of the lease.
The amount of our future the Group operates.
Revenue recognition on the Groups financial statements when the relevant standards operating lease commitments can be seen at note 23 to these Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration come into effect, other than in the case of IFRS 16 which we accounts, and our annual lease payment is shown at note 6.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for discuss in more detail on the following page.
set out in note 2. goods and services, based on despatch of goods or services When IFRS 16 comes into effect, we will have to bring these provided to customers outside the Group, excluding sales taxes We do not expect IFRS 15 to have a significant effect on us, but operating leases onto our balance sheet.
Also, our annual lease 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES and discounts.
Interest income is recognised in the income we recognise that there is currently a high degree of interest in the expense will no longer be equal to the rent paid for that year.
Basis of presentation statement as it accrues, using the effective interest method.
effect of IFRS 15 on companies and that there is an expectation When we bring these leases onto the balance sheet, our gross The Groups accounting period covers the 52 weeks to that IFRS 15 will have a significant effect on many companies, assets and gross liabilities will each increase by a broadly equal 29 December 2018.
The comparative period covered the Inventories so we have chosen to explain why we do not expect it to have a and opposite amount.
The addition to gross assets will represent 53 weeks to 30 December 2017.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable significant effect on us.
our right to use the leased asset, and the addition to gross value.
Cost includes an attributable proportion of manufacturing liabilities will reflect our obligation to make future lease payments.
Statement of compliance and basis IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts with Customers overheads based on budgeted levels of activity.
Cost is calculated We will adopt IFRS 15 in the year to December 2019.
IFRS 15 using a standard cost which is regularly updated to reflect average of preparation IFRS 16 will also have a timing effect on the annual lease has two main potential effects: it may change the way in which actual costs.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving, or The Groups financial statements have been prepared in expense, which will no longer be equal to the rent paid for companies recognise revenue, and it may also change the amount defective items where appropriate.
accordance with the IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union that year.
We will have to treat the leases in a similar way to of revenue recognised.
We do not expect any such changes.
and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee borrowings, and will have to calculate a notional interest charge Property, plant and equipment IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies on them.
This notional interest will be calculated in a similar way The effect of IFRS 15 on the way companies will On adopting IFRS, the Group adopted the transitional provisions of Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
They to that in which interest is charged on a loan.
More interest will be recognise revenue IFRS 1 to use previous revaluations of freehold properties as the therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
charged in the early periods of each lease and less interest will IFRS 15 requires companies to look at their contracts with new deemed cost at the date of transition to IFRSs.
be charged on the later payments.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical customers and, where relevant, to break these contracts down All property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost basis, and on the going concern basis, as described in the into separate performance obligations.
The total revenue under This means that the annual income statement charge for a lease cost, as applicable less accumulated depreciation, and less any going concern statement in the Strategic Report.
The principal each contract has to be allocated between each separate will not be the same each year.
It will be more than the annual provision for impairment.
accounting policies are set out below.
Each part of the revenue can only be recognised rental payment in the earlier years of a lease, and less than at a point in time, or over a period of time, which reflects the the annual rental payment in the later years of a lease.
Over Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is provided to write Standards in issue but not yet effective completion of each separate obligation.
the course of a lease, the total amounts of interest and capital off the difference between their cost and their residual value over At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, repayments charged to the income statement will still be equal to their estimated lives on a straight-line basis.
The current range of The effect of IFRS 15 is expected to be most significant for the following standards, amendments to standards, and the total rental payments under the lease, as they are at present.
useful lives is as follows: companies which, for example, sell combined bundles of interpretations, were in issue but not yet effective for the However, there will inevitably be some timing effect which will both goods and services, and companies who have long-term Group in these financial statements: depend on the maturity profile and the length of leases which we contracts.
Freehold property 50 years have at any one time.
Amendments to IFRS 2: Classification and Measurement of Long leasehold property the period of the lease, or the The Groups business model does not include any such Share-Based Payment Transactions The Group has not yet carried out a detailed assessment of individual assets life, if shorter transactions.
We are an in-stock business, we currently recognise the possible range of effects on its balance sheet and income Amendments to IFRS 4: Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Short leasehold property the period of the lease, or the revenue on despatch from our depots, and we do not expect that statement at the date of approval of these financial statements.
with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts individual assets life if shorter to change under IFRS 15.
We have carried out high level impact assessments, and as part IFRIC 22: Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration Plant, machinery & vehicles 320 years of our ongoing IFRS 16 implementation project we have carried Amendments to IAS 40: Transfers of Investment Property The effect of IFRS 15 on the amount of revenue out initial data loading and testing, using our chosen software Fixtures & fittings 215 years recognised Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 2014 2016 Cycle IFRS1, IAS 28 solution.
Our plan for 2019 will see the finalising of our operating IFRS 15 will require some companies to adjust the amount of procedures, and a period of parallel running and further testing IFRS 9: Financial Instruments Capital work-in-progress and freehold land are not depreciated.
revenue they recognise in a period as it requires companies to and modelling, before we make final decisions on the various IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts with Customers adjust revenue for discounts, rebates, incentives, penalties and adoption and transition options which the standard offers.
The Residual values, remaining useful economic lives and IFRS 16: Leases similar items.
actual amount of additional assets and liabilities which we will depreciation periods and methods are reviewed annually and IFRIC 23: Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments recognise when we adopt IFRS 16 in 2020 will depend on several adjusted if appropriate.
The Groups business model either does not involve these sort factors.
Some of the most material factors will be: the transition Amendments to IFRS 9: Prepayment Features with of items, or, as in the case of discounts, they are applied at the Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing option we decide to use: the incremental borrowing rates we use Negative Compensation point of sale and therefore already form part of the amount we proceeds with carrying amount.
These are included in the to discount our future lease commitments: and any significant Amendments to IAS 28: Long-term Interests in Associates and JVs recognise as revenue under the current accounting standard.
leases which the Group enters into or which come to an end between now and 2020.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 122 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Intangible assets Deferred tax Pensions Share-based payments Our intangible assets represent computer software.
Where Deferred tax is provided in full using the balance sheet liability Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based computer software is not an integral part of a related item of method.
It is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on the charged to the income statement as they fall due.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS computer hardware, the software is classified as an intangible temporary difference between the carrying amounts of assets 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme.
The capitalised costs of software for internal use include and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts November 2002 that were unvested at the date of the Groups Groups net obligation in respect of the defined benefit pension external direct costs of materials and services consumed in used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences transition to IFRS.
scheme is calculated by estimating the amount of future benefit developing or obtaining the software and payroll and payrollare not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes: the that employees have earned in return for their service in the The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain related costs for employees who are directly associated with initial recognition of assets and liabilities other than in a business current and prior periods.
That benefit is then discounted to employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured and who devote substantial time to the project.
Capitalisation of combination that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit: and determine its present value, and the fair value of any scheme at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at these costs ceases no later than the point at which the software differences relating to investments in subsidiaries, to the extent assets is deducted.
The discount rate used is selected so as the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is is substantially complete and ready for its intended internal use.
that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount to closely approximate the yield at the balance sheet date on expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based These costs are amortised on a straight line basis over their of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of AA-rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
expected useful lives, which are reviewed annually.
The expected realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and terms of the Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a useful lives range between three and seven years, depending on liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the Financial instruments qualified actuary using the projected unit method.
Scheme assets the nature of the software.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the are valued at bid price.
Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is Impairment of assets Current and past service costs are recognised in operating profit contractual provisions of the instrument.
probable that future taxable profits will be available against which The carrying amount of the Groups assets is reviewed at each and net financing costs include interest on pension scheme the asset can be utilised.
The carrying amounts of deferred tax balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of liabilities and assets.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised Trade receivables assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to impairment.
If such an indication exists, the assets recoverable immediately through the remeasurement of the defined benefit Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit amount is estimated.
liability and are taken through the statement of comprehensive their nominal value, as reduced by appropriate allowances for will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Such allowances are raised Apart from in the case of trade and other receivables, and Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement based on an assessment of debtor ageing, past experience, or inventories, an impairment loss is recognised for the amount by except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to Leased assets known customer circumstances.
which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
equity, in which case the deferred tax is also recognised in equity.
Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Cash at bank and in hand and Cash and cash equivalents lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership Cash at bank and in hand, which is the term used in the balance For trade and other receivables and inventories which are Foreign currencies to the Group.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
sheet, comprises cash on hand together with demand deposits, considered to be impaired, the carrying amount is reduced For property leases, the land and building elements are treated Foreign currency transactions and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily through the use of an allowance for estimated irrecoverable separately to determine the appropriate lease classification.
Transactions in foreign currency are translated at the foreign convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an amounts.
Changes in the carrying value of this allowance are exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary Operating leases insignificant risk of changes in value.
recognised in the income statement.
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the Assets leased under operating leases are not recorded on the balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rate ruling at Cash and cash equivalents, which is the term used in the cash balance sheet.
Rental payments are charged directly to the Current tax the date.
Foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in the flow statement, comprises cash at bank and in hand, as defined income statement.
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable income statement.
immediately above, together with any overdrafts repayable on and deferred tax.
Lease incentives demand, and any current asset investments with a maturity date Foreign operations The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the financial Lease incentives primarily include up-front cash payments or rentof less than three months from the balance sheet date.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill period.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the free periods.
Lease incentives are capitalised and spread over the and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, where Net cash income statement because it excludes items of income or expense period of the lease term.
applicable, are translated into sterling at foreign exchange Net cash, as shown in note 22, comprises cash and cash that are taxable or deductible in other financial years and it further rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The results and cash Leases with predetermined fixed rental increases equivalents plus any bank borrowings prepaid loan fees, and any excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups flows of overseas subsidiaries and the results of joint ventures The Group has some leases with predetermined fixed rental finance leases.
liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been are translated into sterling on an average exchange rate basis, increases.
These rental increases are accounted for on a straightenacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
weighted by the actual results of each month.
Current asset investments line basis over the period of the lease term.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of From time to time, the Group uses short-term investments in Exchange differences arising from the translation of the results dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the UK Gilts as part of its cash management activities.
The Group Borrowing costs and net assets of overseas subsidiaries are taken to equity via the related dividend.
reviews these investments before entering into them, and, after Borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the statement of comprehensive income.
establishing that the Group has both the intention and the ability period in which they are incurred.
In the case of prepaid loan to hold these investments to maturity, they are classified as facility fees, they are capitalised and set against the related Provisions held-to-maturity and are initially recognised at cost, including any borrowings, and then amortised over the life of the related Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present transaction fees.
obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation, and a reliable estimate Subsequent to initial recognition, these investments are carried at Other payables can be made of the amount required to settle the obligation.
amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Income from Other payables are stated at their fair value.
these investments is recognised in the income statement on an Provisions are measured at the directors best estimate of the effective yield basis.
expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 124 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Financial liabilities and equity Allowances against the carrying values of 4 REVENUE Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified inventories estimation uncertainty An analysis of the Groups revenue is as follows: according to the substance of the contractual arrangements In order to achieve the accounting policy objective that inventories entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value, the Group 52 weeks to 53 weeks to a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of carries an allowance against products which it estimates may 29 December 2018 30 December 2017 its liabilities.
not sell at a price above cost, or where we may be holding levels m m of product in excess of estimated future demand.
The Group Bank borrowings Continuing operations bases these estimates on a regular review of product lifecycles Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the and selling prices achieved in the market, and in particular Sales of goods 1,511.3 1,403.8 proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, on historical sales profiles of products after they have been including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and Finance income 0.7 0.2 discontinued.
These estimates are updated based on actual direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis to the experience, but the accuracy of the estimates at any point in time Total revenue 1,512.0 1,404.0 income statement using the effective interest rate method and can be affected by the extent to which current products may not are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent follow historical patterns.
5 SEGMENTAL REPORTING that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
a Basis of segmentation, and other general information Both the gross inventory balance and the amount of the allowance Trade payables Information reported to the Groups Executive Committee is focused on one operating segment, Howden Joinery.
Thus, the information against their carrying value are material items and we would Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are stated at their required in respect of profit or loss, assets and liabilities, can all be found in the relevant primary statements and notes of these expect this to remain the case as the Group grows in size, and nominal value.
as consumer demand for regular introductions of new product continues.
Details of inventories and of the allowances against 3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS The Howden Joinery business derives its revenue from the sale of kitchens and joinery products.
their carrying amount for the current and prior period end are AND MAJOR SOURCES OF ESTIMATION shown in note 15. b Other information UNCERTAINTY The Group makes some judgements when applying its accounting 52 weeks to 53 weeks to 29 December 2018 30 December 2017 policies which can have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in these financial statements.
The Group also makes m m assumptions concerning the future and other major sources of Capital additions 45.2 48.5 estimation uncertainty that can result in a material adjustment Depreciation and amortisation 30.2 28.0 to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial period.
c Geographical information Actuarial assumptions underlying the value of The Groups operations are mainly located in the UK, with a small presence in France, Belgium, The Netherlands, and Germany.
The pension liabilities judgement and estimation Group has depots in each of these five countries.
The number of depots in each location at the current and prior period ends is shown in the five year record which is located towards the back of this Annual Report.
The Groups manufacturing and sourcing operations are uncertainty located in the UK.
The Group operates a defined benefit scheme for its employees.
There is significant judgement involved in selecting appropriate The following table analyses the Groups revenues from external customers by geographical market, irrespective of the origin of the goods: measurement bases for the actuarial assumptions used to measure the pension deficit.
52 weeks to 53 weeks to 29 December 2018 30 December 2017 There is also estimation uncertainty which means that reasonable alternative assumptions could have led to measurement at a m m materially different amount.
Revenues from external customers The key assumptions within this calculation are discount rate, UK 1,477.3 1,372.0 inflation rates and mortality rates.
These are set out in note 19, Continental Europe 34.0 31.8 together with sensitivity analysis that shows the effect that these estimates can have on the carrying value of the pension deficit.
1,511.3 1,403.8 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 126 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The following is an analysis of the carrying amount of segment assets, and additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible A more detailed analysis of auditors total remuneration is given below: assets, analysed by the geographical area in which the assets are located: 52 weeks to 53 weeks to 29 December 2018 30 December 2017 29 December 2018 30 December 2017 m m m m Audit services: Carrying amount of segment assets Fees paid to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys UK 828.4 774.9 annual financial statements 0.2 0.2 Continental Europe 36.6 33.6 Fees paid to the Companys auditor and their associates for other services to the Group: 865.0 808.5 the audit of the subsidiary companies pursuant to legislation 0.3 0.3 Total audit fees 0.5 0.5 29 December 2018 30 December 2017 Other services: m m Audit related assurance services review of the half-year results 0.1 0.1 Non-current assets excluding deferred tax assets Tax compliance services UK 205.8 191.5 Tax advisory services Continental Europe 4.4 4.0 Total non-audit fees 0.1 0.1 210.2 195.5 Fees payable to Deloitte LLP and their associates for non-audit services to the Company are not required to be disclosed because the 52 weeks to 53 weeks to consolidated financial statements are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
29 December 2018 30 December 2017 m m Details of the Groups policy on the use of auditors for non-audit services, the reasons why the auditor was used rather than another supplier and how the auditors independence and objectivity were safeguarded are set out in the Corporate Governance Report.
No Additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
UK 44.0 47.9 7 STAFF COSTS Continental Europe 1.2 0.6 The aggregate payroll costs of employees, including executive directors, were: 45.2 48.5 52 weeks to 53 weeks to 6 OPERATING PROFIT 29 December 2018 30 December 2017 Operating profit has been arrived at after charging crediting: m m Wages and salaries 352.7 323.3 52 weeks to 53 weeks to Social security costs 32.0 30.6 29 December 2018 30 December 2017 m m Pension operating costs note 19 33.5 25.8 Net foreign exchange gain loss 1.1 11.3 418.2 379.7 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment: 25.8 25.6 Wages and salaries includes a charge in respect of share-based payments of 4.3m 2017: 4.0m.
Amortisation of intangible assets included in administrative expenses : 4.4 2.4 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 571.4 497.3 The average monthly number of persons full time equivalent, including executive directors employed by the Group during the period was as follows: Write down of inventories 8.8 6.8 Loss profit on disposal of fixed assets 0.2 52 weeks to 53 weeks to Increase in allowance for doubtful debts note 16 1.4 1.2 29 December 2018 30 December 2017 No.
Staff costs note 7 418.2 379.7 9,590 9,044 Lease payments under operating leases 82.7 78.6 Auditor's remuneration for audit services see below 0.5 0.5 All of the items above relate to continuing operations.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 128 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 8 FINANCE INCOME c Reconciliation of the total tax charge The total tax charge for the period can be reconciled to the result per the income statement as follows: 52 weeks to 53 weeks to 29 December 2018 30 December 2017 52 weeks to 53 weeks to m m 29 December 2018 30 December 2017 Bank interest receivable 0.7 0.2 m m Total finance income 0.7 0.2 Profit before tax 238.5 232.2 9 TAX Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 19% 2017: 19.25% 45.3 44.7 a Tax in the income statement IFRS 2 share scheme charge 0.6 0.9 52 weeks to 53 weeks to Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.9 1.6 29 December 2018 30 December 2017 Overseas losses not utilised 1.0 1.2 m m Non-qualifying depreciation 1.2 1.2 Current tax: Other tax adjustments in respect of previous years 0.3 0.6 Current year 44.8 43.3 Total tax charged in the income statement 48.1 47.2 Adjustments in respect of previous periods 0.3 0.4 Total current tax 45.1 42.9 The Groups effective rate of tax is 20.2% 2017: 20.3% Deferred tax: 10 EARNINGS PER SHARE Current year 3.0 4.5 52 weeks to 29 December 2018 53 weeks to 30 December 2017 Adjustments in respect of previous periods 0.2 Weighted Weighted average number Earnings average number Earnings Total deferred tax 3.0 4.3 Earnings of shares per share Earnings of shares per share From continuing operations m m p m m p Total tax charged in the income statement 48.1 47.2 Basic earnings per share 190.4 608.3 31.3 185.0 619.1 29.9 UK Corporation tax is calculated at 19.0% 2017: 19.25% of the estimated assessable profit for the period.
Tax for other countries is Effect of dilutive share options 2.5 0.1 2.1 0.1 calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
Diluted earnings per share 190.4 610.8 31.2 185.0 621.2 29.8 b Tax relating to items credited to equity 52 weeks to 53 weeks to 29 December 2018 30 December 2017 m m Deferred tax charge credit to other comprehensive income on actuarial gain loss on pension scheme 11.3 4.2 Deferred tax charge to equity on share schemes 0.1 0.1 Current tax credit to equity on share schemes 0.1 0.4 11.3 4.5 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
