Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report governance standards and practices while remaining appropriate within which to manage the day-to-day affairs of the Group, to the size, complexity and strategy of the Group.
The Committee including the right to sub-delegate those limits and powers.
is also responsible for monitoring compliance with applicable Each relevant Group Managing Director or executive Director corporate governance codes and recommending disclosures on has delegated authority within which to manage the day-to-day corporate governance to the Board for approval, including the affairs of the business or function for which he or she is statement on corporate governance, which appears in the Annual accountable.
Delegation of authority from the Board requires Report and Accounts 2018, on pages 152 and 171. those individuals to maintain a clear and appropriate apportionment of significant responsibilities and to oversee the Diversity establishment and maintenance of systems ofcontrol that are In 2018, the Board's diversity and inclusion policy was updated to appropriate to their business or function.
Authorities to enter ensure that HSBC and its various stakeholders continue to benefit into credit and market risk exposures aredelegated with limits from a Board that includes Directors from a range of different to line management of Group companies.
The concurrence of backgrounds and whose ethnicity, experience, age, geographical the appropriate global function is required, however, to credit provenance and gender more closely reflect the diversity of our proposals with specified higher risk characteristics.
Credit and customers and the communities that we serve.
The Board diversity market risks are measured and reported at subsidiary company policy is available at www.
com our-approach corporatelevel and aggregated for risk concentration analysis on a governance .
In the implementation of its policy, the Board has committed itself Risk identification and monitoring: Systems and to meeting the diversity targets recommended by the Hamptonprocedures are in place to identify, assess, control and monitor Alexander Review and Parker Review, most notably that the Board the material risk types facing HSBC as set out in the enterpriseshould have 33% female share of representation by 2020 and a wide risk framework.
The Groups risk measurement and minimum of one Board Director from an ethnic minority reporting systems are designed to help ensure that material background by 2021.
The Committee will monitor these targets risks are captured with all the attributes necessary to support and report performance on a periodic basis in the Annual Report well-founded decisions, that those attributes are accurately and Accounts.
assessed and that information is delivered in a timely manner for those risks to be successfully managed and mitigated.
At the date of publication 36% of the Board of Directors were female and three were from an ethnic minority background.
Changes in market conditions practices: Processes are in place to identify new risks arising from changes in market conditions practices or customer behaviours, which could Chairmans Committee expose the Group to heightened risk of loss or reputational damage.
The Group employs a top and emerging risks The Chairmans Committee acts on behalf of the Board between framework, which contains an aggregate of all current and scheduled Board meetings to facilitate ad hoc and other business forward-looking risks and enables it to take action that either requiring Board approval.
It meets when necessary, with the prevents them materialising or limits their impact.
required number of attendees determined by the nature of the proposed business to be discussed, as set out in its terms of Responsibility for risk management: All employees are reference.
responsible for identifying and managing risk within the scope of their role as part of the three lines of defence model, which is an activity-based model to delineate management Internal control accountabilities and responsibilities for risk management and the control environment.
The second line of defence sets the The Board is responsible for maintaining and reviewing the policy and guidelines for managing specific risk areas, provides effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems, advice and guidance in relation to the risk, and challenges the and for determining the aggregate level and types of risks the first line of defence the risk owners on effective risk Group is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
To meet this requirement and to discharge its obligations under Strategic plans: Strategic plans are prepared for global the FCA Handbook and the PRA Handbook, procedures have been businesses, global functions and geographical regions within designed for safeguarding assets against unauthorised use or the framework of the Groups overall strategy.
Annual operating disposal: for maintaining proper accounting records: and for plans, informed by detailed analysis of risk appetite describing ensuring the reliability and usefulness of financial information the types and quantum of risk that the Group is prepared to used within the business or for publication.
take in executing its strategy, are prepared and adopted by all These procedures provide reasonable assurance against material major Group operating companies and set out the key business mis-statement, errors, losses or fraud.
They are designed to initiatives and the likely financial effects of those initiatives.
provide effective internal control within the Group and accord with Subsidiary certifications to the GRC: The risk committees the Financial Reporting Councils guidance for directors issued in of principal subsidiary companies provide half-year 2014, internal control and related financial and business reporting.
These confirm that the committees The procedures have been in place throughout the year and up to have challenged management on the quality of the information 19 February 2019, the date ofapproval of this Annual Report and provided, reviewed the actions proposed by management to Accounts 2018. address any emerging issues or trends indicating material The key risk management and internal control procedures include divergence from the Groups risk appetite and that the risk the following: management and internal control systems in place are Adherence to the Group's Global Standards Manual: The operating effectively.
Groups Global Standards Manual GSM outlines the core The effectiveness of the Groups system of risk management and principles within which the Group must operate wherever we internal control is reviewed regularly by the Board, the GRC and conduct business.
The GSM overlays all other policies and the GAC.
The requirements of the In 2018, the acceleration of operational resilience and investment GSM are mandatory, apply to and must be observed by all in technology controls were particular areas of focus for HSBC.
businesses within the Group, regardless of the nature or The Group continued to embed the operational risk management location of their activities.
In 2019, the GSM will be replaced by framework and invest in the non-financial risk infrastructure.
Work also continued to enhance the risk appetite framework for Delegation of authority within limits set by the Board: non-financial risks and improve the consistency of adoption of the Subject to certain matters reserved for the Board, the Group end-to-end risk and control assessment process.
While there Chief Executive has been delegated authority limits and powers remains more to do, progress has been made to strengthen 164 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
