Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report crime risk, known as the Financial Crime Risk Management Corporate governance report Meeting, which is chaired by the Group Chief Compliance Officer.
Page Powers of the Board The Board 152 The Board is responsible for overseeing the management of HSBC Operation of the Board 152 globally and, in so doing, exercises its powers, subject to any Director and Group Managing Director biographies 153 relevant laws, regulations and HSBC Holdings Articles of Board of Directors 157 Association the Articles of Association.
Board committees 158 Certain matters are reserved for the Board for its approval.
These Internal control 164 include: the review and approval of annual operating plans: risk Internal audit 165 appetite: performance targets: credit or market risk limits: Going concern and viability 165 acquisitions: disposals: investments: capital expenditure or Share capital and other disclosures 166 realisation or creation of a new venture that exceed certain Employees 169 thresholds: specified senior appointments: and any substantial Statement of compliance 171 change in balance sheet management policy.
The Board Operation of the Board The Board aims to promote the Groups long-term success, deliver Phillip Ameen, Joachim Faber and John Lipsky retired from the sustainable value to shareholders and promote a culture of Board following the conclusion of the 2018 Annual General openness and debate.
Their departures led to a reduction in the size of the Board, as part of its ongoing work to simplify, clarify and Led by the Group Chairman, the Board sets the Groups strategy strengthen governance arrangements.
The number of Board and risk appetite.
It also approves capital and operating plans for Committees was also reduced from seven to five and subsidiary achieving strategic objectives on the recommendation of governance was simplified.
These changes created clearer and stronger lines of authority and Group Chairman accountability, which enables the Board to devote more time to Mark Tucker was appointed to the Board as an independent nonpriority areas.
executive Director on 1 September 2017 and became nonThe Board regularly reviews reports on performance against executive Group Chairman on 1 October 2017. financial and other strategic objectives, key business challenges, Executive Directors risk, business developments, investor relations and the Group's relationships with its key stakeholders.
During 2018, the Board The Group Chief Executive, the Group Chief Financial Officer and reviewed the Group's strategy with the newly-appointed Group the Group Chief Risk Officer are HSBC employees.
Chief Executive and his management team and approved a Independent non-executive Directors number of strategic priorities targeted for delivery by the end of 2020.
Following their approval, further details were announced to The majority of the Board comprises independent non-executive investors in an update in June 2018.
The Board routinely tracks Directors.
Their role is to challenge and scrutinise the performance progress with respect to each strategic priority, together with the of management and to help develop proposals on strategy.
They Group Chief Executive and members of his management team.
also review the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the Groups risk profile.
All of HSBCs activities involve the measurement, evaluation, acceptance and management of risk or combinations of risks.
All of the non-executive Directors are considered to be TheBoard, advised by the Group Risk Committee GRC and the independent of HSBC.
There are no relationships or circumstances Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee FSVC, promotes a that are likely to affect any individual non-executive Directors strong risk governance culture that shapes the Groups approach judgement.
To satisfy the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities to risk.
TheBoard and these committees support the maintenance on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited HKEx, all nonof a strong risk management framework.
executive Directors have confirmed their independence during the year.
The non-executive Group Chairman was considered to be Under the direction of the Group Chairman, the Group Company independent on appointment.
Secretary is responsible for ensuring good information flows within the Board and its committees and between senior Board and executive responsibilities management and non-executive Directors, as well as facilitating The roles of Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive are induction and assisting with professional development of nonseparate, with a clear division of responsibilities between the executive Directors, as required.
running of the Board and executive responsibility for running The Group Chairman meets with the independent non-executive HSBCs business.
Directors without the executive Directors in attendance after each Jonathan Symonds, who has been Senior Independent Director Board meeting and otherwise, as necessary.
SID since April 2017, was appointed as Deputy Group Chairman The Directors are encouraged to have free and open contact in August 2018. withmanagement at all levels and full access to all relevant The roles of the Group Chairman, Deputy Group Chairman and information.
When attending off-site Board meetings and when Senior Independent Director, and Group Chief Executiveare set travelling for other reasons, non-executive Directors are able to out in writing and are available on the website at www.
com visit local business operations and meet local management.
Directors may take independent professional advice, if necessary, Responsibility for the day-to-day management of the business and at HSBC Holdings expense.
implementation of strategy is delegated by the Board to the Group Board performance evaluation Chief Executive, who is supported by the Group Management Board GMB, an executive forum which he chairs.
The Board is committed to regular, independent evaluation of its own effectiveness and that of its committees.
During 2018, the There are special meetings of the GMB that provide oversight of Board implemented a governance simplification initiative, risk matters, known as the Risk Management Meeting RMM, changing the size, structure and composition of the Board and its which is chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer.
Given that these changes were relatively recent and special meetings of the GMB that provide oversight of financial that a period of time is required for their impact to be fully assessed, the Board agreed that it would be premature to conduct 152 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
