Audit committee report For the year ended 31 December 2018 Composition and Frequency of Meetings 2018 was a year in which the Company The Committee currently comprises three independent returned to underlying and reported non-executive Directors and is chaired by Carol Chesney.
profitability and restored dividend John Nicholas stepped down as a Director and Chair of distributions to shareholders.
While the Committee on 18 April 2018.
John was succeeded by the Groups US-based businesses Mrs Chesney on 23 April 2018.
On the same date Keith Lough joined the Committee on his appointment to the reported good results, other regions Board, and Richard Hunting stepped down from the remained subdued and loss making.
Committee, at which point the Audit Committee became fully compliant with provision 3.1 of the 2016 UK Corporate Therefore, detailed work to monitor Governance Code.
John Hofmeister also stepped down possible impairments to the carrying from the Committee on his retirement from the Board on values of these assets continued 30 August 2018.
At the year-end, the Committee comprised only independent non-executive Directors.
Mrs Chesney is a qualified Chartered Accountant and is considered to have recent and relevant financial 2018 was the final year for PwC as the experience.
Mr Lough and Ms Bay Chair of the Groups external auditors and the Remuneration Committee have experience of the global Committee would like to thank them energy industry, with particular expertise within the UK and US oil and gas markets.
Further details of the for their professionalism and expertise Committees experience can be found in the biographical provided to the Group over many summaries set out on pages 56 and 57. years.
Our relationship with Deloitte The Committee usually meets four times a year and has started well, with oversight work operates under written terms of reference approved by the completed in the year to ensure an Board, which are published on the Companys website at www.
In 2018, the Committee met four times, in February, April, Carol Chesney August and December, and the attendance record of Chair of the Audit Committee Committee members during the year is noted below.
Member Invitation Number of meetings held 4 Number of meetings attended actual possible : Annell Bay 4 4 Carol Chesney Committee Chair from 23 April 2018 2 2 Jay Glick 4 4 John Hofmeister to 30 August 2018 3 3 Richard Hunting 2 2 2 2 Jim Johnson 4 4 Keith Lough from 23 April 2018 2 2 John Nicholas Committee Chair to 18 April 2018 2 2 Peter Rose 4 4 The Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, internal and external auditors are normally invited to attend meetings.
Responsibilities The principal responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to: monitor and review reports from the executive Directors, including the Groups financial statements and Stock Exchange announcements: provide the Board with a recommendation regarding the Half-Year and Annual Report and Accounts, including whether they are fair, balanced and understandable: review the Companys and Groups Going Concern and Viability Statements: 86 Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information monitor, review and assess the Groups systems of External Auditors Transition Arrangements risk management and internal control: In 2017, the Audit Committee undertook a tender process review reports from the Groups external and internal to appoint new external auditors to the Group, following auditors, including details of the audit programmes the introduction of new legislation in the UK and EU, which and scope: required publicly listed companies to rotate its auditors, consider and recommend to the Board the if they had exceeded a tenure of 20 years.
appointment or reappointment of the external auditors as applicable: Following the tender process, the Committee agree the scope and fees of the external audit: recommended to the Board the appointment of Deloitte monitor and approve engagement of the external LLP, who will be proposed for appointment at the auditors for the provision of non-audit services to the Companys AGM on 17 April 2019.
Group: review the external auditors independence, 2018 is the final year for  PwC effectiveness of the audit process, and assess the as the Groups auditors and, subject to Deloittes level and quality of service in relation to fees paid: appointment being approved by shareholders at the AGM, monitor corporate governance and accounting PwC will retire as auditors on the same date.
As part of developments: the transition arrangements between the incumbent and monitor the Groups Bribery Act compliance new audit firms, Deloitte has shadowed the year-end audit procedures: and process and has observed several meetings of the review the procedures to comply with the UK Modern Committee.
Review of the 2018 Financial Statements Work Undertaken by the Committee During 2018 The Committee reviews final drafts of the Groups Report The Committee discussed, reviewed and made a number and Accounts for both the half and full year.
As part of this of decisions on key areas throughout 2018, which are set process, the performance of the Groups major segments out below: is considered, with key judgements, estimates and accounting policies being approved by the Committee Feb Apr Aug Dec ahead of a recommendation to the Board.
In addition to Financial reporting briefings and supporting reports from the central finance Annual Report and Full-Year Results team on significant issues, the Committee engages in announcement discussion with the Groups external auditors.
Going Concern Basis Significant issues reviewed by the Committee in Viability Statement connection with the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Interim Report and Interim Results were as follows: announcement Review Accounting Policies Adoption of New Accounting Standards Internal control and During the year the Group adopted two new accounting risk management standards, IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Risk management and internal Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
The Committee control report noted the work of the Groups central finance function in Key risks and mitigating controls addition to the work of the external auditors who Effectiveness of internal controls confirmed that the current and prior year financial and internal audit function statements have been prepared in accordance with the Internal Audit Report new accounting standards.
Following discussion, the Procedures for preventing bribery Committee was satisfied with the work completed and and corruption the financial statements as presented.
Procedures for complying with the Modern Slavery Act Impairment Reviews Internal audit programme and In the year, the Group reported improved results driven resourcing by increased activity levels in the US onshore market, External auditors including strong completion activity within the established Auditors objectivity, independence shale regions.
The Committee noted that while the and appointment Hunting Titan and US operating segments reported Full-year and Half-year report profitability, the Groups other segments continued to to the Audit Committee report losses due to the subdued offshore and Final Management Letter international drilling markets.
Given this trading on internal controls environment, management conducted a review for Auditors performance and effectiveness indicators of impairment on the carrying values of assets Proposed year-end audit plan including held on the Groups balance sheet for the half-year and scope, fees and engagement letter year-end.
This process concluded that no impairments were necessary in the year.
Risk of auditor leaving the market Other business Whistleblowing and Bribery policy review Committee effectiveness and Terms of Reference Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 87 Audit committee report continued Property, Plant and Equipment PPE Exceptional Items Charged to the Consolidated The year-end balance sheet includes PPE of $360.2m Income Statement 2017 $383.3m.
This represents approximately 30% The Committee considered the accounting policy of the Groups net assets 2017 34%.
No impairments definition of exceptional items and the items included were charged to the income statement in the year.
The within the financial statements to ensure consistency Committee reviewed the PPE impairment tests and, of treatment and adherence to policy.
following discussion, was satisfied that the assumptions and the disclosures in the year-end accounts were Exceptional items recorded in respect of the Groups appropriate.
operations for the full year were $nil 2017 $10.0m.
At the Groups Half-Year Results in August 2018, a $2.0m Goodwill provision was reversed, relating to the closure costs of the The year-end balance sheet includes goodwill of $229.9m Groups facility in Cape Town, South Africa.
This represents approximately 19% of $2.0m provision was charged in respect of closure costs the Groups net assets 2017 21%.
Reviews for indicators of the Groups Mombasa, Kenya, facility.
As noted above, of impairment to the carrying values of goodwill held by an exceptional tax credit was recorded in the year, Huntings relevant businesses were undertaken at the half predominately relating to the recognition of deferred and full year, which confirmed that Huntings projections tax assets.
supported no need for impairment.
The Committee considered the appropriateness of the assumptions and Going Concern Basis and Viability Statement challenged the discount rates and the factors used in the The Committee monitored assumptions around Going review process.
After discussion, it was satisfied that the Concern at the half and full year, as well as those around assumptions and the disclosures in the year-end accounts the Groups Viability Statement for the full year.
by the improved profitability of the Group, led by the performance of the Hunting Titan and the US operating Other Intangible Assets segments, the Committee concluded that good support The carrying value of the Groups other intangible assets to Huntings longer-term viability exists.
Further, the was also reviewed resulting in no impairments 2017 $nil assessment is supported by the year-end net cash being recorded in the year.
The amortisation charge position of $61.3m 2017 $30.4m.
recorded in the income statement was $31.9m 2017 $31.2m.
As with the goodwill impairment review, These factors supported the Committees assessment of the Committee considered and confirmed the the Going Concern Statement and the Viability Statement, appropriateness of the assumptions, discount rates and as contained in the Risk Management section on page 53. factors used in the review process.
The statements considered by the Committee were supported by reviews of the regular forecast updates Inventory provided by management and reviewing bank covenant At the year-end, the Group held $348.2m of inventory compliance reports.
The year-on-year increase is attributable to improved trading within Huntings onshore-focused In the year, Hunting remained fully compliant with its businesses in the US, which have seen substantial bank covenants, with the Group reverting to its normal increases in activity during the year.
Due to the improving profit-based covenants in January 2018.
Discussions with outlook for the industry, the carrying values have been the Groups lenders commenced in September 2018 to assessed to be adequate.
Further, the Committee amend and extend the Groups core revolving credit reviewed year-end inventory carrying values and the work facility to 2022, which concluded in December 2018. undertaken by management in assessing and supporting Hunting agreed to the reduction in the facility from $200m the carrying values.
Given this, and together with the to $160m, with an option to increase the facility by a improved market conditions, the Committee concluded further $75m to $235m and extend the facilitys maturity that inventory carrying values were fairly stated.
In addition, the participating members of the lending group have reduced from five to four.
Taxation In view of the international spread of operations, the On 25 February 2019, the Audit Committee approved the Committee monitors tax risk, tax audits and provisions Viability Statement, detailed on page 53 of the Strategic held for taxation.
The Finance Director briefed the Report, noting that it presented a reasonable outlook for Committee on developments throughout the year.
the Group for the next three years.
As a consequence of the improved market and outlook, particularly in the US, the Group recognised deferred tax assets, which predominantly related to trading losses within the Groups US business units incurred during the market downturn between 2014 and 2017.
These deferred tax assets have been reported in the amortisation and exceptional items column of the income statement, as the origin of the tax losses relates primarily to impairment losses and the amortisation of intangible assets incurred in prior years.
The underlying tax charge for the year was $22.0m and the reported tax credit for the year was $11.0m.
88 Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Fair, Balanced and Understandable Assessment Audit Scope The Committee has reviewed the financial statements, The Audit Committee considered the audit scope and together with the narrative contained within the Strategic materiality threshold.
The audit scope addressed Report set out on pages 1 to 53, and believes that the Group-wide risks and local statutory reporting, enhanced 2018 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is by desk-top reviews for smaller, low risk entities.
Approximately 93% of the Groups reported revenue and over 82% of the result before tax from operations, In arriving at this conclusion the Committee undertook adjusted for the impairment of goodwill and other the following: non-current assets, was audited, covering 22 reporting units across six countries.
review of early drafts of the Annual Report and Accounts, providing relevant feedback to the executive Materiality Directors: The Committee discussed materiality with the auditors regular review and discussion of the financial results regarding both accounting errors that will be brought to during the year, including briefings by Group finance the Audit Committees attention and amounts that would and operational management: and need to be adjusted so that the financial statements give receipt and review of reports from the external and a true and fair view.
Overall audit materiality was set at internal auditors.
This equates to approximately 5% of the Groups average absolute reported result before tax The Committee advised the Board of its conclusion that from operations, adjusted for the impairment of goodwill the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, and other non-current assets, for the past five years.
This was fair, balanced and understandable at a Meeting of the is within the range for which audit opinions are considered Directors on 26 February 2019. to be reliable.
Furthermore, the auditors agreed to draw to the Audit Committees attention all identified, uncorrected Internal Audit misstatements greater than $0.3m.
The Committee receives reports from the Internal Audit department and reviews the internal audit process and Audit Effectiveness and Independence effectiveness as part of the Groups internal control and The external auditors full-year report includes a statement risk assessment programme.
An annual programme of on their independence, their ability to remain objective and internal audit assignments is reviewed and approved by their ability to undertake an effective audit.
The Committee met with the Head of considers and assesses this independence statement on Internal Audit, without the presence of the executive behalf of the Board, taking into account the level of fees Directors, on three occasions during the year.
The paid, particularly for non-audit services.
effectiveness of the Internal Audit function was also considered by the Committee at its February meeting, The effectiveness of the audit process is considered which concluded that the function remained effective.
throughout the year, with a formal review undertaken at the April meeting of the Committee.
The assessment External Audit considers the various matters including: The external auditors presented reports at the February, April, August and December meetings for consideration by the auditors understanding of the Groups business the Audit Committee.
In February 2019, a full-year report and industry sector: was considered ahead of publication of the Groups the planning and execution of the audit plan approved Annual Report and Accounts: in April 2018 an internal by the Committee: control report was presented, following the year-end audit, the communication between the Group and audit and in August 2018 an interim report was presented, engagement team: which included the proposed full-year audit scope and the auditors response to questions from the fees.
An update to the full-year plan was presented at the Committee, including during private meetings without December 2018 meeting.
The Committee meets with the management present: external auditors, without executive Directors present, at the independence, objectivity and scepticism of the the end of each formal meeting.
auditors: a report from the Finance Director and the Group During the year, the Company complied with the Financial Controller: and provisions of the Statutory Audit Services for Large finalisation of the audit work ahead of completion of the Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Annual Report and Accounts.
Competitive Tender Process and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
In addition, the Committee reviewed and took account of the reports from the Financial Reporting Council on External Auditors Transition  LLP.
After considering these As noted above, as part of transition arrangements agreed matters, the Committee was satisfied with the between the Company,  and effectiveness of the year-end audit process.
Deloitte, both firms attended Audit Committee meetings in August and December, ahead of finalising the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts at the Audit Committee meeting held on 25 February 2019.
Deloitte also provided transition reports to the Audit Committee at the December 2018 and February 2019 meetings.
Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 89 Audit committee report continued Non-Audit Services Code of Conduct The Committee closely monitors fees paid to the auditors The Groups Code of Conduct contains policies and in respect of non-audit services.
With the exception of procedures covering how the Group conducts business audit-related assurance services which totalled $0.1m and maintains its relationships with business partners.
2017 $0.1m, there were no non-audit services fees The Code of Conduct is available on the Groups website.
The scope and extent of non-audit work undertaken by the external auditors is Whistleblowing monitored by, and requires prior approval from, the The Companys Senior Independent Director, Keith Lough, Committee to ensure that the provision of such services is the primary point of contact for staff of the Group to does not impair their independence or objectivity.
raise, in confidence, concerns they may have over possible improprieties, financial or otherwise.
In addition, The Board received copies of all reports submitted to the the Group engages the services of Safecall Limited to Committee.
provide an independent and anonymous whistleblowing service available to staff across all of Huntings operations.
Internal Controls All employees have been notified of these arrangements The Group has an established risk management through the corporate magazine, Group notice boards and framework and internal control environment, which was in the Groups website.
The Committee monitors these arrangements on behalf of the Board and these are Review of Committee Effectiveness detailed in the Risk Management section of the Strategic During the year, the Committee reviewed its effectiveness Report on pages 44 to 53. and the Committee Chairman reported these findings to the Board.
No issues were identified in this review process.
Bribery Act In compliance with the UK Bribery Act, Hunting has Financial Reporting Council FRC Review of procedures in place, including the publication of Annual Report Anti-bribery and Corruption policies and detailed As part of its remit, the FRC is authorised to review and guidelines on interacting with customers, suppliers and investigate the Annual Accounts, Strategic Reports and agents, including specific policies for gifts, entertainment Directors Reports of public and large private companies and hospitality.
Senior managers across the Group are for compliance with relevant reporting requirements.
required to report their compliance activities, including Although these reviews are carried out by personnel an evaluation of risk areas.
The Group has completed skilled in the relevant legal and accounting frameworks, a screening exercise to identify relevant employees they are based solely on published report and accounts who face a heightened risk of bribery, with all relevant and do not benefit from a detailed knowledge of the personnel completing a formal training and compliance company or the underlying transactions entered into.
The course, in line with the Groups procedures.
The FRC therefore requests companies referring to these Committee reviews the compliance procedures relating reviews to make clear the limitations of the review process to the Bribery Act at its April and December meetings, and that the review provides no assurance that the report which incorporates risk assessments completed by each and accounts are correct in all material respects.
business unit and gifts and entertainment disclosures made during the reporting period.
The Groups internal As part of its normal operating procedures, Huntings audit function reviews local compliance with the Bribery report and accounts for 2017 were selected for review by Act and reports control improvements and the FRC.
Based on this review, the FRC had no questions recommendations to the Committee, where appropriate.
or queries that it wished to raise and informed the Company of this by letter.
The letter did note a number of Modern Slavery Act areas where the FRC felt disclosures could be improved.
The Modern Slavery Act 2015 was enacted during 2016 The Audit Committee welcomes the constructive feedback and requires companies to evaluate internal and external from the FRC and, as a result, has enhanced disclosures risks related to human trafficking and modern slavery.
in a number of areas of the 2018 Report and Accounts.
Procedures were introduced during 2016 and continued in 2018, whereby each business unit across the Group completed due diligence on its workforce to highlight employment risks in relation to trafficking and slavery.
All businesses within the Group also completed a risk-mapping exercise of their known supply chain to evaluate those customers and suppliers to the Group Carol Chesney who operate in those jurisdictions where trafficking and Chair of the Audit Committee slavery is more prevalent.
Hunting published its second Modern Slavery Act report in March 2018, located at 28 February 2019 www.
During 2018, a new Code of Conduct training course was rolled out by the Group to all employees that incorporates information on modern slavery and trafficking.
90 Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts
