Board of Directors and Company Secretary John Jay F. Glick Arthur James Jim Johnson Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Nationality Nationality American.
Length of service Length of service 4 years: appointed to the Board as a non-executive 27 years: appointed to the Board as a Director and Chief Director in 2015.
In 2017, Jay was appointed nonExecutive in 2017. executive Chairman.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Jim held senior management positions within Hunting Jay was formerly the president and chief executive officer from 1992 up to his appointment as Chief Operating of Lufkin Industries Inc and, prior to that, held several Officer of the Group in 2011.
In this role he was senior management roles within Cameron International responsible for all day-to-day operational activities of the Corporation.
Jim is a member of, and Chairs, the Executive Committee.
External appointments Jay is currently a non-executive director of TETRA External appointments Technologies Inc. None.
Committee membership Committee membership Nomination Committee Chair and by invitation.
Peter Rose Annell Bay Finance Director Non-executive Director Nationality Nationality British.
Length of service Length of service 22 years: appointed to the Board as Finance Director 4 years: appointed to the Board as a non-executive in 2008.
Director in 2015 and was re-appointed for a second three-year term in February 2018.
On 30 August 2018, Skills and experience Annell was appointed Chair of the Remuneration Peter is a member of the Institute of Chartered Committee.
Before joining Hunting he held senior financial positions with Babcock International and, Skills and experience prior to that, spent several years with PwC working in the Annell was formerly a vice-president of global exploration UK and Hong Kong.
Peter is a member of the Executive at Marathon Oil Corporation and, prior to that, viceCommittee.
president of Americas Exploration at Shell Exploration and Production Company.
External appointments Annell is currently a non-executive director of Apache Committee membership Corporation and Verisk Analytics Inc. By invitation.
56 Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Carol Chesney Richard Hunting C. B. E. Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Nationality Nationality Joint American and British citizenship.
Length of service Length of service 1 year: appointed to the Board as a non-executive Director 46 years: elected an executive Director in 1989 and was and Chair of the Audit Committee on 23 April 2018.
In 2017, Richard retired as Chairman, and remains on the Board as a nonSkills and experience independent, non-executive Director.
Carol is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Mrs Chesney was Skills and experience formerly the Group Financial Controller and, latterly, the Richard has previously held a variety of management Company Secretary, of Halma PLC.
positions around the Hunting Group.
External appointments External appointments Carol is currently a non-executive director of Renishaw plc None.
Committee membership Committee membership By invitation.
Keith Lough Ben Willey Senior Independent Non-executive Director Company Secretary Nationality Nationality British.
Length of service Length of service 1 year: appointed to the Board as a non-executive Director 9 years: joined Hunting in 2010 and was appointed on 23 April 2018 and appointed Senior Independent Company Secretary in 2013.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Ben is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries Keith was formerly the non-executive Chairman of Gulf and Administrators.
He was formerly a partner at Keystone Petroleum plc and previously held a number Buchanan, a WPP company and, prior to that, worked of executive positions within other energy-related in investment banking with Evolution Securities plc.
companies including British Energy plc and LASMO plc.
External appointments External appointments None.
Keith is currently a non-executive director of Cairn Energy Committee membership plc, Rockhopper Exploration plc and the UK Gas and Audit Committee Secretary.
Committee membership Remuneration Committee Secretary.
Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 57
