Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Corporate governance report Compliance The internal control and risk management framework The Board of Hunting PLC has adopted governance and associated procedures are reviewed by the Board, principles aligned with the 2016 UK Corporate however, key monitoring procedures are delegated to the Governance Code the Code, which can be found at Audit Committee.
The Company is reporting its corporate governance compliance against this Code.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive, as noted in the following Hunting became fully compliant with all the provisions tables: of the Code in the year, following changes to the composition of the Audit Committee in April 2018.
Responsibilities of the Chairman lead and build an effective and balanced Board: Following the publication of the revised UK Corporate chair meetings of the Board, ensuring agendas Governance Code in July 2018, the Company is and materials are fit for purpose: establishing initiatives to address the additional ensure the Directors are provided with accurate, requirements of the Code.
Hunting will be reporting its timely and relevant information: compliance with the new Code in its 2019 Annual Report.
encourage good dialogue between all Directors, with strong contributions encouraged from all Governance Framework Board members: Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, UK meet the non-executive Directors without the legislation and any directions prescribed by resolution executive Directors present: at a general meeting, the business of the Company is discuss training and development with the nonmanaged by the Hunting PLC Board.
The Board is executive Directors: responsible for the management and strategic direction arrange Director induction programmes: and of the Company and to ensure its long-term success, arrange an annual board evaluation and to act on as prescribed by UK law.
The Board has three main committees to which it Responsibilities of the Chief Executive delegates governance and compliance procedures: the manage the day-to-day activities of the Group: Nomination Committee, whose report can be found on recommend and implement the strategic direction pages 66 and 67, the Remuneration Committee, whose of the Group to the Board: report can be found on pages 68 to 85, and the Audit identify and execute new business opportunities, Committee, whose report can be found on pages 86 acquisitions and disposals: to 90. ensure appropriate internal controls are in place: report to the Board regularly on the Groups An Executive Committee comprising of the executive performance and position: and Directors and Managing Directors of each segment of the present to the Board an annual budget and Group was formed on 30 August 2018 and details of its operating plan.
operation are noted on page 62.
The Board approves all key recommendations from the Responsibilities of the Board Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees and The Board of Hunting PLC has clearly defined areas of approves all appointments to these Committees.
responsibility, which are separate to those of the Chairman, executive management and of the Committees Governance principles of the Company are set by the of the Board.
The Directors approve the strategic aims Board and key Group-level policies are reviewed and and objectives of the Company, as set by executive approved by the Directors.
management, and approves all major acquisitions, divestments, dividends, capital investments and annual Board Composition budgets.
The Board comprises the non-executive Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, three independent The Board has overall leadership of the Company, setting non-executive Directors, one of whom is the Senior the values of the Hunting Group and providing a strong Independent Director, and one non-independent, tone from the top, to which all businesses within the non-executive Director.
Profiles of each Director are Group and its employees are encouraged to adopt.
The Directors monitor Huntings trading performance, The independent non-executive Directors are a key including progress against the Annual Budget, reviewing source of expertise and contribute to the delivery of the monthly management accounts and forecasts, comparing Companys strategic goals.
forecasts to current market consensus and reviewing other financial matters.
They review and approve all public announcements, including financial results, trading statements and set the dividend policy of the Group.
Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 59 Corporate governance report continued Non-executive Directors are chosen from the oil and gas The Group has procedures in place to manage conflicts of industry and regulatory sectors in which Hunting operates.
Each Director is required to declare any potential The expertise and competencies of the non-executive conflicts that exist, or may arise, which are formally Directors are noted in the table below, and underpin the recorded by the Company Secretary.
Appropriate decision balance of skills and knowledge of the Board: making, in light of this declaration, is undertaken, which could include a Director not participating in a Board Director Expertise decision or vote.
Each Director is required to complete a Annell Bay Upstream oil and gas, US energy declaration of known conflicts of interest annually.
market development and US quoted companies.
Company Secretary Carol Chesney Accounting, UK Corporate The Company Secretary is appointed by the Board and Governance, Ethics Compliance and supports the Chairman in providing all materials and UK quoted companies.
information flows between the executive and nonJay Glick Oilfield services and manufacturing, executive Directors, specifically on matters of governance US energy market development and and regulatory compliance.
The Company Secretary is US quoted companies.
also available to the Board and all its Committees for Richard Hunting UK Corporate Governance, Investor advice and ensures that all procedures are followed.
Keith Lough Accounting, upstream oil and gas, Work Undertaken by the Board During 2018 UK energy regulation and market The Board met six times in 2018, as regularly timetabled.
development and UK quoted The attendance of the Directors at Board meetings during companies.
2018 is detailed in the table below: The tenure of the Board, including both executive and Number of meetings held 6 non-executive Directors, is shown in the chart below.
Number of meetings attended actual possible : The average tenure of the Directors as at 28 February Annell Bay 6 6 2019 is 7.4 years.
Carol Chesney from 23 April 2018 4 4 Jay Glick 6 6 Board tenure % John Hofmeister to 30 August 2018 4 4 Richard Hunting 6 6 Jim Johnson 6 6 Keith Lough from 23 April 2018 4 4 John Nicholas to 18 April 2018 2 2 29 Peter Rose 6 6 43 Each Board meeting follows a prescribed agenda and agreed schedule of matters.
At each meeting, the Chief Executive updates the Board 28 on key operational developments, provides an overview of the market, reports on health and safety, and highlights important milestones reached towards the delivery of 3 years 3-9 years 9 years Huntings strategic objectives.
The Finance Director provides an update on the Board Independence and Conflicts of Interest Groups financial performance and position, banking As at 31 December 2018, excluding the Chairman, arrangements, legal issues, analyst discussions and the Board comprised 50% independent non-executive statutory reporting developments relevant to Hunting.
Including the Chairman, 57% of the Board These topics lead to discussion, debate and challenge comprises independent Directors.
All the non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, have access to professional advisers, at the Companys expense, to fulfil their various Board and Committee duties.
60 Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information During 2018, the standing items and other items for More information on this process can be found in the regular Board meetings included the following business: Nomination Committee Report on pages 66 and 67.
Feb Apr Jun Aug Oct Dec For the appointment of executive Directors, the Company Standing items enters into a Service Contract with the Director, which Chief Executive Update reflects the terms of employment, remuneration and termination, taking into account country of residence and Finance Director Report applicable local employment laws.
For more information Operational Reports on the Service Contracts of the current executive Quality Assurance and HSE Directors, please see the 2017 Remuneration Committee Reports Report located at www.
Shareholder Report Other items On appointment, each non-executive Director is provided Annual and Half-Year Report with a letter of appointment, outlining the time commitments, and Accounts responsibilities and fiduciary duties required under Board Evaluation Company Law and, following Company policy, are Risk Review normally appointed for a three-year term.
All appointment letters are available for inspection at the Companys AGM AGM Preparation or at Huntings registered office.
Due to the small size of Trading Statement the Hunting Board, non-executive Directors are paid fees Strategy that are above the UK market median, reflecting a high Organisation and Personnel level of time commitment required for Company matters.
Review, Development and Succession As prescribed by the Code, all the Directors submit Annual Budget themselves for annual re-election at the Companys AGM Non-executive Director and at the 2018 AGM all Directors were re-elected by Remuneration shareholders.
John Nicholas retired from the Board at the Chairman Senior Independent AGM and did not offer himself for re-election.
As prescribed Director Investor Feedback by the Companys Articles of Association, Carol Chesney and Keith Lough will automatically retire and offer Directors and Officers Liability Insurance themselves for re-appointment by shareholders at the Hunting maintains insurance against certain liabilities, 2019 AGM.
All other Directors will also retire and offer which could arise from a negligent act or a breach of duty themselves for re-election, as recommended by the UK by the Directors and Officers in the discharge of their Corporate Governance Code.
This is a qualifying third-party indemnity provision that was in force throughout the year.
Board Induction and Training As part of the formal induction process for Mrs Chesney Board Appointments and Mr Lough, internal briefings were organised to All appointments to the Board are in accordance with the introduce key finance personnel, following their Companys Articles of Association and the Code and are appointments.
In addition, facility tours to the Groups made on recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
operations in the UK and US were organised in the year, where key members of the Groups leadership team gave In February 2018, Annell Bay was re-appointed for a presentations on each operating segment.
second three-year term, following a rigorous evaluation in December 2017.
As part of the Groups regular programme of investor relations, Mr Loughs induction to the role of Senior In April 2018, the Nomination Committee concluded a Independent Director included meeting with institutional process to recruit two new independent non-executive shareholders in January 2019.
Directors to succeed John Nicholas and John Hofmeister, both of whom were scheduled to retire from the Hunting The Chairman also met with the non-executive Directors Board in 2018 following completion of nine years service.
throughout the year to discuss and agree, among other On 17 April 2018, the Nomination Committee matters, training and development.
recommended to the Board the appointments of Carol Chesney and Keith Lough, with the Board considering Board Evaluation the recommendation at its meeting on 18 April 2018.
Annually, the Directors undertake an internal annual Mrs Chesney and Mr Lough joined the Board as Directors evaluation of the Board and its Committees, which includes on 23 April 2018, with Mrs Chesney being appointed Chair completion of a detailed questionnaire on the operation of the Audit Committee on the same date, following the and governance responsibilities in relation to the retirement of Mr Nicholas on 18 April 2018.
Mr Hofmeister Companys governance framework.
Both the executive retired from the Board on 30 August 2018, with Annell Bay and non-executive Directors are appraised collectively and being appointed Chair of the Remuneration Committee individually, with the results of the process reported to the and Keith Lough being appointed the Companys Senior Board through the Chairman.
Independent Director on the same date.
Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 61 Corporate governance report continued In 2018, the Board organised its third externally facilitated The Chief Executive and Finance Director subsequently Board effectiveness evaluation which was undertaken by report these activities to the Board of the Company and Clare Chalmers Limited.
The process involved the review on any issues which arise from the Executive Committee.
of Board and Committee papers and individual Director interviews.
Ms Chalmers submitted the findings from the As noted in the Companys Half-Year Results, all members process to the Chairman, which were reviewed by the of the Executive Committee are determined to be PDMRs Board at its December meeting.
The Board noted these of the Group.
findings, including areas for further improvement, which had been noted during the external evaluation process.
Going Concern Basis and Viability Statement Further, this process will be repeated in 2021.
Clare The Audit Committee and Board review the Going Concern Chalmers has no other connection to the Company.
Basis twice a year and the Groups Viability Statement annually, in parallel with supporting reports from the Overall, the Chairman and the Board as a whole executive Directors and Huntings central finance function.
concluded that each Director, the Committees of the Board and the Board itself remained effective.
On 26 February 2019, the Board approved the Going Concern Basis and Viability Statement for the 2018 Furthermore, in December 2018 the Chairmans year-end, which is detailed on page 53. performance was evaluated in a separate exercise by the non-executive Directors led by Keith Lough, the Risk Management Procedures Companys Senior Independent Director.
The nonThe Board acknowledges its responsibility for monitoring executive Directors concluded that Mr Glick had been the Groups principal risks and system of internal control an effective and able Chairman of the Company.
and for reviewing its effectiveness as required by the Code, with key authorities being delegated to the Audit Board Accountability Committee.
At the Boards February 2018 meeting, the The Board has procedures in place to review all Directors completed a robust assessment and review of shareholder communications, including the financial the Groups risk management framework and the principal statements and Stock Exchange announcements issued risks facing the Company.
Huntings business model and strategy is detailed on pages 28 to 43.
The Board has delegated Huntings principal risks, risk management framework and the responsibility of assessing whether the financial systems of internal control are reviewed by the Board statements are fair, balanced and understandable to the annually and are detailed in the Strategic Report on pages Audit Committee.
Further details of the responsibilities of 44 to 52. the Audit Committee can be found within its report on pages 86 to 90.
Annual General Meeting AGM The AGM of the Company will take place on Wednesday, Executive Committee 17 April 2019 at The Royal Automobile Club, 89 Pall Mall, The Hunting Executive Committee was formed in August London SW1Y 5HS, commencing at 10.30 a. m. to which 2018 comprising the executive Directors and regional all shareholders are invited.
Shareholder voting procedures Managing Directors of the Group.
Profiles of each member follow the provisions of the Articles of Association and the of the Executive Committee are found on pages 56 and UK Corporate Governance Code, including a separate 58.
Under its terms of reference, which have been resolution on each material item of business, the availability published on the Hunting website, www.
com, of voting via proxy and the offer of a vote withheld.
At the the Committee meets four times a year.
Key matters for 2019 AGM, all resolutions will be voted on by way of a poll.
consideration by the Committee include: Further details of the resolutions and voting procedures are set out in the Notice of AGM.
operational reports from each Managing Director, covering the performance of each operating segment Shareholders can vote by completing the form of proxy during the previous quarter and capital investments sent with the Notice of AGM, or by submitting votes currently being undertaken: electronically via the Registrars website segmental financial performance in the year to date: www.
co. uk or via their online portfolio service, Health and Safety performance, including Shareview, if they are registered as a member.
consideration of issues that have arisen and any Alternatively, shares held in CREST may be voted through reportable HSE incidents which may have occurred: the CREST Proxy Voting Service.
To be valid, all votes Quality Assurance performance: must be received no later than 48 hours before the time Internal Control and Risk Register review: set for the meeting.
Human Resources reports, including key data from the previous quarter: The Directors have been authorised to allot and issue IT infrastructure performance, cyber security, data Ordinary shares and to disapply statutory pre-emption protection and planned investment: rights.
These powers are exercised under authority of compliance initiatives, including bribery and corruption: resolutions of the Company passed at its AGM.
During and the financial year ended 31 December 2018, 900,000 other legal matters.
Ordinary shares were issued pursuant to the Companys various share plans.
62 Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information The Company has authority, renewed annually, to purchase The Companys major shareholders, as at 31 December up to 14.99% of the issued share capital, equating to 2018, are listed below: 24,609,623 shares.
Any shares purchased will either be Percentage cancelled, and the number of Ordinary shares in issue Number of of issued reduced accordingly, or held in Treasury.
As noted below, Ordinary Ordinary through the Groups Employee Share Trust, 750,000 Notes shares shares Ordinary shares were purchased in the year, under this Franklin Resources group of companies 12,291,521 7.4 authority.
Hunting Investments Limited 1 4 5 11,003,487 6.7 These powers are effective for 15 months from the date of shareholder approval, or up to the next general meeting BlackRock 6 9,350,395 5.7 where new authorities are sought.
The Directors will be JP Morgan Chase & Co 8,543,374 5.2 seeking a renewal for these powers at the 2019 AGM.
Slaley Investments Limited 5 6,411,679 3.9 Employee Share Trust Lazard Asset The Group operates an Employee Share Trust the Trust Management 6,144,957 3.7 as a vehicle to satisfy share options and awards granted J Trafford as trustee 2 5 5,970,864 3.6 to employees who participate in the Companys shareDimensional Fund based incentive schemes.
At 31 December 2018, the Advisors 5,967,545 3.6 Trust held 1,247,672 Ordinary shares in the Company Barclays group of 2017 656,808.
The Trust has a policy to purchase companies 5,725,272 3.5 shares in the market or subscribe for new shares to David RL Hunting 5 194,120 0.1 partially meet the future requirements of these incentive as trustee 2 5 2,549,117 1.5 schemes.
other beneficial 3 5 2,484,583 1.5 In April 2018, the Trust subscribed for 900,000 Ordinary Notes: shares at the nominal value of 25 pence per share, to 1.
Included in this holding are 9,437,743 Ordinary shares held partially satisfy vested awards under the HPSP.
by Huntridge Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Hunting Investments Limited.
Neither of these companies is owned by Hunting PLC either directly or indirectly.
Further, in November 2018 the Trust purchased 750,000 2.
After elimination of duplicate holdings, the total Hunting family Ordinary shares in the Company to satisfy future HPSP trustee interests shown above amount to 5,970,864 Ordinary share vestings.
Arise because David RL Hunting and his children are or could become beneficiaries under the relevant family trusts of which In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4C, the Trust has David RL Hunting is a trustee.
waived all dividends payable by the Company and voting 4.
Richard H Hunting non-executive Director of Hunting PLC and rights in respect of the Ordinary shares held by it.
Total David RL Hunting are both directors of Hunting Investments Limited.
dividends waived by the Trust in the financial year to 5.
In 2014, Hunting Investments Limited, Slaley Investments 31 December 2018 were $21,259 2017 $nil, based on Limited, certain Hunting family members, including Richard H 531,482 Ordinary shares being subject to this waiver.
Hunting and David RL Hunting and the Hunting family trusts, to which James Trafford is a trustee together known as the Hunting Family Interests entered into a voting agreement.
The Non-Financial Information Directive voting agreement has the legal effect of transferring all voting In compliance with the European Unions Non-Financial rights of Hunting PLC Ordinary shares held by the Hunting Information reporting directive, the Group has provided Family Interests to a voting committee.
The beneficial ownership relevant information throughout the Strategic Report.
The of Hunting PLC Ordinary shares remains as per the table shown above.
At 28 February 2019, the Hunting Family Interests party Directors Report on page 65 provides details on the to the agreement totalled 25,388,715 Ordinary shares in the location of this information.
Company, representing 15.4% of the total voting rights.
On 7 January 2019, BlackRock notified the Company that its Shareholders holding has decreased to 5.7% of the issued share capital.
Further, on 10 January 2019, BlackRock notified the Company The Company uses a number of processes for that its holding was less than 5% of the issued share capital.
communicating with shareholders, including Stock Exchange announcements, the annual and half-year Further information on share capital can be found in note reports, webcasts, trading statements and the AGM to 30 and on page 168. which all shareholders are invited.
In addition, the Chief Executive and Finance Director meet on a one-to-one Diversity basis with principal shareholders at least twice a year, Huntings approach to diversity is based on policies that following the Groups annual and half-year results, or promote prejudice-free decision making and are focused when requested to update them on Group performance on ensuring the right person is attached to the right role, and strategy.
The Board is in turn briefed by the Chief to further all stakeholder interests.
The Groups diversity Executive, when appropriate, on matters raised by policy is located at www.
The policy commits Hunting to building a working environment in which all individuals In January 2019, the Chairman and Senior Independent are able to make best use of their skills, free from unfair Director met with a number of shareholders to discuss discrimination, victimisation, harassment and or bullying, strategy, governance and other matters.
Their comments and in which all appointments are based on merit.
Further, were passed on to the Board by the Chairman.
The the objectives of the policy focus on recruitment, training non-executive Directors are also available to meet and development, conditions of work and disciplinary shareholders.
Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 63 Corporate governance report continued While there are no senior management diversity targets in Further, the Board has noted the recommendations of the place, all recruitment policies require fair and prejudice-free Hampton-Alexander and Parker Committees regarding appointments, regardless of gender.
Consideration to these recommendations will continue to be made as the Board Gender is refreshed over the coming years.
At 31 December 2018, Gender diversity data of Huntings Board, senior the Executive Committee and direct reports to members management and workforce is noted below: of the Executive Committee excluding the executive Directors totalled 67 employees with a gender balance of 10% male and 90% female.
Board Further, the Board has noted the legislation to report on the Gender Pay Gap and CEO pay ratios for companies incorporated in the UK.
Hunting confirms that none of the Groups UK-based companies meet the reporting 2 thresholds.
Ethnicity Huntings global operating footprint extends to 11 countries and, at 31 December 2018, employed 2,772 people.
The Group remains North American focused with over 70% of 5 employees from that region at 31 December 2018.
Group ethnicity % Male 71% Female 29% 2017 Male 86% : Female 14% 100 Senior Management 80 21 60 40 20 221 0 2016 2017 2018 Male 91% Female 9% 2017 Male 91% : Female 9% North America Europe Asia Paci c Rest of World Workforce 590 John Jay F. Glick Chairman 28 February 2019 2,182 Male 79% Female 21% 2017 Male 79% : Female 21% Senior management, in the context of the chart above, is defined as an employee holding a senior position within the Group, and has management oversight of a key operational function.
For further information on the Groups workforce please refer to page 32.
64 Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts
