Nomination committee report For the year ended 31 December 2018 Composition and Frequency of Meetings In 2018 the Committees work focused The Committee currently comprises the Company on the recruitment of new nonChairman and all the independent non-executive Directors of the Company and is chaired by John Jay Glick.
executive Directors, following the planned retirement of John Nicholas On 18 April 2018, John Nicholas retired from the Board and John Hofmeister, both of whom and the Committee following completion of nine years service as a Director.
On 23 April 2018, Carol Chesney and Keith Lough joined the Committee following their appointments as Directors.
After a thorough search process, we were pleased to recommend to the On 30 August 2018, John Hofmeister also retired from the Board the appointment of Carol Board and the Committee following completion of nine years service as a Director.
Chesney and Keith Lough, which maintains the Boards strong The Committee meets as required to discuss succession matters and to ensure that an orderly process of Board governance and industry expertise refreshing occurs.
required for the Company as it continues a new growth phase.
In 2018, the Committee met three times, in February and April to consider and recommend new independent John Jay F. Glick non-executive Directors, and in December to review its Chair of the Nomination Committee effectiveness.
The Committee operates under written terms of reference approved by the Board, which are published on the Companys website at www.
Attendance at the Nomination Committee meetings during the year is detailed in the table below: Member Invitation Number of meetings held 3 Number of meetings attended actual possible : Annell Bay 3 3 Carol Chesney from 23 April 2018 1 1 Jay Glick Committee Chair 3 3 John Hofmeister to 30 August 2018 2 2 Richard Hunting 3 3 Jim Johnson 3 3 Keith Lough from 23 April 2018 1 1 John Nicholas to 18 April 2018 2 2 Peter Rose 3 3 Re-appointment of Non-executive Director In February 2018, Annell Bay was re-appointed for a second three-year term, following an evaluation process completed in December 2017.
Appointment of New Non-executive Directors In 2018, John Nicholas and John Hofmeister were both due to retire as Directors, following completion of nine years service.
In anticipation of this, in H2 2017 the Committee commenced a process to recruit new independent non-executive Directors to succeed Messrs Nicholas and Hofmeister.
66 Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information As part of the process, the Committee reviewed the skills Committee Effectiveness profile required for the Company as the Group commenced At its December meeting the Committee reviewed its a new phase of growth, following the industry downturn terms of reference and considered its effectiveness, within the oil and gas sector, and also as the Group concluding that its performance had been satisfactory contemplated new governance recommendations during the year.
published by the UKs Financial Reporting Council.
Gender Diversity The Committee concluded that the Board needed to In 2012, the Company issued its gender diversity policy maintain its strong industry experience, given that the for new Director appointments.
Huntings diversity policy Group had successfully navigated the market depression commits the Group to: between 2014 and 2017 and was now poised for new growth in its core markets.
Additionally, the Committee an embedded culture of equal opportunities for all reviewed the regulatory environment in which Hunting employees, regardless of gender: operated in, and also concluded that maintaining strong require external recruitment consultants to submit their UK governance expertise was also imperative, as new diversity policies to the Group prior to appointment: initiatives were published in the year, to which Hunting is ensure that external consultants appointed by looking to comply fully over time.
The Committee also Hunting provide candidate shortlists comprising of an recognised the need to maintain strong and relevant appropriate gender balance for consideration by the financial expertise, as recommended by the UK Corporate Nomination Committee: Governance Code.
a target of at least one female Director of the Company when practicable: and The Committee engaged Boyden Associates to assist a periodic review by the Nomination Committee with the selection process, which culminated in candidate of its progress in complying with best practice interviews with members of the Nomination Committee recommendations.
Boyden Associates does not have a connection with the Company aside from this brief.
Following the appointment of Annell Bay in 2015 and Carol Chesney in 2018, Huntings Board comprises 29% of Following a thorough process, the Nomination Committee female Directors, which is close to the recommended UK recommended to the Board the appointment of Carol gender target of 33%.
Chesney who brings strong financial and governance experience, given her Directorships at two other FTSE 350 companies, namely chairing the Audit Committees of Renishaw plc and Biffa plc.
Keith Lough was also recommended to the Board for appointment, given his strong sector and financial experience, in particular with UK listed oil and gas exploration and production companies.
John Jay F. Glick Chair of the Nomination Committee Mrs Chesney and Mr Lough were recommended for appointment by the Committee to the Board at its meeting 28 February 2019 on 17 April 2018, with both Directors joining the Board on 23 April 2018.
Mrs Chesney assumed the role of Chair of the Audit Committee from this date.
Mr Lough was appointed Senior Independent Director on 30 August 2018.
As noted elsewhere, Annell Bay was appointed Chair of the Remuneration Committee on 30 August 2018.
Senior Management Development and Succession The Group appointed a global Chief Human Resources Officer during 2018.
The new appointment will assist the executive Directors in furthering senior management development and succession, ensuring an appropriate pipeline of talent exists within the Group.
The Chief HR Officer will also develop reporting procedures to comply with the new principles contained within the revised UK Corporate Governance Code.
Board Evaluation As noted in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 61 to 62, the Board undertook an externally facilitated Board evaluation in 2018.
The process concluded that the skills and experience of the Directors was strong and appropriate for the size and profile of the Group.
Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 67
