Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Leadership Highlights Matters not specifically reserved for the Board, including the day to day management of the Group, may be delegated to the Executive Directors.
Successful CEO transition To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors receive appropriate and timely information.
Visits to a number of the Groups Board composition operations were undertaken by The Code recommends that the Board of Directors of a UK the Board premium listed company includes an appropriate combination of Executive and Non-Executive Directors, with independent NonExecutive Directors excluding the Chairman comprising at least half Successful succession planning with the the Board.
As at the year end and the date of this report, the Board appointment of a new Chairman, SID comprised a Non-Executive Chairman, four independent NonExecutive Directors and two Executive Directors.
The Board regards and two new Non-Executive Directors Tracey Graham, Justin Read, Louis Eperjesi and Claire Hawkings as independent for the purposes of the Code.
Board responsibilities and procedures Joe Hudson joined the Board on 2 January 2018 as Chief Executive The Board is responsible for the effective leadership and long-term Officer Designate and assumed the role of Chief Executive Officer success of the Group.
on 4 April 2018, when Wayne Sheppard retired.
Joe has had The following is a high-level summary of the principal decisions extensive experience across the building materials and construction that are specifically reserved for the Board a full list of the matters products industry.
At the UK subsidiary of Lafarge Holcim, Aggregate reserved for the Board is available on the Companys corporate Industries, he was responsible for the cement, concrete products website, at www.
com investors corporate-governance : and integrated businesses division.
He has held both functional and operational roles in Europe, Africa and North America, including Responsibility for the overall management of the Group, including Chief Executive, Lafarge Africa plc and Group Senior Vice President monitoring the Groups operating and financial performance: in Organisation and HR.
Approval of the Groups long-term objectives, values, standards, commercial strategy and annual budgets: Jamie Pike stepped down from the Board following the AGM on Approval of the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets 24 May 2018 and Jonathan Nicholls, who was SID and Chairman of and any subsequent material changes to them: the Audit Committee until that time, became Chairman of the Board Amendments to the Groups capital, legal and corporate structure, and Chair of the Nomination Committee.
At the same time, Tracey including reduction, consolidation, sub-division or conversion of Graham was appointed SID, in addition to her role as Chair of the share capital: Remuneration Committee, and Justin Read became Chair of the Approval of the interim report, the preliminary announcement Audit Committee.
of the final results and the Annual Report and Accounts: Louis Eperjesi joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director Approval of the dividend policy and declaration of any interim, on 1 June 2018 and, upon appointment, became a member of final, supplementary or special dividends: the Boards Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees.
Approval of accounting and treasury policies, the Groups Louis is the Chief Executive Officer of Tyman plc, the FTSE-listed internal control systems and risk management strategy and international supplier of engineered components to the door and Group tax strategy: windows industry, a position he has held since February 2010.
Approval of significant acquisitions and disposals and material He has extensive knowledge and experience of the manufacture and capital investments: supply of building products in international markets.
He has a strong Approval of significant borrowing facilities and other material commercial, marketing and product background, through which he contracts and transactions: has successfully driven strategy development, change management Approval of resolutions to be put forward for shareholder programmes and M&A activity.
approval at a General Meeting and all communications with shareholders and the market: Claire Hawkings joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on Managing membership and approving adequate succession 1 September 2018 and, upon appointment, became a member of the planning for the Board: Boards Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees.
Claire is Responsibility for the Groups corporate governance: a member of the Executive Committee of Tullow Oil plc, where she Following the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee, is Executive Vice President, Organisation Strategy and Company determining the remuneration policy for the Directors, and other Performance.
Claires experience includes overseeing company senior managers: performance management and reporting and delivery of the Approval of the Groups health and safety and sustainability organisational strategy, including the diversity and inclusion agenda.
and environmental policies: and Claire has worked in the oil and gas industry for 28 years in a variety Ensuring a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders based of international commercial, environmental, business development on the mutual understanding of objectives.
and general management leadership positions.
As announced on 6 February 2019, Kevin Sims will retire and step down from the Board in 2019.
Kevin will be succeeded as CFO by Chris McLeish, who will join the Board in August 2019.
65 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Leadership continued Non-Executive Directors The number of scheduled meetings of the Board and its Committees At the date of this Report, independent Non-Executive Directors and the attendance by the Directors during the year is disclosed in comprise 67% of the Board, excluding the Chairman.
The Board the following table: believes that these Non-Executive Directors, Tracey Graham, Justin Audit Remuneration Nomination Read, Louis Eperjesi and Claire Hawkings possess strong independent Name Board Committee Committee Committee character and judgement and bring a wide range of business experience 1 Jamie Pike 3 3 N A 1 1 1 1 both in areas related to and areas complementary to the activities 2 of the Group.
Jonathan Nicholls 10 10 2 2 5 5 3 3 The Non-Executive Directors scrutinise and hold to account the Tracey Graham 10 10 4 4 5 5 3 3 performance of management and individual Executive Directors Justin Read 10 10 4 4 5 5 3 3 against agreed performance objectives.
3 Louis Eperjesi 7 7 2 2 4 4 1 1 During the year the Chairman held individual and collective 4 Claire Hawkings 4 4 1 1 3 3 1 1 meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive 5 Wayne Sheppard 2 2 N A N A N A Directors present.
Joe Hudson 10 10 N A N A N A Board Committees The Board has established three principal Committees of the Board, Kevin Sims 10 10 N A N A N A the Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and Remuneration 1 Jamie Pike stepped down from the Board following the AGM held on 24 May 2018.
Each Committee has formally delegated duties and 2 Jonathan Nicholls stepped down from the Audit Committee upon his appointment responsibilities set out in its written Terms of Reference.
In addition, as Chairman of the Board following the AGM held on 24 May 2018.
Jonathan did the Board has established a Disclosure Committee, the role of which not participate in discussions of the Nomination Committee or the Board concerning his appointment as Chairman.
is to oversee the Companys compliance with its disclosure obligations.
3 Louis Eperjesi was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2018.
Members of the Disclosure Committee are the Chairman, Chief 4 Claire Hawkings was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2018.
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Company Secretary 5 Wayne Sheppard stepped down from the Board on 4 April 2018. and Investor Relations Director.
The table above shows those Committee meetings which each If the need should arise, the Board may establish additional Director attended as a member of the Committee, rather than committees to consider specific issues, as appropriate.
The terms of as an invitee.
Where N A appears in the table the Director listed reference for each of the Boards principal Committees are available has not been a member of that Committee.
on the Companys corporate website, at www.
The Board aims to hold at least two Board meetings each year at Group business locations to enable the Directors to gain a deeper Details of the activities of the Remuneration Committee are understanding of the Groups operations.
This also provides senior set out on pages 81 to 107.
Details of the Boards other principal managers from across the Group with the opportunity to present to Committees and their activities during the year are set out in the the Board as well as to meet the Directors at more informal occasions.
separate Committee Reports on pages 71 and 72 and on pages 75 to 80, and are incorporated into the Corporate Governance During 2018 the Board held a number of meetings at the Groups Statement by reference.
The Chair of each Committee reports business locations: the outcome of the meetings to the Board.
Details of Committee February Ibstock Brick Limited, Leicester Eclipse factory.
memberships are included in the Directors biographies on The Board visited the recently commissioned Eclipse factory that pages 68 and 69. will have the capacity to produce c. 100 million soft mud bricks p. a.
The Board held scheduled meetings on 10 occasions during the They also had the opportunity to meet with members of the local year and expects to meet approximately seven times each year management team.
March Ibstock Brick Limited, Lodge Lane factory, Cannock, Staffordshire.
The factory produces blue bricks, the most popular of which is the Stafford Slate Blue.
They inspected the new kiln, which was the product of a 7.6 million investment and is expected to increase production by c. 8 million bricks p. a.
They also met with members of the local management team.
June Glen-Gery Inc, Pennsylvania US.
The Board undertook a three-day visit of the US business.
During the tour the Board visited the Glen-Gery Marseilles Plant in Illinois where they met staff and senior management and received presentations on the plant and its products.
The Board also received presentations from senior management on Glen-Gerys performance, prospects and strategic objectives.
In addition, external consultants were invited to provide the Board with an update on the US market and emerging trends.
During these visits management and employees were afforded the opportunity to provide feedback on matters relating to the individual site and the wider Group.
Looking forward to 2019, the Board intends to continue its programme of Group-wide site visits.
66 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Board meeting calendar and regulatory agenda The Board and strategy discussion items The Board assesses the basis on which the Group generates The Board has a structured agenda for its meetings throughout the and preserves value over the long term.
The following table summarises the key activities that took place to the future success of the business are considered and addressed.
at these meetings during the year under review.
Sustainability of the Groups business model is considered and the Board reviews how its governance contributes to the delivery 2018 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 of its strategy.
CEO commentary on business The Board and culture activities and priorities The Board assesses and monitors corporate culture.
If it was not CFO financial review satisfied that policy, practices or behaviour throughout the business of business performance are aligned with the Companys purpose, values and strategy, it would seek assurance that management had taken corrective action.
Business unit site visits and presentations covering financial July Trading statement results and operational activities Following the appointment of Joe Hudson as CEO the Group undertook a detailed review of its brick manufacturing assets.
Health and safety update The review identified that a number of measures were required Review and approval of preliminary to sustain the quality and range of production output.
The Groups full-year results and the annual UK brick factories had been producing at, or close to, full production report and accounts capacity for an extended period of time.
Leading up to, and particularly in the month of July, production had been lower than Full-year dividend approval expected and despite corrective measures output, in the second half Investor communications feedback of the year was anticipated to be below expectations.
A 12-month on full-year and half-year results period of increased maintenance activity was therefore planned and road shows implemented to ensure that factories could operate at sustainable levels to meet increasing demand.
Board meeting held at US subsidiary As a result of these actions the Board anticipated that adjusted Consideration of requirement EBITDA for the year ended 31 December 2018 would fall below and decision to issue the July market expectations.
After careful consideration of forecasts and Trading statement various scenarios the Board arrived at the conclusion that market Confirmation of US strategy and expectations would not be achieved and issued an unscheduled decision to dispose of Glen-Gery trading statement, without delay, on 30 July 2018.
Preparation for Board evaluation Sale of Glen-Gery At the time the interim results were published we announced that Review and approval the Group was undertaking a strategic review of certain aspects of of half-year results our business, including the US operations.
The Board arrived at the Approval of Interim and conclusion that opportunities to grow the US business were not in supplementary dividend line with the Groups overall strategic objectives and the decision Board evaluation output was taken to dispose of these assets and refocus the Group on and recommendations its core markets in the UK.
2019 Budget approval Following a competitive process, headed by a respected international corporate finance house, the Board approved the sale of the business Board briefings from advisors to Brickworks Limited for an enterprise value of US$110 million on developments in corporate which equated to a multiple in excess of eight times Glen-Gerys last governance and corporate 1 12 months adjusted EBITDA, as reported to June 2018.
Additional legal matters information on the sale can be found in the Chief Executives Whistleblowing biannual report statement on page 14, the Financial review on pages 52 to 53 and Note 11 of the Financial statements.
Review of Board activities with shareholders Meeting of the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present Meeting of the Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present 1 Alternative performance measures are described in Note 3 to the financial statements.
67 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
