Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Dear Shareholder, Nomination As Chair of the Nomination Committee I am pleased to present Committee Report my report to shareholders for the year ended 31 December 2018.
2018 Key achievements Successful CEO succession.
Orderly succession following retirement of the Chairman and appointments of the SID and Chair of the Audit Committee.
Recruitment process for, and selection of, two new Jonathan Nicholls Non-Executive Directors.
Chair of the Reviewed succession planning for the Board and the tier below Nomination Committee Board level.
Committee members Attendance Considered time commitment required of the Non-Executive Jonathan Nicholls Chair 3 3 Directors.
Tracey Graham 3 3 Areas of focus in 2019 Justin Read 3 3 Continued development and monitoring of succession plans for both the Board and senior management.
Louis Eperjesi 1 1 Further development of the Diversity Policy.
Claire Hawkings 1 1 Further strengthening of the senior management team.
Responsibilities Jamie Pike was Chair of the Nomination Committee until he stepped The key responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are: down from the Board on 24 May 2018.
Develop and maintain a formal, rigorous and transparent The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Nomination procedure for making recommendations to the Board Committee.
on appointments and on the structure, size and composition Please see pages 68 and 69 for detailed biographies.
of the Board: Ensure that planning is in place for orderly succession to both Committee calendar and agenda discussion items the Board and senior management positions: During the year under review the Nomination Committee met Oversee the development of a diverse pipeline of talent formally on three occasions.
for succession: 2018 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Evaluate the balance of skills, diversity, knowledge and experience of the Board: Recommended the appointment Prepare a description of the role and capabilities required of Jonathan Nicholls as Chairman for a particular appointment and lead the recruitment process: and Louis Eperjesi and Identify and nominate, for the approval of the Board, candidates Claire Hawkings as Non-Executive to fill Board and senior management vacancies, ensuring that Directors following completion candidates have the necessary skills, knowledge and experience of the processes described on to effectively discharge their responsibilities: pages 72 and 73 Review the time commitment required from Non-Executive Reviewed Directors training Directors and evaluate the membership and performance and development needs of the Board and its Committees: and Reviewed Committees Recommend, where appropriate, the re-election of Directors.
Terms of Reference During the year, the Committee reviewed its Terms of Reference, Reviewed size, structure and a copy of which can be found on our website at www.
com composition of the Board investors corporate-governance.
Reviewed time commitment Succession planning required from Non-Executive The composition of the Board is constantly under review with the Directors aim of ensuring that it has the depth and breadth of skills to discharge Reviewed the independence its responsibilities effectively.
The Nomination Committee, through of Non-Executive Directors its oversight of succession planning, applies a similar approach to the layer of management that sits immediately below the Board.
Annual review of the Nomination Committees effectiveness The aim of the Nomination Committee is to ensure that the Reviewed succession planning Board and senior management are well balanced and appropriate arrangements and organisational for the needs of the business and the achievement of its strategy.
changes Furthermore, the Nomination Committee ensures that the Board comprises Directors who are appropriately experienced and are independent of character and judgement.
Before recommending new candidates, the Nomination Committee takes account of the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of psychological type.
It also considers educational and professional background and gender.
However, all appointments will always be made on merit.
Additional information is included in the Strategic Report on page 32.
71 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Nomination Committee Report continued As part of the Groups long-term succession planning arrangements, Re-election of Directors Jonathan Nicholls was appointed Chairman of the Board.
Jonathans The composition of the Board has been reviewed by the Nomination appointment as Chairman followed a rigorous and detailed process Committee to ensure there is an effective balance of skills, conducted by the Committee and assisted by The Zygos Partnership experience and knowledge.
Zygos is one of Europes leading board advisory firms and All Directors will retire at the AGM and those that wish to continue in specialises in the appointment of chief executives, chairmen, chief office will offer themselves for election or re-election by shareholders.
financial officers and Non-Executive Directors for listed companies.
Zygos has no connection to the Company, or to any individual Diversity director, other than assisting with recruitment arrangements.
Tracey The Board acknowledges the aims, objectives and recommendations Graham chaired the Nomination Committee when it was dealing outlined in the Hampton-Alexander Review which is focused on with the appointment of a successor to the chairmanship.
Jonathan ensuring talented women succeed by removing barriers to their Nicholls absented himself from these discussions.
success, and continuing to drive forward the momentum of the Davies Review Women on Boards.
We are aware of the need to Zygos was also engaged to identify potential candidates to be achieve an appropriate balance of women on our Board and in senior appointed to the Board as independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board also acknowledges and Working closely with the Nomination Committee they created a supports the aims, objectives and recommendations of the Parker long list of candidates suitably qualified to undertake the role, taking Review on ethnic diversity and the increased emphasis in the into account our policy on diversity.
A short list of suitable candidates Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules on disclosure around was compiled, based on relevant industry and executive experience.
diversity with regard to aspects such as age, gender and educational The Nomination Committee, together with the Executive Directors, and professional background.
then met with each of the candidates.
Following those meetings we were able to formulate our recommendation to the Board, which We are also working hard with our recruitment partners to ensure culminated in the appointments of Louis Eperjesi and Claire Hawkings that we are able to attract high-quality candidates from a wide range with effect from 1 June and 1 September 2018, respectively.
of backgrounds regardless of gender or ethnicity.
The Committee conducted an in-depth review of the Groups The Board does not, however, consider that it is in the best interests succession plan for the Board and also considered the talent available of the Group, or its shareholders, to set prescriptive diversity targets below the Board level.
The conclusion drawn from that review was that for Board or senior management level appointments.
We will the Company has robust succession planning arrangements in place.
continue to make appointments based on merit, against objective criteria to ensure we appoint the best individual for each role.
Ensuring the Directors independence and commitment to their roles The Board has a strong balance of skills, knowledge, experience, In making recommendations to the Board on Non-Executive Director and diversity of psychological type, educational and professional appointments, the Nomination Committee specifically considers the background and gender.
Approximately 29% of the Board are female, expected time commitment of the proposed Non-Executive Director as at the date of this Report, and 10% of a population of senior and their existing commitments.
Agreement of the Board is also managers are female.
Additional information regarding the gender split required before a Director may accept any additional commitments across the Group can be found on page 32 of the Strategic Report.
to ensure possible conflicts of interest are identified at an early stage Our Inclusion Policy can be viewed on the Companys website at and that they will continue to have sufficient time available to devote www.
Any other potential conflicts of interest are also considered at each Board meeting.
Board and Committee effectiveness The Nomination Committee arranged an annual performance The Companys Articles of Association, which are in line with the evaluation to be undertaken of the effectiveness of the Board, each Companies Act 2006, allow the Board to authorise potential conflicts Committee of the Board and of the contribution of each Director.
of interest that may arise and to impose limits or conditions, as appropriate, when giving any such authorisation.
The evaluation process for the Board and each Committee took the form of a questionnaire completed by all members of the Board and During the year, and as at the date of this report, no conflicts were the Company Secretary.
A report on the outcome of the evaluation reported to the Board.
of the Nomination Committees effectiveness was presented to the We reviewed the independence of Non-Executive Directors and Board at the December 2018 meeting.
The conclusion drawn from arrived at the conclusion that all Non-Executive Directors, as named the review was that the Nomination Committee had operated on pages 68 and 69, with the exception of the Chairman who was effectively.
Further details of the evaluation can be found on page 70. independent on his appointment to that role, continue to be The evaluation of each Non-Executive Director was undertaken regarded as independent.
We reviewed the training requirements of the Board and agreed An evaluation of the Chairmans performance was conducted by upon a suitable regime for training and information flows to enable the Non-Executive Directors, led by the SID, taking into account the Directors to satisfy their training and development needs.
the views of the Executive Directors.
The evaluation arrived at Information provided to the Board included updates on the conclusion that the Chairman had performed effectively.
developments on Corporate Governance, the regulatory framework and accounting matters.
The Chairman and the Company Secretary continue to identify broader areas of training for the Board as a Jonathan Nicholls whole and the Chairman will discuss and agree the training Chair of the Nomination Committee requirements with individual Directors as and when required.
4 March 2019 We considered the time commitment required from the Non-Executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee concluded, through discussions with the Chairman and the Board and the Committee evaluation process, that the Non-Executive Directors had committed sufficient time to fulfil their duties and that their performance continued to be effective.
72 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
