Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Dear Shareholder, Audit I am pleased to present my report to shareholders, as Chair of the Committee Report Audit Committee, for the year ended 31 December 2018.
The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board and reviews and makes recommendations to the Board on the Groups financial reporting, internal control and risk management systems.
The Audit Committee provides independent monitoring, guidance and challenge to Executive Management.
In addition, it assesses the Justin Read effectiveness of the external audit process and the external auditor.
Chair of the Audit Committee Through these processes the Audit Committees aim is to ensure high standards of corporate and regulatory reporting, risk management and compliance, and an appropriate control Committee members Attendance environment.
The Audit Committee believes that excellence in Justin Read Chair 4 4 these areas enhances effectiveness, reduces risks to the Business, Tracey Graham 4 4 and protects the interests of the shareholders with regard to the integrity of financial information published by the Group.
Louis Eperjesi 2 2 The Audit Committee will continue to keep its activities under Claire Hawkings 1 1 review to ensure that it complies with any changes in the Jonathan Nicholls was Chair of the Audit Committee until 24 May regulatory environment.
2018, when he stepped down from the Committee and became I shall be available at the 2019 AGM to answer any questions Chairman of the Board.
Louis Eperjesi and Claire Hawkings joined shareholders may have regarding the work of the Audit Committee.
the Committee upon appointment to the Board on 1 June and 1 September 2018, respectively.
For a short period from 24 May 2018 2018 key achievements to 1 June 2018 the Audit Committee comprised two members only Reviewed, and recommended to the Board for approval, Justin Read and Tracey Graham.
There were no Audit Committee the Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Statement.
Appointed KPMG to undertake a detailed review of the Groups risk maturity with a view to refreshing its approach to risk The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Audit Committee.
management across all levels of the business.
Please see pages 68 and 69 for detailed biographies.
Approved the creation of an internally facilitated internal audit function to work alongside, and to undertake assignments Committee calendar and agenda discussion items complementary to, services provided by RSM.
During the year the Committee met on four occasions.
Appointment of the Chair of the Audit Committee in line with the Groups succession planning arrangements.
2018 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Reviewed the proposed accounting and disclosures in respect Financial and narrative reporting of the disposal of Glen-Gery.
Approved the project to transition to the new lease accounting External audit standard IFRS 16 in advance of its application from 1 January 2019. Review of risk Areas of focus in 2019 Review managements progress with the project to transition Independence and objectivity of the to the new lease accounting standard IFRS 16 and first reporting external auditor in the 2019 Interim Statement.
Internal Audit Continue to ensure that the systems of internal control are robust and operating effectively and that the principal risks identified by Annual review of the Audit the Board are managed effectively.
Committees effectiveness Work with KPMG to roll out the Groups refreshed approach Review of significant accounting to risk management.
matters and judgements Ensure successful CFO transition.
Other ad hoc activities Assess individual areas of risk selected for in depth review.
Review significant reporting judgements and estimates and associated key assumptions.
As required by its Terms of Reference TOR, the Audit Review the Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Committee reviewed the TOR during the year and made Statement in order to recommend them to the Board for approval.
recommendations to, and received approval from, the Board for minor alterations.
A copy of the TOR can be found on our website at www.
75 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Audit Committee Report continued Audit Committee composition and meetings Received updates on corporate reporting and corporate The Board considers that I have recent and relevant financial governance from the external auditor, including: experience.
The Audit Committee, as a whole, has competence the changing governance landscape for listed companies: relevant to the sector in which the Group operates.
Members have purpose, values, culture and Section 172 of the 2006 relevant experience in finance, building materials, B2B businesses Companies Act: and extractive industries, together with general executive experience workforce engagement: in businesses of scale.
Additional information on our skills and risk and internal control: experience can be found in the Board biographies set out Board composition and independence: and on pages 68 and 69.
FRC advice letter to preparers of annual reports for the 2018 19 reporting season.
The Audit Committee met formally on four occasions during the Considered the process for preparing the 2018 Annual Report year and details of the attendance at meetings by members of the and Accounts.
Audit Committee are set out on page 75.
Received updates from management on training for Audit The Audit Committee provides a forum for reporting and discussion Committee members, including changes in financial reporting with the Groups external auditors in respect of the Groups half-year requirements and Company Law.
and full-year results and certain Executive Directors and senior Reviewed processes for the implementation of IFRS 16 Leases.
managers attended meetings, as and when required, by invitation.
External audit Other members of the Board are invited to attend the Audit Reviewed and concurred with Deloitte LLPs Deloitte plans Committees meetings, as and when required.
for their review of the 2018 interim statement and audit of the 2018 financial results.
Responsibilities Reviewed and considered the reports presented by Deloitte The purpose of the Committee is to make recommendations on the to the Audit Committee following the half-year review and reporting, control, risk management and compliance aspects of the full-year audit.
Directors and the Groups responsibilities.
At the same time the Reviewed the performance of the external auditor and the Committee provides independent monitoring, guidance and effectiveness of the external audit process.
challenge to Executive Management in these areas.
Discussed and approved the fees for audit and non-audit services Key responsibilities include: and obtained assurance on the objectivity and independence of to ensure the consistent application of, and any changes to, the external auditor, taking into consideration relevant professional significant accounting policies across the Group: and regulatory standards.
to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group: Discussed and approved the Directors Letter of Representation to monitor and challenge the effectiveness of the Groups internal provided to Deloitte.
financial controls, as well as the wider internal control and risk Reviewed and approved the policy for the employment of former management systems: employees of the external auditor, without amendment, to monitor the effectiveness of the Groups whistleblowing confirming with management that no such employees had been procedures: appointed during 2018. to evaluate the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit Held meetings with Deloitte, following Audit Committee meetings, arrangements: without management present, on three occasions.
There were no to make recommendations to the Board on the appointment, material issues that were brought to the Audit Committees independence and effectiveness of the Groups external auditor attention at those meetings.
and to negotiate and agree their remuneration: and Recommended to the Board that a shareholder resolution should to monitor and evaluate the Groups policies for non-audit services be proposed for the reappointment of Deloitte.
and the engagement of former employees of the external auditor.
Audit Committee activities during the year The Audit Committee ensures the integrity of financial reporting and audit processes and the maintenance of a sound internal control and risk management system.
The table page 75 summarises the agenda items covered at the Committees meetings during the year.
Financial and narrative reporting Reviewed the full and half-year results and associated announcements, together with the analysts presentations, and recommended them to the Board for approval.
Reviewed the Groups Annual Report and Accounts to consider whether, taken as a whole, they were fair, balanced and understandable and whether they provided the necessary information required for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy and recommended them to the Board for approval.
Considered the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies and practices, focusing on areas of significant management judgement or estimation, and questioned the rationale for decisions taken in application of the policies.
Policies and practices were found to be appropriate and correctly applied see Significant issues considered by the Audit Committee during the year on page 78.
76 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Review of risk Review of significant accounting and key areas Reviewed principal business risks, risk management processes of judgement and internal controls.
Information on Principal risks and Risk A key factor in the integrity of financial statements is ensuring management is set out on pages 42 to 47. that suitable accounting policies are adopted and applied consistently Received a report from the CFO on the internal controls on a year on year basis.
The Audit Committee specifically uses the operating in the business and any associated action plans.
Audit Planning meetings in May and December each year to consider The Committee concluded that the Groups internal controls proposed accounting treatments for major transactions, significant had been operated effectively.
reporting judgements and key assumptions related to those Reviewed fraud risks, ethics policy and whistleblowing policy.
In addition, these matters are reviewed at each The review did not identify any material matters of interest.
Committee meeting throughout the year.
Considered the appropriateness of the Groups Viability Statement Other ad hoc matters at the full-year, and Going Concern Statement assumptions at the Received a Cyber Security report from the Chief Information half-year and full-year, including a review of the sensitivity analysis Officer.
and scenarios prepared by management.
This specifically Reported to the Board on how the Committee has discharged challenged managements preparation of the Viability Statement its responsibilities, including the consideration of significant matters using a three-year lookout period.
Following discussion, the considered and an explanation of the assessment of the Committee concurred with management as to the choice of effectiveness of the external audit process.
The Viability Statement and the Approved the annual programme of work to be performed Going Concern Statement are set out on page 56. by the Audit Committee.
Independence and objectivity of the external auditor Reviewed and approved, without amendment, the Groups policy Considered the adequacy of the Groups procedures with for the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
regard to the objectivity and independence of the external auditor.
I met with the audit partner on a number of occasions during The Audit Committee formed the opinion that Deloitte had the year.
demonstrated their independence and objectivity.
Internal Audit Reviewed reports presented by RSM on internal audit assignments that had been completed during the year and discussed the results and agreed actions arising from RSMs recommendations.
The Audit Committee reviewed managements responsiveness to RSMs findings and recommendations.
Agreed a plan of work for the 2019 Internal Audit programme with RSM.
In reviewing the proposed plan of work, the Committee questioned the Internal Auditor and management as to the composition of the plan.
The Committee considered any specific areas of risk identified by either party in formulating the schedule.
Following discussion, the Committee was satisfied that the proposed 2019 work programme was appropriate.
The Audit Committee met with RSM, without management present, on three occasions.
There were no material issues that were brought to the Audit Committees attention at those meetings.
Reviewed and approved the 2019 internally resourced internal audit plan.
Annual review of Audit Committee effectiveness Received updates from Deloitte on developments in compliance, corporate governance matters and the regulatory framework.
Conducted the annual evaluation of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee and formed the opinion that the Audit Committee had been effective.
Reviewed the Committees Terms of Reference and confirmed that, subject to a few minor amendments, they remained appropriate.
Reviewed training requirements of Committee members and received training and technical updates from the Company Secretary and Deloitte.
77 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Audit Committee Report continued Significant issues considered by the Committee during the year Matter considered Committees response Pension accounting The Committee reviewed the assumptions with management and sought views The Group has a defined benefit pension from the external auditor before it concluded on the appropriateness of the actuarial scheme in the UK, which was closed to balances disclosed.
future accrual with effect from 1 February This review considered the financial assumptions used by management as part of 2017.
Management exercise their judgement the actuarial valuation and the range of possible assumptions using available market around the assumptions used by its actuary, data to assess the reasonableness.
including the sensitivities to these assumptions, to calculate the pension In conclusion, the Audit Committee concluded that the actuarial assumptions used in scheme assets and liabilities under IAS 19 R the valuation of the period end pension liabilities were in an acceptable range, disclosed Employee benefits.
appropriately and is satisfied that the resulting presentation and disclosure is appropriate.
As at 31 December 2018, in the UK scheme The Committee further considered managements judgement with regard to the Groups there was an actuarial accounting surplus of ability to recognise a pension scheme surplus and assessed the legal advice received.
The 80.7 million 2017: 46.1 million, as detailed Committee arrived at the conclusion that managements application of IFRIC 14 remained in Note 21 to the financial statements.
See also Note 2 to the financial statements.
Indicators of impairment The Committee considered the processes adopted by management in assessing whether, The Group holds significant asset values in in their judgement, any indicators of impairment existed and whether any subsequent detailed the form of brands, customer relationships, impairment testing should be undertaken.
mineral reserves, land and buildings and The Committee carefully considered managements sensitivity analysis and assessed property, plant and equipment.
These assets the impact on the analysis of changes to the underlying assumptions.
were subject to a detailed fair value exercise upon acquisition of the trading entities in Following its review, the Committee concurred with managements judgement that February 2015.
For a number of assets, this no indicators of impairment existed at the balance sheet date and, as such, no detailed exercise utilised the Business performance impairment testing was required.
projections in arriving at the fair value Following the disposal of Glen-Gery in the year under review, the Committee considered ascribed.
Should actual performance the implications of the sale on the value of investment in subsidiaries held within the parent subsequently fall below these projections, entity and examined managements analysis of the impact.
Following review and challenge, impairment of the asset values may be the Committee concurred with managements conclusion that the investment in subsidiaries required under IAS 36 Impairment of assets.
within the parent entity had not been impaired.
Management confirmed to the Committee As at 31 December 2018, the value of that they were not aware of any misstatements, either material or immaterial, in the these non-current assets was 466 million documents and information underpinning their assessment.
In conclusion, after reviewing the reports from management, the Committee was satisfied that the financial statements appropriately reported the value of the assets and that they were fairly stated.
Alternative Performance Measures In light of the guidance issued by the European Securities and Markets Authority and the UKs The Group presents a number of alternative Financial Reporting Council, the Committee has understood and challenged managements performance measures APMs within its rationale for including an item as an exceptional item and the use of APMs.
published financial information, including its Through discussion with management and the external auditor, the Committee has also 2018 Annual Report and Accounts, with the sought to ensure that the policy for APMs is applied consistently and in compliance with the objective of providing readers with a better guidance provided.
understanding of financial performance in the period, in order to facilitate comparison The Committee challenged managements rationale for the use of specific APMs: and the link between periods and to assess trends in between APMs reported within the financial statements and incentive measures within the financial performance.
The Committee concluded that the presentation of APMs gave additional clarity on performance and were reconciled appropriately to reported amounts, with sufficient prominence, and is satisfied that the resulting presentation and disclosure is appropriate.
Disposal of Glen-Gery operations Following the disposal, the Committee received a presentation from management setting Following a review completed in the second out potential template disclosures for inclusion in the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts half year, the Group disposed of its US in relation to the disposal.
Segment for proceeds of 76 million The Committee reviewed the disclosures prepared by management and challenged the resulting in a loss on disposal of 3 million disclosure treatment of the discontinued operations, the loss arising on disposal and the on 23 November 2018, resulting taxation impact of the disposal.
Following this review and challenge, the Committee concluded that the disposal presentation within the primary financial statements and supporting notes appropriately reflects the transaction and satisfied the relevant reporting requirements.
78 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Going Concern and Viability Statements The external audit and review of its effectiveness As requested by the Board, the Audit Committee reviewed the The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment Going Concern and Viability Statements prepared with the assistance reappointment of the external auditors, their effectiveness, of management, together with the supporting documentation and independence and objectivity, and discusses the nature and results sensitivity analyses.
Details of the review process and the conclusion of the audit with the external auditors.
These reviews included: reached are set out on page 56.
Following its review, the Audit the effectiveness of the external audit firm: Committee recommended the approval of both statements quality controls: to the Board.
the audit team: Fair, balanced and understandable audit fee: It is the Boards responsibility to determine whether the 2018 audit communications and effectiveness: Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
governance and independence: The Audit Committee reviewed the process for preparing the 2018 ethical standards: and Annual Report and Accounts, reviewed managements analysis of the potential impairment of independence by non-audit fee income.
2018 Annual Report and Accounts and how this met the objectives As part of the review of the effectiveness of the external audit of providing fair, balanced and understandable disclosures.
After process, the Audit Committee conducted a formal evaluation detailed consideration the Audit Committee arrived at the decision procedure incorporating views from the relevant members to recommend that the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts be of management.
approved by the Board as fair, balanced and understandable.
Specifically, this included detailed consideration of the Alternative In addition to reviewing the formal report received from the Performance Measures used within the 2018 Annual Report and external auditors, which outlines how points raised by them have Accounts see above for details of significant issues considered been addressed by management, feedback is also sought on the by the Committee during the year.
The Committee concurred with conduct of members of the finance team during the audit process.
management that the effective use of such measures added greater I have also met with the lead audit partner outside the formal insight for readers of the financial statements and aided comparisons Committee process.
over time and between companies.
The Committee considered the The external auditors are responsible for the annual statutory audits impact of such measures on the fair, balanced and understandable of the Groups subsidiaries and other services which the Committee nature of the report to ensure that the use of APMs did not obscure believe they are best placed to provide.
the true and fair nature of the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts.
The Committees role in that process is covered on page 78.
The Committee also considers the effectiveness of management in the external audit process in respect of the timely identification Internal controls and risk management and resolution of areas of accounting judgement with input from the The Committee supports the Boards assessment of principal risks external auditors as appropriate: and the timely provision of the draft and the Boards review of the Groups internal financial controls, half-year results announcement and Annual Report and Accounts for as well as the internal controls and risk management process.
review by the auditors and the Audit Committee.
Internal Audit Following a competitive tender process conducted in 2016, The Audit Committee received updates from RSM at each meeting Deloitte LLP was appointed as auditor, and Jonathan Dodworth on the progress made against the agreed Internal Audit plan for 2018. became the lead audit partner, for the financial year commencing The rolling programme of reviews completed in 2018 included 1 January 2017. audits of: The Audit Committee received formal confirmation from GDPR information and data security: Deloitte that the audit engagement team, and others in the firm Group procurement: as appropriate, Deloitte LLP and, where applicable, all Deloitte factory purchasing: network firms were and remained independent of the Group.
inventory management and sales to cash: taxation: and Having undertaken its review, the Audit Committee is satisfied that various site audits.
Deloitte has been independent and effective.
Deloitte has indicated its willingness to continue in office and the Committee has RSM also audited the year-end and half year-end financial close recommended Deloittes re-appointment to the Board.
A resolution accounting procedures and completed reviews of payroll systems to re-appoint Deloitte as the external auditor will therefore be across remaining entities not covered in the prior year.
proposed at the AGM to be held in 23 May 2019.
The lead audit partner is Jonathan Dodworth.
The Ethical standards require the lead audit partner to change after five years.
As part of the 2018 audit, Deloitte confirmed that it was independent within the meaning of applicable regulatory and professional requirements.
Taking this into account, and having considered the steps taken by Deloitte to preserve its independence, the Committee concluded that Deloitte continues to demonstrate appropriate independence and objectivity.
79 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Audit Committee Report continued The Audit Committee received a report on Deloittes own quality Committee effectiveness control procedures.
In June 2018 the Financial Reporting Council The effectiveness of the Committee was reviewed by both the Board issued individual reports on their Audit Quality Inspections on and the Committee, in compliance with the Code.
The evaluation each of the eight largest firms, including Deloitte.
A summary of was conducted by means of a questionnaire which was completed the findings of its Audit Quality Review team for the 2017 18 cycle by all members of the Board and the Company Secretary.
A report of reviews are available on its website.
uk auditors on the outcome of the evaluation of the Committees effectiveness auditquality-review .
was presented to the Board.
The conclusion drawn from the review was that the Committee operates effectively.
The Committees policy is that the role of external auditor will be put out to tender at least every 10 years in line with the applicable rules, The Committee considers that it has acted in accordance with or at other times should it be required by specific circumstances.
its Terms of Reference and that it has ensured the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external and internal auditors.
Audit fee and non-audit services The non-audit services policy sets out clearly the non-audit services The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies that may be provided by the external auditor.
Under the policy, Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive prior approval is required by the Committee for any non-statutory Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities assignments where the fee would exceed 10,000, or where such Order 2014 an assignment would take the cumulative total of non-audit fees paid The Company has complied throughout the year under review, to the external auditors over 70% of that years statutory audit fees.
and up to the date of this report, with the provisions of the Statutory However, when appropriate, a detailed calculation will be performed Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory to ensure that the Group is compliant with the European Unions Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Statutory Audit Framework.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor are set in I shall be available to answer any questions about the Committee, Note 6 to the Group consolidated financial statements.
During the our work and how we operate at the AGM on 23 May 2019. year Deloitte provided non-audit services in respect of the review of the interim financial statements for the six-month period ended 30 June 2018 50,000 and of the managements banking covenant Justin Read compliance certification as at 31 December 2017 6,000.
Both Chair of the Audit Committee services were for audit-related services and represent services that 4 March 2019 were carried out by members of the audit engagement team where the work involved is closely related to the work performed in the audit.
The ratio of audit fees to non-audit fees was 8:1.
The Committee considers that the external auditor continues to be independent.
Fraud, whistleblowing and the Bribery Act The Committee is informed of any reported incidents under its whistleblowing policy.
This policy is included in the Employee Handbook, and also emailed to employees, and sets out the procedure for employees to raise legitimate concerns about any wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters such as: potentially unlawful acts: miscarriage of justice: danger to the health and safety of any individual: damage to the environment: or improper conduct.
The Committee examined the small number of incidents that were notified by the external service provider, direct anonymous communications and internal audit.
The Committee reviewed and concurred with the actions taken by management.
There were no concerns notified to the Group that required the further attention of the Audit Committee during the period under review and up to the date of this report.
The fact that employees have used the whistleblowing hotline provides assurance to the Board that the system is working and that our colleagues are comfortable with the process.
The Committee also reviews the Groups procedure for detecting fraud and the systems and controls in place to prevent a breach of anti-bribery legislation.
The Committee receives regular updates at each meeting and discusses any incidents brought to its attention.
The Group is committed to a zero-tolerance position with regard to bribery.
Anti-bribery guidance and training is provided to employees, as appropriate, applying what the Group has determined to be a risk-based and proportionate approach.
The Group maintains a record of all employees who have received this guidance and training.
80 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
