Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Accountability Highlights The Board as a whole discusses, challenges and approves the Annual Report and Accounts.
Internal controls Assessed risk management and internal The Board remains responsible for the effectiveness of internal controls systems as being effective control and risk management and keeps the systems under regular review.
Conducted a review of the significant The Groups systems of internal control are based on assessment judgements made by management in of risk and a framework of control procedures to manage risks and to monitor compliance with procedures.
The internal control systems preparing the 2018 financial statements are designed to meet the Groups particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed and, by their nature, can provide only reasonable, Considered the proposed accounting not absolute, assurance against material loss to the Group or material misstatement in the financial accounts.
and disclosures in respect of the disposal The Group has an ongoing process for the identification, evaluation of Glen-Gery and management of significant business risks, which has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board has, during the year, Financial reporting identified and evaluated the key risks and has ensured that effective The Group maintains a financial control environment that is regularly controls and procedures are in place to manage these risks reviewed by the Board.
The principal elements of the control see pages 42 to 47. environment include comprehensive management and financial reporting systems and processes, defined operating controls and The Executive Directors meet regularly with representatives authorisation limits, regular Board meetings, and clear subsidiary from the businesses to address financial, human resource, legal, board and operating structures.
In addition, the Group has engaged risk management, compliance and other control issues.
RSM LLP RSM to provide an outsourced internal audit function The Board also retains its responsibility to approve the annual to work alongside its own internally resourced internal audit function, budget.
Monitoring of the annual budget, following approval, is which was established during the year.
carried out through regular updates against budget circulated as part Internal control and risk management systems relating to the financial of the Chief Financial Officers report to the Board.
In addition, the reporting process and the process for preparing consolidated Board reviews all significant capital expenditure requests separately, accounts ensure the accuracy and timeliness of internal and external after a general approval for the quantum of the capital expenditure financial reporting.
Measures such as these ensure that adequate levels of control and scrutiny are maintained over the Throughout each year, monthly reforecasts, covering the income budget and capital expenditure at Board level.
The Board recognises statement, cash flow and balance sheet are performed by each that its Committees are generally only empowered to make business unit and then consolidated to provide an update of the recommendations to the Board for their approval, unless a specific Groups expected current year performance.
authorisation to approve certain matters is granted.
To facilitate Ongoing financial performance is monitored through regular weekly information flows, a verbal update is provided by the Chairman of reporting and monthly reporting cycles to Executive Directors and the relevant Committee in the subsequent Board meeting following regular reporting to the Board.
This process enables management a Committee meeting.
to assess performance, and identify risks and opportunities at the The Audit Committee, on the Boards behalf, has conducted a earliest opportunity.
review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of risk management Capital investment and all revenue expenditure is regulated by and internal control during the year, in accordance with the FRCs a budgetary process and authorisation levels, with post-investment guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and period end reviews conducted as required.
Details of the review can be found in the budgeting system allows managers to submit detailed budgets which Audit Committee Report on page 77.
The Audit Committee worked are reviewed and challenged by the Executive Directors prior to with KPMG to review and revise the Groups risk management submission to the Board for approval.
framework and activities and then reported their findings and recommendations for improvements to the Board.
The Group has an established and well understood management structure with documented levels for the authorisation of business Risk management transactions and clear bank mandates to control the approval of The Groups risk management process includes both top-down payments.
The Groups cash resources are managed by a centralised and bottom-up elements to the identification, evaluation and Treasury function.
Internal management reporting and external statutory reporting Risk arises from the operations of, and strategic decisions taken timetables and delivery requirements are well established, by, every business and our approach to risk management is not to documented and controlled at the Group centre.
eliminate risk entirely, but rather provide the structural means with which to identify, prioritise and manage the risks involved in our The Group maintains computer systems to record and consolidate activities.
The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for the all of its financial transactions.
These ledger systems are used to Groups risk management processes and systems of internal control.
produce the information for the monthly management accounts, and for the annual statutory financial statements.
The trading subsidiaries within the Group prepare their accounts under Financial Reporting Standard FRS 102.
The accounts production process ensures that there is a clear audit trail from the output of the Groups financial reporting systems, through the conversion and consolidation processes, to the Groups published financial statements.
73 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Accountability continued The Board has considered the nature and extent of risks it is willing The Audit Committee supports the Board in monitoring the risk to take in pursuit of the Groups strategic objectives.
It has assessed exposures and is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the the Groups risk appetite, which is set to balance opportunities risk management and internal control systems.
The Audit Committee for business development and growth in areas of potentially is assisted by the Groups outsourced internal auditor, RSM, in higher risk, whilst maintaining our reputation and high levels evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of our risk strategies of customer satisfaction.
and the internal controls implemented by management.
During 2018, no significant failings or weaknesses in the Groups internal controls The Groups appetite for risk is set depending upon the particular were identified.
risk associated with our Group strategy: The Audit Committee reviewed and approved the Group-wide risks Sustainable performance there is a low tolerance for health and mitigation prepared by management.
This review formed a key and safety and environmental related risks, and no appetite for component of the Directors robust assessment of the principal risks non-compliance with related legislation and statutory requirements facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business in these areas.
There is inevitably some operational risk inherent model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
These are set in a manufacturing business, however, formal policies and processes out in the table on pages 44 to 47. and a focus on continuous improvement should assist with the mitigation of these risks: The Groups Risk Management Framework is illustrated on page 43.
Market-led innovation whilst delivering activity aimed at Risk management framework introducing innovative products, the Group accepts that investment To effectively manage risk, operational level controls are embedded will be required in the short term but aims to deliver strong across the Group and form a key part of day to day processes.
operating margins and returns on capital over the long term: and Selective Growth the Board takes a conservative and disciplined The Board maintained its ultimate responsibility for the Groups approach to capital allocation with strict criteria to ensure that any control monitoring and provided direction to management in investment is consistent with the Groups strategy and expected its assessment of Group-wide risk.
Fair, balanced and understandable a matter for the An independent programme of audits, to be conducted by RSM LLP entire Board RSM, the Groups outsourced Internal Auditor, was approved by As part of its considerations as to whether the 2018 Annual Report the Audit Committee for completion in 2018.
At each of its meetings, and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable, and provide the Audit Committee received an update from RSM with regard to information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys progress in completion of the approved Internal Audit plan, details position, performance, business model and strategy, the Board of any findings noted to date in completion of their reviews, and took into account the following: managements responses and responsiveness to recommendations the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer provided input resulting from the audits.
to and agreed on the overall messages and tone of the Annual The internal audit reviews conducted by RSM supplemented Report and Accounts at an early stage: managements own operational audit activities.
The results of these individual sections of the Annual Report and Accounts were management activities were reported to the Audit Committee drafted by appropriate senior management with regular review throughout the year.
meetings to ensure consistency across the entire document: detailed reviews of appropriate draft sections of the Annual In considering the risks to which the Group is exposed, risk matrices Report and Accounts were undertaken by the Executive Directors: are maintained and reviewed by each subsidiary entity within the an advanced draft of the Annual Report and Accounts was Group.
These matrices are the result of input and challenge reviewed by the Audit Committee and the auditors on a timely undertaken by the senior managers within the entity and the Groups basis to allow sufficient consideration and was discussed with Executive Directors, and are refreshed during the course of the year.
the Chief Financial Officer and senior management prior At a Group level, the Board reviews these matrices and the analysis of to consideration by the Board: and potential exposures which exist within them.
Risks are reviewed and the Chief Financial Officer, in his February 2019 Board paper, monitored on an ongoing basis using consistent measurement criteria.
included a checklist of areas that the Board should take into In June 2018, the Board engaged KPMG to undertake a detailed account in considering the fairness, consistency and balance of the review of the Groups risk maturity with a view to refreshing its final draft of the Annual Report and Accounts, including whether approach to risk management across all levels of the business.
the Board considers that there are any omissions in information The review resulted in a detailed Risk Development Road Map, The Fair, Balanced and Understandable Statement appears setting out the core actions required to achieve a desired risk on page 60. maturity level of mature.
In December 2018, the Board reviewed and approved the proposed developments to the Groups risk management approach, engaging KPMG to support the business in re-designing the risk framework.
As part of the second phase of KPMGs support, a full review and re-design of the businesses risk governance framework has commenced with the intention of developing and implementing a risk framework and culture that is appropriately aligned to the Business risk maturity aspirations and corporate strategy.
A series of risk workshops commenced in January 2019 in order to raise risk awareness and understanding across the Business.
The workshops will result in newly identified and documented risk registers.
In addition, the Board has engaged KPMG to facilitate a strategic risk workshop in June 2019 with the aim of aligning the Business principal risks to Group strategy.
74 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
