Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Application of the Main Principles of the 2016 Code During the 2018 financial year, the Company continued to apply A.
4 Non-Executive Directors the Main Principles of the 2016 Code, as follows, while also working The Chairman promotes an open and constructive environment in towards implementation of the UK Corporate Governance Code the boardroom and actively invites the Non-Executive Directors to 2018 the 2018 Code : express their views.
The Non-Executive Directors provide objective, rigorous and constructive challenge to management and hold A.
Leadership meetings at which the Executive Directors are not present.
1 The role of the Board The Board acknowledges that a successful company is led by Tracey Graham was appointed by the Board as Senior Independent an effective and entrepreneurial board, whose role is to promote Director following the AGM on 24 May 2018. the long-term sustainable success of the company, generating value Mrs Graham is available to shareholders if they have concerns which for shareholders and contributing to wider society.
contact through the normal channels of Chairman, CEO or other The Board met formally on 10 occasions during the year.
Executive Directors has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Non-Executive Directors have sufficient time to meet There is a clear schedule of matters reserved for the Board, their Board responsibilities.
They provide constructive challenge, which can be found on the Companys corporate website, strategic guidance, offer specialist advice and hold management at www.
to account as and when required.
The Company maintains, at its expense, a Directors and Officers B.
Effectiveness liability insurance policy for the benefit of Group personnel including, B.
1 The composition of the Board as recommended by the Code, the Directors.
This insurance policy The Nomination Committee is responsible for regularly reviewing does not provide cover where the Director or Officer has acted the composition of the Board.
In recommending appointments to fraudulently or dishonestly.
the Board, the Nomination Committee considers the range of skills, The Company has also provided an indemnity for its Directors to knowledge and experience required, taking into account the benefits the extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities incurred whilst in of diversity on the Board, including gender.
The indemnity would not provide any coverage to the extent The Board and its Committees benefit from a combination of skills, that a Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
experience and knowledge drawn from across several industries A.
2 Division of responsibilities and functional roles.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly defined.
2 Appointments to the Board The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of The appointment of new Directors is led by the Nomination the Board.
The Chief Executive is responsible for leading the day to Committee.
Further details of the activities of the Nomination day management of the Group within the strategy set by the Board.
Committee during the year can be found on pages 71 and 72.
Details of the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive can be found on the Companys corporate website, Appointments to the Board are made on merit and measured at www.
Terms of against objective criteria set with regard to the benefits of a reference for the Boards principal committees can be found at diversified Board.
The appointments process is a formal, rigorous and Companys corporate website, at www.
Effective succession plans are maintained for corporate-governance.
Both appointments and succession plans are based on merit and objective criteria and are intended to The Board comprises an appropriate combination of executive promote diversity of gender, social and ethnic backgrounds, cognitive and independent Non-Executive Directors.
Accordingly, no one and personal strengths.
individual or small group of individuals dominates the Boards decision-making processes.
3 Commitment On appointment, Directors are notified of the time commitment A.
3 The Chairman expected from them which, in practice, goes beyond that set out The Chairman sets the agenda for Board meetings, manages the in their letter of appointment.
Permission must be sought from the meetings in conjunction with the Company Secretary and facilitates Chairman before other external directorships, which may affect open and constructive dialogue during those meetings.
existing time commitments, are accepted.
The Chairman leads the Board and is responsible for its overall Non-Executive Directors are expected to provide a time effectiveness in directing the Company.
The Chairman has commitment to the Company of at least 25 days per year, and demonstrated objective judgement throughout his tenure and to recognise the need for availability in the event of a crisis.
promotes a culture of openness and debate.
Furthermore, he facilitates constructive Board relations, the effective contribution B.
4 Development of all Non-Executive Directors, and ensures that Directors receive All new Directors receive a tailored induction programme upon timely, accurate and clear information.
Training is made available to members of the Board in accordance with their requirements.
Please see page 70 for details of the induction programmes conducted for Joe Hudson, Louis Eperjesi and Claire Hawkings.
Directors may, at the Companys expense, take independent professional advice and are encouraged to continually update their professional skills and knowledge of the business.
61 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate Governance statement continued B.
5 Information and support D. Remuneration The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensures D. 1 The levels and components of remuneration that all Board members receive accurate and timely information.
The Remuneration Committee sets the framework, policy and levels of remuneration which are designed to promote the long-term The Directors of all Group companies, as well as the Board, success of the Group.
Remuneration is structured so as to link it have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
to both corporate and individual performance, thereby aligning Independent external legal and professional advice can also be taken managements interests with those of shareholders.
Furthermore, each Committee of the Board has access to sufficient and tailored resources to carry Executive Directors remuneration is designed to promote the out its duties.
long-term success of the Company.
Performance-related elements should be transparent, stretching and rigorously applied.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, Remuneration policies and practices are designed to support strategy through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
and promote long-term sustainable success of the Group.
Executive The Board, supported by the Company Secretary, ensures that it has remuneration is aligned to Company purpose and values, and clearly the appropriate policies, processes, information, time and resources linked to the successful delivery of the Companys long-term strategy.
required in order to function effectively and efficiently.
6 Evaluation The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the During the 2018 financial year, the Board undertook an evaluation Board on the remuneration of Executive Directors, the Chairman of its own performance and that of its Committees.
Details of the and senior executives.
evaluation can be found on page 70.
Details of the activities of the Remuneration Committee can be When conducting its annual evaluation, the Board considers its found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 81 to 107. composition, diversity and how effectively members work together The Board has a formal and transparent procedure for developing to achieve the Groups objectives.
The Chairman conducts individual policy on remuneration and for fixing the remuneration packages evaluations of the Non-Executive Directors to determine whether of individual Directors and members of the senior management team.
they have made an effective contribution to the Board.
No Director is involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
7 Re-election The Board exercises independent judgement and discretion when All Directors are subject to annual election or re-election by authorising remuneration outcomes, taking account of Company shareholders.
The names of Directors submitted for election or and individual performance, benchmarking and wider circumstances.
re-election, accompanied by sufficient biographical details and any other relevant information, are provided to shareholders to enable E. Relations with shareholders them to take an informed decision on their election.
E. 1 Dialogue with shareholders The Board takes an active role in engaging with shareholders.
The C. Accountability Board particularly values opportunities to meet with shareholders C. 1 Financial and business reporting and the Chairman ensures that the Board is kept informed about The Board has established arrangements to ensure that reports shareholders views.
This is discussed further in Relations with and other information published by the Group are fair, balanced shareholders and other stakeholders on page 63. and understandable.
The Strategic Report, set out on pages 1 to 56, provides information about the Groups performance, the Groups In order for the Company to meet its responsibilities to shareholders business model, the Groups strategy and the risks and uncertainties and other stakeholders, the Board ensures that it has effective relating to the Groups future prospects.
engagement with, and encourages participation from, all key stakeholders.
C. 2 Risk management and internal control The Board sets the Groups risk appetite and, via the Audit E. 2 Constructive use of the General Meetings Committee, monitors and annually reviews the effectiveness The Annual General Meeting AGM provides the Board of the Groups systems of risk management and internal control.
with an important opportunity to communicate with shareholders, who are invited to meet the Board following the formal business The Board ensures that the necessary resources are in place for of the meeting.
the Company to meet its objectives and to measure performance against them.
The Board has established a framework of prudent Share Dealing Code and effective controls, which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
The Company has adopted a code of securities dealing in relation For further discussion see Accountability on pages 73 and 74. to the Ordinary Shares.
The code applies to Directors, Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibilities and relevant employees C. 3 Audit Committee and auditors of the Group.
The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the Audit Committee.
Information on Audit Committee composition, together with the principal activities carried out by the Audit Committee during the year, are included in the report presented by the Audit Committee Chair on pages 75 to 80.
The Board has established formal and transparent arrangements for considering how it applies the corporate reporting and risk management and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Companys auditors.
The Board has implemented formal and transparent policies and procedures to enable the Board to ensure the independence and effectiveness of internal and external audit functions and satisfy itself as to the integrity of financial and narrative statements.
62 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Relations with shareholders and other stakeholders Highlights The Chairman has recently introduced a programme of events intended to achieve regular engagement with major shareholders in order to understand their views on governance and performance Executive Directors engaged with against the Groups strategy.
Committee Chairs will seek engagement with shareholders on significant matters related to their areas of shareholders throughout the year responsibility.
Tracey Graham has offered the opportunity to meet to a number of major shareholders to discuss the revised Remuneration Received commendations from our Policy that will be proposed for approval by shareholders at the customers in recognition of the support 2019 AGM.
Live audio webcasts with replay facilities are available for the full-year and services we provide to them and interim results presentations to analysts.
Workforce and local community invited All shareholders are invited to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting the AGM, at which they will have the opportunity to to celebrate the opening of the new meet and put questions to the Board.
Details of the resolutions to Eclipse brick factory in Ibstock be proposed at the AGM to be held on 23 May 2019 at 11:00 a. m. at 54 Hatton Garden, London EC1N 8HN can be found in the Notice of Meeting.
The Notice of Meeting, together with explanatory notes Shareholders on the resolutions to be proposed and full details of the deadlines for The Board recognises the importance of creating a clear flow appointing proxies, is contained in a circular which will be circulated of communication between it and all shareholders, particularly with to all shareholders at least 20 working days before the AGM, together regard to business developments and financial results.
The Board with this Annual Report and Accounts.
This document will also be aims to communicate on a regular basis and at present the Company available on the Ibstock plc website www.
utilises news releases, investor presentations and Company Results of voting at the AGM will be announced to the London publications, and will expand communication channels as appropriate.
Stock Exchange and will be published on the Companys website The Executive Directors conduct a round of meetings with analysts at www.
and investors following announcement of the full-year and interim The results of the voting at the 2018 AGM were, in summary: results.
The Companys brokers prepare a report that provides anonymised objective feedback received from investors following For Against those meetings.
The report is shared with the Non-Executive Percentage Percentage Directors and the Executive Directors, who act upon the feedback 1,2 2 Resolution of votes cast of votes cast as necessary.
The Executive Directors also provide feedback to 1 Receive the Annual Report the Non-Executive Directors on their conversations with investors.
and Accounts 99.93% 0.07% This process is one of the ways in which Non-Executive Directors 2 Directors Remuneration are provided with an opportunity to develop an understanding Report 99.58% 0.42% of the views of the major shareholders.
3 Declare a final dividend of Tracey Graham is the Senior Independent Director the SID.
6.5 pence per ordinary share 96.48% 3.52% Tracey assumed this role on 24 May 2018, when Jonathan Nicholls who was the SID until this date became Chairman of the Board.
4-8 Election re-election of directors 98.58%- 0.43%- The SID is available to shareholders throughout the year if they have 99.57% 1.42% concerns that contact through the normal channels of the Chairman, 9 Re-appointment of Chief Executive Officer or other Executive Directors has failed to external auditors 100.0% 0.0% resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
In 2018, the SID 10 Auditors remuneration 100.0% 0.0% received updates from the Executive Directors, who met with major shareholders following announcement of the full year and interim 11 Political donations 97.39% 2.61% results, on the issues and concerns raised at those meetings.
Tracey 12 Authority to allot shares 98.72% 1.28% and Jonathan both attended the AGM on 24 May 2018, where they 13 Authority to disapply met shareholders and answered their questions.
Shareholders have pre-emption rights 99.99% 0.01% the opportunity to raise any issues they wish with the Chairman or the SID.
14 Additional authority to disapply pre-emption rights acquisitions The Board is working with the Companys Director of Investor capital investments 99.23% 0.77% Relations who joined us in September 2018 on a programme of 15 Market purchases of own shares 99.09% 0.91% engagement with major shareholders for 2019, taking account of the recommendations in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018.
16 General meetings on less than 14 clear days notice 97.18% 2.82% 1 Includes those votes for which discretion was given to the Chairman.
2 Does not include votes withheld.
63 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Relations with shareholders and other stakeholders continued Website Investor Relations Other stakeholders The investor relations section of the Companys website can In addition to our shareholders, the Board has identified a number be found at www.
It provides information of groups as its key stakeholders.
In the Resources and Relationships on the Companys financial calendar, dividends, annual general section on pages 32 to 41 we discuss how the Group has engaged meetings and other areas of interest to shareholders.
Copies of with these key stakeholders during the year.
Highlights include: Annual Reports and investor presentations are available to view and Employees download.
Shareholders can also register to receive email alerts An 11% reduction, year on year, in Lost Time Accidents: relating to the Groups activities.
In excess of 7,000 training days provided to the Groups Executive Leadership Team employees: and The Group has an Executive Leadership Team the ELT comprised Launch of an all employee Save As You Earn share incentive plan.
of the Executive Directors, Company Secretary, Group functional Customers heads and business unit leaders.
The ELT meets on a regular basis Recognised as the Best Overall Supplier by Jewson at their to monitor operational matters and to provide input to the Groups Jewson Live annual conference and supplier exhibition: and strategic debate and implementation.
Through this structure, Our product range is the most extensive in the market and executives in the tier immediately below Board level have the over the last year we have added 15 new products to the range.
opportunity to have greater involvement in the management of the Business.
The Board, as part of its succession planning arrangements, Suppliers meets with members of the ELT at their business locations and We updated our Code of Business Conduct and Anti-Bribery off-site during the course of the year.
and Corruption policies: and Updated the Groups Modern Slavery Statement.
Workforce The Board keeps engagement mechanisms with the wider workforce Communities and environment under review so that they remain effective.
During the year under Over 400 members of the local community attended the open day review the Company engaged with the workforce through: to celebrate commission of the new Eclipse factory in Ibstock: and The new Eclipse factory received a commendation at the Electrical Company Newsletters introduced in 2018 issued to all employees.
Contractors Association annual awards for its integrated intelligent Tailored Newsletters are prepared for each of the Brick and lighting solution that should deliver 170,000kg CO savings annually.
CEOs weekly email briefings sent to all employees with Company email addresses.
Employees who do not have email addresses receive a weekly briefing at which the CEOs message is shared with them.
Visits to the Groups operations, as discussed on page 66, during which the Board had the opportunity to receive feedback from members of the workforce on Group related matters.
Two conferences were organised during the year for the Senior Leadership Team the SLT.
Approximately 80 members of the SLT met to discuss and devise solutions for various issues facing the Group.
They were also able to provide feedback from their areas of the Business.
A series of back to work days was organised to take place in January 2019.
This is a new initiative whereby at the beginning of each year, all managers across the Group will hold a one-off session with their team or teams to share what was achieved during the previous year, and to facilitate a team discussion about what should be focused upon at individual, site and Company level for the remainder of the year.
Staff engagement was at a very high level and feedback from attendees is being assessed by the Company.
The Board has reviewed and is enhancing workforce engagement mechanisms, taking account of the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018.
The Board will report on its review, and on the additional workforce engagement mechanisms introduced, in next years annual report.
64 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
