Effectiveness Highlights Evaluation outcomes and actions Overall, it was concluded that the Board and its Committees continue to provide effective leadership and exert the required levels Completed actions arising from the 2017 of governance and control and that each Director continues to contribute effectively and demonstrate commitment to his or her Board evaluation role.
The Board will continue to review its procedures, effectiveness and development in the year ahead.
Specific outcomes and actions Completed induction programmes were as follows: for Joe Hudson, Louis Eperjesi and Board changes The appointment of the Chairman, new CEO and two new NEDs Claire Hawkings had been successful.
Despite the large amount of change the Board continued to be a highly functional group of individuals with the skills Performed a successful, externally and experience required to take the Group forward.
facilitated evaluation of the effectiveness Executive succession planning of the Board and its Committees A greater number of presentations to the Board from the executive team immediately below Board level would be organised where appropriate.
Board evaluation The Board would ensure that the process for mapping, assessing An externally facilitated formal and rigorous evaluation of the and planning for the development of the executive team immediately performance of the Board, its principal Committees and individual below Board level would be further strengthened.
Directors was undertaken in the final quarter of 2018.
Next evaluation The performance evaluation took the form of a questionnaire which The next evaluation would likely take the form of a more narrowly included questions that were intended to assist with the assessment focused and forward-looking exercise which could probe areas such of the performance of the Board, individual Directors and the as strategy, succession planning, risk and the structure of the Board.
It also included questions related to Board administration, strategy, risk oversight and succession planning.
Induction of new directors The process provided the Board with the opportunity to make Joe Hudson was appointed a Director, and CEO Designate, specific comments in response to a series of open questions.
A tailored induction programme was prepared The questionnaire was completed by all Directors and the Company for him, which took place during the first three months following Secretary.
The questionnaires were evaluated by David Mensley his appointment to the Board.
During the programme Joe received of EquityCommunications Ltd and a report was presented to the detailed briefings on the operation of the Board, its processes and December 2018 meeting.
EquityCommunications Ltd has no governance.
He received a detailed and extensive handover from the connection with the Group, or any individual director, other than outgoing CEO.
Meetings were organised with the Groups business the provision of services in respect of the Board and Committee unit leaders and all other members of the Senior Leadership Team.
Visits were arranged to all of the Groups principal factories and operations throughout the UK and the US.
Joe met with decision The Senior Independent Director met with the Non-Executive makers from the Groups major customers and suppliers and also Directors, in the absence of the Chairman, to appraise the received briefings from the Companys brokers and legal advisors.
Chairmans performance, taking into account the views of Executive Shortly before being appointed CEO he attended the analysts Directors.
The review concluded that the Chairmans performance presentation of the 2017 preliminary results and accompanied continued to be effective and that he demonstrates commitment the CEO and CFO at post announcement meetings with to the role.
The SID informed the Chairman of the reviews findings.
The Chairman met with all Non-Executive Directors individually Louis Eperjesi and Claire Hawkings were appointed as Directors on to conduct an appraisal of their performance.
The reviews concluded 1 June 2018 and 1 September 2018, respectively.
They each received that the Non-Executive Directors continued to be effective and had tailored induction programmes that included visits to the principal demonstrated commitment to their roles.
operations of the Groups three UK based businesses, where they met members of the management teams.
They were given guided tours of the factories and were introduced to the businesses products and manufacturing operations.
Meetings were also held with the Executive Directors and senior members of the Group Head Office team.
In addition, they received briefings on the operation of the Board, its processes and governance, the structure of Board Committees and were granted access to past Board papers and minutes.
External directorships Any external appointments or other significant commitments of the Directors require the prior approval of the Board.
When making new appointments, the Board takes into account other demands on Directors time.
The external commitments of the Board are set out in their biographies on pages 68 and 69.
The Board is content with the level of external directorships held by the Chairman and the independent Non-Executive Directors, as these do not impact on the time that any Director devotes to the Company.
Furthermore, the Board believes that this external experience serves to enhance the capability of the Board.
70 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
