Resources and relationships Introduction Our people are at the heart The Group has seen a degree of change during the year ended 31 December 2018 with the appointment of a new Chairman of our operations.
Upon commencement of their new positions, the new senior leadership has taken a fresh look at the Strategy key Groups existing strategy.
This strategy update has coincided with 1 Sustainable performance the release of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code with its 2 Market led innovation greater focus on vision, strategy, stakeholder engagement and values.
3 Selective growth We have made good progress in these areas during the current year as this refresh process continues: and in next years Annual Report Number of Lost Time 20 and Accounts, when the new Code is in force, we will report further Accidents by year 18 in each of these areas.
Actual 16 The 2018 Annual Report and Accounts includes a summary of 16 our work in these areas to date, including our mission on page 1, our strategy on page 22 and the initial results of our stakeholder engagement activities, set out below.
Key to this is the introduction of the Ibstock way.
As one Group, with a number of great brands, we believe having a clearly defined set of behaviours will enable 2016 2017 2018 us to drive the right culture and performance.
Link to strategy 1 In addition to our shareholders, we consider the Groups key stakeholders to be our employees, customers and suppliers, Net Promoter Score 43 43 42 as well as the communities and environments in which we operate.
Actual Our people 43% We recognise the unique contribution of each and every person that we employ and aspire to provide a harmonious and safe working environment where everyone can develop their skills, fulfil their career aspirations and share in our ongoing success.
Our Groups Diversity and inclusion policy sets out our commitment to promoting equal opportunities in employment and ensuring that all job 2016 2017 2018 applicants, employees and other workers such as agency staff and Link to strategy 1 2 consultants are treated with dignity and respect regardless of any personal characteristics.
Gender split across the Group The Group is an equal opportunities employer.
The Group considers applications for employment from disabled persons having regard All employees to their particular aptitudes and abilities and encourages and assists, 1 1 Male: 1,928 whenever practicable, the recruitment, training, career development 2 Female: 341 2 and promotion of disabled people and the retention of, and appropriate training for, those who become disabled during their employment.
Where an employee becomes disabled during their employment with us, all efforts are made to try to ensure the employee can continue in their current role.
However, if, due to the specific circumstances, this is not possible, every effort will be made to provide retraining for alternative employment within the Group.
We aim to ensure that all our recruitment and selection practices are Senior managers based upon fair and objective criteria.
We encourage the continuous 1 Male: 9 1 2 development and training of all our people throughout their career 2 Female: 1 with us.
We are committed to identifying and eliminating discriminatory practices, procedures and attitudes and we expect all employees, officers, consultants, contractors, casual workers and agency workers to support our commitment and assist in all possible ways to prevent discrimination.
As a building products manufacturer, Ibstocks operating companies have traditionally attracted a very high proportion Directors of male employees, especially within factory based production roles.
1 1 Male: 5 Office based support roles have a more even split of male and 2 Female: 2 female employees, including a high proportion of women in both sales and customer support roles.
32 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information The Group acknowledges the aims, objectives and recommendations As a large employer, we must comply with all relevant regulatory outlined in the Hampton-Alexander Review, which is focused upon requirements.
These, combined with industry specific codes of practice ensuring talented women succeed by removing barriers to their and guidelines, establish minimum H&S requirements, and under such success, and continuing to drive forward the momentum of the laws and regulations, employers typically must establish the conditions Davies Review Women on Boards.
We have observed with and the management of work in a manner that effectively prevents interest as the proportion of women serving on FTSE Boards has or adequately controls hazards within the work environment.
increased again this year and we are aware of the need to achieve an These documents are used to help define Group policies and appropriate balance of women on our Board and in senior positions procedures for all employees.
These are set out in the Ibstock plc throughout the Group.
Similarly, we have made good progress in Health and Safety Policy Manual.
We have comprehensive training the level covered under the reporting requirements of the Hampton programmes in place to ensure all employees are competent to carry Alexander Report, increasing the percentage of women in this group out their duties and an auditing protocol is in place to ensure policies from 8.3% in 2017 to 26% in 2018. and procedures are effective and adhered to.
A dedicated team of However, we do not consider that it is in the best interests of the H&S professionals support the operational delivery of H&S Company, or its shareholders, to set prescriptive targets for gender management and leadership.
and we will continue to make appointments based on merit, against During 2018, the induction process was reviewed and standardised objective criteria to ensure we appoint the most suitable person for across the business.
The new employee and contractor induction each role.
That said, we are working hard to encourage more females covers both the employers and employees responsibilities for H&S into the business.
For example, we are working with our recruitment based around Ibstocks 12 fundamentals.
These are based around partners to ensure that we are attracting high-quality candidates Ibstocks daily activities including risk assessment, mobile plant and from a range of backgrounds regardless of gender or ethnicity.
pedestrian safety, and allow us to focus on H&S in the work place We are pleased to report in a very focused area, having recruited with a safety begins with me culture.
To achieve zero harm at all our first ever female Engineering Apprentices into Ibstock Brick times it is vital that visitors to our sites and new employees, whether during 2018. permanent or contract, are inducted and given the opportunity to Our current employee population reflects the traditional nature fully understand and appreciate our approach to H&S on all our sites.
of the industry, with around 85% of roles being occupied by men, Working with our contract haulier: the load securing of products including a high percentage of males employed in factory-based has been reviewed and industry best practice applied to ensure production roles.
Our employee population is therefore reflective the safety of road users.
Quarterly meetings are in place to review of the manufacturing sector as a whole, and especially within building effectiveness and look at how the H&S standards of our hauliers products manufacturing where men have traditionally performed can be improved.
Competency of our workforce is vital to ensure day to day tasks are Our gender diversity performance is displayed in the charts on performed safely.
Manual handling is one of the biggest risks in our page 32 and in the year we continued our efforts in this area through Company.
After a successful trial, Ibstock plc moved away from the our Group-wide Women in business forum, promoting greater traditional classroom based training to an improved practical on-the-job engagement from our female leadership and talent pipeline.
This training, engaging with the industry specialist to tailor the training to internal network is intended to ensure women across our companies our needs.
The roll out of this training will continue into 2019. feel supported in achieving their career aspirations, through peer support and focused coaching, as appropriate.
It is our ambition to achieve zero harm to our people and we continue to reduce the number of lost time accidents incurred The Group is pleased to comply with gender pay gap regulations each year.
We are pleased to report a reduction in the current and we believe firmly in providing equal opportunities regardless year with 16 LTAs reported in the year ended 31 December 2018. of gender or ethnicity.
The results of our gender pay gap for our This represents a fall of 11% LTAs year on year.
The Board continues largest subsidiary are noted with the Directors Remuneration to regularly monitor the Groups performance against our Lost Time Report on page 87.
Accidents KPI, and this focus continues to play a part in reducing this We view the gender pay gap data as a valuable tool to help KPI measure over recent years.
understand why our own business and our industry are missing out In addition to continuing our long-term focus on the improvement on female talent.
We see gender pay gap reporting as a critical step in LTA performance, 2019 sees the launch of our year-long Health in our drive to attract, retain and develop a diverse workforce across and Wellbeing programme, which focuses on a different topic each the Group.
We are proud of the steps we have already taken, and month, with the aim of improving the lives of the Groups employees.
continue to take, to encourage more females into our business.
During 2018, we have taken action to encourage inclusivity within Training and apprenticeships our recruitment processes to ensure that high-quality candidates We are committed to developing an environment where every are considered from a range of cultural backgrounds across all employee can thrive and give their very best each and every day.
We have instructed our recruitment partners to continual investment in their training and development contributes to actively source female candidates for those roles that are currently a loyal and engaged workforce with the skills and experience necessary considered as roles typically performed by men and vice versa.
to deliver our business objectives both now and into the future.
Health and Safety In 2018, over 7,000 days of training were provided to the Groups The Group employs around 2,300 people across the UK and we place employees: this equates to an average of 3.2 training days per person.
the highest focus upon ensuring all our people go home safe every day.
We deliver a comprehensive development programme covering The most common injuries within our industry arise from slips and a range of topics from operational and technical skills improvement trips, contact with moving machinery and manual handling injuries.
through to modular and structured Leadership Programmes to As such, it has been a strategic priority to focus on Health and Safety support our succession plans.
We pride ourselves on developing H&S in the workplace, and is at the core of all our operations.
our people and 25% of roles were filled by internal applicants ensuring our people are able to fulfil their career aspirations.
One of the key It is the Groups objective to provide a healthy and safe working reasons for our continued success is our ability to retain the in-depth environment for all our employees and the contractors at Ibstock sites.
skills and knowledge about our customers and operations.
33 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Resources and relationships continued Continuous improvement is the core of our operations, constantly looking for more efficient ways of doing things and embracing technology wherever possible.
However, all employees will eventually retire, and for over 20 years we have operated a highly successful apprenticeship programme.
Since 2012 we have enhanced this programme through central co-ordination and standardisation to ensure all apprentices are trained to a consistent standard, including specific sign-off within the organisation over and above that required by the training provider.
Our apprenticeship scheme ensures that we mitigate the risk of an ageing workforce and harness the skills and experience of these people so that when they retire their replacement is fully trained and competent to take over their role.
The Ibstock schemes are four-year programmes, which focus on giving apprentices the skills required to maintain and improve our factories, as well as manufacture our products to a very high standard.
As well as the technical and operational skills, we also help Ben Lumsden right and Jack Travers left were invited by British Chamber apprentices to develop the attitudes and behaviours essential to the of Commerce to attend Parliament to represent Ibstock Brick and our industry.
safe and efficient operation of our factories.
Part of this programme also covers the development of life skills to boost confidence and communication.
Upon completion, our apprentices are awarded nationally recognised qualifications, together with an excellent set of practical skills.
We currently have 37 apprentices within Ibstock Brick, on Technical, Mechanical Engineering or Electrical Engineering Programmes.
This includes two female engineering apprentices, who began working with us during 2018.
12 apprentices have completed their programmes and have moved into key operational roles within Ibstock Brick.
These range from Engineering Operatives and Team Leaders through to Technical Managers.
During 2018, two of our Apprentice of the Year winners, Ben Lumsden 2017 and Jack Travers 2016, were invited by British Chamber of Commerce to attend Parliament to represent Ibstock Brick and our industry.
Ben and Jack had the opportunity to participate in an MPs discussion about the Ibstock Apprenticeship Scheme and their own personal experiences of apprenticeships.
In 2019 we are extending our Engineering Apprentice programme Emma Prusek, Technical Assistant received an Outstanding Achievement Award across the whole business and we will be recruiting 11 Engineering for her first year at Leicester College where Emma is undertaking her HNC apprentices across Ibstock Brick, Forticrete and Supreme, with a in Construction In The Built Environment.
further three Technical apprentices for Ibstock Brick.
We are exploring opportunities to develop the Ibstock plc Apprenticeship Scheme across all departments, starting with a pilot in Manufacturing for Production Operatives planned for 2019 whilst also piloting higher level apprenticeships within our Finance team.
Employee engagement We recognise that delighted customers are the result of highly competent, engaged and diligent people.
Day to day relationships with our customers are central to our success and have often been built over many years through personal relationships with our teams.
We are very proud that our employee retention levels have consistently remained high.
In 2018, our combined employee retention rate across all Group companies was 84%.
This, combined with our service profile, demonstrates a sustainable organisation where people feel valued and advocate us as being a great employer.
A variety of methods are used to engage with employees, including The Group is pleased factory and team meetings: departmental briefings: and in-house publications.
We will use one or more of these channels to brief to comply with new gender employees about our business performance and the financial and pay gap regulations and we economic factors affecting us.
In specific instances, where a consultation is required such as the closure of the Groups defined believe firmly in providing benefit scheme in the prior year, consultation groups are put in place with elected employee representatives.
equal opportunities regardless of gender or ethnicity.
34 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information To improve the lines of communications we have introduced a number of new ways of engaging with our people during 2018.
These include the introduction of This week emails to all staff from the CEO, Joe Hudson.
These Monday morning communications provide an update on the activities of the CEO and provide commentary on wider corporate events and transactions to ensure all employees understand the Groups business and have an awareness of the Boards activities.
Additionally, we have begun Group-wide calls following the Groups official results announcements.
These offer employees an opportunity to ask questions about the recent performance and wider strategic decisions, as well as the outlook for the Group.
Our new quarterly employee newsletters which are received by every member of staff from the CEO to our factory workers were also added to our communications this year.
These newsletters celebrate the success of the businesses as well as applauding our employees achievements from charity events through to personal Ibstock Brick scooped Best Heavy Side Brand accolade at Builders Merchant development accomplishments and employee milestones.
During 2018 the Group operated two Save As You Earn SAYE share schemes with the maximum allowable discount of 20%.
The scheme is open to eligible employees, who are encouraged to save a fixed monthly sum for a period of three years.
There has been a high level of participation in both schemes from our people as we seek to encourage employee membership so that they can share in our success, becoming shareholders who have a direct investment in our business.
In 2019, we are planning to relaunch our Employee Engagement Survey to all of our operating companies.
We absolutely believe that the opinions of our people about us as their employer matter and we aim to ensure that we capitalise on their feedback to continue our ambition of being a great employer.
As part of our focus on staff welfare we are putting health and well-being in the spotlight with the launch of a new workplace campaign for 2019, Working Towards Your Health and Wellbeing which aims to engage with staff on key issues and promote a healthier work environment.
Each month will have a different theme, including drug awareness, womens and mens health, mental health, cancer and alcohol awareness with many of these tying into national and international events.
Ibstock Brick recognised at Jewson Awards as the Best Overall Supplier.
Our customers The Groups brands and customer relationships are key to the sustained long-term success of the Group, as recognised within the principal risk number 4 see page 45.
Maintenance of our customer relationships is a key focus of our employees and Net Promoter Score NPS serves as one of our non-financial Key Performance Indicators.
During the year we once again commissioned numerous customer satisfaction surveys to understand our performance and identify areas where we can strive to improve.
During 2018, Ibstock Brick was awarded the Best Heavy Side Brand award at the inaugural Builders Merchant Journal BMJ Awards, with the winners having been chosen by a public vote.
Additionally, we were recognised as the Best Overall Supplier at Jewsons annual conference and supplier exhibition Jewson Live.
The latter gave recognition of our efforts to ensure continuity of supply despite experiencing record despatch days.
We also partnered with Jewson to market a brand new product manufactured at our new Eclipse factory.
These awards demonstrate the ongoing support we provide to our customers, even within challenging periods for the industry, and shows the dedication of our teams in serving our customers and to creating long-term business relationships.
35 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Resources and relationships continued Innovation Innovation is at the heart of our business.
Our continued commitments to investments in technology and infrastructure have enabled us to find new ways to improve the quality of our existing products and processes.
Crucially, by creating a culture in which change is embraced and new ways of doing things are welcomed, we have also been able to develop new products and fresh approaches to problem-solving.
Our approach to innovation is one that is shared right across the Group and at all levels within our workforce.
At a commercial level this helps us to better anticipate and respond to future trends, thereby reducing the risks associated with maintaining the status quo.
Within Ibstock Brick, our product range remains the most extensive in the market.
Our awareness of and response to shifting market trends, tastes and aesthetics has resulted in a continued expansion of our range.
Over the last year we have added 15 new products to our range and 14 customer-specific products.
New colour, size and Ibstock Brick opened the new Eclipse factory which will help build up to 15,000 texture options continue to be developed and added to the portfolio new homes a year and we remain confident that our range remains market leading.
It is particularly important to recognise the role innovation plays at our new Eclipse factory.
Eclipse is the most efficient brickworks of its kind and is an exemplar of British manufacturing and innovation.
Here, new, efficient manufacturing process and award-winning approaches to design, sustainability and technology have enabled us to operate more efficiently, and in turn, reduce our impact on the environment.
The Group will continue to innovate through the adoption of state-of-the-art robotics, clean technologies and performance improvements.
As proof that this approach is working, on average it now takes almost 70% less energy to make a brick than was the case in 1970.
Product innovation The Group has a strong track record of award-winning products.
This includes recognition at the Brick Development Association BDA Brick Awards.
Ibstock Brick has a history of award wins having been recognised in more than half of the award-winning categories and multiple Supreme award winners.
In the 2018 annual awards ceremony, three outstanding projects using products Creek Road, Architects Choice Award winner at the Brick Awards 2018, utilised from our Ibstock Brick range were named as winners, with a further Ibstock Funton Old Chelsea Yellow brick to mirror the existing bricks whilst adding a contemporary twist.
two projects receiving commendations from the expert judging panel.
The Architects Choice Award was voted for by the public from a selection of shortlisted projects in other categories.
It was awarded to the BPTW Architects designed project at Creek Road in the heart of Greenwich.
The project utilised Ibstocks Funton Old Chelsea Yellow brick to mirror the existing bricks whilst adding a contemporary twist Within our Forticrete business, our revolutionary SL8 roof tile is a true example of class-leading product innovation.
Introduced to the market in 2016, it has been granted three patents covering the camber, interlocking design and dry verge design.
These patents provide the Group with 20 years protection on our design and give assurance to our customers that they are using market-leading roof tiles within their construction projects when using our SL8 tiles.
Such is our confidence in the SL8 product, we intend to submit it for a variety of construction products awards in 2019.
Ibstock Kevington launched MechSlip, a new, lightweight, mechanically fixed cladding system that delivers all the benefits of natural clay brick.
The Ibstock Kevington Umbra shapes introduce an exciting shadow effect across a brick faade bringing buildings to life by changing their appearance throughout the day.
The innovative Umbra shape units are designed to coordinate with standard brickwork offering ease of installation and in order to develop bespoke visual effects.
36 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Our culture of innovation is also pursued through collaborative projects both amongst the Groups businesses and with third parties.
We believe successful partnering benefits both us and our partners and ultimately adds value to the customer.
An example of a successful collaboration is the launch of Ibstock Kevingtons MechSlip brick slip cladding system.
Working alongside a specialist in metal fabrication and cladding, this product is an exemplar of continuous innovation across the Group.
MechSlip is widely viewed as a genuine brick innovation: it allows architects and specifiers to use real brick slips with the inspired efficiency and versatility of a mechanically fixed lightweight cladding system.
MechSlip was developed in direct response to the evolving needs of the construction market, delivering a lightweight brick faade for projects where traditional methods of construction are more difficult to facilitate.
It also has no combustible parts which is vitally important in light of the Hackitt review of Building Regulations and Fire Safety.
Ibstock Kevington Umbra shapes introduce an exciting shadow effect across Our suppliers a brick faade bringing buildings to life by changing their appearance throughout the day.
The Group also aims to develop long-term relationships with its key suppliers, and conducts business in a fair, open and transparent way.
Our Group procurement team have designed policies and procedures, with which our suppliers and teams are required to comply.
These are all aimed at ensuring we work safely, equitably and in the best interests of the both parties, as well as the Groups other stakeholders.
Responsible business As the laws governing business dealings become ever more complex we need to ensure the judgements and decisions we make are taken with both the knowledge and application of the highest ethical principles.
In 2018, we updated and re-issued our Code of Business Conduct and Anti-Bribery and Corruption policies to continue to ensure that we operate in an open, fair and honest manner in all of our business dealings.
We have also implemented our Trade Associations Policy to help support employees in their dealings with fellow employees, customers, suppliers, regulators and colleagues in competing businesses.
We believe that these sound, ethical principles will help us to act at all times with honesty and integrity, constantly striving to operate Forticrete was granted three UK patents for its innovative SL8 large format in the best interests of our business.
This will help ensure that Ibstock roof tile.
continues to maintain and enhance its excellent reputation as a Group that everyone can trust and wants to do business with.
Building on these compliance policies, 2017 saw the first year of the Groups online compliance training.
This web-based compliance training was completed by 100% of the UK employees surveyed and covered a wide range of the Groups policies and codes of practice, including Anti-Bribery, conflicts of interest, business ethics and diversity.
All new employees during the year were required to undertake the training with a full refresh across the Group planned for 2019.
In 2018, our tax strategy was disclosed on the Groups website.
This formalises the Groups approach to conducting its tax affairs and managing our tax risks.
Our vision for tax is to be a responsible corporate citizen, contributing the right amount of tax to society at the right time and in the right tax jurisdiction whilst maintaining our integrity and corporate reputation and continuing to deliver value for our shareholders.
37 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Resources and relationships continued Respect for human rights The Group takes seriously its obligations under the Human Rights Act and seeks to act accordingly in all aspects of its operations.
Modern slavery is an international crime and we are committed to taking all necessary steps to prevent modern slavery within our business and also within our supply chains.
During the year, the Groups Modern Slavery Statement was republished in accordance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and publicly summarising the principals of the Groups Modern Slavery policy see www.
The Group recognises that responsibility for eradicating modern slavery rests with us all.
All individuals working within the Group, in every capacity, are expected to be familiar with the Groups Modern Slavery Policy and be proactive in preventing modern slavery.
This includes employees at all levels, Directors, officers, agency workers, seconded workers, volunteers, interns, agents, contractors, external consultants, third party representatives and business partners.
Ibstock Brick opened their new Eclipse factory to the local community Our Modern Slavery Policy sets out a zero tolerance approach to any on Saturday, 22 September 2018. potential or actual breaches of the policy.
It sets out the steps taken by Ibstock and other relevant Group companies to prevent modern slavery and human trafficking in its business and supply chains.
Annually, our employees certify their compliance with our policies and through the Groups Supplier Code of Conduct, we monitor our suppliers to ensure they maintain similar policies to ensure our standards are upheld throughout our various supply chains.
Anti-corruption and bribery Our Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy helps support our employees in making all those business decisions faced be it with fellow employees, customers, suppliers, regulators and within the communities we work next to.
We believe that these sound ethical principles help us all to act with honesty and integrity at all times.
We believe it also means looking after the best interests of the Group and those we interact with.
Our Group Code of Conduct, together with our Supplier Code of Business Conduct, set out the behaviours expected of our staff and third parties we do business with.
Also, to help us encourage the highest standards of ethical behaviour, corporate governance and accountability in our business activities, the Group operates an anonymous Whistleblowing hotline, which is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
A summary of whistleblowing activity, together with details of related investigations, is provided to the Board on a regular basis.
Our communities and environment Social matters The Groups impact on society includes the provision of employment and training within communities across the wide geographies we operate within, and our practices in relation to our employees and apprentices, as discussed above.
Our societal influence also encompasses our products impact on the built environment and the aesthetics of our building products are carefully considered during the design phase and through our close working relationships with architects and other customers through the planning process.
Our products are subject to testing by our Group technical department and we perform quality audits through the year aimed at ensuring high standards across our factory locations Ibstock recognises that are maintained.
At a regional level, it is important to note that a majority of our investment of time into employees come from the local towns and villages surrounding our our communities is equally manufacturing facilities, making us one of the biggest employers in the areas we operate.
We are keen to support local contractors and important and so we regularly sponsor many local clubs and societies.
Community projects are also supported through our quarry restoration partners under the Landfill spend time with local groups Tax Credit Scheme which include the Ibstock Enovert Environmental and schools.
Trust, WREN through FCC and the Mick George Community Fund.
38 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Ibstock recognises that investment of time into our communities is Energy Management equally important and so we regularly spend time with local groups Ibstock Brick was the first in the brick industry in the UK to achieve and schools.
Some of the groups we are involved with include the the International Energy Management Standard ISO 50001: we are local Scouts and Guides, local schools and our local Parish Officers.
immensely proud of this and also our approach to achieving ISO Many of these organisations helped plant some of the 15,000 trees 50001 was quite different.
First, we created an Energy Centre of as part of the Eclipse project in Ibstock.
Excellence at one of our factories.
This allowed us to develop our strategy, pilot key initiatives and set objectives and targets for the During 2018, we welcomed more than 400 members of the local entire business.
We then identified people as the energy users, as community to celebrate the opening of our new Eclipse factory in opposed to machinery and processes.
The Group recognises that it would not have been possible training plan tailored into two classifications: Significant Energy Users to achieve the construction without the support of our employees and All Energy Users focusing on what individuals can do to save and the surrounding community.
Continuous investment in the development of skills and community groups and schools attended to get a first-hand look expertise across of our workforce means we show true leadership at our brand new facility.
The event served as an opportunity for in this field.
us to thank the local community and our employees for their support of the project over the last three years during its construction.
The Energy Saving Opportunity Scheme ESOS is a mandatory energy assessment and energy saving identification scheme for Further examples of our involvement are included within our large undertakings and their corporate groups.
The scheme applies Environmental Report.
This sets out several case studies from across throughout the UK.
ESOS was established by the Department of the Group illustrating how we have engaged with local communities.
Energy and Climate Change DECC in response to the requirement 2019 will see the launch of a new charity partnership where we for all Member States of the European Union to implement Article 8 will select from a shortlist of two charity partners, who we will of the Energy Efficiency Directive the Directive.
work with to raise awareness and vital funds to support people All of Ibstock plcs UK operations are fully compliant with this scheme experiencing homelessness.
The partnership will be for a minimum and have had relevant energy assessments carried out and will act of two years to allow for relationships to grow and for momentum on viable documented energy saving opportunities.
Through our plans we are aiming to: Responsible Sourcing of Raw Materials BES 6001 is the framework bring the business together to make a positive impact on people standard for Responsible Sourcing and provides a holistic approach that need it most: to managing a product from the point at which component materials make a difference to social housing homelessness which aligns are mined or harvested, through manufacture and processing.
with our business purpose and to which we can lend our expertise The majority of Ibstock plc sites have the BES 6001 certification.
and products where appropriate: build employee engagement and team building through fundraising Responsible Sourcing of Construction Products is demonstrated activity: and through an ethos of supply chain management and product reach a target of 50,000 in year one 25,000 to be raised stewardship and encompasses social, economic and environmental through employee fundraising, with 25,000 being matched dimensions.
Ibstock Brick first achieved an Excellent rating in 2016 by the business.
and has maintained this highest level into 2018.
Environmental Quality Management Like any successful business the Group remains conscious of the ISO 9001 is the worlds most widely recognised Quality Management impact its operations have on the environment and communities System and helps businesses like ours to meet the expectations and in which it operates.
We continue to produce products intended needs of our customers.
Most of our UK sites have ISO 9001 in place for a long life with low maintenance.
We recognise the importance with our Kevington business having an established Quality Management of being a sustainable business and have a number of standards System to which they operate.
Having a Quality Management System operated throughout our businesses which include environmental, in place allows us to remain competitive by producing high-quality energy and quality all of which are audited both internally and products, having motivated and engaged employees while maintaining externally verified.
Environmental Management We are also bound by rules, which include those governing air All of our UK businesses are accredited with ISO 14001 the emissions: water discharges, the use of solid and hazardous materials International Environmental Management Standard.
Ibstock Brick and wastes: and the investigation, remediation and monitoring of was the first to achieve certification at all sites to ISO 14001 contamination.
Our policies in each of these areas ensure compliance in the year 2001. with the relevant legislation, and adherence to our set policies is monitored regularly by both our internal and external third party Where the Group undertakes its own extraction, we are subject environmental audit team.
to restoration obligations that may involve the reinstatement of quarries following our use.
We monitor such obligations carefully and work with local authorities and communities to ensure quarry reinstatement is carried out most effectively.
We are subject to laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment and natural resources.
39 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Resources and relationships continued Greenhouse Gas GHG emission figures The strategic location of the Groups manufacturing plants, with a wide spread of factory locations across the UK, enables us to minimise the transport distances of products from leaving our premises to reaching the customer.
This assists in reducing the environmental impact of transporting our products.
The Group predominantly outsources its haulage to two contractors who, as significant companies in their own right, maintain high standards of road safety and strive to minimise their own environmental impact.
2018 2017 Scope 1 Tonnes of CO e 2 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 346,197 319,588 Scope 2 Tonnes of CO e 2 Electricity 31,442 36,204 Intensity Ratio Tonnes of CO e per tonne of production 0.17 0.17 2 Ibstock Brick scoops Energy Efficiency win at edie Sustainability Leaders Awards 2019.
In 2018, our GHG intensity ratio has remained at 0.17 tonnes of CO e per tonne of production with the increase in total tonnes 2 of CO e largely as a result of commissioning our new Eclipse factory.
2 We recognise the importance of being a responsible business and that sustainable development is a multifunctional concept such as the four pillars of sustainable development.
The Group addresses these four pillars and defines our commitment through economic, social, natural resources and environmental aspects of its operations underpinned by development of management systems as documented and also has a number of KPIs in place.
In addition to the Greenhouse Gas emission figures, set out in the table above, the Group also utilises a number of other key measures in assessing the effectiveness of its environmental policies.
These are set out within our Environmental Report, which the Group issued most recently in May 2018.
Recognition During 2018, Ibstock Brick was recognised for its strategic approach to sustainability at the Business Green Leaders Awards 2018, with the company being Highly Commended in the Manufacturer of the Year category.
Our new Eclipse factory has been Highly Commended by the Electrical Contractors Association ECA at its Annual Awards for its integrated intelligent lighting solution, which will deliver 170,000kg CO savings per year.
2 The Eclipse factory, situated at the Groups headquarters in Leicestershire, is the UKs most efficient brickworks.
Located on an old landfill site and close to the principal raw materials source, the building meets Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method BREEAM Industrial criteria, is clad in a highly breathable material to reduce the need for additional ventilation equipment and the whole building is extremely efficient in terms of energy consumption and resource efficiency.
In early 2019, Ibstock Brick was announced as the winner of the Energy Efficiency category at the prestigious edie Sustainability Leaders awards 2019.
The awards, coordinated by leading environmental publisher edie.
net, recognise excellence across the spectrum of green business.
We received praise from the judges for the recognition that all our people are essential change-makers when it comes to delivering sustained improvements in energy efficiency, and the great results seen over the past year are testament to that.
As a business we continue As a business we continue to take a proactive and progressive to take a proactive and approach to sustainability.
Our 2018 Sustainability Report will be published in mid-2019 and will be mainly focused around the key progressive approach development of our Sustainability Roadmap 2025 which sets out what our vision and sustainability priorities will be to include clear to sustainability.
40 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Non-financial information statement The Group aims to comply with the new Non-financial reporting directive requirements.
The table below sets out where relevant information can be found within the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts.
Requirement Policies Relevant 2018 ARA information Environmental matters Environmental and quality policies, including: Environmental, pages 39 to 40 Sustainability policy Sustainable procurement policy Quality policy Accreditation certification for environment, quality and responsible sourcing Employees People policies, including: Our people, pages 32 to 35 Health and Safety Policy Manual Diversity & inclusion policy Anti-bullying and harassment policy Code of business conduct Whistleblowing policy Human rights Modern slavery statement Our suppliers, pages 37 to 38 Data protection policy Social matters Sustainability Working Group & Sustainability Social matters, pages 38 to 39 Roadmap 2025 Anti-corruption and Anti-bribery and corruption policy Responsible business, page 37 bribery Competition law compliance policy Anti-corruption and bribery, page 38 Supplier Code of Conduct Business model Business model, pages 20 to 21 Principal risks and impact Principal risks and uncertainties pages 42 to 47, of business activity specifically: Government regulation and standards relating the manufacture and use of building products, page 45 Recruitment and retention of key personnel, page 46 Non-financial key Lost time accidents, page 32 performance indicators Net Promoter Score, page 32 41 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
