Governance Report BOARD GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP Board composition The Chairman is also responsible for promoting effective communication The role of the Board As at 31 May 2018, the Board comprised between the Board, Non-Executive a Non-Executive Chairman who The Board provides leadership of the Directors, shareholders and was independent on appointment, Company by setting the strategic other major stakeholders.
two Executive Directors and five direction of the Group and overseeing Independent Non-Executive managements execution of the strategy.
The Chairman has a close working Directors, supported by the Company It provides robust challenge, within a relationship with the Chief Executive Secretary and senior management.
framework of prudent and effective Officer and the Company Secretary, risk management and internal controls.
who work together to monitor the With effect from 1 June 2018, the Board The Board is provided with timely and effective implementation of the strategies appointed Bridget Messer and Jon Noble comprehensive information to enable and actions agreed by the Board.
Bridget Messer it to discharge its responsibilities, was appointed to her current role as to encourage strategic debate Chief Executive Officer Chief Commercial Officer in September and to facilitate robust, informed 2015, and is responsible for the Groups The Chief Executive Officer CEO, Peter and timely decision-making.
strategy for attracting prospects to IG, Hetherington, has specific responsibility as well as managing and developing for recommending the Groups strategy The Board is collectively responsible IGs client relationships.
Jon Noble was to the Board and for delivering the for promoting the long-term success appointed Chief Information Officer strategy once approved.
In undertaking of the Group for the benefit of its in 2012, and is responsible for setting such responsibilities, the CEO takes members as a whole, through the and delivering the Groups IT strategy, advice from, and is provided with creation of sustainable shareholder and for the stability and security of support by, his senior management value.
In exercising this responsibility, IGs technology.
Both Bridget and Jon team and all Board colleagues.
the Board takes into account the needs are members of IGs Group Executive of all relevant stakeholders including Committee and report to its Chief Additional specific authority includes clients, employees and suppliers Executive Officer, Peter Hetherington.
oversight over the development of and the effect of the activities of the the Risk Management Framework, Company on the environment.
The Board operates a clear division of regulatory stakeholder management responsibilities between the Chairman and supporting the Chairman to The Board is responsible for ensuring and the Chief Executive Officer.
ensure the promotion of appropriate that, as a collective body, it has standards of corporate governance the appropriate skills, knowledge, Chairman and shareholder engagement.
diversity and experience to perform its role effectively.
The Chairman, Andy Green, is Together with the Chief Financial responsible for leading the Board and Officer, the CEO monitors the Groups The Board has a comprehensive schedule creating the right conditions to ensure the operating and financial results and of matters reserved to it for decisionBoards effectiveness in all aspects of its directs the day-to-day business of the making.
These include agreeing the role, and in particular allowing adequate Group.
The CEO is also responsible Groups strategy, approval of major time for discussion of strategic issues.
for recruitment, leadership and transactions, annual budgets, and development of the Groups executive changes to the Groups capital and The Chairman sets the Boards management team below Board level.
The matters agenda, in consultation with the Chief reserved to the Board are supplemented Executive Officer and Company Chief Financial Officer by an annual Board calendar which Secretary, taking full account of the provides for, among other things, need to allow sufficient time for robust The Chief Financial Officer CFO, regular reviews of operational and and constructive discussion and Paul Mainwaring, is responsible for financial performance: reviews of challenge on all relevant matters.
He the financial management of the succession-planning for the Board and is responsible for encouraging and Group and its financial reporting, for senior management: setting the Risk facilitating active engagement by and monitoring the Groups operating and Appetite of the Group and approving any between all Directors, drawing on their financial results and for management changes to the Groups risk management skills, knowledge and experience.
of the Groups internal financial control and internal control framework.
The CFO has responsibility for oversight of capital and liquidity Specific matters for approval and management and the management and recommendation to the Board have safeguarding of client money and assets.
been formally delegated to certain He supports the CEO in implementing Board Committees.
The matters the Groups strategy and in relation reserved to the Board and Committee to the financial, risk management and Terms of Reference are available on the operational performance of the Group.
50 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info Non-Executive Directors How the Board operates The Chairman and the Executive Directors also met as the Board, to The Non-Executive Directors are The Board meets regularly, at least seven consider Non-Executive Director fees.
independent of management and times a year, including an annual Strategy Day to review strategic options open to are considered by the Board to Each Director commits an appropriate the Group in the context of the economic be free from any business or other amount of time to their duties during and regulatory environment.
In addition, relationships that could compromise the financial year.
The Non-Executive the Board has established a Standing their independence.
Their role is to Directors met the time commitment Committee whose responsibility is to effectively advise and constructively reasonably expected of them, including consider Board reserved matters at short challenge management, along with pursuant to their letters of appointment.
notice, or where there are administrative monitoring managements success in matters requiring evidencing that does delivering the agreed strategy within Where Directors are unable to attend not warrant a full Board.
There were the Risk Appetite and control framework meetings, they are encouraged to give seven scheduled Board meetings this agreed by the Board.
They are also the Chairman their views in advance, year, including the annual Strategy Day.
responsible, through the Remuneration on the matters to be discussed.
Committee, for determining appropriate Senior executives below Board level are levels of remuneration and reward The Chairman and Non-Executive invited to attend meetings as required for the Executive Directors.
Directors meet in the absence of to present and discuss matters relating the Executive Directors at least to their business areas and functions.
Senior Independent Director twice a year.
There were five such Malcolm Le May is the Senior meetings during the year.
The full Board also meets when necessary Independent Non-Executive Director to discuss important ad-hoc emerging and, in this capacity, he acts as a During the year, Non-Executive issues that require consideration between sounding board for the Chairman.
He Directors, led by the Senior Independent scheduled Board meetings.
There were serves as an intermediary for the other Director, met without the presence of three such meetings held during the year, Directors when necessary.
He is also the Chairman, including to evaluate convened principally to consider the available to shareholders if they have the Chairmans performance.
Companys preparedness and response concerns which communication via the to the European Securities and Markets normal channels of Chairman, Chief Attendance at Board meetings Authority ESMA and the Financial Executive Officer or other Executive Conduct Authority FCA statements The number of full scheduled Board Directors has failed to resolve, or when announcing measures in relation to the meetings attended by each Director shareholders prefer to speak directly provision of contracts for difference during the year, including the Board to him.
He is responsible for evaluating CFDs and binary options to retail clients.
Strategy Day, is set out below: the performance of the Chairman on behalf of the other Directors.
Company Secretary The Company Secretary, Tony Lee, BOARD MEMBER SCHEDULED SCHEDULED supports and works closely with the MEETINGS MEETINGS Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer ELIGIBLE TO ATTENDED and the Board Committee Chairs ATTEND in setting agendas for meetings of the Board and its Committees.
He supports the accurate, timely and clear Chairman information flow to and from the Board and the Board Committees, and between Andy Green 7 7 Directors and senior management.
In addition, he supports the Chairman Independent Non-Executive Directors in designing and delivering Directors June Felix 7 7 induction programmes and the Board and Committee performance evaluations.
Stephen Hill 7 7 The Company Secretary also advises the Board on corporate governance Malcolm Le May 7 7 matters and Board procedures, and is responsible for administering IGs Jim Newman 7 7 Share Dealing Code of Conduct and the Annual General Meeting.
Sam Tymms 7 7 Executive Directors Peter Hetherington 7 7 Paul Mainwaring 7 7 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 51 Governance Report BOARD GOVERNANCE CONTINUED BOARD ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR Quarterly forecast and budget Other The Board meeting agendas during the Received updates on performance Received regular reports from Board year included consideration across the against the prior year, budget and Committee Chairs key areas of strategy, governance, risk market analyst consensus Discussed the results of the employee and financial performance, pursuant Discussed the risks and opportunities engagement survey tothe schedule of matters reserved to for the 2018 financial year budget and Agreed the amendment and renewal theBoard and the agreed annual approved the 2019 budget of the Groups banking facilities forwardcalendar.
Received an update on the Groups Governance, risk and regulation Strategy People Strategy, culture, aims Evaluated the effectiveness of the andvalues Annual Strategy Day held in Groups risk management and internal Undertook an internal evaluation of November 2017, at which the Board control systems, reviewed and itseffectiveness and the effectiveness received papers on competitor approved the Groups Risk Appetite of each Board Committee and analysis and business valuations, Statement and key regulatory individual Directors reviewed opportunities to extend the documents, including the Individual current geographic footprint and Capital Adequacy Assessment BOARD COMMITTEES explored the Groups regulatory and Process ICAAP, the Individual conduct risk appetite.
The day also Certain governance responsibilities Liquidity Adequacy Assessment discussed progress with embedding have been delegated by the Board ILAA documents and the Groups IGs purpose, vision and values.
The to Board Committees, to ensure that Recovery Plan RP Board also considered a capital and there is independent oversight of Undertook a detailed review of the liquidity assessment and cost analysis, internal control and risk management Tax Policy and Tax Strategy discussed marketing strategy and and to assist the Board with carrying client segmentation, and finished the Received regular reports on key out its responsibilities.
Other than in day agreeing the forward 12-month compliance issues identified during respect of the Disclosure Committee, strategic focus the year, including reviews of conduct which is staffed by the CEO, CFO risk and culture risk and Company Secretary, these Board Conducted a twice-annual review of Committees comprise Independent strategic projects, including a review Considered and approved a proposal Non-Executive Directors and, in some of performance against targets to conduct a Capital Markets Day cases, the Chairman.
Each Committee Agreed to pursue the development of Received regular updates on has agreed Terms of Reference, approved a new US-regulated Retail Foreign corporate governance developments by the Board, which are available on Exchange Dealer Received regular updates on the our corporate website, iggroup.
Groups approach and response Business, operational highlights and toregulation and several local A brief description of the roles current trading regulatory consultations of each Committee is set out on the following page.
Regularly received updates on Financial performance business progress and the issues and challenges faced by management, Reviewed the financial performance of through CEO reports and monthly the Group and approved all financial management information packs results announcements and the Received reports on matters of Annual Report with the respective interest such as client segmentation Financial Statements and dividends and profiling, the development of Reviewed and approved a theMultilateral Trading Facility, a four-year forecast detailed review of the cryptocurrency market and IGs position within it, andthe results of an investor perceptions study 52 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info AUDIT BOARD RISK NOMINATION REMUNERATION DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Responsible for Responsible for Responsible for Responsible Assists and informs theintegrity of providing oversight reviewing the formaking the decisions of the theGroups and advice to the composition of the recommendations Board concerning Financial Board in relation to Board and Board tothe Board on identification of Statements, current and future Committees to theGroups Inside Information including itsannual riskexposures of ensure that they are seniorexecutive Makes and interim reports theGroup and appropriately remuneration policy recommendations to promoting a balanced in terms of Reviews and Reviews and the Board about how risk-awareness culture diversity, knowledge, recommends to recommends to the and when the within the Group skills and experience theBoard the Board the Groups Company should effectiveness of the Recommends to the Reviews and Remuneration Policy, disclose Inside Groups Internal Board the design and recommends which is consistent Information, having Audit function and implementation of appointments to the with effective risk regard, in particular, risk management risk management Board and to other management, the to information system, annual policy and senior management framework for the previously disclosed Internal Audit plan, measurement positions remuneration of the by the Company appointment, strategies across the Companys Chairman Conducts  and Group, the Groups and Executive planning reviews removal of the risk profile, risk Directors and atBoard level for external Auditors appetite and key risk share-based recommendation indicators for the awardsunder the Responsible for tothe Board current and future Groups Employee monitoring the strategy Incentive Scheme effectiveness of the control environment Reviews and Monitors relating to the recommends to the developments in management and Board the adoption remuneration and safeguarding of of key risk-related reward practice to client money documents, including ensure the Groups andassets the ILAA, ICAAP policies take account andRP of reasonable Reviews the stakeholder management and Commissions expectations control framework thematic risk reviews for the governance, relating to key risks operation and Receives a twicemaintenance of annual report on theGroups therisks associated legalentities with the Groups corporate culture andperiodic reports on risks relating to Product Governance Receives reports from Internal Audit on advisory work conducted by the function on the stateof the risk management framework and current and potential risk exposures of theGroup The Chairman of each Board Committee reports to the Board on the matters discussed at Committee meetings.
The minutes of each Committee meeting are made available to all Directors.
Reports from the Chairman of each of the principal Board Committees, including information on the Committees composition and activities in the year, can be found in the sections relating to each Committee within this Annual Report.
IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 53 Governance Report BOARD GOVERNANCE CONTINUED EFFECTIVENESS authorised by the Board.
Directors are Induction required to disclose both the nature and Following appointment, each Director Board composition extent of any potential or actual conflicts receives a comprehensive and formal The Boards size and the skills and with the interests of the Company.
induction, linked to their individual experience of its members have a experience, to familiarise them with significant impact on its effectiveness.
In accordance with the Companies their duties and the Companys business It aims to maintain a balance in terms Act 2006, the Companys Articles operations, risk and governance of experience and skills of individual of Association allow the Board to arrangements.
These factors are authorise potential conflicts that may programme, which is coordinated with regularly reviewed to ensure that the arise, and to impose such conditions the help of the Company Secretary, Board has the right mix of skills and or limitations as it sees fit.
During may include briefings on industry experience for constructive discussion the year, potential conflicts were and regulatory matters relating to and, ultimately, effective Board decisions.
considered and assessed by the Board the Company, strategy and business and approved where appropriate.
model, the history of the Group, risk The breadth of skills and experience management and risk appetite, as well currently on the Board includes Succession planning and appointments as meetings with senior management experience in a number of key areas to the Board in key areas of the business.
These are such as financial services, finance and The Board uses succession planning to supplemented by induction materials accountancy, strategy, government and ensure that executives with the necessary such as recent Board papers and regulation, marketing, risk management skills, knowledge and expertise are in minutes, organisation structure charts, and regulation liaison, technology and place to deliver our strategy, and that it governance matters and relevant digital, and, since 1 June 2018, law.
has the right balance of individuals to be Company policies.
Newly appointed Certain Non-Executive Directors currently able to discharge its responsibilities.
The Directors may also meet the Companys undertake executive roles outside of IG.
Board regularly reviews its composition External Auditor, Brokers and advisers, to keep it constantly refreshed.
Any and attend a presentation led by There is an appropriate combination of searches for Board candidates, and Linklaters on the roles and responsibilities Executive Directors and Non-Executive appointments made, are based on merit of a UK-listed company director.
Directors, such that no individual or against objective criteria, including small group of individuals can dominate the use of a Board skills matrix.
Ongoing professional development the Boards decision-making.
In order to facilitate greater awareness The Nomination Committee has Director independence and understanding of the Groups specific responsibility for considering business and the environment in The Company is, and continues to be, the appointment of Non-Executive and which it operates, all Directors are fully compliant with the UK Corporate Executive Directors and recommending given regular updates on changes Governance Code, which requires that new appointments to the Board.
It and developments in the business.
at least half of the Board, excluding regularly reviews the structure, size and the Chairman, should comprise Noncomposition required of the Board and Training opportunities are provided Executive Directors who are determined makes recommendations to the Board through internal meetings, workshops, by the Board to be independent.
More information on presentations and briefings by internal the work of the Nomination Committee advisers and business heads, as well The independence of the Non-Executive can be found in the report of the as external advisers.
The Company Directors is considered by the Board Nomination Committee on pages 58 and Secretary updates the Board on any and reviewed on an annual basis, as part 59.
The Board as a whole is also involved relevant legislative, regulatory and of the Board effectiveness review.
The in overseeing the development of governance changes on a regular basis.
Board considers factors such as length of management resources across the Group.
tenure and relationships or circumstances that are likely to affect or appear to affect the Directors judgement in determining whether they remain independent.
Following this years review, the Board concluded that all of the NonExecutive Directors continue to remain Board tenure as at the date of this report independent in character and judgement TENURE EXECUTIVE NON-EXECUTIVE and are free from any business or other DIRECTORS DIRECTORS INCLUDING relationships that could materially affect THE CHAIRMAN the exercise of their judgement.
Conflicts of interest 0 to 3 years 3 2 Directors have a statutory duty to 3 to 6 years 0 3 avoid situations in which they may have interests that conflict with those of the Over 6 years 1 1 Company, unless that conflict is first 54 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info The Board has revisited the Incubator The Directors meet with global country Election and re-election of Directors Governance Framework to ensure it heads in order to receive further The UK Corporate Governance Code remains fit for purpose, and has agreed insights into the operations of the requires that all directors of FTSE to reduce the number of incubators business in the jurisdictions where the 350 companies should be subject to provide for six-monthly review of Group operates.
In addition, we have to annual election by shareholders.
only those considered to be strategic introduced a series of Breakfast With Each Director and the Board as a in nature, while moving certain The Board sessions attended by a whole underwent a performance incubators to business as usual.
number of Non-Executive Directors, to evaluation during the course of the enable staff across the business to meet year.
Following this, all Directors will In 2018, the Company carried out a and ask questions on defined topics.
stand for re-election at the AGM.
questionnaire-based internal evaluation, led by the Company Secretary.
The During the year, the Directors attended In addition, those Directors questionnaire was based on the briefing sessions on succession appointed by the Board following questions used in previous years to planning, the development of proposals the year-end will stand for election enable the Board to establish a relative relating to the launch of a Multilateral by shareholders at the AGM.
statistical analysis on relevant themes.
Trading Facility, the results of the engagement survey, client segmentation Board evaluation As part of the review, it was agreed and profiling, regulatory response Each year, an evaluation of the to give additional focus to Board planning, a cryptocurrency deep effectiveness of the Board is conducted.
dynamics among Board members, in dive and the Capital Markets Day.
The evaluation includes an assessment and outside of Board and Committee of the effectiveness of Board meetings, and furthering strategic The Chairman ensures that the Directors Committees and individual Directors.
development and capabilities in light continually update and refresh their of emerging regulatory certainty.
skills and knowledge, and independent Last year the Board agreed a number professional advice is provided, when of areas of development, in respect The first stage of the review involved required, at the Companys expense.
of which there has been significant the Chairman and the Company progress.
The Board has continued Secretary setting the context for the Information provided to the Board to progress succession planning evaluation, and tailoring the surveys The Chairman is responsible for ensuring at Board and senior management used to the specific circumstances of that the Board receives accurate, level, and has recently announced the Group, while ensuring consistent timely and clear information to enable a number of Board appointments.
questioning to facilitate ongoing it to make appropriate challenges, The People Strategy has progressed analysis of performance improvement.
to encourage debate and to ensure through the November Strategy its decisions are fully informed.
Day, with the identification of Group All Board members and the Company Executive Committee level succession Secretary completed web-based The Company Secretary supports candidates, of critical roles and talent surveys addressing the performance the Chairman in ensuring appropriate pools and the methodology employed of the Board and its Committees, the and timely information flows to and to establish a framework to identify Chairman and individual Directors.
from the Board and its Committees.
and develop IGs high performers.
The Company Secretary subsequently produced a report of its findings, which All Directors have access to the advice As set out above, we have used were discussed with the Chairman and services of the Company Secretary, a number of Board training and and subsequently with the Board.
who is responsible to the Board for information sessions to free the Boards ensuring that Board procedures are time for more strategic discussion, Overall, the results indicate that the followed and compliance with applicable and there is now an enhanced Board is operating effectively, with a laws and regulations is observed.
programme for Board interaction with number of areas rated positively and management below Group Executive progress made with all development The Company Secretary supports the Committee level with the introduction areas identified in 2017, as set out above.
Chairman in setting the Board agenda, of Breakfast With The Board.
and Board papers are distributed to all Directors in advance of Board The quality and timeliness of materials meetings via a secure electronic provided to the Board have continued system.
The Company Secretary to improve, as the Company Secretariat is also responsible for advising the continues to educate staff and Board, through the Chairman, on all standardise the documents presented corporate governance matters.
However, given recent changes to management at senior level, Directors receive financial and risk there is a recognised need to continue information on the Company on to reinforce the benefits of preparing a regular basis, and they receive focused, succinct, consistent and timely briefings from the Chief Executive information to allow the Board to make Officer and other executive officers fully informed and timely decisions.
in the periods between meetings.
IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 55 Governance Report BOARD GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The main areas agreed by the Board for ACCOUNTABILITY The Directors confirm that the Board has development in the coming year are: carried out a robust assessment of the Financial and business reporting principal risks facing the Group, including Additional focus on strategic The Strategic Report on pages 10 those that would threaten its business development and monitoring, to 45 describes the Business Model model, future performance, solvency including opportunities in specific and Strategy whereby the Company and liquidity.
We outline the risks to geographies and opportunities to generates and preserves value which the Group is exposed and the diversify the range of products and over the long term and delivers framework under which risk is managed, services to meet the ongoing needs of the objectives of the Company.
including a description of the system our clients of internal controls, in the Business Focus on Board dynamics, given A Statement of the Directors Model and Risk Profile section on pages significant changes to the composition Responsibilities in respect of the 16 to 19 and in the Risk Management of the Board, and on succession Financial Statements is set out on and the Going Concern and Viability planning at and immediately below page 93, and a statement regarding Statement sections on pages 32 to 39.
Board level the use of the going concern basis in preparing these Financial Statements Further improvements to the quality An annual formal review of the is provided in the Going Concern and and timeliness of delivery of papers effectiveness of the Groups system of Viability Statement on page 39. risk management and internal controls We will report on actions taken has been carried out by the Board, to Risk management and internal control andprogress made in next years support the statements included in the AnnualReport.
The Group is exposed to a number of Annual Report and Financial Statements.
business risks in providing products The review focused on the overall risk Led by Malcolm Le May, the Senior and services to its clients.
The Board governance framework and the setting Independent Director, a review is responsible for establishing the of IGs risk appetite.
It considered the of the Chairmans performance overall appetite for these risks, key risk assessment and monitoring was carried out by the Board.
The which is detailed and approved in activities across the Group, as well as performance of the Chairman was the Risk Appetite Statement.
The the processes and controls in place to discussed without the Chairman Board has responsibility for ensuring manage the Groups principal risks and present, following which the Senior the maintenance of the Groups risk for escalating exceptions highlighted Independent Director and Chairman management and internal control by risk management processes.
met to discuss the review findings.
systems and for annually reviewing them.
There are risk management and internal The evaluation of the performance The framework under which risk is controls systems in place for identifying, and contribution of each Director was managed in the business is supported by evaluating and managing the principal conducted with reference to a selfa system of internal controls, designed risks facing the Group, in accordance performance review questionnaire to embed within the business the with the Guidance on Risk Management, completed by each Director.
This was effective management of the Groups Internal Control and Related Financial then discussed at sessions between key business risks.
The risk management and Business Reporting published by each Director and the Chairman.
and internal controls systems are the Financial Reporting Council.
designed to manage rather than The reviews concluded that each Director eliminate the risk of failure to achieve Throughout the year and up to the date continues to perform effectively and business objectives, and can only provide of this report, the Group has operated a demonstrate commitment to the role.
reasonable and not absolute assurance system of internal controls that provides against material misstatement or loss.
reasonable assurance of effective Time commitment operations covering all controls, including Through reports from the Board Risk financial and operational controls and Following the Board evaluation process Committee and the Audit Committee, compliance with laws and regulations.
detailed above, the Board is satisfied consideration of the ICAAP, ILAA and that each of the Directors is able to RP, the Board regularly reviews and Internal controls over financial allocate sufficient time to the Company monitors the Groups risk management reporting to discharge their responsibilities and internal controls systems and the effectively.
Externally, while there have The Groups financial reporting process effectiveness with which it manages been changes to the Chairman and has been designed to provide reasonable the principal risks faced by the Group.
Senior Independent Directors external assurance regarding the reliability of appointments, the Board has determined the financial reporting and preparation that they are both able, and they have of financial statements, including both demonstrated their ability, to consolidated financial statements, continue to devote sufficient time to IG for external purposes in accordance to enable them to fulfil the reasonable with IFRS.
The annual review of the expectations and time commitments effectiveness of the Groups system required of their relevant roles.
of internal controls included reviews of systems and controls relating to the financial reporting process.
56 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info attended by all the Directors.
All the Internal controls over financial reporting and prospective shareholders.
We proposed resolutions were passed on include procedures and policies that: also respond to ad hoc requests from a poll, with the percentage of votes in shareholders on a regular basis.
Pertain to the maintenance of records favour of each resolution ranging from that, in reasonable detail, accurately 92.91% to 100%, and the percentage The Chairman, the Senior Independent and fairly reflect the transactions and of votes cast was always above 80%.
Director, in his capacity as Chairman disposals of the Groups assets of the Remuneration Committee, and Provide reasonable assurance that The 2018 AGM will be held on the Executive Directors hold meetings transactions are recorded as necessary 20 September 2018.
The Notice of with the Companys largest institutional to permit the preparation of financial the AGM sets out the resolutions shareholders and market analysts to statements, and that receipts and to be proposed at the meeting.
A discuss governance developments expenditures are being made only in copy of the Notice is available on the including in respect of external and accordance with authorisations of Groups website, iggroup.
We internal remuneration policy, business management and respective Directors send the Annual Report and Notice to strategy and financial performance.
Provide reasonable assurance shareholders, or make them available on regarding prevention or timely the Groups website, at least 20 working Following all investor presentations detection of unauthorised acquisition, days before the date of the meeting.
and meetings, feedback is passed to use or disposal of Group assets that The Notice sets out a clear explanation the Board on any opinions or concerns could have a material effect on the of each resolution to be proposed at expressed by shareholders.
The Directors Groups financial statements the meeting.
Shareholders have the receive regular updates on shareholder opportunity to ask questions and, if they views, roadshow feedback as well as REMUNERATION are unable to attend, can submit written analysts reports on market perception of queries in advance of the meeting.
After the Groups performance and strategy, The responsibility for determining the meeting, we will make available to and are made aware of the financial remuneration arrangements for the shareholders full details of the votes, expectations of the Group from the Chairman and Executive Directors has including proxy votes, received on each outside market.
This year, the Board also been delegated to the Remuneration resolution, and we will publish these on received an investor perception study Committee.
Information on the the Companys website on the same day.
undertaken in advance of the Capital Remuneration Committee and the Markets Day, which assisted the Board Directors Remuneration Report and in their understanding of the views that Policy can be found on pages 60 to 79. shareholders and non-holders held about the Company.
This year, the Group held ENGAGEMENT WITH its first Capital Markets Day, which was SHAREHOLDERS well attended, and where the Groups The Board recognises the importance senior management set out how and why of maintaining good and constructive the Groups business is well positioned communication with the Companys to mitigate the impact of regulatory shareholders, and has in place change and to deliver sustainable growth a comprehensive programme and attractive shareholder returns.
to facilitate this each year.
The Chairman and the Senior Our Annual Report is an important Independent Non-Executive Director medium for communicating with are available to meet shareholders on shareholders, setting out detailed request, and ensure that the Board reviewsof the business and its future is aware of shareholder concerns not developments in the Chairmans resolved through other communication Statement, the Chief Executive Officers mechanisms.
The Chairman and the Statement, the FY18 Overview and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Strategic Report.
Director provide feedback to the Board on any views or concerns In order to ensure that the members of expressed to them by shareholders.
the Board develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders, AGM there is regular dialogue with The AGM provides the Board with institutional investors and shareholders, the opportunity to communicate with presentations by management and private and institutional investors, Investor Roadshows around the time and we welcome and encourage their of the Groups year-end and half-year participation at the meeting.
Our Investor Chairman aims to ensure that all the Relations team coordinates these.
Directors, including the Chairs of the These presentations are available on Board Committees, are available at the Groups website at iggroup.
com, the AGM to answer questions.
The which also provides a wide range of 2017 AGM was a successful event other information to shareholders IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 57
