Governance Report NOMINATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE The Nomination Committee undertakes an important role in identifying, sourcing The Committee consists of Independent and evaluating the combination of Non-Executive Directors, and meets as skills needed to lead the Group at necessary to discuss appointments to and immediately below Board level, the Board.
The Chairman of the Board and in supporting the development is also the Chairman of the Committee, and delivery of our strategy.
and the Company Secretary acts as the Secretary of the Committee.
On It is responsible for identifying, and invitation, the Chief Executive Officer also recommending to the Board, suitable attends, but is not involved in decisions candidates for appointment to the Board, relating to his own succession.
The Chief and ensures the Boards composition People Officer and Chief Commercial meets the Companys needs.
Officer also attend on invitation.
This year, following an extensive process, During the year, the Committee the Committee agreed to recommend met six times, sometimes at short ANDY GREEN to the Board the appointments notice, principally to consider Board Chairman of the Nomination Committee of Bridget Messer and Jon Noble composition and succession planning.
Andy Green, Chairman Bridget and Jon were appointed ofthe Nomination to the Board on 1 June 2018.
Committee, gives his review of the Committees activities during the financial year.
COMMITTEE MEMBERS ELIGIBLE ATTENDED TO ATTEND Andy Green 6 6 1 Malcolm Le May 6 5 Stephen Hill 6 6 Jim Newman 6 6 Sam Tymms 6 6 June Felix 6 6 1 Malcolm Le May was unable to attend one non-scheduled meeting called at short notice due to unforeseen events.
58 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info ROLE OF THE NOMINATION The IG knowledge and skills brought The Directors recognise the importance COMMITTEE by Bridget and Jon will complement of diversity, in all of its forms, on the Board and understand the significant the considerable experience of Board The principal roles and responsibilities benefits that come with having a members and help give a wider ofthe Committee include: diverse Board.
The Board believes that perspective to Board discussions.
Reviewing the composition of the diversity is a wider issue than gender and Board and Board Committees to includes variations in experience, skills, Recognising the importance of ensure that they are appropriately personal attributes and background.
developing a Board with the appropriate balanced in terms of skills, knowledge, balance of skills, knowledge, diversity diversity and experience The Board will continue to appoint on and experience, the Committee is merit, based on the skills and experience currently considering the appointment Ensuring that there is a formal, required for membership of the Board, of additional Non-Executive Directors, rigorous and transparent procedure while giving consideration to all forms with a focus on enhancing the for the appointment of new Directors of diversity when the Committee strategic and existing Non-Executive to the Board reviews the Boards composition.
Director experience on the Board.
Identifying and nominating, for For appointments to the Board, IG approval by the Board, suitable uses executive search firms who have Following the expiration of seven years as candidates to fill Board vacancies signed up to the voluntary code of a Non-Executive Director, Stephen Hill asand when they arise conduct setting out the key principles agreed to extend his appointment to the Keeping under review the leadership of best practice in the recruitment Board for a further year, effective from needs of the Group, with a view to process.
These principles include a 28 April 2018. ensuring the continued ability of recommendation that search firms theGroup to compete effectively should consider gender diversity, and COMMITTEE EVALUATION in its marketplace IG insists on having both male and During the year, an evaluation of the female candidates when drawing up Keeping up to date about strategic performance of the Committee and its longlists and shortlists of candidates.
issues and commercial changes members was undertaken in line with affecting the Group and the market the Committees Terms of Reference.
in which it operates The evaluation process was internally facilitated by the Company Secretary The Terms of Reference of the as part of the overall annual Board Committee are available on the effectiveness review, details of which Groups website, iggroup.
Andy Green can be found on pages 55 and 56.
The Chairman, Nomination Committee performance of the Committee was MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING THE highly rated overall, the embedding FINANCIAL YEAR 24 July 2018 of newly appointed Directors was The Committees main focus has highlighted as a focus for the coming beenoverseeing the process for the year and the evaluation concluded that recruitment of additional Directors.
Following an extensive process, DIVERSITY STATEMENT supported by external consultants Korn As a business, we are committed to Ferry, a leadership and talent consulting maintaining a diverse workforce at executive search firm with no other all levels across the Company, and connections with the Company, the more information on how we do this, Committee agreed to recommend to including a description of the policies the Board the appointments of Bridget relating to diversity and how they have Messer and Jon Noble as Executive been implemented, can be found in Directors.
Bridget and Jon have been the Corporate Social Responsibility with IG for a number of years, with section on pages 40 to 45.
Bridget undertaking the role of Chief Commercial Officer and Jon undertaking At the year-end, the Board had a 25% the role of Chief Information Officer.
Following the appointments of Bridget Messer The process involved the establishment and Jon Noble on 1 June 2018, this of an externally facilitated success ratio increased to 30%.
IG has an profile for relevant candidates followed aspirational target to increase this to by an external assessment of each one-third by 2020, as recommended candidate against the profile agreed by by the Hampton-Alexander Review the Board, the identification of relevant on women in leadership positions.
development needs and a programme of development against those needs.
IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 59
