Governance Report BOARD RISK COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW The Committee provides oversight and advice to the Board in relation The Committee has continued to focus to current and potential future risk on providing oversight and advice to exposures and future risk strategy of the Board in relation to current and the Group.
This includes determination potential future risk exposures of the of overall risk appetite and tolerance, Group, including risks to the achievement taking into account the current and of our strategy.
The Committees focus prospective macroeconomic and has developed towards ensuring a financial environment.
Key responsibilities holistic approach to risk management of the Committee, in addition to across the Group including through those noted above, include: clear linking of risk reporting to the Reviewing the Groups major risk key risks facing the business.
The risk exposures, identifying risk trends, function, headed by a new Group concentrations and exposures and Chief Risk Officer CRO, has supported material regulatory changes, and this development while continuing to SAM TYMMS overseeing the mitigation of those, focus on risk-related material such as Chairman of the Board Risk Committee consistent with our risk appetite the Risk Appetite Statement and Risk Management Framework, continued to Considering, and recommending Sam Tymms, Chairman of develop our operational risk systems and forapproval by the Board, the the Board Risk Committee, conducted deep dives into topical areas.
RiskAppetite Statement and Key RiskIndicators gives her review of the In response to the further areas Reviewing the scope and nature of Committees activities identified for development in last thework undertaken by the control years Committee evaluation, we have during the financial year.
functions, particularly in relation to rebalanced the Committees forward business, regulatory, compliance, agenda between consideration of formal , conduct documentation and discussion of existing andculture risks and emerging risks faced by the Group.
Conducting an annual review of the Groups remuneration framework Our annual Non-Executive Director Risk insupport of the Committees Workshop provided active oversight responsibility to consider the of the input to our regulatory capital alignment of the remuneration calculations set out in the Groups policyto risk performance Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Ensuring rigorous stress-testing and Process CAAP, the stress testing of our scenario-testing of the Groups risks, and our capital and liquidity held business and receiving reports which against those, as well as our Reverse explain the impact of identified risks Stress Test and Recovery Plans RP.
and threats This year we also focused on matters relevant to trading cryptocurrencies.
Monitoring, reviewing and challenging key regulatory documents the ROLE OF THE BOARD RISK Individual Liquidity Adequacy COMMITTEE Assessment, ICAAP and the RP The Committee refreshed its Terms of Reviewing and recommending the Reference ToR, which now provides statements to be included in the for the receipt by the Committee Annual Report concerning controls of a twice-yearly report on the risks and risk management, for approval associated with the Groups corporate bythe Board culture and periodic reports on risks Considering the Groups insurance relating to Product Governance.
arrangements Continuing to work closely with other The reporting requirements for Internal Board Committees where risk-related Audit were also updated to ensure input is required reports on advisory work conducted by the function on the state of the Risk The ToR for the Committee are on the Management Framework and current Companys website, iggroup.
com and potential risk exposures of the Group are provided to the Committee.
88 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info BOARD RISK COMMITTEE ACTIVITY DURING THE FINANCIAL COMMITTEE EVALUATION AND MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE YEAR FUTURE PRIORITIES During 2018, the Committee undertook The Board Risk Committee is composed During the year, the Committees an internally facilitated assessment of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
key activities included: of its own effectiveness conducted The table below shows the Committee Reviewing developments to the Risk by the Company Secretary.
Its members during the year and their Appetite Statement and Risk performance was highly rated, as was attendance at Committee meetings.
Management Framework and the management of its meetings and alignment of business and risk the quality of information received.
The Committee is scheduled to meet management strategy with the four times a year and additionally risk appetite Improvements had been made to when required.
The Committee Formal review and adoption of the IG the linking of risk reporting to the makes recommendations to the Group Risk Management Framework key risks facing the business, with the Board and, where relevant, to other document development of formal risk documents Board Committees for example, to Considering current and emerging and the consideration of the current and the Remuneration Committee on risks facing the business and potential future risks facing the business.
remuneration-related risks and the developing relevant reporting business of the Committee is reported Areas for development included to the following Board meeting.
Requesting and or reviewing a further training and development in number of specific reports, including key areas of risk such as technology Other than the Company Secretary, on conduct risk, AML controls, risk and a continued focus on the who attends all Committee meetings, third-party supplier risk, Product oversight of new and emerging risks.
Executive Directors, the CRO and Governance and technology risk the Head of Internal Audit attend Review and challenge of the Committee meetings by invitation.
operational risk development plan Representatives from other areas of Formal annual consideration of the business attend the Committee material breaches meetings by invitation as appropriate Sam Tymms Reviewing a culture risk dashboard to the matter under consideration.
Chairman, Board Risk Committee and report covering client outcomes, technology, regulatory outcomes, The Board Chairman, Andy Green, 24 July 2018 people outcomes and conduct attended two of the meetings.
more broadly To ensure the Committee discharges Reviewing the capital and liquidity its responsibilities appropriately, an position of the Group including annual forward calendar, linked to through the ICAAP, ILAA and the RP the Committees ToR, is approved Reviewing its own performance and by the Committee.
The Company considering steps to enhance Secretary assists the Chairman of the Committee effectiveness and making Committee in drafting the agenda appropriate recommendations to for each Committee meeting.
the Board COMMITTEE MEMBER ELIGIBLE ATTENDED TO ATTEND Sam Tymms 4 4 Stephen Hill 4 4 Jim Newman 4 4 1 June Felix 4 3 1 June Felix was unable to attend one Committee meeting due to prior commitments.
IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 89
