Governance Report AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE This report sets out the role of the All Audit Committee members Committee and how it has discharged are Independent Non-Executive its responsibilities during the year.
The Directors who draw on considerable Committee has continued to work closely and broad business and financial with the Board Risk Committee in areas services experience.
There have been requiring the input of both Committees.
no changes to membership of the Committee during the year.
The UK This year the Committee has seen Corporate Governance Code requires improvements in the quality of the inclusion in the Committee of at least materials presented to it, and has made one member determined by the Board improvements to the way in which as having recent and relevant financial it monitors and reviews the control experience.
This includes reporting on is considered to fulfil this requirement.
the Groups Tax Risk Policy, the control JIM NEWMAN environment relating to Client Money and The Chief Financial Officer, Head Chairman of the Audit Committee Assets and the oversight of subsidiary of Internal Audit, Company governance undertaken by the Control Secretary and representatives from Jim Newman, Chairman Functions Oversight Committee.
As the  LLP PwC, the of the Audit Committee, Group expands its geographical reach, it External Auditor, attend the Committee has requested that management focus on meetings by standing invitation.
gives his review of the continuing to develop the Groups legal Members of senior management Committees activities from various areas of the business entity oversight framework, partly in the attend the Committee meetings light of new case law in this area and the during the financial year.
development of the Senior Managers and Certification Regime in the UK, which The Committee has four scheduled we expect to apply to IG during 2019. meetings a year and will additionally meet if and when required.
The table The Board has agreed amended Terms below details meetings scheduled of Reference ToR to reflect changes in and attended during the year.
the reporting requirements in respect of non-financial information, to clarify the reporting responsibilities of Internal Audit, and to ensure the Committee receives periodic updates on general developments in Internal Audit practice.
COMMITTEE MEMBER ELIGIBLE ATTENDED TO ATTEND Jim Newman 4 4 Sam Tymms 4 4 1 Malcolm Le May 4 3 1 Malcolm Le May did not attend one meeting due to short notice unforeseen events.
The Chairman, Andy Green, was invited to, and attended, all of the meetings.
80 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Members of the Committee also meet Receiving a paper summarising all separately with the Head of Internal Audit statements and assurances required The principal role and responsibilities of and the External Auditors to focus on ofDirectors in the Annual Report and the Committee are set out in its Terms of their respective areas of responsibility Financial Statements together with Reference, and include, but are not and to discuss any potential requirements evidence to support the Directors limited to: for support from the Committee to views and required statements Reviewing the financial statements address any issues arising.
Receiving regular reports on the and announcements relating to the continuing Finance Change financial performance and governance MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING THE programme of the Group FINANCIAL YEAR Receiving the annual report on the Reviewing the control environment Financial reporting effectiveness of the control through a number of means including In relation to financial reporting, the environment around client money via Internal Audit reports, the primary role of the Committee is to work andassets progresson implementation of audit with management and the External recommendations and through Receiving minutes of the Control Auditors in reviewing the appropriateness consideration of a summary of the Functions Oversight Committee, of the half-year and annual financial Control Action List briefdetails of which are set out in statements.
The Committee discharged theCorporate Governance Statement Monitoring and reviewing the its responsibilities in this area through set out on page 47 effectiveness of the Groups Internal focusing on the following, among Audit function in the overall context Receiving a deep dive report on othermatters: ofthe Groups internal controls and Identity Access Management Assessing the quality and acceptability risk management Reviewing the inherent risks in of accounting policies and practices Recommending the appointment of thefinancial reporting process Ensuring disclosures are clear and the External Auditors and reviewing andsystems compliant with financial reporting their effectiveness, fees, Terms of standards and relevant financial and Reference and independence To aid this review process, the Committee governance reporting requirements has considered reports from the Chief The Audit Committees full Terms of Considering material areas in which Financial Officer and his team, Internal Reference are revised on an annual basis significant judgements and estimates and External Auditors.
and can be found on the corporate have been applied or there has been website: www.
discussion with the External Auditors The Committee considered and discussed with management and the Reviewing announcements and HOW THE COMMITTEE OPERATES External Auditors the primary areas of financial statements prior to issuance judgement and disclosure in relation To ensure the Committee discharges its including preliminary and half-year tothe financial statements for the year responsibilities appropriately, an annual results announcements and ended 31 May 2018, details of which forward calendar, linked to the Committees recommending these to the Board areset out overleaf.
Terms of Reference and covering key forapproval events in the financial reporting cycle, Reviewing the processes to support isapproved by the Committee.
the assessment and determination ofthe Groups principal risks that The Company Secretary, with input mayhave an impact on the Groups from the Chairman of the Committee, solvency and liquidity before drafts the agenda before each recommending and approving meeting, ensuring that each of the theGoing Concern and Viability items under the Committees Terms Statement to the Board of Reference and responsibilities is Evaluating on behalf of the Board covered at least once in the financial whether the Annual Report and year, and more frequently if required.
Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and Following each Committee meeting, provide the information necessary for a formal report is made to the shareholders to assess the Groups Board in which the Chairman of performance, business model the Audit Committee describes andstrategy the proceedings of the Committee meeting and makes recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 81 Governance Report AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE DISCHARGE OF RESPONSIBILITIES CONCLUSION ACTION TAKEN Going concern and long-term viability The Directors are required to make a The Committee evaluated various Taking into account the assessment by statement in the Annual Report as to reports from management that set out management of stress-testing results the going concern and longer-term the view of the Groups going concern and risk appetite, the Committee viability of the Group.
These reports agreed to recommend the Going detailed the impact of outcomes of Concern and Viability Statement to the stress tests after applying multiple Board for approval.
scenarios to determine how the Group is able to cope with deterioration in liquidity profile or capital position.
Accounting treatment of the purchase of DailyFX In the year ended 31 May 2017, the The Committee considered the There being no change in the Group completed the purchase of appropriateness of continuing to underlying factors, the Committee DailyFX.
This was classified as an account for the acquisition as an concluded that the DailyFX assets intangible asset to be amortised over assetpurchase rather than a should continue to be classified as a ten years.
There is a judgement as to businesscombination.
whether the purchase was of an asset or of a business which will continue to be reviewed by the Committee.
Carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets In accordance with accounting The Committee reviewed a paper Based on the assessment performed, standards, the Group is required to from management setting out the Committee concluded that there review any goodwill balances for thekey assumptions used in the should be no change to the recorded impairment and to consider the impairment review of the goodwill carrying value of the goodwill and other underlying assumptions used in balance and an associated sensitivity intangible assets.
determining the carrying value of analysis these assets.
The Committee reviewed the impairment review of the DailyFX In addition, the Group is required to intangible asset and requested assess whether there is any indication further analysis be presented the other intangible assets may be fordiscussion impaired.
82 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE DISCHARGE OF RESPONSIBILITIES CONCLUSION ACTION TAKEN Accounting for cryptocurrencies The Group has revisited the way in The Committee reviewed a paper from The Audit Committee concluded which it accounts for cryptocurrencies management setting out the proposed thechange in accounting policy to reflect recent practice and change to the accounting policy for wasappropriate.
This has resulted in a cryptocurrency assets.
change in the Groups accounting policy.
Impact of new accounting standards The Group reviewed the expected The Committee reviewed the Based on managements report, the impact of new accounting standards assessment prepared by management Committee concluded the expected on the financial statements.
detailing the expected impact of the impact of the new accounting standards following new accounting standards on was accurate.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers IFRS 16 Leases Segmental reporting Based on the assessment performed, The Group has revisited the way The Committee reviewed the Groups new reporting segments to ensure that the Committee concluded that the itdiscloses its segments in the they were consistent with the way the changes to the new reporting segments AnnualReport to better reflect the business is managed and resources were appropriate.
management and internal reporting allocated.
Tax provisions Calculating the Groups corporation The Committee reviewed a report from The Committee concluded that the tax charge involves a degree of management that detailed the corporation tax charge and provisions estimation and judgment, as the tax assumptions made in calculating the recorded by the Group were treatment of certain items cannot be Groups corporation tax charge and appropriate and complete.
finally determined until resolution provisions.
The Groups External hasbeen reached with the relevant Auditors also provided commentary on taxauthority.
The Group holds tax this matter to the Committee.
The provisions in respect of the potential Committee has also reviewed the tax liability that may arise on these Groups Tax Risk Management Policy unresolved items.
The Group has and Tax Strategy.
generated tax losses in certain jurisdictions where IG operates.
The Group has recognised deferred tax assets in respect of these losses to the extent that future profits have been forecast.
IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 83 Governance Report AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED CONTROL ENVIRONMENT Other matters addressed by the Committee focused on the effectiveness of the Groups control environment and performance of the Groups IT systems, and the Internal Audit function, including the objectivity and independence of Internal Audit personnel.
ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE DISCHARGE OF RESPONSIBILITIES CONCLUSION ACTION TAKEN Risk management and internal control The Committee is required to assist The Committee received a report The Committee agreed to recommend the Board in the annual review of the from the Board Risk Committee to the Board the Annual Report effectiveness of the Groups risk including an assessment of those statements relating to the effectiveness management framework and internal risks that might threaten the of the risk management framework and control systems.
Groups business model, future internal control systems.
It considered and challenged management on the overall effectiveness of the risk management framework and internal control systems.
The Committee reviewed the relevant disclosures within the Accountability section of the Corporate Governance Report within the Annual Report.
Internal Audit The Committee is required to The Committee monitored and The Committee reviewed the oversee the performance, resourcing reviewed the effectiveness of the resourcing and effectiveness of the and effectiveness of the Internal Groups Internal Audit function in the Internal Audit function and approved Audit function.
overall context of the Groups internal the risk-based audit plan.
controls and risk management systems.
The Committee supports the proposals It reviewed and assessed the risk-based by the Internal Audit function to add Internal Audit plan.
additional advisory and added value to the core mandate.
It reviewed and monitored managements responsiveness to the The Internal Audit function remains findings and recommendations of the effective and has implemented the Internal Audit function.
appropriate policies to ensure this.
Thefunction has sufficient resources It monitored the consolidated Control todeliver the proposed plan.
Action List, noting themes arising, reviewing the effectiveness of The function continues to be efficient, thefunction.
with the processes being robust and strong governance being evidenced.
The Committee received all Internal Audit reports and, in addition, received summary reports on the results of the work of the Internal Audit function on a periodic basis.
The Committee reviewed additional Internal Audit Reports, not forming partof the annual plan, requested bymanagement or Directors in preparedness for new or changing product offerings.
It reviewed the performance of the Internal Audit function against the plan and an assessment of the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
84 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE DISCHARGE OF RESPONSIBILITIES CONCLUSION ACTION TAKEN Whistleblowing The Committee considers the The Committee reviewed the Groups The Committee reviewed the adequacy of the Groups Whistleblowing Policy and agreed a Whistleblowing Policy and decided arrangements by which employees number of updates and procedures to toinclude it within the new starter may in confidence raise concerns ensure that it will remain fit for the induction process.
about improprieties in matters of needs of the Group.
financial reporting or other matters.
The Committee concluded that whistleblowing processes were operating effectively during the period under review.
Client money and assets The Committee has a responsibility The Committee monitored the The Committee reviewed for overseeing the Groups systems effectiveness of the control environment improvements made to the control and controls relating to the holding relating to Client Money and Assets, environment and the steps being and management of client money and received reports from the Chief takento further enhance controls and assets.
Financial Officer on the operation of the atboth Group and entity level.
Client Money and Assets Committee.
The Committee considered that these were appropriate to the circumstances of the Group.
Legal entity governance The Committee is responsible for The Committee received updates The Committee was satisfied as to thereview of the role of the Control fromthe Control Functions Oversight theprogress made in improving the Functions Oversight Committee Committee and management to gain overall framework.
which itself provides oversight comfort that decisions are made and overthe risk-based system for the evidenced at the appropriate legal governance, operation and entity level and that appropriate maintenance of the Groups mechanisms are in place for monitoring, legalentities.
control and oversight of legal entity decision-making at Group level.
The Committee noted the progress made toward developing appropriate procedures and policies, including the development of the Control Functions Oversight Committee and a number of governance documents.
IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 85 Governance Report AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED EXTERNAL AUDITOR The Committee is responsible for making recommendations on the appointment, reappointment and removal of External Auditors, and for assessing and agreeing the fees payable to the Groups External Auditor both audit and non-audit fees.
The Committee is also responsible for reviewing the audit plans and reports from the External Auditors.
The main activities undertaken in relation to the external audit are summarised below: ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE DISCHARGE OF RESPONSIBILITIES CONCLUSION ACTION TAKEN Oversight of external audit The Committee is required to The Committee met with the key The Committee approved the audit oversee the work and performance of members of the PwC audit team to plan and the main areas of focus, PwC as External Auditor, including discuss the 2018 audit plan and agree including revenue recognition, the maintenance of audit quality areas of focus.
management override of controls during the period.
It assessed regular reports from PwC onthe progress of the 2018 audit and More on the Committees role any material issues identified.
inassessing the performance, effectiveness and independence of the It debated the draft audit opinion External Auditor and the quality of the ahead of the 2018 year-end.
The external audit can be found on page 87.
Committee was also briefed by PwC on critical accounting estimates, where significant judgement is needed.
Audit and audit-related fees Audit-related fees include the During the year, the Committee The Committee considers the 2018 statutory audit of the Group and reviewed and approved a audit fees to be appropriate.
itssubsidiaries, as well as audits recommendation from management on required due to the regulated nature the Companys audit and audit-related of our business.
are fees associated with the ISAE 3000 controls opinion relating to the Groups processes and controls over client money segregation.
Non-audit services fees To safeguard the objectivity and The Committee reviewed and approved During the year, non-audit fees of independence of the External all arrangements for non-audit fees.
0.3million were paid to PwC, as Auditors from becoming Fees in relation to permitted services discussed in note 4 to the Financial compromised, the Committee below 0.05 million are deemed Statements.
These principally related to has a formal policy governing the pre-approved by the Committee and tax compliance and software services.
engagement of the External Auditors are subject to the approval of the to provide non-audit services.
Fees above Non-audit fees have fallen in respect of Thepolicy is reviewed on an annual 0.05million must be approved each of the last three financial years.
The Committee reviewed bytheCommittee, through the the Groups policy governing CommitteeChairman.
The Committee continues to seek to non-audit work against details reduce the reliance on the External The Committee ensured that firms of regulations on the statutory Auditors for non-audit work.
other than the External Auditors audit of public interest entities.
havebeen considered, following a The Committee approved the competitive tender process, for the The Group has updated its internal rationalisation of non-audit work among provision of a wide range of services, process on engagement of Auditors service providers by the Group.
This including tax advisory services, changes and review of non-audit services to resulted in the Group engaging Ernst & to regulation, tax compliance services, ensure that its policy is in line with Young EY for global tax compliance.
The Committee also requested and received an explanation from PwC of its own in-house independence process.
The Committee ensured there were no exceptions to fee limits and approval process, per the policy, during the year.
86 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info EFFECTIVENESS OF EXTERNAL AUDIT TENDERING AND ROTATION AUDITORS  LLP has been In assessing the effectiveness and the Groups External Auditor since independence of the External October 2010, following a tender Auditors, the Committee considered process.
The Committee remains relevant professional and regulatory satisfied with the external audit process requirements and the relationship with and is currently not planning to undertake the External Auditors as a whole.
The a formal retender process until it is Committee monitored the External required to under legislation for the yearending 31 May 2021.
The Group Auditors compliance with relevant isrequired to rotate the audit partner regulatory, ethical and professional responsible for the Group audit every five guidance on the rotation of partners, and years, with this being the third year for the assessed their qualifications, expertise, current audit partner.
resources as well as the effectiveness of the audit process, including a AUDIT COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS report from the External Auditor on its own internal quality procedures.
During the year, the Committee undertook a questionnaire-based As part of the assessment, a review of its own effectiveness.
The questionnaire, based on criteria evaluation process was externally recommended by professional and facilitated by the Company Secretary governance bodies, was completed as part of the overall annual Board by the key stakeholders in the Group.
The Committee The questionnaire addressed matters performance was highly rated, as was including the External Auditors the management of meetings and integrity, objectivity, skills and technical the quality of information received.
knowledge, the quality of planning Significant progress had been made and execution of the audit, the level with the development of finance systems of challenge applied and the External and processes and the time given in Auditors understanding of the Groups meetings to consideration of reports business.
The results were analysed from Internal Audit had been increased.
and a report was presented to the The review this year highlighted the need Committee.
Following the review of the for the Committee to continue to be kept effectiveness of the External Auditor, up to date with accounting and audit the external audit process and an developments and to continue to monitor assessment of the External Auditors developments in the internal control independence and objectivity, the environment.
Overall, the Committee Committee has recommended the was seen to be operating effectively.
re-appointment of PwC to the Board for recommendation to and approval by shareholders at the Companys 2018 Annual General Meeting.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Jim Newman Companys choice of an external auditor.
Chairman, Audit Committee 24 July 2018 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 87
