Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code sets out the The Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council standards of good practice in relation to how a company FRC and further information can be found on its website at should be directed and governed.
IG has a Premium Listing on frc.
The Board considers that the Company has been the London Stock Exchange and, as such, the Company compliant with the provisions of the Code for the year ended reports in accordance with the Code published in April 2016.
OVERVIEW OF CORPORATE identification of Inside Information Below the Group Executive Committee, GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK and to make recommendations the executive management team is about how and when the Company also supported by the Executive Risk IG recognises that its overall structure should disclose that information.
Committee, ERC which provides is subject to the direction of its advice to operational management Shareholders, who agree the Articles The Chief Executive Officer CEO has in the day-to-day operation of risk of Association, approve transactions delegated authority for the development governance, applying the principles mandated through the Listing Rules, and execution of strategy, providing of sound corporate governance to the consider the appointment and reeffective leadership and management identification, assessment, management, appointment of Auditors and Directors, of risk throughout the organisation.
monitoring and reporting of risks within approve the final dividend and The Chief Financial Officer CFO the Risk Appetite agreed by the Board.
provide for the Directors to delegate has delegated authority extending to any of their powers or discretions.
financial management of the Group, The ERC in turn is supported by the stewardship of Group assets, the the Technology Risk Committee, The Board of Directors is responsible safeguarding of client money and assets, Information Security Committee, for appointing Directors to the Board, financial reporting and investor relations.
Vendor Risk Management Committee, for agreeing the Groups strategy Best Execution Committee and the and for monitoring progress with the In addition, the Board has, with effect from ICAAP and ILAA Committee, which execution of the Groups strategy 1 June 2018, appointed to the Board the allow for detailed review of matters against agreed targets.
The Board has Chief Commercial Officer CCO and the forming part of their responsibilities, overall responsibility for promoting the Chief Information Officer CIO.
and from where significant matters long-term success of the Company for are escalated, often through the ERC the benefit of its members as a whole, Below Board level, IG operates a number to the Group Executive Committee.
having regard, among other matters, of executive management committees.
to those matters set out in Section 172 The CEO is supported by the Group of the Companies Act 2006, providing Executive Committee which is IGs leadership and direction, including in most senior executive management relation to culture, ethics and values.
committee, comprising the CEO, CFO, The Board has adopted a schedule of CCO, CIO and other senior executives.
It matters reserved to it for decision.
oversees and helps direct the execution of the Groups strategy agreed by the Certain governance responsibilities Board, and provides advice and support have been delegated by the Board to to executive management in the day-toCommittees of the Board, to ensure day running of the Groups operations.
independent oversight over financial reporting, internal controls and risk The CFO, in the proper performance management, and generally to assist the of his duties, is supported by the Board with carrying out its responsibilities.
Client Money and Assets Committee Further information on the role of the relating to oversight arrangements and Board and of the Audit, Remuneration, operations in respect of the holding and Risk and Nomination Committees is set safeguarding of client money and assets out in the following pages.
In addition, across the whole of the business.
The the Board has a Standing Committee CFO also leads the Control Functions which deals with Board-reserved matters Oversight Committee, which assists required to be considered at short notice control function heads in the execution and where there are administrative of their responsibilities relating to the matters requiring approval and evidencing oversight of the Groups system of that do not warrant a full Board.
The internal controls, and compliance by the Board has also established a Disclosure Groups legal entities and their Directors Committee to assist and inform the with their statutory obligations.
decisions of the Board concerning the IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 47
