60 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Audit Committee Report Composition of the Audit Committee Dear Shareholder Birgit Nrgaard, Carl-Peter Forster and I were members of the Audit Committee throughout the year.
All of the Committee members are regarded This report covers the Audit Committees by the Board as independent non-executive directors.
I have chaired the Audit composition and our main areas of activity Committee since 1 October 2017 and became a member on 1 September and focus over the last year.
I spent my earlier career in the accounting and audit profession monitor the integrity of the Groups financial and the Committee is satisfied that I have significant recent and relevant reporting, to review internal financial controls financial experience.
I also currently chair the audit committee at The Bankers and the effectiveness of internal audit, and to Investment Trust PLC and Winton Group Limited.
In my role as Chair I have make recommendations to the Board on the had significant interactions with key senior executives and reviewed in appointment of our external auditor whose advance selected papers and agendas for meetings of the Committee.
independence, objectivity and effectiveness I also have met with our external auditor prior to Committee meetings.
The full terms of reference My colleagues on the Committee also have experience at audit committee of the Committee can be found in the IMI level and collectively the Committee has the skills, experience and objectivity Corporate Governance Framework on the to be an effective Audit Committee and to challenge constructively.
During the Companys website and was revised with year, Committee members received updates covering changes in accounting effect from 1 January 2019 to take account standards, best practice guidance and other key topics.
Furthermore, we each attend as appropriate external training sessions to update our knowledge.
The Committee asks the following to join all or part of its meetings: the Two particular areas of activity for the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Group Financial Committee in 2018 have been the acquisition Controller, the Director of Risk and Compliance, the Group Assurance Director of Bimba and the audit tender process, and the external auditor, Ernst & Young LLP EY.
In addition, other nondetails on which are given below.
executive directors are welcome to attend.
The Committee holds at least part of several meetings each year alone with the external auditor and with the Director of Risk and Compliance and the Group Assurance Director.
The Committee has the power to call on any employee to attend.
The Secretary to the Committee is the Company Secretary, who is also the Group Legal Director.
Main areas of activity The Audit Committee met four times in 2018.
For two meetings the focus was on the forthcoming results reporting and for the other two the focus was on planning and review matters.
The effectiveness of internal financial controls continues to be a key area for the Committee which welcomes managements continuing commitment to improve the Groups internal financial controls.
Based on its review of selected key controls, EY agreed with managements assessment that the level of Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 61 control effectiveness at the locations assessed as full or specific in the audit reports to the Committee by management and the external auditor.
Nonetheless, the Committee continues to assess with The Committee reviewed the most significant accounting areas involving management opportunities for improvement, which has resulted in a number such judgements and estimates and these are described below.
of further control initiatives being identified for 2019.
The IT investment and Acquisition accounting for Bimba infrastructure programme is continuing and its implementation facilitates Bimba was acquired on 31 January 2018 for a cash consideration of 138m.
improvements in the audit efficiency as well as in internal controls.
The Group had a 12-month measurement period after the acquisition date to The Committee has reviewed reports on the six-monthly Internal Control finalise the accounting for the acquisition of Bimba.
Management exercises Declarations which are submitted by each business unit and cover internal judgement on the types of intangible assets acquired and estimates were controls on financial affairs, IT, human resources and other key areas.
The made of the fair value of all assets and liabilities.
The provisional fair value process is managed by Group Assurance, which follows up declarations with amounts recognised at the half-year in respect of the identifiable assets on-site visits to review scores and track appropriate improvement actions.
acquired and liabilities assumed were included in the notes to the halfDuring the year, the Committee has sought information on the accounting year financial statements.
As set out in note 3.4 to the financial statements systems and internal controls at Bimba and has been pleased to note the on page 108, one change in these provisional values was made at the progress achieved to date and the way in which its staff have responded to year end totalling 1.9m.
The external auditor provided confirmation that the additional financial reporting requirements which come with being part the judgements made in this connection, including the assumptions used of a public company.
to value the acquired customer relationships and the Bimba brand, were considered to be acceptable.
A presentation on tax policy and compliance from the Head of Group Tax was received by the Committee.
Treasury matters were discussed with the Impairment of goodwill and intangibles arising Group Treasurer.
from acquisitions The Committee considered the level of goodwill and intangible assets held The Committee approved the proposed external audit approach and on the Groups balance sheet in respect of a number of past acquisitions its scope based on the size and level of risk of the entities concerned.
and whether, given the future prospects of these businesses, the carrying The Group and EY take a risk based approach to audit and other assurance value in each material case remained appropriate.
The key audit matters identified by EY are set out in its report on pages 145 to 147 and were reviewed by the Committee in approving the The year end balance sheet includes goodwill of 437m and intangible assets audit scope and plan.
The Committee reviewed the assumptions and calculations used by management in the assessment of any impairment The Committee reviewed and approved for submission to the Board the of goodwill and intangible assets and agreed that an impairment of the 2m statements on going concern and viability, which are in the Directors goodwill held relating to the IMI Hydronic Engineering service companies CGU Report on pages 139 to 142. was required.
Impairment was also a key audit matter for EY which reported The Committee advises the Board on the fair, balanced and understandable its findings to the Committee.
Section 3.2 to the financial statements on page requirements for the Annual Report and half year results statement.
The Committee 105 provides details regarding the Groups intangible assets and goodwill.
has made positive reports to the Board against these criteria.
The Committees review included consideration by the Committee of alternative performance Revenue and profit recognition measures and the presentation of adjusting items in accordance with the The Committee discussed the timing of revenue and profit recognition on Group accounting policy.
In respect of the Annual Report, the fair, balanced some of the Groups larger contracts.
In addition, this is a key audit matter and understandable criteria are also a review area for the external auditor, on which EY reported to the Committee.
in relation to which it did not report any exceptions.
The statement of Having reviewed managements process and EYs report, the Committee Directors responsibilities on page 143 includes confirmation by the concluded that revenues and profits were appropriately reflected in the Board that it considers the Annual Report, taken as a whole, to be fair, financial statements.
Section 5.4 note C to the financial statements on balanced and understandable.
Oversight of financial reporting The Committee also reviewed managements assessment of the impact of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers which came into effect The Committee acts in an oversight role in respect of the Annual Report from January 2018 and is discussed further in Section 1 on page 92. and other announcements with financial content, all of which are prepared by management.
The Committee received reports on the annual and half Inventory valuation year statements from management and the external auditor.
The year end balance sheet includes inventories of 273m after 33m of provisions.
The Committee reviewed the judgements applied to standard Significant judgements related to the costing valuations and provisions against excess and obsolete inventory and financial statements concurred with managements assessment.
This was a key audit matter for In preparing the accounts, there are a number of areas requiring the EY, in respect of which it reported to the Committee that inventory valuation exercise by management of judgement and estimation.
These matters were across the Group is considered appropriate.
1 to the financial the subject of appropriate detailed analysis and commentary in papers and statements on page 104 provides details of inventory valuation.
62 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Audit Committee Report The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of Group Assurance with Other judgement areas management and received input from the external auditor.
The Committee The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of the accounting treatment in was pleased with the further development of the co-sourcing model with the respect of pension scheme liabilities, including the actuarial assumptions used Group Assurance Team and experienced financial managers from the divisions and the impact of one-off special pension events.
The Committee also reviewed working together to enhance the effectiveness of assurance processes.
reporting from the external auditor, which concurred with the accounting for An area for improvement which was identified is for Group Assurance pensions proposed by management.
The Committee supported managements to do more to share best practice around the Group.
on-going efforts to fide-risk the Groups pension obligations which in 2018 included the buy-out by an insurance company of 409m of UK defined benefit External audit independence and obligations.
Further details can be found in Section 4.9 on page 122. performance review In addition the Committee reviewed the appropriateness of restructuring costs The Committee approved the proposed external audit approach and its scope.
disclosed as adjusting items, leasing arrangements and the impact of IFRS The Committee considered the independence and objectivity of the external changes, property sales and the adequacy of taxation provisions.
Further details auditor to be satisfactory.
In assessing auditor independence the Committee on these matters can be found in Sections 2.2 and 2.4 respectively, on pages had regard to the Financial Reporting Councils best practice guidance for 98 and 100. audit committees.
In addition, the external auditor confirmed that its ethics and independence policies complied with the requirements of the Institute Internal audit of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The Committee received reports from and monitored the work of the Groups internal audit function, known as Group Assurance.
Group Assurance reports The policy on the use of the auditor for non-audit work was reviewed and through the Director of Risk and Compliance to the Chief Executive.
Group updated by the Committee in 2016 to take account of developments in Assurance also has a direct reporting line to the Committee.
Group Assurance regulatory requirements and ethical guidelines for the audit profession.
work is primarily directed towards financial control audits but also covers The policy requires approval by the Committee Chair for any non-audit other selected areas including project planning and implementation for major engagement which is more than trivial.
The Finance Director monitors any business changes and internal control declarations.
The principal projects proposed non-audit engagements of EY and refers to the Committee Chair reviewed in 2018 were major computer systems implementations in each for approval as appropriate.
The policy does not allow work to be placed with of the three divisions and a review of the Bimba integration process.
the auditor if it could compromise auditor independence, such as functioning in the role of management or auditing its own work.
Non-audit fees paid to During the year 46 internal audit reviews were completed with 42 of these the auditor were 0.1m 2017: 0.1m, which represents 3% of the audit supported by divisional finance managers.
Centrally the Group Assurance fee and demonstrates the tight control which is maintained in this area.
team is led by experienced, senior internal audit professionals and across One non-audit engagement involved fees above 30,000 and the main areas the Group there are over 70 staff trained to conduct internal financial control of activity were the interim results review and an operating risk assessment.
Locations to be reviewed each year are selected on a risk assessed The Committee considers the level and nature of non-audit work to be basis, discussed with the Audit Committee and co-ordinated with the external modest and not to compromise the independence of the external auditor.
The completion of actions arising from internal audits and reviews We are satisfied that EY is fully independent from the management and is monitored by the Committee and the track record is excellent.
free of conflicts of interest.
Group Assurance works closely with the divisions to implement monitoring Benchmarking of the audit fee was conducted in the context of the full audit and review processes to complement the internal and external audit coverage.
tender process described below and the fee is considered by the Committee The annual plan and resourcing for internal audit were approved by the to be appropriate.
The Committee reviewed and approved the proposed audit Committee and take account of the enhanced monitoring and review activity fee payable to EY.
From 2017 the scope of internal audits has been To maintain the objectivity of the audit process, the external audit partner extended to cover certain other operational and commercial risks.
responsible for the Group is rotated within the audit firm at least every five To achieve this a co-sourcing model has been adopted, where experienced years and the current Senior Statutory Auditor, Simon ONeill, was appointed financial managers from the divisions work with the Group Assurance team following completion of the 2017 audit.
on combined audits covering financial, operational and commercial matters.
Group Assurance has also trained divisional finance managers in financial We formally reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit process.
control auditing skills and provided a toolkit to enable them to carry out As in other years, a questionnaire was used to review the external auditors financial control audits at selected sites in the internal audit plan.
In 2018 the Committee also received feedback on EY through the control evidence binders have been introduced across the Group in 2018. audit tender process discussed further below.
As a result of the questionnaire These binders help internal audits become more efficient and support and audit tender feedback, the Committee believes the external auditors transition and continuity in the event of the changes in finance staff.
performance has been good and effective.
To enhance further the external audit The Committee welcomed managements decision to introduce the process, certain improvement actions were identified and plans have been put binders as a further step to ensure robust financial controls.
in place by EY to address these.
These included action to improve continuity of junior level staff on the audit and more rigorous structure in the audit process, especially in relation to audit deliverable requests and progress meetings.
Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 63 The audit tender process Compliance hotline Pursuant to the statutory requirement for audit tendering after ten years During 2018 the Committee reviewed the operation of the independent i. e. in time for the 31 December 2019 audit and as signalled in the 2017 compliance hotline for reporting concerns, reviewed the more significant Annual Report, the Committee led an audit tender process during the year, reports received and considered how these are investigated and followed the result of which was our recommendation to the Board to select EY as up.
The Committee believes that the hotline process and investigations are auditor for the 2019 year.
The Board approved the recommendation and is effective and that proportionate action is taken by management in response.
seeking shareholders approval to re-appoint EY as the external auditor at In line with the 2018 Code, this responsibility has been transferred to the the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The term of appointment is annual Board from the start of 2019. and there are no contractual restrictions on the Committees choice of external auditor.
Committee attendance and evaluation The audit tender process involved the following main steps: Director Audit Committee % attended where meetings eligible Considering how the tender should be conducted and Carl-Peter Forster 4 4 100 agreeing how the firms should be assessed Birgit Nrgaard 4 4 100 The Committee agreed that three firms should be invited to tender.
This decision was reached after considering the needs of the Group, the existing Isobel Sharp 4 4 100 substantial relationship with one firm which currently provides tax services to the Group and initial soundings taken from other first and second tier The Committee reviewed its own performance and terms of reference international audit firms.
and received positive feedback from the evaluation exercise carried out To support the Committee, the day-to-day running of the tender process was in relation to the Board and each of its standing committees.
As a result managed by a panel which consisted of the Audit Committee Chair, the Chief of the evaluation, the meeting cycle for future years been adjusted to Executive Officer, the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller, improve efficiency.
the Chief Financial Accountant and the Global Head of Procurement.
The Committee approved this report on its work.
To assist in evaluating overall audit quality, the key assessment criteria were the capability and competence of the audit team: the approach to, and Yours faithfully management of, the audit: relationships and cultural fit with the Group: Isobel Sharp and quality of the proposal and management of fees.
Throughout the process, Chair of the Audit Committee all relevant staff were provided with the detailed assessment criteria and asked to provide their feedback to the tender panel.
28 February 2019 Running the process The tender panel issued the Request for Proposal to the three firms and made available, in a data room, information on the Group and its divisions to assist the firms.
After receipt of the proposals, meetings were held with Group representatives in our major geographies and the firms staff.
This was followed by individual meetings with divisional heads and with Group representatives, including the Chief Executive, Finance Director and Audit Committee Chair.
The results were then collated and made available to the Committee.
In May 2018, the three firms were invited to meet with representatives of the Audit Committee and the Group Executive to present their proposals for the audit.
Selecting the firm At its meeting in June 2018, the Audit Committee reviewed the process and the information and views gathered therein and agreed to recommend to the Board that, subject to shareholders approval, EY should be appointed auditors for the year to 31 December 2019.
The Committee believes that a robust audit tender process was executed and that EY has the skill and experience to ensure that a rigorous and challenging audit, led by EYs Simon ONeill who has just completed his first year as Senior Statutory Auditor, is carried out.
