Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 55 Corporate Governance Report Set out below is the Boards formal report on corporate governance and separate reports from the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Non-executive Gender Nationality 2016 Code - Compliance statement executive directors The Board is committed to maintaining good governance and confirms that throughout the year-ending 31 December 2018 the Company has applied the principles contained in the 2016 Code and complied with its best 3 5 6 3 5 4 practice provisions save for a temporary shortfall in the membership of the Remuneration Committee.
The 2016 Code provisions require a Remuneration Committee to have at least three members and there was a period of six 5 Independent non- 3 Female 4 British months when the membership was reduced to two following the sad death executive directors 6 Male 5 Other of Bob Stack in December 2017.
Two new non-executives joined us on 3 Executive directors 1 July 2018 and became members of the Committee.
Under the 2018 Code, the Chairman is excluded when considering Further details of how we have applied the 2016 Code appear below, in the the independent non-executive composition of the Board.
Directors Report and other cross-referenced sections of this Annual Report, all of which are incorporated by reference into this report.
A description of the Dates of appointment for the Chairman and main features of the Companys internal control system and disclosures on non-executive directors other regulatory matters including statements on going concern and viability can be found in the Directors report on pages 139 to 142.
A summary of our Length of tenure at 31 December risk management systems and information about the risks and uncertainties that relate to our business is detailed within the How we manage risk Thomas Thune Andersen section on pages 46 to 49.
Information on corporate responsibility can Carl-Peter Forster be found in the Corporate Responsibility section on pages 34 to 43.
Katie Jackson Birgit Nrgaard Board composition Isobel Sharp Seven directors served on the Board throughout 2018: the Chairman: the Lord Robert Smith Chief Executive: three independent non-executive directors: the Finance 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Director and one operational executive director.
In addition, two new nonYears executive directors were appointed with effect from 1 July 2018.
The Board now comprises nine directors.
All continuing directors stand for re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
Date of appointment Date of current letter of appointment Independence of non-executive directors Thomas Thune Andersen 1 July 2018 12 December 2018 Carl-Peter Forster 1 October 2012 12 December 2018 The Board considers that all of the non-executive directors are free from Katie Jackson 1 July 2018 12 December 2018 any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with Birgit Nrgaard the exercise of their independent judgement and all meet the criteria 6 November 2012 12 December 2018 for independence under the Code.
All of the non-executive directors are Isobel Sharp 1 September 2015 12 December 2018 regarded by the Board as independent.
The Chairman was also regarded Lord Robert Smith 7 May 2015 12 December 2018 as independent at the date of his appointment to the Board.
Board diversity Share ownership for the Chairman and non-executive directors The non-executive directors are a diverse group from different backgrounds and nationalities and bring with them a wide range of skills and experience The Chairman and non-executive directors are encouraged to hold in commerce, finance and industry from around the world.
More than half the some shares in IMI within a reasonable period after their appointment.
Board are non-British and there are five different nationalities on the Board.
As at 31 December 2018, the Chairman and non-executive directors Three of the nine directors are female i. e. 33%.
Our approach to diversity all held IMI shares as set out in the table on page 77. is set out in more detail in the Corporate Responsibility section on pages 34 to 43 and in the Nominations Committee Report on pages 64 and 65.
56 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate Governance Report Meetings and use of Board time Board attendance The Board met on six occasions during the year including two results Director Board % attended where reporting meetings, a day dedicated to strategy discussions and regular meetings eligible 1 review meetings at which updates are provided as appropriate covering health Thomas Thune Andersen 4 4 100 and safety, operational and financial matters, investor relations, risk and legal Carl-Peter Forster 6 6 100 affairs.
In addition, there were several days spent on Board site visits and 1 Katie Jackson 4 4 100 attendance at other events.
Birgit Nrgaard 6 6 100 Isobel Sharp 6 6 100 2018 Board cycle Lord Smith 6 6 100 In addition to the regular agenda items for operational matters, business Mark Selway 6 6 100 performance and corporate affairs, the following matters were dealt with Daniel Shook 6 6 100 at Board meetings in the year: Roy Twite 6 6 100 February 1 Joined the Board on 1 July 2018.
Approval of the preliminary results announcement and Annual Report Approval of the final dividend recommendation In 2019 to date the Board has met once with all members in attendance.
Approval of the notice of Annual General Meeting Review of the first monthly phased forecast the Q1 Forecast Board roles and reserved matters Review of a significant possible acquisition A description of Board roles and reserved matters is included in the IMI May Corporate Governance Framework which can be found on the Company Review of trading and other updates website and is summarised in the Directors Report on pages 139 to 142.
Approval of the interim management statement Induction and continuing development programme Preparation for the Annual General Meeting Strategy update A formal induction process for new non-executive directors is well established and is the responsibility of the Chairman with support from the Chief Executive Review of the Q2 Forecast and Company Secretary.
Bimba integration update Bopp & Reuther post-acquisition review Business familiarisation is at the core of induction and continuing development for non-executive directors at IMI and is centred around gaining an IT update understanding of the business and getting to know the wider management July team.
The two new non-executive directors appointed in July 2018 have had Approval of the half year results announcement induction meetings with all of the members of the Executive Committee and Approval of the interim dividend the auditor.
In addition, all new non-executive directors will attend a corporate Interim risk review induction day for senior managers held at head office.
There is also Review of the Q3 Forecast a committee induction process designed to brief new committee members on the relevant committee and the issues it faces.
September Strategy review Non-executive directors are required to visit business units around the Group Five year business plan review and to meet face-to-face with senior operating management and key corporate staff.
There is regular contact between management and non-executive October directors during site visits, formal meetings and other company events.
Site visit to US operations Corporate Governance Update During 2018 all of the non-executive directors made site visits and the whole Board visited US operations including IMI CCI in IMI Critical Engineering and Review of the Q4 Forecast Bimba in IMI Precision Engineering.
Feedback on Board and individual site Approval of the interim management statement visits is discussed by the Board.
December Appropriate training and other continuing professional development is available Budget for 2019 to all non-executive directors and regular updates are given during the year Annual risk review where relevant to the business arising at Board and committee meetings.
Board evaluation For example, appropriate best practice updates were provided to the Strategy update Remuneration Committee and to the Board during 2018 including training Board evaluation report on the 2018 Code.
Non-executive directors are encouraged to undertake Post-investment reviews additional training and several did attend external training during the year.
Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 57 Board visit to US operations Site visits are an important, regular feature of the Board calendar.
In October 2018 the Board visited IMI CCI in California and Bimba in Illinois where it held meetings and toured the manufacturing sites.
IMIs core processes were seen to be well embedded at IMI CCI and the business has made excellent progress with its Value Engineering programme.
Bimba is progressing well as a business and has achieved the integration milestones as planned.
IMI has a substantial presence in the USA which is home to business units in all three divisions.
In particular, IMI Critical Engineering has four business units in the country including, IMI CCI in California, and IMI Precision Engineering has 10 business units including Bimba in Illinois.
IMI CCI is a powerful brand for IMI Critical Engineering and offers a range of valves for power plants and other severe service applications.
Bimba is a key player in the US Precision Engineering Industrial Automation market which joined the Group from January 2018.
During the factory tours, management and staff had the opportunity to showcase a wide range of improvements and local management made business presentations.
Senior managers from US businesses joined the Board for discussions over dinner.
Each visit provided an excellent opportunity for the Board to meet a wider group of employees and gain a more in-depth understanding of the businesses.
Bimba University Park, Illinois IMI CCI RSM, California Board evaluation The Chairman arranged an internally facilitated evaluation process in 2018.
An externally facilitated evaluation was last conducted in 2017 with Egon Zehnder.
Based on that review Egon Zehnders overriding conclusion was that the Board is run in an effective manner.
Following discussion of the report by Egon Zehnder the Board noted some areas for development including routine feedback on site visits, continuing development of strong relationships among Board members and regular strategic progress updates for the Board to be expanded.
All of these development areas have received appropriate attention during the year.
The 2018 internal evaluation exercise was carried out through a questionnaire process run by the Company Secretary and by the Chairman canvassing the IMIs Board visit Bimbas University views of directors individually.
While the findings of the internal evaluation Park site in October 2018. were overwhelmingly positive, in keeping with the Groups commitment to continuous improvement, the Board agreed that it will make it a priority to allocate a generous proportion of time to strategy.
In addition, external training opportunities for directors will be expanded and participation encouraged.
As senior independent director, Carl-Peter Forster conducted a review of the Chairman with the other non-executive directors and shared the results with the Chairman.
During the year the Chairman also met with the nonexecutive directors individually for performance review and feedback sessions and as a group to review the performance of the Chief Executive.
The Chairman passed on to the Chief Executive appropriate feedback from the review of his performance.
The Chairman is satisfied that the Board is fulfilling its responsibilities appropriately and that the Board and its committees are effective and that each director demonstrates a valuable contribution and is committed to their role.
58 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate Governance Report Separate reports from the committees appear in this Annual Report as follows: Standing committees of the Board Audit Committee Report on pages 60 to 63: Nominations Committee Report The standing committees of the Board are the Audit Committee, the on pages 64 and 65 and Remuneration Committee Report on pages 66 to 79.
Nominations Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Each of these committees operates under written terms of reference which clearly set out their respective delegated responsibilities and authorities.
The full terms of reference of these committees are part of the IMI Corporate Governance Framework which can be found on the Companys website.
The committees report to the Board on their work, normally through their respective chair, following each meeting.
Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Isobel Sharp Lord Smith of Kelvin Birgit Nrgaard Chair Chair Chair Membership Membership Membership Carl-Peter Forster Thomas Thune Andersen Thomas Thune Andersen Birgit Nrgaard Carl-Peter Forster Carl-Peter Forster Katie Jackson Katie Jackson Birgit Nrgaard Isobel Sharp Main responsibilities Main responsibilities Main responsibilities Financial reporting Board and committee composition Define and recommend the remuneration policy for the Chairman and members of the Executive Oversight role in relation to financial statements Oversight of succession plans for the Board and Committee the Executive Committee Reviewing significant areas of judgement and Determine the individual remuneration packages accounting policies Search for and recommendation of candidates for the Chairman and members of the Executive for appointment as non-executive directors, Chief Reviewing the proposed statements on Committee within the policy approved by Executive and other executive director positions going concern and viability to appear in the shareholders Annual Report Diversity policy, promotion of diversity and Set annual and long-term incentive metrics monitoring of progress Advising the Board on whether the draft Annual and awards and determine the outcomes for Report is fair, balanced and understandable the members of the Executive Committee Monitoring announcements in respect of Report on remuneration matters and constructively financial performance engage with shareholders Assess risk in respect of remuneration Financial control and risk and incentive structures in particular Monitoring the effectiveness of internal financial controls Reviewing financial risks including fraud risk Oversight of internal audit and other key processes for monitoring internal financial control Overseeing the external audit process, its objectivity, effectiveness and cost with responsibility for setting the audit fee Making recommendations to the Board for the appointment of the auditor including oversight of the audit tender process Reviewing the system for confidential whistleblowing and the treatment of reports received this became a Board responsibility from 2019 Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 59 The Company has arranged a dealing service for the convenience of Executive Committee shareholders with Equiniti details are shown on page 164.
A sponsored The Executive Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and the other Level 1 American Depositary Receipt programme has been established for members are shown on page 15.
The Committee meets monthly and more which Citibank, N. A. acts as depositary details can be found on page 164. often as may be required.
Regular attendees at its meetings include the Group Financial Controller, Director of Risk and Compliance, and the By order of the Board Head of Investor Relations.
The Executive Committee is the senior management body and as part John OShea of the broad remit set by the Chief Executive it monitors and manages Group Legal Director and Company Secretary business performance, reviews progress against strategic objectives and 28 February 2019 formulates budgets and proposals on strategy and resource allocation for consideration by the Board.
The Executive Committee is a management committee which takes its authority from the Chief Executive and is not a committee of the Board.
The Executive Committee plays a key part in risk assessment, risk management and monitoring processes and receives regular reports on investor relations, human resources, health and safety, internal audit, compliance, legal and other corporate affairs.
Investor relations The Board oversees shareholder engagement and maintains a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director have primary responsibility at Board level for investor relations and they, and the Head of Investor Relations, report to the Board on shareholder issues at every Board meeting during the year.
Financial analysts notes are circulated to the directors and the Board receives regular feedback reports from the Companys brokers and public relations advisers as well as from management.
Dialogue is maintained with the principal shareholders and the executive directors meet regularly with institutional investors.
During 2018 there were over 130 such meetings with institutional shareholders.
The Chairman and the senior independent director also are available to shareholders as needed and both have had contact with investors during the year.
The 2018 Annual General Meeting was presided over by the Chairman and attended by all of the serving directors.
The Chairman and the other directors met shareholders informally afterwards.
Each substantively separate issue was put to the Annual General Meeting as an individual motion.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting was issued more than twenty working days in advance of the meeting and the level of votes lodged for and against each resolution, together with details of abstentions, are shown on the IMI website.
The Board values the support of shareholders and the poll results for all resolutions proposed at the Annual General Meeting were well above 80% in favour in each case.
In addition to the Annual Report, the Company issues preliminary results and half year results announcements, as well as two interim management statements between results announcements.
The IMI website includes recordings of results presentations made by senior management, recent annual and half year reports, interim management statements, other corporate announcements and links to the websites of the Groups businesses.
