Governance Report THE BOARD The Board is responsible for determining the Groups strategy and for promoting our long-term success, through creating and delivering long-term value for shareholders.
ANDY GREEN PETER HETHERINGTON PAUL MAINWARING MALCOLM LE MAY CHAIRMAN CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER SENIOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Age: 62 Age: 49 Age: 55 Age: 60 Time on Board: 4 years Time on Board: 15 years Time on Board: 2 years Time on Board: 3 years Appointed 9 June 2014: Appointed 25 February 2003: Appointed 20 July 2016 Appointed 10 September 2015 Deputy Chairman: 16 October 2014: COO: 4 December 2015: CEO Chairman Committee membership: Committee membership: Nomination Committee Chair Remuneration Committee Chair Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Nomination Committee Andy has significant board Peter has spent his whole career Paul brings in-depth knowledge Malcolm has broad experience and experience, including within major with IG, having joined as a graduate of financial services and Boardknowledge of the financial services listed companies.
Andy is Senior trainee in 1994.
In 1999 he was level experience in several and investment sectors, along with Independent Non-Executive Director appointed Head of Financial public companies, providing IG extensive experience on the boards of Avanti Communications Group Dealing, and in 2003 he joined the with a wide perspective in the of publicly listed companies.
plc and was recently appointed as Board following his appointment consideration of operational and Malcolm was appointed as Chief a Non-Executive Director of Link as Chief Operating Officer COO, strategic development discussions Executive Officer of Provident Administration Holdings Ltd. where he was responsible for at Board and management level.
Financial plc in February 2018, IT as IG developed its online Andy holds a number of other Paul joined IG from Tullett Prebon having previously been its Senior offering.
His COO role expanded roles in not-for-profit organisations plc, where he served as Finance Independent Director until to encompass leadership of the across the IT, space and charitable Director from 2006 to 2016.
Prior November 2017 and, following sales and marketing functions.
sectors, including chairing Digital to this, he was Group Finance the death of its Chairman, Catapult.
He is president of UK Peter was appointed Interim Chief Director of Mowlem plc and TDG Interim Executive Director.
He Space and Chair of the Space Executive Officer in October 2015 plc.
Between 1993-2000, he held is a partner at Opus Corporate Leadership Council, and is a and, following an extensive search, various financial roles at Caradon Finance LLP and Juno Capital Commissioner at the UK National was appointed Chief Executive plc, including three years as Finance LLP and holds an advisory role Infrastructure Commission.
He qualified at Heidrick & Struggles.
as a chartered accountant with In addition, Andy is Vice-Chairman Peter graduated from Nottingham Malcolm served as a NonPrice Waterhouse in 1987, and of the Disaster Emergency University with a degree in Executive Director and Chairman obtained an MBA from Cranfield Committee, which focuses on economics, and from the London of the Remuneration Committee of School of Management in 1991. emergency aid relief, and is a Business School with a masters in Hastings Group Holdings plc prior Trustee of the World Wildlife Fund.
Peter served as an officer in Paul has no other current to his resignation in April 2018.
He the Royal Navy prior to joining IG.
also served as Senior Independent Andys other current roles enable Director of Pendragon plc, and him to bring to the Board a wide On 18 June 2018, Peter was was a Non-Executive Director perspective on technology and appointed as a Non-Executive and Chairman of the Investment digital development, while in Director of the AIM-listed company Committee at RSA Insurance no way impacting his ability Scotgold Resources Limited.
Prior to this, he held to devote sufficient time to various executive roles at Morgan his role as Chairman of IG.
Grenfell plc, Drexel Burnham Lambert, Barclays fide Zoete Wedd Andy has previously served as Holdings, UBS AG, ING Barings Group Chief Executive of Logica Ltd, Morley Fund Managers now plc, as CEO of Group Strategy Aviva Investors, JER Partners Ltd, and Operations at BT Group, as a where he was European President, board member of the CBI, and as and Matrix Securities Limited.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of ARM Holdings plc.
48 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info JUNE FELIX STEPHEN HILL, OBE JIM NEWMAN SAM TYMMS NON-EXECUTIVE NON-EXECUTIVE NON-EXECUTIVE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR DIRECTOR DIRECTOR DIRECTOR Age: 61 Age: 57 Age: 52 Age: 54 Time on Board: 3 years Time on Board: 7 years Time on Board: 5 years Time on Board: 5 years Appointed 4 September 2015 Appointed 28 April 2011 Appointed 1 October 2013 Appointed 22 May 2013 Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Board Risk Committee Board Risk Committee Audit Committee Chair Board Risk Committee Chair Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Board Risk Committee Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Stephen brings significant and Jim has in-depth knowledge and Sam has extensive experience in June brings to the Board significant international experience extensive quoted company experience of the financial services the regulatory field and detailed and knowledge of the digital board experience.
He is currently sector, as well as considerable knowledge of risk and compliance sector, as well as experience in a Non-Executive Director of experience both as a CFO matters, from her time with the strategy, product innovation and Applerigg Ltd and Chairman and in the implementation of London Stock Exchange and delivery.
She is the President of the Alzheimers Society.
of Verifone Europe and Russia, Stephen has previously served as A qualified chartered accountant, Sam is a Managing Director at with responsibility for the Promontory Financial Group, a the CEO of Betfair plc, and has Jim was Finance Director for operation of the Verifone business held roles at Pearson plc where, Resolution plc, having joined the leading strategy, risk-management throughout these territories.
and  among other positions, he was Company as Group Financial June has held various executive CEO of the Financial Times Group.
He spent ten years consulting firm, where she advises financial services management positions at a number at Aviva, where he was Group Stephen was Chairman of Interactive of large multi-national businesses.
Integration Director for the CGU businesses on a wide range of Data Corporation in the US and risk and regulatory matters.
These include Citibank, where Norwich Union merger and Finance the Royal National Institute for she was Managing Director of Director of Norwich Union Life, Deaf People.
He has served as a Sam began her career at the Global Healthcare, Citi Enterprise Avivas UK life insurance business.
Director on the boards of Royal London Stock Exchanges Payments and IBM Corporation, He was formerly the Corporate Sun Alliance Insurance Group Surveillance Division, which over where she led their global Banking Development Director for Friends plc, Psion plc, Channel 4, Ofcom, time became the Securities and and Financial Markets business.
Life Group, where his responsibilities Aztec Limited and Cambridge Futures Authority and eventually included overseeing the final June was also a strategy consultant University Judge Business School.
She separation and integration of the UK During that time, she held a range life business acquired by Resolution began her career at P&G in brand of supervisory roles and worked management marketing.
plc, as well as the delivery of the for two years in the Investigations overall group change portfolio and and Enforcement Division.
supervisor, she ran departments Jim has no other current overseeing global investment appointments.
firms, retail and investment banks and major insurance groups.
Sam has no other current appointments.
On 1 June 2018, Bridget Messer and Jon Noble were appointed as Executive Directors of the Company.
Biographical details for Bridget and Jon can be found in the Notice of 2018 Annual General Meeting.
Further details on their remuneration and reward can be found in the Remuneration Committee Chairmans Overview on page 60.
IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 49
