64 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Nominations Committee Report Composition Dear Shareholder Carl-Peter Forster, Birgit Nrgaard, Isobel Sharp and I were members of the Committee throughout the year.
Thomas Thune Andersen and Katie Jackson I am pleased to make my report as Chair of joined the Committee on 1 July 2018.
For the purposes of the 2018 Code, the Nominations Committee.
This report is all of the non-executive directors on the Committee are regarded as intended to give an account of the Committee independent non-executive directors.
The core responsibilities of the Committee are succession planning and Attendance appointments at Board level and oversight of appointments to the Executive Committee.
Director Nominations % attended Committee where eligible The full terms of reference of the Committee meetings can be found in the IMI Corporate Governance 1 Thomas Thune Andersen 3 3 100 Framework on the Companys website and Carl-Peter Forster 4 4 100 was revised with effect from 1 January 2019 1 Katie Jackson 2 3 67 to take account of the 2018 Code.
Birgit Nrgaard 4 4 100 Isobel Sharp 4 4 100 Lord Smith 4 4 100 1 Joined the Committee on 1 July 2018.
Katie Jackson had a prior commitment on appointment which prevented her attendance at one of the three meetings held since her appointment.
Main areas of activity Chief Executive succession Following a rigorous selection process supported by Russell Reynolds that included both internal and external candidates, the Board agreed to appoint Roy Twite as IMIs next Chief Executive.
He is a strong and experienced successor who has been pivotal to the Groups continued success.
He has extensive operational experience, deep knowledge of our core markets and outstanding leadership qualities.
The Committee is also reviewing the succession choices for a new Divisional Managing Director in the IMI Critical Engineering division.
An announcement on that appointment will be made in due course.
Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 65 Board changes and recommendations for election and The Committee welcomes its responsibility under the 2018 Code for re-election promoting broader diversity at Board and senior management level.
The Committee commissioned Zygos Partnership to undertake a full search Committee evaluation process to recruit two new non-executive directors and recommended to the The Nominations Committee reviewed its own performance and terms Board the appointment of Thomas Thune Andersen and Katie Jackson.
The of reference and received positive feedback from the evaluation exercise Committee also recommended the appointment of Birgit Nrgaard as noncarried out in respect of the Board and each of its committees.
executive director with responsibility for employee engagement.
All of the directors standing are recommended for re-election at the Annual General The Committee approved this report on its work.
The Board approved all of the recommendations made by the Committee for the renewals of appointment for continuing directors.
Yours faithfully Succession planning Lord Smith of Kelvin The Committee reviews Board composition and has formulated a structured, Chair of the Nominations Committee medium-term plan for Board succession.
28 February 2019 As already highlighted, during the year Thomas Thune Andersen and Katie Jackson joined the Board.
Originally it was envisaged that they would join all three Board committees, but in the interests of better balance of overall committee memberships, it was decided that they would serve on two, the Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
During the year we reviewed talent development and succession planning for the top 220 roles in the Group with the support of the Chief Executive and Group Human Resources Director.
We were encouraged to see that significant progress continues to be made in terms of cultivating a stronger pipeline of high-calibre talent as demonstrated by the internal appointment of the new Chief Executive and the strong list of internal candidates for the Critical Engineering, Divisional Managing Director role.
Further details of our leadership development and succession planning processes are set out in the Corporate Responsibility section on pages 34 to 43. Review of time commitments and contributions The appointments of the Chairman and non-executive directors are made on the basis of a formal letter of appointment including a stated minimum time commitment judged appropriate by the Committee.
The Committee considers that the time given to IMI by each non-executive director is sufficient.
The Board is satisfied that I have the necessary time to devote to my role as Chairman.
Diversity The Board recognises the benefits a diverse pool of talent can bring to a boardroom and remains committed to increasing diversity across IMI by voluntary measures.
We will continue to review the composition of our management teams and the Board to ensure that we have the right mix of skills and experience while maintaining our effectiveness and execution capabilities.
At Board level, more than half the Board are non-British and there are five nationalities.
Three of the non-executive directors are female, representing 33% of the Board, and there is a broad mix of backgrounds and experience.
We are supportive of the need to improve gender diverse representation at Board and senior executive levels and are working hard to this end.
Further information on workforce diversity matters is given in the Corporate Responsibility section on pages 34 to 43.
