STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Jane Kingston John Langston Coline McConville Nigel Northridge Till Vestring Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Director Director Director Director Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: July 2018 August 2013 June 2014 July 2009 September 2011 Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Jane served as Group John has corporate Coline has extensive Nigel brings Till is an Advisory Human Resources finance, accounting remuneration international and Partner with Director for Compass and international experience as the commercial Bain & Co, based Group PLC from 2006 experience acquired Remuneration experience acquired in Singapore.
until her retirement in in senior financial Committee Chair across a number He has extensive 2016.
Jane also roles in the of Travis Perkins plc, of sectors.
He is experience advising held senior positions engineering sector.
Fevertree plc and an experienced multinationals on at Enodis PLC, He is an experienced of TUI Travel plc until Non-Executive growth strategy Blue Circle PLC Non-Executive its merger with Director and has across Asia and now Lafarge SA and Director who has TUI AG.
Coline is served as a director leading Asian Coats Viyella PLC.
a strong governance an experienced on the boards of companies on Jane has significant background and was Non-Executive several large UK strategy, M&A remuneration the Audit Committee Director and has and global plcs.
experience and is Chair of Rexam PLC served as a director Other appointments: Other appointments: Remuneration until its sale to Ball on several UK boards.
Chairman of Hogg Non-Executive Committee Chair of Group in 2016.
Other appointments: Robinson plc, Director of Keppel National Express plc John is a chartered Non-Executive Director Chairman of Corporation.
of Fevertree Drinks plc, Scandinavian Engineering plc.
Committee Committee Travis Perkins plc, Tobacco Group A S membership: Other appointments: membership: 3i Group plc and and non-executive Chair of CSR Non-Executive a member of the Chairman of Belfast Chair of Audit Committee Director of Spiraxsupervisory board City Airport.
Committee and and member Sarco Engineering of TUI AG.
member of Committee of Remuneration plc and National Nomination Committee membership: and Nomination Express plc.
Committee Chair of Remuneration and Nomination membership: Committee and Committees.
Remuneration member of and Nomination Nomination and CSR Committees.
Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 49 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT A GOVERNANCE CULTURE A clear understanding of future industry trends is NIGEL imperative for the Board to aid its decision making process and an overview of the trends is given on page 11.
STEIN GOVERNANCE AND CULTURE Chairman As previously mentioned the Board approved a new Code of Conduct which is being rolled out globally.
The Code sets out the minimum standards of behaviour expected from our employees to act with honesty and integrity.
The Code gives clear guidance on ethical decision making, the identification of misconduct and whistleblowing procedures.
The Code also sets out our commitment to all our stakeholders.
These concepts are at the heart of our vision to be the worlds most trusted automotive Distributor and Retailer and create the cornerstone of the culture within Inchcape.
2018 saw a considerable number of governance and regulatory changes which were duly discussed by the Board.
com AR18 The new UK Corporate Governance Code was published in July 2018 and the Board agreed the actions it needed to take to comply during 2019.
The Board is considering how and what information it receives from key stakeholders and DEAR SHAREHOLDER whether these engagement mechanisms are appropriate.
The Board has also considered engagement with the I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance workforce and the three options given in the new Code.
Report for the year ended 31 December 2018.
The next The Board feels that a designated Non-Executive Director is few sections explain how the Board and its Committees the most appropriate method at this time and has appointed have discharged their duties throughout the year and Till Vestring, Chair of the CSR Committee, to take up the role.
I hope you find it informative.
Till will set out how the CSR Committee intends to engage with our employees during the year.
The Board will review OUR BUSINESSES periodically to ensure that both the Board and our employees As part of my induction, I have been able to travel to are getting value from the engagement process.
several markets to meet colleagues and learn more about the business.
The Board also travelled to Singapore BOARD COMPOSITION for its annual overseas meeting in October 2018.
The visit As mentioned in my statement on page 1, Nigel Northridge provided an opportunity for our Non-Executive Directors will retire following the AGM, and I am delighted to confirm to meet personally with colleagues and observe how Jerry Buhlmann will succeed him as Senior Independent Ignite is being implemented within our markets.
Further details are given on page 66.
As a result of visited the Inchcape Lexus Boutique and Toyota World and the planned Board changes, I have been considering our also spent time at the Suzuki dealership.
The local teams succession process to ensure that we are planning ahead updated the Board on the latest customer initiatives being to have the right balance of skills and experience.
introduced across the region, including the automated I am focused on ensuring that we have 33% female Leads Distribution System and other digitalisation projects representation by 2020.
To help us achieve this we are which are enhancing our sales capabilities.
looking at our candidate selection processes to ensure a truly diverse range of candidates are being considered.
The Board also received presentations on industry trends Further details of succession planning are given in the including on future mobility from Mr Yutaka Okayma from Nomination Committee Report on pages 65 to 66.
Toyota Asia Pacific and Professor Lee Der Horng, a leading transport academic in Singapore.
Industry insights such I thank you for your support during 2018 and look forward as these increased the Boards knowledge on specialist to the coming year.
areas and are vital for Non-Executive Directors who are not involved in the day-to-day running of the business.
Nigel Stein Chairman 50 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Leadership STATEMENT OF CODE COMPLIANCE The Company was compliant with the provisions of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the year.
The Code can be found on the FRCs website www.
uk The information required under DTR 7 is given on pages 51 to 87 and forms part of this report.
GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE THE BOARD OF INCHCAPE PLC Collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company Audit Remuneration Executive Nomination CSR Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Delegated Delegated Delegated Delegated Delegated authorities: authorities: authorities: authorities: authorities: Financial Reporting Remuneration Group Strategy Board Composition CSR Strategy Policy Risk Management Operational Diversity Incentive plans Management Internal Control Succession Performance Planning Targets Committee Report Committee Report Committee Report Committee Report page 58 page 68 page 65 page 67 Delegated Delegated authorities: authorities: Risk oversight Oversight of Group Minimum Control capital expenditure iPOM Group Capital Committee Committee Framework Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Board The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company which it achieves by setting the strategic direction of the Group and ensuring that there are the necessary financial and human resources available to deliver the objectives.
The Board also ensures that there are controls, processes and procedures in place to ensure that the right culture exists for the achievement of the strategic goals.
Chairman Senior Independent Chief Executive Director Officer Nigel Stein, as Chairman, is responsible Nigel Northridge is the Senior Stefan Bomhard, as Group Chief for leading an effective Board, ensuring Independent Director and is available Executive Officer, is responsible for timely, accurate and relevant to shareholders if they do not want to developing the Groups strategy, information is received by Board speak to the Chairman or the Group running the day-to-day operations, members, planning the composition Chief Executive Officer.
reporting to the Board on of the Board and is Chair of the performance, implementation His role is to act as a sounding board Nomination Committee.
of strategy and any significant for the Chairman and to serve as an developments, leading the Group The Chairman sets the Boards agenda intermediary to other members of Executive Committee including the Board.
and ensures that appropriate time is managing risk and internal control allocated to discuss each agenda and engaging with shareholders.
He is also responsible for ensuring there is a culture of openness and debate and that constructive relationships exist between the Non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors are appointed to offer a wide range of skills and experience which enable them to advise, support and constructively challenge management, to provide independent judgement on the Boards discussions and to help with the development of the Companys strategy.
The Non-Executive Directors met in 2018 without the presence of Stefan Bomhard and Nigel Stein to discuss their performance.
If a Director has a concern about the running of the Company which cannot be resolved, it would be recorded in the Board minutes.
No such concerns arose in 2018.
Activities of the Board The table below shows the Board and Committee meetings held during the year.
There were additional Board calls and Committee meetings throughout the year to discuss specific issues as they arose.
Audit Remuneration Nomination CSR Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Name Scheduled attended Scheduled attended Scheduled attended Scheduled attended Scheduled attended Stefan Bomhard 6 6 2 2 Jerry Buhlmann 6 6 2 2 2 2 2 2 Rachel Empey 6 6 4 4 1 1 Ken Hanna 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 Richard Howes 6 6 Jane Kingston 3 3 1 1 1 1 John Langston 6 6 4 4 2 2 Coline McConville 6 6 2 2 2 2 2 2 Nigel Northridge 6 6 4 4 2 2 2 2 Nigel Stein 6 6 2 2 2 2 1 1 Till Vestring 6 6 2 2 2 2 2 2 Ken Hanna retired from the Company following the 2018 AGM.
Jane Kingston joined the Company in July 2018.
52 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company and achieves this by setting its strategic aims whilst ensuring that the necessary financial and human resources are available.
The Board also ensures that the correct controls are in place to drive the right culture throughout the organisation to achieve its strategic objectives in a sustainable manner.
The Chairman ensures that there is a culture of openness and transparency on the Board to facilitate constructive debate on all matters considered during the year.
There is a schedule of formal matters reserved for the Board which can be found at www.
Focus in 2018 What we achieved Focus for 2019 Investor engagement A Capital Markets Day was held in June 2018 Engagement with stakeholders other which was designed to give investors a clear than shareholders explanation of the Distribution business Workforce engagement model, the drivers of growth for Inchcape Consideration of s172 reporting and our view of future trends and our positioning against them.
Ignite strategy The Ignite M&A programme had several Global industry trends successes in 2018 with Distribution contract Disruptive and future industry trends wins in Kenya, Colombia, Lithuania and Strategy development Guam and the acquisition of Grupo Rudelman in Central America.
An important part of the Boards discussions is the capital allocation framework to ensure that cash is being utilised effectively.
During the year the Board discussed dividend policy, capital expenditure and share buybacks.
Further details can be found on page 16.
Risk The Board undertook a comprehensive risk Annual review of principal risks and appetite assessment during the year which mitigating actions included a focus on the impact of Brexit Annual review of risk appetite on the business.
Further information can Brexit outcomes be found in the Risk Management Report on pages 35 to 46.
Financial reporting The Board reviews the performance of the Approval of annual operating plan business on a regular basis and challenges Review of delegated authorities and management on the assumptions made capital expenditure processes and judgements used, with assurances Value driver performance provided by both internal and external New accounting standards sources to ensure that the information communicated to stakeholders is fair, balanced and understandable.
Leadership The Board discussed succession, talent Group Executive Committee development and diversity for the senior successionplanning management population.
Talent pipeline planning Diversity and inclusion review Governance and culture The Board approved the following: Implementation of 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code General Data Protection Regulations Review adoption of Code of Conduct Inchcape Code of Conduct across the Group Anti-bribery and corruption training Partners The Board regularly discusses the Groups Management meetings with OEM partners to ensure that the Group OEMcounterparts is offering the best possible service at Deep dive of Ignite OEM Partner every part of the value chain.
See pages of Choice objective 8 to 9.
Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Effectiveness COMPOSITION OF AND APPOINTMENTS COMMITMENT TO THE BOARD The Directors are required to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities and The Board is comprised of eight independent Non-Executive Directors and two Executive Directors, Board dates are agreed two years in advance to ensure that Directors are able to plan accordingly and for other whose biographies are given on pages 48 to 49.
Nigel Northridge completed nine years service in commitments to be taken into account.
The Board agreed that Nigel would remain Non-Executive Directors are informed of the time on the Board until May 2019 to assist with the Chairman commitment expected from them upon appointment transition.
He will retire from the Board following the AGM.
and this is reviewed annually to ensure that the time Nigel Stein was considered independent on his expected is still relevant in light of the Companys strategic agenda.
All other Non-Executive Directors are considered independent in accordance The Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
available for inspection at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a period of three years.
After each three-year period the The Board understands that the Executive Directors can performance of the Director is reviewed by the Chairman, gain valuable business experience as a Non-Executive and the Nomination Committee approves any further Director of another company.
The Groups policy is to terms.
All appointments are subject to annual re-election limit Non-Executive Directorships within a FTSE 100 at the AGM.
Details of the Board succession planning company to one appointment only.
Stefan Bomhard is process can be found in the Nomination Committee also a Non-Executive Director of Compass Group PLC.
Details of the fees paid to him are given on page 87 of the Directors Report on Remuneration.
Induction process The Inchcape framework Meet key management Visit the businesses advisors The first step in the Directors, Meeting key management Visiting the businesses gives induction is making sure that and advisors allows the the Directors a unique they have all the information Directors to gain a broader opportunity to see the Ignite and support to enable them understanding of the day-tostrategy in action, meet to carry out their duties.
day operations and head colleagues and seek their This includes Board processes, office functions such as legal, views on the business and Group structures, strategy, compliance, treasury, finance to understand the culture Code of Conduct, other of the Group policies and procedures, risk footprint.
As Jane is new to the industry, In addition to management, In addition to the Boards her induction was tailored to Jane also met with Singapore visit, Jane also met ensure that she received Mercer | Kepler, to gain with the UK CEO at VW in-depth sessions with an understanding of the Chiswick, to learn about the key employees Companys remuneration UK automotive industry framework and culture Jane Kingston Nigels induction involved Nigel undertook a schedule Nigel visited our operations several overseas visits to of shareholder meetings in Russia, Australia and Asia enable him to gain a deeper upon appointment as to learn more about the understanding of the Groups Chairman to listen to their differences, challenges operations, culture, risks views on the business and its and opportunities for and opportunities longer-term opportunities the Distribution and Nigel Stein Retail businesses 54 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION AND SUPPORT All Directors receive a tailored induction programme The Group Company Secretary is responsible for upon appointment designed to ensure that they have ensuring the Board has access to relevant and accurate sufficient knowledge of the business and the context in information.
The Board agendas are agreed in advance which it operates.
The induction consists of one-to-one by the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive Officer meetings with the Group Executive Committee members and include regular items such as reports from the Group and other key members of the management team and Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and site visits designed to give the Director an in-depth Investor Relations.
understanding of the Retail and Distribution businesses.
The information supplied to the Board and its To ensure that the Directors have the appropriate Committees allows the Board to scrutinise the knowledge to support their decision making, regular performance of management and to monitor presentations from management are included in each performance against objectives.
In addition to Board meeting, along with industry updates and insights regular reports from key management, the Board into trends affecting the industry.
also receives information on operational matters, financial performance and strategic developments.
Regional updates, designed to give a deeper view of the markets, are given throughout the year by the relevant The Group Company Secretary also supports the Board market Chief Executive Officers.
Details of the Boards by providing advice and services, including access to activities are given on page 53.
The Non-Executive independent advice, and ensures that an accurate Directors are expected to update their knowledge and record of the meeting is taken.
skills regularly and training is provided for the Board and individual Directors as required.
BOARD EVALUATION The 2017 Board evaluation was externally facilitated, and the table below sets out the progress against the actions raised from that process.
The 2018 Board evaluation was an internally facilitated evaluation led by the Company Secretary.
The results were similar to those of 2017 as many of the action points will be continuous improvement.
Areas of focus during 2019 will be the Non-Executive Director appointment process and the remit of the CSR Committee in light of the new Code provision on workforce engagement.
Action from 2017 Progress in 2018 Ensuring that future Board composition always The Nomination Committee considered the future skills maximises challenge to management as they requirement for the Board.
crystallise the longer-term strategy beyond Ignite, Please see the Nomination Committee Report on by keeping Board skills and terms under regular review page 66 for further details.
and in line with strategy.
Expanding the work of the Nomination Committee to In addition to the annual senior management talent enable broader discussions amongst Board members planning session carried out by the Board, it was about NED and executive succession, development agreed that an informal session take place each year and learning, and maintain the balance between to allow the Board to discuss with the CEO the experienced Directors, future Chairs and newer performance of the Group Executive Committee.
Expanding the work of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is considering how to add to cover items of governance to ensure appropriate value to the Boards deliberations and will review its focus for the Group.
terms of reference to ensure they are appropriate.
Reviewing the Board pack to broaden the spectrum An effective Board report is a strategic extension of of information provided to the Board, for example on day-to-day  and provides the competitors, or international territories, especially platform on which boards can work with management as future strategy discussions develop.
to add real value and to gain a critical understanding of the business.
The information provided to the Board has been reviewed to ensure that it remains appropriate.
Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Accountability FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS REPORTING RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL The Board is responsible for presenting a fair, balanced The Board carried out a robust assessment of the Groups and understandable assessment of the Groups position principal risks including those that would threaten its and prospects in the Annual Report and Accounts, business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity the interim financial statements and the trading updates.
Following this review, the Board agreed The Board is satisfied that appropriate processes are in changes to the articulation of certain risks which had place to provide the necessary information on position previously been reviewed and approved by the Group and performance, business model and strategy to allow Executive Committee.
users to make a fair assessment of the business and to The Board also considered the impact of Brexit on the enable the Board to make this statement.
business and a statement of its findings in relation to The Board considers the information received and Brexit and the Groups principal risks is given on pages 35 discussions and decisions made throughout the year to 46. when asking the following questions: The Board also discussed, and agreed, its risk appetite Has equal weight been given to all messages and is any in relation to each of the principal risks.
was givento: Is the narrative reporting consistent with the financial The description of the risk: statements?
The current risk footprint showing gross risk, net risk and the target position: Are the principal risks, business model and strategy in line with the Boards understanding of the business?
Background information that underpins the risk: Key mitigation actions: and Are the key performance indicators appropriate?
The risk appetite statement for each of the risks.
Are the Strategic Report, governance report and financial statements balanced?
A description of risks, an explanation of how they are being managed and mitigated and the Boards viability Will stakeholders be able to understand the business, its statement can be found in the Risk Management Report position and prospects from reading the Annual Report?
The Board also reviewed and Do the significant issues referred to in the Audit approved the viability statement including its assessment Committee Report reflect those considered by of the methodology used by management to reach the auditor?
The Board also satisfies itself that the statements made The Board has delegated responsibility for reviewing are supported by verification documents, monthly the effectiveness of the system of internal controls to the performance reports and the annual operating plan.
Further information can be found in the Audit Committee Report on pages 58 to 64.
A statement of the Directors responsibilities is set out on pages 91 to 92.
The going concern statement is set out The risk management and internal controls processes on page 92 and the strategy and business model are set are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk out on pages 2 to 18. of failure to achieve business objectives.
In establishing and reviewing the system of internal control, the Directors have regard to the nature and extent of the relevant risks, the likelihood of loss being incurred and the costs of control.
The system can only provide a reasonable but not absolute assurance against any material misstatement or loss and cannot eliminate business risk.
The Board has determined that there were no significant failings or weaknesses identified during the review of the risk management and internal control processes during the year and further confirms that these systems were in place during 2018 and up to the date of this report.
The Directors are satisfied that the Groups risk management and internal control systems accord with the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
56 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Relations with Shareholders The Head of Investor Relations, Group Chief Executive CONSTRUCTIVE USE OF GENERAL MEETINGS Officer and Chief Financial Officer met with approx.
The AGM gives shareholders an opportunity to meet the 270 investors and potential investors during the year Board and ask any questions they have regarding the at roadshows, investor events and one-to-one meetings.
Group, its performance and its strategy.
Nigel Stein also met with several major shareholders The Board encourages participation of private to discuss various strategic and governance topics shareholders at the AGM, however, the Board as part of the Chairman induction programme.
understands that it is not always possible for A dialogue with shareholders ensures that the Company shareholdersto attend in person.
Shareholders are is fully aware of shareholders views and their encouraged to contact the Company with any expectations of the Groups strategy and performance questions they wish to raise with the Board of Directors both in the short and long-term.
The views of shareholders via the Company Secretary.
are communicated to the Board after each meeting and The Company complies with the Code as it relates through regular Investor Relations reports, and analysts to voting, the proposal of separate resolutions on each and brokers briefings.
substantially separate issue and the attendance of the Capital Markets Day Committee Chairs at the AGM.
Details of the votes received for the resolutions put to shareholders at the A Capital Markets Day was held on 6 June 2018.
The AGM are available on the Companys website.
aim of the investor day was to give an in-depth view of the business, the drivers of growth and future trends.
The Companys registrars, Computershare, act as There were presentations on the Distribution business scrutineers at the AGM and ensure that the votes are model, operational excellence, consolidation, future correctly counted and recorded.
trends and opportunities and multi-layered earnings All Directors are required to attend the AGM.
In addition, Mr Yoshi Inaba, Special Advisor to Toyota Motor Corporation, spoke to investors about the long-standing relationship with Inchcape, Toyotas view on distribution and the strength of Inchcapes The Group is committed to reducing its impact business model.
on the environment and encourages shareholders to receive communications The Capital Markets Day presentations can be found on electronically to reduce paper usage.
com investors Shareholders can also register for news alerts via CapitalMarketsDay email.
Please visit the website www.
com investors for more information.
It is important for shareholders to receive communications in the form most appropriate to their needs and they can change the way they receive information at any time.
Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 57 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT ENSURING INTEGRITY AND CONTROLS Non-audit services JOHN There were certain non-permitted non-audit services fees accrued by Deloitte during the year, which relate to tax LANGSTON compliance and computations for 2017 in relation to Chair of the Guam, Saipan and Macau where Deloitte had already Audit Committee been engaged to perform the work prior to their appointment as Group auditor.
The Committee reviewed the provision of these services and concluded that it would not be likely to affect their objectivity and independence.
The Committee kept the non-audit services under review during the year and further details are given on page 63.
Accounting standards Several new accounting standards have been introduced with IFRS 9, Financial Instruments and IFRS 15, Revenue Recognition effective from 1 January 2018, both of which were disclosed in last years Annual Report and IFRS 16, Leases, effective from 1 January 2019.
The Committee spent considerable time with management DEAR SHAREHOLDER and the external auditor assessing the accounting I am pleased to present the report of the Audit impacts, transition options, and relevant disclosures.
Committee for the year ended 31 December 2018.
The management team are also working with the Group The aim of the report is to provide an overview of the Reward team to assess the impact of IFRS 16 on the key significant issues considered by the Committee during remuneration performance metrics.
Further details on the year, how the Committee has discharged its IFRS 9, 15 and 16 are given in the notes to the financial responsibilities, and to highlight some of the matters statements on pages 107 to 110.
The Committees presented by management on various aspects of the consideration of IFRS 16 is also given on the significant business.
These presentations from management ensure issues disclosure on page 64. that the Committee can assess the risks and the effectiveness of any mitigating actions and challenge The key activities of the Committee are given in the table management on the control environment and on page 60 and the following pages set out the work any failures.
carried out by the Committee during the year, the significant issues considered, and the key decisions External auditor made by the Committee.
Following the successful external audit tender in 2017, I am pleased that shareholders supported the appointment of Deloitte LLP as the Groups auditor.
Deloitte took over the role from PwC in May 2018 however the team had shadowed PwC during the 2017 year-end audit and spent time with management getting to know the business.
As part of the transition programme the team visited a number of businesses across various markets to enhance their understanding of the business and assessment of audit risks and focus.
Anna Marks is the lead audit partner.
John Langston Chair of the Audit Committee 58 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS Feb May Jul Nov John Langston Committee Chair Rachel Empey Independent Non-Executive Director Nigel Northridge Independent Non-Executive Director The Audit Committee consists of three independent The Committee is supported by a number of sources Non-Executive Directors.
John Langston and Rachel of internal assurance from within the Group in order to Empey are qualified chartered accountants and are review the control environment.
The Committee also considered to have recent and relevant financial assesses the effectiveness of the system of internal control experience.
In addition, the Committee as a whole on an annual basis by considering any material control has competence in Retail which is the sector in which weaknesses identified by the external auditor as a result the Company operates.
There have been no significant changes to the control environment and the Audit Committee has The Committee met four times during the year to concluded that the Groups internal system of controls coincide with the financial calendar.
Only members was effective during the year.
of the Committee are entitled to attend Committee meetings.
However, the Chairman, Group Chief Executive The significant issues considered by the Committee are Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller given on page 64. and Group Head of Internal Audit attend the Committee Financial reporting meetings along with the external auditor.
Other senior The role of the Committee in relation to financial reporting executives, such as the Group Tax Director and Group is to review with both management and the external General Counsel, attend during the year to present to auditor the appropriateness of the half year and annual the Committee.
financial statements taking into account: The Committee regularly meets with the auditor without The quality and acceptability of accounting policies the presence of management to discuss any areas of and practices concern they might have.
John Langston also meets with the Chief Financial Officer and Head of Internal Material areas in which significant judgements have Audit at one-to-one meetings which enable him been applied or where significant issues have been to fully understand the key issues ahead of discussed with the external auditor Committee meetings.
The clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant financial It is the role of the Audit Committee to ensure the integrity and governance reporting requirements including of the financial reporting and audit processes, to ensure the Code the internal control and risk management systems are effective, to review the Groups whistleblowing Any correspondence from regulators in relation to the procedures and to establish and maintain an Groups financial reporting appropriate relationship with the external auditor.
Reviewing assumptions and providing assurance to support the long-term viability statement The Committees terms of reference can be found on Fair, balanced and understandable www.
com governance The Board assesses the Annual Report and Accounts to ensure that it is a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Group.
The Audit Committee, however, also carries out its own assessment of the financial statements, and the Annual Report as a whole, and is satisfied that it provides the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Company confirms that it complied with the provisions of the Competition and Markets Authoritys Order for the financial year under review.
Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 59 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Our 2018 objectives What we achieved Focus for 2019 Annual Report and Accounts The Committee considered all key audit Impacts of new accounting including financial statements, issues, accounting treatment and judgements standards accounting judgements, in relation to the financial statements.
This Review of key assumptions used by impairment review, going includes challenging management on the management on key accounting concern, viability statement assumptions used and the judgements that standards have been applied, with assurances given from both external and internal sources.
The information supplied also allows the Committee to assess key disclosures to ensure adequacy, clarity and completeness.
Key disclosures include the viability statement on page 46, going concern, which can be found on page 92, and goodwill, which can be found on pages 139 to 140.
Particular attention was given to the application and impact of the new accounting standards which have been or will be adopted by the Group.
PwC audit report, The Committee considered the report from the Deloitte audit report PwC independence review auditor in relation to the financial statements Deloitte independence report and the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
Deloitte report on internal controls Deloitte 2018 Audit Plan The Committee discussed the audit plan and Review of the effectiveness of the agreed materiality, scope and fees.
external audit Internal Audit Report The Committee reviewed and monitored: Monitor progress against 2019 plan Progress made in resolving open progress against the 2018 plan throughout the year: audit issues the status of open audit issues: Monitor improvement plans in any internal control failings: and relation to identified internal control gaps the appropriateness of mitigation actions put in place by management.
The Committee also reconfirmed the Internal Audit Strategy and the Internal Audit Charter and approved the 2019 Internal Audit Plan.
Further details can be found on pages 61 to 62.
Risk Management Report The Committee consider the risk management Monitoring of whistleblowing environment, major whistleblowing reports and cases and actions implemented any mitigating plans implemented by to resolve issues management throughout the year.
Progress against plans is monitored closely and management are challenged appropriately on areas where a satisfactory outcome is not evident.
Further details can be found on pages 35 to 46.
Non-Audit Services Policy and Due to the change of auditor, the Committee Review of non-audit services supplied review of non-audit services undertook a comprehensive review of the Application of the Non-Audit non-audit services supplied by the external Services Policy auditor.
Further details can be found on page 63.
Tax update and The Committee reviewed the Groups tax costs, Monitor the tax strategies within litigation update tax risks, efficiency and effectiveness of tax markets and at Group level policies along with updates on tax audits.
Monitor the level, frequency and It also reviewed any significant litigation issues.
type of litigation within the Group 60 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL WHISTLEBLOWING The Board is responsible for reviewing and agreeing the SpeakUp, the Groups externally hosted whistleblowing Groups principal risks and for considering its risk appetite line, is a compliance and ethics reporting solution which in relation to those risks.
However, the Audit Committee allows both hotline and web reporting capabilities in has delegated responsibility for ensuring that: multiple languages, integrated with case management software to support efficient and effective investigation, There is an appropriate mechanism in place to identify remediation and reporting.
the risks the Group faces: The Head of Corporate Assurance reports to the Management teams have the correct focus on those Committee at each meeting on fraud and whistleblowing risks and the action plans in place to mitigate or claims that have been received since the last Audit respond to those risks: Committee meeting, and significant currently open A compliance programme is in place in all markets issues.
The new and open cases which are reported to that meets or exceeds external benchmarks and is the Committee are those of sufficient significance to appropriate in terms of legal requirements, content, warrant attention, however a list of all reports is also sector, cost and resources: provided to the Committee along with a breakdown Internal controls are appropriate, well designed and by market, report type and source.
operating consistently across the Group: and INTERNAL AUDIT The Groups whistleblowing programme is The aim of the Internal Audit function is to provide appropriately managed to reduce the risk of fraud or independent objective assurance and advisory services respond quickly and decisively in the event the Group designed to add value and improve the Companys falls victim to fraud.
operations, by bringing a systematic and disciplined The Audit Committee considers the risk management approach to evaluate the effectiveness of the risk framework, any internal control issues which have arisen management, governance, control and compliance and all whistleblowing reports, and the mitigating processes and support management in their actions, at each meeting.
The reports provided to the continuous improvement.
Committee give an insight into the culture within the The Committee assesses the effectiveness of the Internal organisation and allow the Committee to assess progress Audit function by reviewing progress against plans and against and effectiveness of any mitigation plans also reviews the experience and expertise of the Internal implemented by management.
Audit team to ensure the right people are recruited to The Group has adopted the three lines of defence carry out the function.
The first line of defence is the Groups As part of its remit, the Internal Audit team regularly organisational activities, policies and procedures assesses the effectiveness of internal controls over implemented by local management teams.
The second financial reporting as well as the preparation of financial line of defence comprises oversight functions and Group statements based on the framework contained in the or regional management who set direction and define FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control policy.
The third line of defence is Internal Audit, and Related Financial and Business Reporting and the supported, if necessary, by external experts.
Each UK Corporate Governance Code and reports its findings function provides independent challenge to the levels of to the Audit Committee on a regular basis.
The Groups assurance provided by the first two lines of defence.
Minimum Control Framework MCF ensures facilitation of Further information on risk management and the Groups this process across its broad range of operations globally.
principal risks can be found in the Risk Management The Audit Committee agreed that a review of the Report on pages 35 to 46 and the Corporate effectiveness of the Internal Audit function should take Governance Report on page 56. place in 2019.
A new Internal Audit strategy was rolled out at the beginning of the year with a focus on internal control governance, implementation of regional internal audit functions and audit process improvements, which are aligned to the Ignite strategy and key risks.
The key components of the improved Internal Audit model, and progress made during the year, are detailed on page 62.
Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 61 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Key components of Internal Audit model Progress during 2018 Regional delivery New regional Internal Audit employees recruited One fully resourced regional team in South America Introduction of the regional operating model integrated and extended to Central America Small but focused base for independent assurance Shifting ownership of audit and related matters to new located closer to the business regional functions Shifting of the execution from the centre Good progress facilitated through participation in Building partnership with the business Group-led projects by business and finance teams Internal controls custodianship A central point of focus for internal controls Building partnerships with IT and Finance functions Focused internal controls team Designing the mandate of internal controls functions in Alignment with second line of defence the markets Centrally led team of experts Creating a reliable self assessment toolset for the Alignment, support and collaboration Minimum Control Framework Transparency of risk mitigations Global Audit Centre of Excellence One central team, under one leadership Refreshing of the methodology and implementation of Central team re-positioned to provide guidance the new toolset and expertise Implementation of regional ways of working Assurance over Group risks and centrally led project Training and upskilling commenced Focus on disruptive risks and strategy support Training and upskilling hub 2019 Internal Audit Plan The Committee reviewed the 2019 Internal Audit Plan which will continue to deliver assurance for the control environment, based on MCF testing as well as key regulatory risks pertinent to the Group.
The 2019 plan will also incorporate an operational risk universe development with a pilot in Latin America, to prepare the foundations for the risk-based planning process.
The Committee approved the planning approach, resourcing, the risk-based reviews anti-money laundering, risk management and data protection and IT audit.
The key elements of the 2019 plan are: Assurance theme Overview Proportion of audit time Compliance Testing compliance against the Minimum Control Framework 40% and expected controls Risk-based reviews Performing global and local reviews to evaluate how the business 35% manages key risks outside MCF IT audit Reviewing how the business manages key risks around IT 11% Management assistance Internal Audits input on fraud investigations and direct requests from management for assistance 14% Advisory activities Assurance activities in new areas not previously covered by Internal Audit but which represent either key strategic priorities or emerging risks 62 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EXTERNAL AUDIT NON-AUDIT SERVICES The policy for non-audit services sets out the permitted Auditor effectiveness and independence and non-permitted non-audit services as well as the The Committee assesses the robustness of the external approval levels required by the Audit Committee.
audit process by: The policy is designed to ensure that the external Monitoring the implementation and fulfilment of the auditors objectivity is not compromised by earning audit plan.
a disproportionate level of fees for non-audit services or by performing work that, by its nature, may compromise Reviewing and assessing the auditor reports on the the auditors independence.
However, using advisors significant accounting judgements and its challenge who have an understanding of the Groups business can to management.
be a benefit and the Committee will consider non-audit Reviewing the level of support and service provided services supplied on an ongoing basis.
The provision of by the auditor.
permitted non-audit services will only be approved by the Reviewing the results of the external audit effectiveness Audit Committee if: survey.
Engagement of the auditor to provide the services The Committee satisfies itself that the auditor remains does not impair the independence or objectivity of the independent and objective by: external auditor: Reviewing the safeguards operating within the The skills and experience of the external auditormake audit firm.
it the most suitable supplier of the non-auditservice: Considering the Independence Report presented The auditor does not have a conflict of interest due to the Committee.
to a relationship with another entity: and Assessing the level and type of non-audit services The aggregate fees incurred for permitted non-audit provided by the auditor.
services relative to the audit fee do not exceed 70% of the average audit fee over the previous three years.
Due to the change in auditor, the effectiveness review will take place in 2019 once Deloitte have completed their Permitted non-audit services above a certain level are first audit.
approved on a case-by-case basis by the Audit Committee.
The fee paid to the auditor for audit-related The review is designed to provide the Committee with services was 0.1m, and for permitted non-audit services information on the overall efficiency, integrity and was 0.4m.
The ratio for audit non-audit work is 0.12:1. effectiveness of the external audit, with the views of senior finance personnel in each of the Groups principal Deloitte continually monitor their independence and territories together with Group Finance, Tax and ensure that appropriate safeguards are in place Company Secretariat taken into account.
including but not limited to the rotation of senior partners and staff and the involvement of other partners and staff When assessing the effectiveness of the external audit the to carry out reviews of the work performed and to Committee considers: otherwise advise if necessary.
The following services were Audit planning and design supplied during the year: Audit team structure and leadership Permitted non-audit services The approach to the audit Assistance with GDPR compliance Sources of assurance Australia Retail review Key risks to the audit quality Non-permitted non-audit services Audit policies and procedures Guam, Saipan and Macau assistance with tax compliance and computations for 2017.
Independence and quality control procedures Deloitte had already been engaged to perform the tax Review of non-audit services provided work prior to their appointment as Group auditor and Audit execution although these services are not permitted under our Professional judgement, mindset and culture of policy, they are permitted under the Audit regulation as audit firm they are non-EU countries.
In addition, separate teams were engaged and used to provide all non-audit Technical excellence, skills and judgement services and appropriate safeguards were Role of management implemented to ensure that there was no threat to Deloittes independence.
Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 63 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED SIGNIFICANT ISSUES The following issues were identified by the Committee as being significant in the context of the financial statements or as matters of significance to the Group and were debated by the Committee during the year.
The issue and managements view Acquisition accounting Management presented details on the acquisition accounting for the Central American business acquired in March 2018, and the judgements applied in preparing the Groups results for the year ended see note 28 31 December 2018 and the period ended 30 June 2018.
These judgements included the initial purchase on page 161 price allocation, the alignment of accounting policies and the determination of any associated fair value adjustments.
Conclusion reached by the Committee The Committee concluded that the business combination had been accounted for appropriately and in line with the principles set out in IFRS 3, Business Combinations.
Rationale for the Committees conclusion The Committee received reports from management which covered the acquisition accounting process and which demonstrated how the accounting principles had been applied.
The Committee reviewed the judgements made and considered the application of the accounting principles to be appropriate.
The issue and managements view Goodwill Asset impairment Management presented a detailed overview of impairment testing to the Committee covering goodwill: a number of properties: and the indefinite life intangibles arising as a result of business acquisitions.
The see notes 11 Committee reviewed and challenged value-in-use calculations, sensitivity analysis and a review of the and 12 on draft disclosure in the financial statements.
pages Conclusion reached by the Committee 139 to 141 The Committee concluded that an impairment of UK goodwill of 175m and of site based assets in the UK and Europe of 23.2m was required.
Further details can be found on pages 139 to 141.
Rationale for the Committees conclusion The Committee reviewed the outlook for the UK business which had declined during 2018.
Management kept the Committee updated throughout the year with regular reports on goodwill and site based asset assumptions being considered.
The Committee concluded that the sensitivity analysis prepared by management on the UK goodwill value-in-use model incorporated reasonably possible changes to the key assumptions and that the outcome of the sensitivity analysis indicated that an impairment was required.
The issue and managements view Minimum Control The Committee reviews control issues identified by the MCF on a regular basis with management reporting on any significant issues and the actions taken to resolve the control gaps.
Framework MCF Conclusion reached by the Committee The Committee satisfied itself that management had taken the appropriate action for any significant issues identified during the year and received regular updates on progress against plan.
The Committee concluded that engagement with underlying adherence to the MCF standards was improving across the Group.
Rationale for the Committees conclusion The Committee received updates from the Group Head of Internal Audit at each meeting setting out the compliance across the Group, detailed findings from audits and recommended mitigation plans for identified control gaps.
The regional Finance Directors report to the Committee on any specific issues throughout the year.
The issue and managements view IFRS 16 see pages 109 During the year, management presented to the Committee on the implications of IFRS 16 and the accepted approaches to transition.
Management carried out a comprehensive awareness programme and 110 globally to ensure that the markets were informed of the new standard.
Conclusion reached by the Committee The Committee was regularly informed of the Groups position and the transition approaches recommended by the IASB and management provided a detailed analysis of each.
After due consideration, the Committee agreed to adopt a fully retrospective transition approach to IFRS 16.
Rationale for the Committees conclusion The Committee reviewed the accounting and reporting implications from the perspective of the balance sheet, income statement and cash flow.
The Committee also considered other implications including net debt and gearing, net assets, EBITDA and ROCE which contributed to the Committees decision on the accounting treatment for IFRS16.
64 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CREATING AN EFFECTIVE BOARD Committee when Coline steps down from the Committee NIGEL STEIN and the Board in July 2019 and I am sure that the Committee will be in good hands.
Chair of the Nigel Northridge, the Senior Independent Director, Nomination will retire in 2019 after more than nine years service.
Committee Nigel agreed to stay on the Board to assist me in settling into the chairmanship role and I appreciate his support during that time.
Nigel has been a valuable asset to the Board and we wish him success in the future.
The Board approved the appointment of Jerry Buhlmann to succeed Nigel Northridge as Senior Independent Director.
As a Board we have agreed not to set targets within our Diversity Policy Statement however we aim to achieve the guidelines set out in both the Hampton-Alexander Report DEAR SHAREHOLDER and the Parker Review.
We will work with the recruitment I am pleased to present the report of the Nomination consultants to ensure that the Board is informed of a wide range of potential candidates.
During the year the focus of the Committee was on Non-Executive Director succession planning and Jane Kingston was appointed in July 2018.
Janebrings a Nigel Stein wealth of remuneration experience and joined the Remuneration Committee upon appointment.
Jane will Chairman succeed Coline McConville as Chair of the Remuneration COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS Feb Nov Nigel Stein Chairman Jerry Buhlmann Independent Non-Executive Director Rachel Empey Independent Non-Executive Director Jane Kingston Independent Non-Executive Director John Langston Independent Non-Executive Director Coline McConville Independent Non-Executive Director Nigel Northridge Independent Non-Executive Director Till Vestring Independent Non-Executive Director Jane Kingston joined in July 2018 Focus for 2018 What we achieved in 2018 Focus for 2019 Board succession Successful integration of Board Chairman Review of selection process to ensure wide planning range of candidates is presented to the Appointment of Jane Kingston in July 2018 Board for consideration Governance The Committee discussed the new UK Corporate Review of policy on multiple board Governance Code and the provisions which impacted appointments to avoid overboarding the Committee External There were several actions arising from the 2017 Focus on Board composition and skills evaluation actions external evaluation required to support long-term strategy Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 65
