Corporate Governance Report Corporate governance The Board is responsible for ensuring there is a robust and transparent governance framework in place.
We have a clear division of responsibilities between the Board and our various Committees: each role is clearly defined and is distinct from one another.
Indivior Board Audit Committee Nomination & Remuneration Science & Policy Oversight of financial Governance Committee Committee reporting, audit and risk Committee Oversight of the link of Oversight of pipeline reward to strategy research and Oversight of Board development and public composition, succession policy strategy planning, governance and corporate compliance Executive Committee Disclosure Committee Compliance Committee new structure established in January 2019 Oversight of the implementation of Oversight of disclosure and the Groups strategic plan reporting requirements and the Oversight of the Groups compliance identification of inside information program Board committees The Board has four principal committees, to which it has delegated certain responsibilities.
These are the: Audit, Nomination & Governance, Remuneration and Science & Policy committees.
Each committee operates under its own clearly defined Terms of Reference, available at www.
More information about the roles, composition and work of the principal committees can be found in the Introduction to Board Committees on pages 50 to 77.
The Chair of each principal committee reports on the activities of the committee at the following Board meeting.
Copies of all papers and the minutes of meetings of the principal committees are available to all Directors.
Executive committees In addition to the principal committees, the Group has three executive committees: Executive Committee The Executive Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer.
The Committee comprises key functional leaders from the business and its purpose is to assist the Chief Executive Officer in discharging his duties.
The Executive Committee meets monthly.
Biographical details of the members of the Executive Committee are on pages 40 to 41.
Disclosure Committee The Disclosure Committee is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
It comprises the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Commercial and Strategy Officer, the Chief Legal Officer, the Chief Scientific Officer and the Company Secretary.
The Committee meets as necessary and oversees the disclosure of information in accordance with the EU Market Abuse Regulation and the FCAs Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
The Disclosure Committee receives input and advice from relevant individuals and advisors as required.
These include the Groups brokers and external legal counsel.
Compliance Committee An Executive Compliance Committee was established in January 2019, replacing the existing management compliance committee which has been reorganized as the Compliance Administration Council, which now reports to the Compliance Committee.
The Compliance Committee comprises all members of the Executive Committee and is chaired by the Chief Integrity and Compliance Officer.
The Compliance Committee meets monthly and is responsible for overseeing compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations related to Indiviors business operations excluding compliance with securities regulations and financial reporting requirements.
com Executive Principal Board Committees Committees Governance the Groups annual budget and Chair and Chief Executive Officer The Board corporate plans: There is a formal division of The Board is collectively responsible responsibilities between the Chair, the Groups annual, half-yearly to the shareholders for the longHoward Pien, and Chief Executive and quarterly financial reports: term success of the Company.
It Officer, Shaun Thaxter, which is set provides strategic leadership and the Annual Report and Accounts out in writing.
The Chair and Chief effective oversight of the Groups and the reports included therein: Executive Officer work together to operations, either directly or the dividend policy: set the Boards agenda.
through the work of its principal committees.
The Board has ultimate all Board appointments or The Chair leads the Board and is removals, remuneration responsible for ensuring its overall responsibility for ensuring good governance throughout Indivior.
He promotes high payments: standards of corporate governance The Board has a schedule of matters and probity and fosters constructive that are reserved to it for approval.
membership and chairship of relations between the Executive the Board and committees and The schedule was last updated in and Non-Executive Directors, and November 2017, and is available to succession planning for senior is responsible for setting the tone management: view on the Groups website and culture in the boardroom.
major capital projects, Throughout the year, the Chair acquisitions or divestments: Roles and responsibilities of worked closely with the Senior the Board any increase in, or significant Independent Director and the The Board is collectively responsible variation in, the terms of the Non-Executive Directors.
A part of for the long-term success of the borrowing facilities of the each Board meeting is reserved for Company and for delivering value Company: a meeting of the Chair and the to shareholders.
The Boards primary Non-Executive Directors, without capital expenditure projects focus is to support and further outside the scope of the approved executive management present.
the Groups purpose of pioneering annual budgets and plans: The Chief Executive Officer is life-transforming treatments for treasury and risk management responsible for the day-to-day patients suffering from addiction leadership of the business, policies: and and its co-occurrences.
including leading and monitoring appointment and removal of the The Board met regularly throughout the performance of senior Company Secretary.
Led by the Chair, it management.
He is responsible approves the strategy, reviews to the Board for the performance of The Board has delegated financial and operational the business against agreed strategy responsibility for the day-to-day performance, risk management and and plans.
He is supported in this management of the business to the appetite, the Groups capital role by the Executive Committee.
structure and plans proposed by Senior Independent Director management to implement agreed Board composition Daniel Tass is the Senior strategy.
The Board ensures that Details of the Boards composition Independent Director.
He acts as a sufficient resources are available to are set out on pages 38 to 39 which sounding board for the Chair and meet the objectives set.
contain biographical details of can act as an intermediary between each of the Directors.
The Directors The Board is responsible for the other Directors and the Chair approval of: have a valuable combination of when required.
He also leads the skills and business, scientific, the Groups strategic aims and other Non-Executive Directors in the pharmaceutical and disease objectives, including material annual performance evaluation of experience which continue to be litigation strategy, and review of the Chair.
performance against those aims and objectives: Indivior Annual Report 2018 43 43 Corporate Governance Report continued He provides an alternative point of any significant contract with the Information and support contact for shareholders on matters All Directors have direct access to Company or any of its subsidiaries that would not be appropriate for during the year.
the advice and services of the them to discuss or resolve via the Company Secretary.
Directors may External directorships Chair, Chief Executive Officer or Chief also obtain independent The Nomination & Governance Financial Officer.
professional advice as required at Committee has approved a formal the Companys expense.
Non-Executive Directors policy in respect of external The Non-Executive Directors bring appointments for Executive Non-Executive Director an independent perspective to Directors and members of the Independence Board discussion.
The Company has Executive Committee.
Executive The Board monitors the benefited from the broad range of Directors may hold one nonindependence of the Non-Executive skills and experience which the Nonexecutive appointment, subject to Directors for the purposes of Executive Directors provide from the approval of the Nomination & the Code.
different businesses and fields, Governance Committee.
Members of At its meeting in February 2019, the including finance, academic, the Executive Committee may hold Board considered the independence scientific, private equity and one non-executive appointment of each of the Non-Executive pharmaceutical sectors.
subject to the approval of the Directors other than the Chair, Executive Committee.
Throughout the year they have who was deemed independent constructively challenged and The Nomination & Governance by the Board at the date of his developed the Groups strategy, Committee considers the other appointment against the criteria scrutinized the performance of commitments of the Chair of the specified in the Code, and management, agreed goals and Board and Non-Executive Directors.
determined that all remain objectives, and monitored the The Committee considers if any independent of management and Groups risk profile and reporting potential conflict of interest is free from any relationship that of performance.
likely to arise as a result of the could interfere with their judgment.
The Committee Company Secretary Conflicts of interest also considers the likely time The Company Secretary, Kathryn Processes exist for actual or commitment required from the Hudson, acts as Secretary to the potential conflicts of interest to be Directors other commitments and Board and the Remuneration and reviewed and disclosed and to make if this is likely to interfere with their Nomination & Governance sure Directors do not participate in ability to discharge their duties Committees.
any decisions where they may have effectively and having regard to a conflict or potential conflict.
She supports the Chair and the overboarding guidelines.
The The Nomination & Governance Board in the execution of their Committee reports to the Board on Committee considers the other duties.
She advises the Chair, its review and recommends if any significant commitments or external Chief Executive Officer and senior action is necessary.
interests of potential appointees management on regulatory and During the year, the Committee as part of the selection process and governance matters.
The Deputy reviewed the other commitments discloses them to the Board when Company Secretary a suitably of the Chair and Non-Executive recommending an appointment.
qualified member of the Company Directors.
In particular, the Secretarial team acts as Secretary Non-Executive Directors are Committee considered Daniel to the Audit and Science & required to inform the Board of any Tasss appointment as Chief Policy Committees.
subsequent changes to such Executive Officer of DBV Technologies commitments, which must be preBiographical details of the Company SA in November 2018, and noted that cleared with the Chair if material.
Secretary are on page 39. he has a transition plan to reduce The Companys procedures for his other commitments during dealing with Directors conflicts the course of 2019.
Following the of interest continued to operate Committees review, the Board effectively during the year.
No has reviewed Mr Tasss other Director had a material interest or commitments and is satisfied that 44 44 www.
com Governance he devotes sufficient time to The Board may appoint any Diversity and Inclusion effectively discharge his duties.
Director to hold any employment At Indivior, we value our or executive office and may revoke Time commitment of the Chair distinctive culture and believe or terminate any such appointment.
and Non-Executive Directors it is a key source of sustainable Shareholders may, by ordinary The letters of appointment for the competitive advantage.
We resolution, appoint a person as a Chair and Non-Executive Directors believe inclusion and diversity Director or remove any Director state the expected time commitment in its broadest sense enables before the expiration of their period to fulfill their roles.
The Chair innovation, continuous of office.
and Non-Executive Directors are improvement of quality, and Induction and training expected to set aside sufficient increased speed and efficiency time to prepare for meetings.
The A bespoke training and induction in meeting the various needs of program is designed for each new Board is satisfied that all Directors our patients, customers and continue to devote sufficient time Director to help provide them with stakeholders.
a broad understanding of the to discharge their duties effectively.
Our Diversity and Inclusion business and regulatory and Appointment and re-appointment Policy, which applies to the governance matters.
The Company of Directors Board, its Committees and our Secretary facilitates the induction There is a formal, rigorous and workforce, reflects our beliefs of new Directors and monitors transparent procedure for the and values.
Supporting and ongoing training needs and arranges appointment of new Directors.
The promoting the diversity of our for updates to be scheduled Board may appoint an individual as people is an important priority as required.
a Director either to fill a vacancy or for the Group and we have The Company Secretary arranges as an additional member of the focused on developing an additional training sessions for Board.
The process for new inclusive culture that values all the Board and committees as appointments is led by the employees regardless of their appropriate, which during 2018 Nomination & Governance age, disability, gender, race, included refresher training on Committee, which makes a sexual orientation or other directors duties, corporate recommendation to the Board.
We governance developments and achieve this through targeted The 2018 UK Corporate Governance regulatory reporting developments.
sourcing of people from diverse Code recommends that all Directors backgrounds and cultures and should be subject to annual an ongoing focus on creating re-appointment by shareholders.
Chair Executive Directors an environment that allows our All Directors with the exception Non-Executive talented people to prosper.
of Dr. Yvonne Greenstreet will Directors stand for re-appointment at the Our Board and Executive forthcoming Annual General Meeting Committee are made up of to be held on May 8, 2019 the 2019 individuals from a broad, diverse AGM.
The Non-Executive Directors background: this includes strong terms of appointment and service gender diversity comprising 36% Male contracts will be made available for women on the Board and 22% Female inspection by shareholders at the on the Executive Committee.
Letters setting out the This is consistent across the terms of appointment of each NonGroup and at senior leadership Executive Director are also available levels in the organization for inspection at the Companys Executive Committee and direct Registered Office.
reports, where there is 36% female representation.
Indivior Annual Report 2018 45 45 Corporate Governance Report continued Board and committee attendance Directors are expected to attend each Board meeting and all meetings of the committees of which they are a member, save for in exceptional circumstances.
To maximize attendance, scheduled meetings are arranged in advance to help Directors avoid clashes with other commitments.
If a Director is unable to attend a meeting, they are provided with the briefing materials before the meeting and can discuss any agenda item with the Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer or relevant Committee Chair.
Board and committee meetings are held in the UK and the US.
The table below gives details of Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings held during the year.
Nomination & Governance Remuneration Science & Policy Board Audit Committee Committee Committee Committee Scheduled Ad hoc Scheduled Ad hoc Scheduled Scheduled Ad hoc Scheduled Chair Howard Pien 5 5 17 17 Executive Directors Shaun Thaxter 5 5 17 17 Mark Crossley 5 5 17 17 Non-Executive Directors Yvonne Greenstreet 5 5 12 17 5 5 2 3 5 5 Tom McLellan 5 5 16 17 5 5 5 5 Tatjana May 5 5 17 17 5 5 5 5 2 2 - Lorna Parker 5 5 13 17 5 5 5 5 2 2 Dan Phelan 5 5 17 17 5 5 5 5 2 2 Chris Schade 5 5 15 17 5 5 3 3 5 5 Daniel Tass 5 5 14 17 5 5 3 3 5 5 2 2 Lizabeth Zlatkus 5 5 17 17 5 5 3 3 5 5 Many of the ad hoc meetings were called at very short notice to ensure that the Board were kept apprised of developments in respect of the various litigation and investigational matters.
Due to the need for the Board to convene often at very short notice, some Directors were not always able to attend all meetings.
When Directors are unable to attend meetings, they receive briefing papers and have the opportunity to provide comments to the Chair ahead of the meeting.
com Governance Board effectiveness Activities during the year During the year, the Board held five scheduled meetings and 17 ad hoc meetings.
The Board considers that it met sufficiently frequently to enable the Directors to discharge their duties effectively.
Details of the principal matters discussed during the year are shown in the following table.
The Chief Executive Officer provided an update on the operational performance of the business at each Operational scheduled meeting.
performance TM The Board reviewed the launch plans and performance of SUBLOCADE in the US throughout the year.
As the business encountered slower than expected ramp up and adoption rates, the Board sought further detail regarding the underlying issues affecting the launch and the actions that management were taking to address these.
The Board carefully reviewed the financial performance against expectations and external guidance, and approved changes to these based on managements estimates.
The Board considered and approved the contingency plans prepared by management to address the slower than expected ramp up and adoption of SUBLOCADE and the potential at risk launch of a generic rival.
These included the reductions in the workforce and in research and development activities.
TM The Board reviewed the launch plans for PERSERIS in the US and agreed to invest strategically in the launch to diversify the Groups future revenue streams.
The Board undertook a review of strategic opportunities, which included the decision to divest the Groups interest in China.
Financial performance The Chief Financial Officer provided an update on the financial performance of the business at each scheduled meeting.
The Board reviewed and approved the FY 2017 preliminary announcement and the 2018 half-year results.
The Board reviewed and agreed the changes in outlook and guidance announced in July and September 2018.
The Board kept the Groups capital base under review and approved the voluntary prepayment of $150m of debt in September and $85m of debt in November 2018.
Audit and risk The Chair of the Audit Committee provided a report on the activities of the Committee at the following Board meeting.
On the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Board agreed to recommend the re-appointment of  LLP as the External Auditor.
During the year, the Board reviewed and approved the Groups principal risks for inclusion in the Annual Report and results announcements.
Further information regarding the work of the Audit Committee in 2018 can be found on pages 50 to 57.
Governance and The Chairs of the each of the Committees provided a report on the activities of their respective Committee at the following Board meeting.
compliance The Company Secretary provided an update on the corporate governance developments and, in particular, revisions under the new 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board reviewed and approved the 2017 Annual Report and Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Alongside the Nomination & Governance Committee, considered the Groups succession planning arrangements for the Board and members of the Executive Committee.
Investor relations The Board was kept abreast of the views of shareholders during the year by management and presentations from the Groups brokers.
The Board received a presentation outlining the Groups corporate responsibility performance.
The Board Corporate reviewed the Groups performance versus its peers and the areas of focus for 2018. responsibility The Board received a presentation about the work of UK charity DrugFAM from Elizabeth Burton-Phillips MBE, Founder and Chair of the charity.
Litigation matters The Board was regularly updated on the litigation matters relating to the Groups intellectual property related to SUBOXONE buprenorphine and naloxone Sublingual Film CIII and antitrust litigation matters.
The Group is in discussions with the DOJ about a possible resolution to its investigations, although it Government cannot predict with any certainty whether, when, or at what cost it will reach such a resolution.
The Board investigation has been highly engaged in these discussions throughout the process and remained so during the year.
The Group continues to cooperate fully with all parties and is hopeful these matters will soon be resolved.
Indivior Annual Report 2018 4 47 7 Corporate Governance Report continued culture devoting time to review also presented financial and Board effectiveness review the Groups culture, particularly operational results, together with In accordance with the Code, the following the organizational future strategy, at the Companys Board undertook a review of the changes that have been made: and AGM in May 2018. effectiveness of its performance and of its committees and individual Board materials a continued The quarterly financial results Directors during the year.
The focus on developing Board announcements are accompanied Review was internally facilitated materials that are clear and by a conference call with the Chief by the Chair of the Nomination & concise.
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Governance Committee, supported Officer and other executives for by the Company Secretary.
The The Board plans to address these investors and analysts such calls Review comprised a survey matters in the coming year.
Members of completed by each of the Directors the investment community are The Non-Executive Directors, led and the Company Secretary.
invited to engage management with by the Senior Independent questions during the question and The survey focused on a number Director, carried out the review answer period.
of key areas, including board of the performance of the Chair of composition, dynamics and the Board.
During the year, the Chief Executive expertise, meeting management Officer, Chief Financial Officer The last externally facilitated Board and support, strategic oversight, and the Vice President, Investor effectiveness review was carried out risk management and succession Relations met regularly with the in 2017 by Oliver Ziehn of Lintstock.
Companys major shareholders and The Board intends to comply with financial analysts to discuss matters The responses to the survey were the provisions of the Code regarding relating to the Groups business collated and a report was prepared performance evaluation and to strategy and current performance.
The report was conduct its next externally When required to do so, the Chair circulated to the Directors and facilitated review in 2020. and Non-Executive Directors may was considered by the Board at Engagement with shareholders attend meetings with major its meeting in November 2018. shareholders.
The Board recognizes the The overall performance of the importance of regular, effective and Executive management also Board and its committees was constructive communications with presented at and attended positively rated, particularly in its shareholders.
The principal various healthcare sector investor the context of the challenges facing opportunity for shareholders to conferences for the purposes of the business.
In particular, the engage with the Board face-to-face meeting investors.
Over the course composition and broad expertise is at the Companys AGM.
of the year, management held of the Board was highly rated.
smaller group meetings with The Group announces its financial The review highlighted a number of investing institutions in the US results on a quarterly basis, and areas of focus for 2019, including: and UK.
The Non-Executive Directors these are released to the London succession planning the need regularly receive presentations and Stock Exchange via an authorized to continue to focus on succession updates from the Chief Executive Regulatory Information Service, planning arrangements for the Officer, Chief Financial Officer and subsequently published on the Board and senior management: and the Vice President, Investor Groups website.
Half and full-year Relations, covering discussions results are accompanied by a stakeholder engagement with the Companys institutional presentation by the Chief Executive gaining a greater understanding shareholders and are informed of Officer, Chief Financial Officer and of the views of key stakeholders any issues or concerns raised during other executives for investors, which including employees, patients and those discussions.
Shareholders is live webcast and archived on the physicians: and analysts briefings are circulated Groups website.
Members of the to all Non-Executive Directors.
This investment community are invited to process enhances Non-Executive engage management with questions Directors understanding of the during the question and answer views of shareholders and enables period.
The Chief Executive Officer 48 48 www.
com Governance the Board to judge what future The Audit Committee Annual General Meeting action would further assist investors The Committee makes formal The AGM provides all shareholders understanding of the Groups and transparent arrangements with an opportunity to put questions objectives.
for considering how financial to the Board of Directors and to vote reporting and internal control on the resolutions set out in the Board accountability principles are applied, and for Notice of Meeting.
All resolutions are The Board is responsible for the maintaining an appropriate and voted on by way of poll, with one integrity of the Groups financial transparent relationship with the vote for each share held.
The results statements, and recognizes its independent External Auditor, of the poll are announced to the responsibility to present a fair,  LLP.
London Stock Exchange and balanced and understandable Details of the role and activities of published on Indiviors website assessment of the Groups position the Committee are set out on pages shortly after the end of the AGM.
The Board has assessed, together Further disclosures with the Audit Committee, all Information fulfilling the further information available in considering disclosure requirements contained the overall drafting of the Groups in the Companies Act 2006, Schedule financial statements and the process 7 of the Large and Medium-sized by which they were compiled and Companies and Groups Accounts reviewed.
In doing so, the Board and Reports Regulations 2008 ensured that adequate time was and the FCAs Listing Rules dedicated to the drafting process so and Disclosure Guidance and that linkages and consistencies were Transparency Rules is set out worked through and tested.
Drafts on page 78 of the Directors were received by knowledgeable Report which are incorporated executives and senior management by reference into this Corporate not directly involved in the year-end Governance Report.
The Board recognizes that this responsibility extends to interim and other inside information, information required to be presented in relation to statutory requests, and reports to regulators.
In relation to these requirements, reference is made to the Statement of Directors Responsibilities for preparing the financial statements, set out on pages 83 and 84.
Indivior Annual Report 2018 4 49 9 Corporate Governance Report continued Introduction to Board Committees the role of internal and external Committee composition Audit Committee auditing and risk management: During the year and as at the date of this Report, the Committee matters that may influence the comprises four independent presentation of accounts and key Non-Executive Directors: figures: and Chris Schade Chair the regulatory framework for the Groups business.
Yvonne Greenstreet Daniel Tass The Committee has unrestricted Lizabeth Zlatkus access to Group documents, information, employees, and the Governance External Auditor.
The Committee The Committee comprises a may also take independent minimum of three members, all professional advice on any matters of whom are independent Noncovered by its Terms of Reference Executive Directors.
Two members at the Groups expense.
The constitute a quorum and the Committees Terms of Reference Committee met eight times can be viewed on the Investors On behalf of the Board, during the year of which five were section of the Groups website scheduled meetings and three ad I am pleased to present www.
The agendas were linked to the Audit Committee Throughout the year, the Committee events in the Groups financial invited the Chief Financial Officer, Report for the calendar.
Details of attendance Group Financial Controller, Vice at Committee meetings are on financial year ended President, Head of Internal Audit page 46.
December 31, 2018. and Risk Management, Vice The Committee as a whole has the President, Internal Audit and the necessary competence relevant to Audit Partner and other the sector in which it operates.
The representatives from the External Committee has determined that Auditor to attend meetings of the Chris Schade and Lizabeth Zlatkus Committee, although it reserves the have recent and relevant financial right to meet without any of these experience and competence in individuals.
For part of each accountancy or auditing.
All meeting, the Committee will meet Committee members are financially separately with representatives literate and have an understanding from the External Auditor and Vice of the following areas: President, Head of Internal Audit the principles of, and and Risk Management without any developments in, financial other persons present.
reporting, including the applicable The Committee Chair reports the accounting standards and outcome of each Committee meeting statements of recommended to the Board, and copies of the practice: minutes of each Committee meeting key aspects of the Groups are circulated to all Directors.
operations including corporate The Committees effectiveness was policies and the Groups internal reviewed during the year as part of control environment: the Boards annual performance evaluation.
A description of the evaluation is set out on page 48.
com Governance to assist the Board in relation to to review and monitor the External Role and responsibilities the Boards assessment of the Auditors objectivity and The role and responsibilities of the principal risks facing the Group independence, agree the scope of Committee include: and the prospects of the Group their work, negotiate and agree Financial reporting for the purposes of disclosures fees paid for the audit, assess the to monitor the integrity of the required in the Annual Report effectiveness of the audit process Groups financial reporting, and Accounts.
and agree the policy in relation to including all formal the provision of non-audit Internal financial controls announcements relating to services.
to review the effectiveness of the financial results and compliance Groups internal financial controls, with auditing standards: Activities during the year including the policies and overall to inform the Board of the The Committee has an annual work processes for assessing internal outcome of the Groups external plan which includes standing items financial control and effectiveness audit and explain how it that the Committee considers, in of corrective action taken by contributed to the integrity of addition to any specific matters management.
financial reporting: requiring the Committees attention.
Whistleblowing and fraud As part of the annual work plan, the to review the Groups strategy for to monitor the Groups policies, Committee receives and considers, the management of key financial procedures and controls for amongst other items of business: risks and to ensure the Group has preventing bribery, money followed appropriate accounting scheduled finance updates on laundering and the Groups policies and made appropriate financial reporting, including arrangements for whistleblowing.
estimates and judgments: and significant reporting and Internal Audit accounting matters: to challenge, where necessary, the to monitor and review the consistency of, and any changes progress against plan and results effectiveness of the Groups to, accounting and treasury of Internal Audits activities, Internal Audit function in the policies: whether the Group has including Internal Audit and context of the Groups overall followed appropriate accounting management reports on internal governance, risks and controls policies and made appropriate controls covering financial, framework: and estimates and judgments: the compliance, operational, and to consider and review the remit clarity and completeness of information technology matters, of the Internal Audit function, disclosures, significant and the implementation of ensuring it has adequate adjustments resulting from the management actions to address resources and all necessary access external audit, the going concern identified control weaknesses: to information to enable it to assumption, the viability summary reports of instances of perform its function effectively.
statement and compliance with whistleblowing, together with auditing standards.
External Auditor management actions: and to oversee the relationship Narrative reporting updates from the External Auditor between the Group and the to review the content of the focusing on the delivery of the External Auditor, advise the Annual Report and Accounts and Audit Plan, financial reporting, Board how the External Auditor advise the Board on whether, accounting judgments and has contributed to the integrity taken as a whole, it is fair, observations on the internal of the Groups financial reporting balanced and understandable and financial control environment process, and to report to the provides the information which they have encountered Board whether it considers the necessary for shareholders to during their work.
audit contract should be put out assess the Groups position and to tender, thereby conforming to performance, business and the requirements for tendering or strategy: and rotation of the audit services contract: and Indivior Annual Report 2018 51 51 Corporate Governance Report continued Significant judgments The following areas of focus in relation to the Groups Annual Report and other accounting areas requiring management judgment were considered and discussed with both management and the External Auditor: Areas of focus Action taken conclusion Viability statement When assessing the prospects and challenges facing the Group resulting from lower net revenue and slightly higher adjusted net income compared to the prior year, the Committee considered scenarios that could impact future financial projections and the ability of the Group to remain viable.
The Committee debated with management the dependencies on which the viability statement was reliant, which included, amongst other items, the future growth of SUBLOCADE and PERSERIS, legal and financial risks associated with the ongoing U. S. Department of Justice Investigation and the disruption to the Groups base business, in the US, caused by generic entrants into the market.
The Committee reviewed managements business plan for the optimization of the base business and cash forecasts, and the possible use of cash reserves over the length of the viability period.
The Committee also probed managements judgment regarding shortand long-term provisioning, and the sensitivity analysis initiated by management assessing the impact of generic entrants into the market.
The Committee reiterated that a four-year period was an appropriate timeframe over which to make the viability statement and reflected the best estimate of the future prospects of the business.
Based on the Committees assessment of the Groups prospects, managements approach to the challenges facing the business, including appropriate and detailed financial disclosures in the Annual Report referencing these challenges to viability, the Committee confirms that it has a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next four years.
Further information on the Groups principal risks including the viability statement are detailed on pages 29 to 35.
Going concern Uncertainties relating to the ongoing litigation, the U. S. Department of Justice Investigation, revenue outlook for SUBLOCADE and PERSERIS, and generic entrants into the market have been of importance to the Committee throughout the year and has further highlighted the importance of the Committees evaluation as to whether the Group remains a going concern when preparing the financial statements.
The Committee explored with management its litigation strategy and the possibility of cash outflows after the going concern period, and cash forecasting scenarios.
The Committee also challenged management on the adequacy of provisioning for ongoing litigation matters.
To assist, management provided detailed financial planning analysis for consideration by the Committee, detailing significant steps to reduce the cost base of the business in order to manage effectively the Groups capital structure to ensure sufficient liquidity over possible near-term litigation and trading outcomes.
As a consequence of the need to protect and reduce the cost base of the business, management implemented restructuring and cost saving initiatives, which included a Group-wide redundancy program, to partially offset the financial impact of recent adverse US market developments.
Further information regarding the cost saving initiatives are on page 15.
Following the implementation of the cost-saving initiatives, the strength of managements plans for managing the day-to-day operations of the business and planned cash management, the Committee was able to confirm that following the going concern basis of accounting in the financial statements continues to be appropriate.
com Governance Areas of focus Action taken conclusion Prepayment of Following amendment to the Groups term loan facilities, the Committee received external debt presentations from management on the option of making voluntary prepayments of debt in accordance with the term loan facilities.
The Committee discussed with management the extent to which the Groups cash and liquidity position would be impacted by making voluntary prepayments, and reviewed treasury and cash forecasting positions for the Group.
Prevailing financial market conditions and timings were considered by the Committee plus the risks associated with a debt paydown program were explored.
The Committee judged that such voluntary prepayments would be in the best interests of the Group and, to assist management, the Committee provided direction on undertaking the voluntary debt paydown program.
Subsequently, a total of $235m in voluntary prepayments of debt were made during the year.
Critical accounting When applying the Groups accounting policies, management must make a number judgments and of key judgments on the application of applicable accounting standard, estimates and disclosures, and key assumptions.
These judgments and estimates are based on factors considered to sources of estimation be relevant.
The Committee has challenged management on key judgments and estimations covering revenue recognition, tactical rebating and provisions relating to ongoing litigation.
The uncertainty and outcome of the ongoing litigation and the disruption of generic entrants into the US market are also key sensitivities for the Committee, as noted above in sections relating to the viability statement and going concern.
Given that certain judgments and disclosures in the Annual Report are highly judgmental, the Committee has reviewed managements inputs into their analysis and development of the judgments and disclosures, and discussed the critical nature of each with both management and the Groups External Auditor.
The Committee has satisfied itself that the Groups accounting policies and their application by management are appropriate.
The Committee is also satisfied with both the appropriateness of analysis performed by management, including the judgments made and estimates used and the related disclosures.
Taxation The Groups worldwide operations are significantly integrated and involve a number of decisions by tax authorities in various jurisdictions.
The Committee challenged management on their estimates of financial exposure faced by the Group in managing its tax affairs and reviewed the appropriateness of managements tax strategy, policy and principles for managing tax risks.
The Committee also challenged management on the tax treatment regarding orphan drug status plus the impact on the Group of recent US tax reform.
Accordingly, excluding the impact of exceptional items, the resulting effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2018, was 15% 2017: 25%.
The Committee concluded that management oversight and judgment of the Groups tax matters continued to be appropriate and is in accordance with the Groups tax strategy, which can be viewed at www.
Indivior Annual Report 2018 53 53 Corporate Governance Report continued Internal Audits staffing and Monitoring the integrity of Internal financial control and resources: reported financial information risk management Ensuring the integrity of the The Committee acknowledges its Internal Audits plans and its financial statements and associated responsibilities to assist the Board achievements of planned activity: announcements is a fundamental to fulfill its responsibilities for the the results of key audits and other responsibility of the Committee and, Groups risk management and significant findings, the adequacy during the year, the Committee internal control systems, including of managements response and reviewed the Groups Annual Report, the adequacy and effectiveness of the timeliness of their resolution: and interim financial statements.
the control environment, controls the nature and extent of non-audit Each review considered: over financial reporting and the activity performed by Internal Groups compliance with the Code.
the accounting principles, policies Audit: and and practices adopted in the All business areas of the Group changes since the last annual Groups financial statements, any prepare annual operating plans assessment of the significant risks proposed changes to them and and budgets.
These are regularly and the Groups ability to respond the adequacy of their disclosure: reviewed and updated as necessary to changes in its business and the throughout the year.
Performance the description of performance to external environment.
against budget is monitored ensure it was fair, balanced and centrally at operational level, and is understandable: The annual review of the Internal discussed at Committee and Board accounting issues or areas Audit function was conducted during meetings.
The cash position of the of complexity, the actions, the year with the assistance of Group is monitored daily by the estimates and judgments of Lintstock, an independent external Treasury function.
management in relation to evaluation consultancy.
The review Clear guidelines are in place for financial reporting, and the included input from members of the capital expenditure and investment assumptions underlying the going Committee, Executive Committee, decisions.
These include budget concern and viability statements: the External Auditor and senior preparation, appraisal and review members of key departments from any significant adjustments to procedures, and delegated within the Group.
Accordingly, it was financial reporting arising from the authority levels.
concluded that the Internal Audit external audit: Effective controls ensure that the function remained effective and tax contingencies, compliance with Groups exposure to avoidable risk continued to meet the needs of statutory tax obligations and the is minimized, and the Committee is the Group.
Groups tax policy: and cognizant of the material controls Throughout the year, the Committee litigation and contingent liabilities within the Group, including, amongst continued to receive regular updates other things, that proper accounting affecting the Group.
on the work carried out by the records are maintained, financial Internal Audit function.
information used within all business Internal Audit During the year, a new Vice areas is reliable and up-to-date, and The Committee is required to President, Head of Internal the financial reporting processes assist the Board in fulfilling its Audit and Risk Management, comply with relevant regulatory responsibilities regarding the was appointed.
adequacy of resourcing and the appointment, the Committee planning of the Internal Audit The Group has in place internal considered a draft Risk Assessment function of the Group to ensure controls and risk management and Audit Plan for 2019, which was they are appropriate for the systems in relation to the Groups subsequently approved by the Groups needs.
To fulfill its duties, financial reporting processes for Committee in January 2019. the Committee considered: preparation of consolidated accounts.
These systems include Internal Audits reporting lines and policies and procedures that relate its access to the Committee and to the maintenance of records which all Board members: accurately and fairly reflect 54 54 www.
com Governance transactions, provide reasonable the date of approval of the 2018 Whistleblowing assurance that transactions are Annual Report and Accounts.
The Groups whistleblowing policy recorded as necessary to permit the contains arrangements for an Reviewing the effectiveness of preparation of financial statements, independent external service internal control require representatives of the Group provider to receive, in confidence, As referred to above, throughout to certify that their reported complaints on accounting, risk the year the Board, through the information gives a true and fair issues, internal control, auditing Committee and assisted by view of the state of affairs of the issues and related matters for the Internal Audit function, reviews business and its results for the reporting to the Committee as the effectiveness of internal control period, and review and reconcile appropriate.
The Committee and the management of risk.
Additionally, the regularly reviewed reports provided Internal Audit function reports into Committee has reviewed plans by the external service provider, and the Committee and has authority on key operational issues, risk the actions arising therefrom.
to review any relevant part of the management, and Internal and Group or its business and has a Financial Reporting Council External Auditors reports.
planned schedule of reviews that review of 2017 Annual Report Control processes are designed to coincide with the Groups risks.
On November 30, 2018, the manage, rather than eliminate, the In addition to financial and Conduct Committee of the Financial risk of assets being unprotected and business reports, the Committee Reporting Council CC requested guard against their unauthorized has reviewed mediumand longerthat the Group assist them in their use, culminating in the failure to term strategic plans, reports on review of relevant reporting achieve business objectives.
Internal key operational issues, tax, requirements associated with the controls will only provide treasury, risk management, legal Groups Annual Report and financial reasonable and not total assurance matters and Committee reports, statements to December 31, 2017. against material misstatement including Internal and External The Group, via the Committee and or loss.
management, engaged with the To fulfill its duties, the Committee CC and provided all information Significant failings or reviewed: requested.
On review, the Group weaknesses has made additional disclosure the External Auditors reports to The Committee confirms that no the Committee: enhancements in this Annual Report significant weaknesses or failings and financial statements, and the reports from Internal Audit on key were identified during the year and, Committee is pleased to note that audit areas and any deficiencies in therefore, no remedial actions the CC have confirmed that their the control environment covering were required.
enquiries relating to the review internal financial control, were closed.
Misstatements operational and risk management: Management reported to the External Auditor the Groups approach to IT and Committee that they were not  LLP PwC cyber security: and aware of any material or immaterial were appointed as the Groups the Groups whistleblowing policy misstatements intentionally made.
External Auditor on demerger in and the ongoing compliance with The External Auditor reported to December 2014, and were last the policy including reviewing the Committee the misstatements re-appointed by shareholders reports provided by the external they had found during their work at the AGM in May 2018. service provider and any actions and, after due consideration, the The Committee oversees the arising therefrom.
Committee agreed with management work undertaken by the External that these misstatements were not Accordingly, the Committee confirms Auditor, and is responsible for material and that no adjustments there is a process for identifying, the development, implementation were required.
evaluating and managing risks faced and monitoring of policies and by the Group and the operational procedures on the use of the effectiveness of the appropriate External Auditor for non-audit controls, all of which have been in services in accordance with place throughout the year and up to Indivior Annual Report 2018 55 55 Corporate Governance Report continued professional and regulatory The Financial Reporting Councils recommendations made by the requirements.
These policies are Audit Quality Review team AQR External Auditor to the Committee kept under review to ensure that the routinely monitors the quality of the and the adequacy of Group benefits, in a cost-effective audit work of certain UK audit firms managements response: manner, from the cumulative through inspections of sample recent and historical performance knowledge and experience of the audits and related procedures of of the External Auditor in relation External Auditor while ensuring that individual audit firms.
During the to the Groups audits including the External Auditor maintains the year, the AQR selected to review the the quality and probity of necessary degree of independence audit of the Groups December 31, communication with the and objectivity.
During the year, the 2017 financial statements.
On Committee: Committee continued to meet with conclusion of the inspection, the the appropriateness of fees the External Auditor following Committee is pleased to note that relative to both efficiency and Committee meetings, without the AQR were satisfied that no audit quality: members of management being matters arose during the inspection present, and reviewed key issues.
Additionally, the External Auditors the AQR report noted that in one independence policies and The Committee has formally particular area of the audit they processes for maintaining its reviewed the independence of the considered the work of the External independence: External Auditor, which has provided Auditor to be of a high standard.
a letter confirming that it believes it the length of tenure as the Groups remained independent throughout Auditor effectiveness External Auditor and its depth of the year, within the meaning of the To assess the effectiveness of the understanding of the Groups regulations on this matter and in External Auditor and fulfill its business, operations and systems, accordance with its professional responsibilities for oversight of and accounting policies and standards.
the external audit process, the practices: Committee reviewed: To fulfill its responsibilities to the capability, expertise and ensure the independence of the the fulfillment by the External efficiency in handling the breadth External Auditor, the Committee Auditor of the agreed Audit Plan and complexity of the Groups has reviewed: and variations from it: operations worldwide: and a report from the External Auditor reports highlighting the major the demonstration of professional describing arrangements to issues that arose during the integrity and objectivity to rotate identify, report and manage any course of the audit and their and select a lead Audit Partner conflict of interest, and policies resolution: and other key engagement and procedures for maintaining partners at least every five years a report from the Audit Partner independence and monitoring or as otherwise required by at each Committee meeting: compliance with relevant applicable law or regulation.
the terms, areas of responsibility, requirements: and associated duties and scope of the To further assist the Committee in the extent of non-audit services audit as set out in the engagement assessing the effectiveness of the provided by the External Auditor: letter with the External Auditor: External Auditor, the Committee and undertook their annual assessment the overall Audit Plan and fee the External Audit team is led by proposal: of the External Auditor via a Sarah Quinn Audit Partner who survey completed by key internal key accounting and audit was appointed following the stakeholders.
The analysis of the judgments and how the External retirement of the previous Audit results of the survey was undertaken Auditor applied constructive Partner at the conclusion of the by Lintstock and the results were challenge and professional 2016 Year-End Audit.
discussed with the Committee skepticism when dealing with and the External Auditor at the management: Committee meeting held in November 2018.
com Governance Participants in the survey were itself that there is no effect on their Auditor was best placed to perform drawn from individuals who have independence.
significant contact with the External In providing non-audit services, Non-audit services Auditor throughout the year The Committee, in keeping under the Committee considered the and included members of the ongoing independence of the review the nature and level of nonCommittee, as well as members from audit services undertaken by the External Auditor and were satisfied the Finance, Treasury, Internal Audit that the independence of the External Auditor, recognizes that, and Legal teams, plus management.
in certain circumstances, the nature External Auditor was not All replies were returned on a compromised in providing of the advice required may make it confidential basis.
more timely and cost-effective to these services.
The Committee continues to appoint the External Auditor, who External Auditor re-appointment review annually the appointment already has a good understanding The Committee has recommended of the External Auditor, taking of the business.
to the Board that PwC be proposed into account the Auditors During the year, the Groups policy for re-appointment by shareholders effectiveness, independence has been updated to describe more as the External Auditor at the AGM in and Audit Partner rotation, and precisely, services prohibited under May 2019.
The Group has no current makes a recommendation to the Financial Reporting Council rules retendering plans.
and the request for the Committee Compliance with CMA Order Any decision to open the external to approve all non-audit services.
The Group confirms that during the audit to tender would be taken The Committee will consider period under review, it has complied on the recommendation of the other non-audit services when it with the provisions of The Statutory Committee.
To date, no tender has is in the best interests of the Group Audit Services for Large Companies been conducted, and there are no to do so, provided they can be Market Investigation Mandatory Use contractual obligations that restrict undertaken without jeopardizing of Competitive Tender Processes the Groups current choice of the independence of the and Audit Committee External Auditor.
Further details on the responsibilities The Groups policy on non-audit of the Committee regarding the Chris Schade fees states that, on an annual basis, engagement of the External Auditor Chair of the Audit Committee non-audit fees should not normally and the supply of non-audit services be in excess of 70% of the Groups can be found in the Committees March 1, 2019 external audit and audit-related Terms of Reference.
services billed over the last External Auditor independence three years.
Indivior has a formal policy in place Audit and Audit related fees paid to safeguard the independence of to the External Auditor for the year the External Auditor.
The Committee ended December 31, 2018, were and the Chief Financial Officer keep $2.2m.
Further details are provided the independence and objectivity of in Note 6 to the financial the External Auditor under review.
Additionally, reliance is placed on All audit-related and non-audit the External Auditors internal services were approved in advance independence controls as detailed by the Committee.
Audit-related in their Independence Letter issued services were primarily for quarterly to the Company in the year.
reviews and audit services The Committee has reviewed the pertaining to a potential listing in nature and level of non-audit the US whilst non-audit services in services undertaken by the External 2017 related to advisory services for Auditor during the year to satisfy potential financing alternatives.
The Indivior Annual Report 2018 57 57 Corporate Governance Report continued overseeing succession plans for Committee composition Nomination & the Board, its Committees and for At December 31, 2018, the Committee Governance Committee senior management positions and comprised four independent Nonensuring that these support the Executive Directors: development of a diverse pipeline Lorna Parker Chair for succession.
Tatjana May Corporate governance and Thomas McLellan compliance Daniel J. Phelan keeping the Groups corporate governance arrangements under Meetings review and monitoring external The Committee met five times in corporate governance 2018.
Details of attendance at developments: Committee meetings are detailed on page 46. reviewing and evaluating any conflicts of interest notified by At the invitation of the Committee, Directors, and recommending the Chair of the Board, the Chief authorizations or other measures Executive Officer, the Chief Legal On behalf of the Board to the Board: and Officer, the Chief Human Resources I am pleased to present Officer, the Chief Integrity and overseeing the Groups corporate Compliance Officer and the Vice compliance program.
the Nomination & President Corporate Compliance and Governance the Company Secretary attended The Committee has delegated Committee Report for meetings of the Committee.
authority from the Board, which is set out in its Terms of Reference and the financial year ended The Committee holds a private available to view on the Companys session at each meeting without December 31, 2018. website www.
members of the executive management team being present.
The Committee is supported by the Company Secretary.
The Committee The Chair of the Committee reports has authority to appoint search on the activities of the Committee consultants and other advisors at at the following Board meeting, its discretion.
and copies of the minutes of Committee meetings are circulated Activities during the year to all Directors.
During the year, the Committee considered, amongst other items, Role and responsibilities the following matters: The role and responsibilities of the Committee falls into two key areas: Succession planning The Committee reviewed the Board composition & succession succession planning arrangements planning arrangements in place for the Board and members reviewing the size, composition, of the Executive Committee.
In diversity and balance of skills of particular, given that the majority of the Board and its Committees: the Non-Executive Directors were overseeing the recruitment appointed in 2014 at demerger, the process for Directors and making Committee recognises that there recommendations to the Board needs to be a clear plan in place for regarding new appointments: and their orderly succession.
com Governance The Committee has developed Corporate governance Corporate compliance a formal plan to address the During the year, the Committee At each meeting, the Committee refreshment of the Board and was kept abreast of developments considered an update on the its Committees, which takes into in corporate governance by the Groups Corporate Compliance account tenure, diversity and skills.
These reports included a review of the new UK Corporate updates on the following matters: Board effectiveness review Governance Code, which will apply The Committee considered the details of training and employee to the Company for the financial approach regarding the review education activities: year ended December 31, 2019. of the effectiveness of the Board, field monitoring activities: its Committees and the individual The Committee also reviewed a compliance investigations: Directors.
The Chair of the number of key areas of corporate Committee, supported by the governance including: reports received via the Groups Company Secretary, developed confidential reporting hotline the enhancements to policies the approach for 2018, which was Ethicsline : and procedures that had been undertaken by way of a survey.
implemented to ensure that a review of the results of the The Committees performance reasonable procedures are in Groups audit of its third-party was reviewed as part of the Boards place to prevent the facilitation of distributors: annual performance evaluation.
tax evasion: developments to policies and Further information regarding the on behalf of the Board, reviewed process enhancements supported effectiveness review in 2018 can be and approved the Groups UK by external advisors: and found on page 48.
Modern Slavery Statement: and staffing and resourcing of the Culture reviewed the Groups policies in Integrity and Compliance The Committee reviewed the relation to sexual harassment.
feedback from the Groups In October 2018, Cindy Cetani engagement and culture survey Director independence and conflicts joined the Group in the newly and considered the progress made of interest created role of Chief Integrity against prior years.
The Committee During the year, the Committee and Compliance Officer: Cindy is was pleased to note that good considered the other commitments also a member of the Executive progress had been made and that of the Chair and Non-Executive Committee.
This executive participation and engagement levels Directors and if these were likely appointment further enhanced were high.
to give rise to a potential conflict and strengthened the Diversity of interest.
The Committee Groups commitment to The Committee reviewed and also reviewed the likely time corporate compliance.
updated the Groups Diversity and commitment required from the The Committee held a private Inclusion Policy and the Diversity Directors other appointments and session with the Head of Compliance Statement for inclusion in the if these were likely to interfere with at each meeting without members Annual Report.
their ability to discharge their duties of the executive management and having regard to overboarding While the Group is not required to team present.
The Committee provided report on gender pay gap matters as a report on its review to the Board.
it has fewer than 250 employees in Lorna Parker Chair of the Nomination & the UK, the Committee reviewed the The Board considered the analysis of its UK employees and Committees recommendations Governance Committee noted that the pay gap was smaller and considered that each of the March 1, 2019 than the national averages.
Non-Executive Directors remained independent and dedicated sufficient time to discharge their duties effectively.
Indivior Annual Report 2018 59 59 Corporate Governance Report continued to assess the decision-making Committee composition Science & processes for R&D projects and During the year and as at the date Policy Committee programs, and to review of this Report, the Committee benchmarking against industry comprises four independent Nonand scientific best practice, where Executive Directors: appropriate: and Yvonne Greenstreet Chair to review relevant and important Thomas McLellan bioethical issues and assist in the Chris Schade formulation of, and agreement on behalf of the Board, appropriate Lizabeth Zlatkus policies in relation to such issues.
Meetings The Committee met five times in The Committee has delegated 2018.
Details of attendance at authority from the Board, which is Committee meetings are detailed set out in its Terms of Reference and on page 46. available to view on the Groups website www.
At the invitation of the Chair of the Committee, the Chief Scientific The Committee is supported by the On behalf of the Board, Officer, Chief Medical Officer, Chief Deputy Company Secretary.
The I am pleased to present Officer, Corporate Affairs and Committee has authority to appoint Communications and VP, consultants and other advisors at its the Science & Policy Government Affairs attended discretion.
Committee Report for meetings of the Committee.
The Committee holds a private the financial year ended session at each meeting without Role and responsibilities December 31, 2018. members of the executive The role and responsibilities of the management team being present.
Committee include: The Chair of the Committee reports to provide assurance to the on the activities of the Committee to Board regarding the quality, the Board, and copies of the minutes competitiveness and integrity of Committee meetings are of the Groups research and circulated to all Directors.
development R&D activities: to review the scientific technology and R&D capabilities deployed within the business: 60 60 www.
com Governance reviewed progress of regulatory Activities during the year filings outside the US: and During the year, the Committee considered, among other items, the received briefings on the Groups following matters: public policy strategies with emphasis on the federal and state monitored and reviewed the landscape in the US.
progress of RBP-7000 OnceMonthly  Yvonne Greenstreet Subcutaneous Long-Acting Chair of the Science & Policy Injectable, which obtained U. S. Committee Food and Drug Administration approval on July 27, 2018, and March 1, 2019 made available under the trademark PERSERIS: monitored and reviewed the progress and development of the Companys product pipeline and early stage asset development opportunities for substance use disorder: reviewed the effectiveness of the Committee during the year as part of the Boards annual performance evaluation: received presentations on the Groups submission to a report commissioned by the Institute for Clinical and Economic Review ICER.
The Final Evidence Report was issued by ICER on December 3, 2018: following FDA approval of SUBLOCADE in November 2017, the Committee, throughout the year, monitored and reviewed the planning and execution of post-marketing and lifecycle management strategies associated with SUBLOCADE.
Further information is set out on pages 16 to 17: Indivior Annual Report 2018 61 61
