Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Audit Committee Report Audit Committee Report Membership and attendance Members of the Committee during the year, and to the date of this report, are: Committee Attendance Members member since during 2018 John Rishton Chairman 1 September 2016 4 4 Gareth Bullock 1 January 2015 4 4 David Flaschen 1 October 2015 3 4 Greg Lock 15 June 2018 2 2 Cindy Rose 1 August 2013 4 4 John Rishton Full biographies of the Committee members and their attendance at all meetings during the year are set out on pages 94 to 97.
Chairman of the Audit Committee The Committee continues to be entirely comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors, with Greg Lock joining, on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, following Dear Shareholder his appointment to the Board in June 2018.
Greg has an in-depth I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee knowledge of the technology, software and computer services the Committee for the year ended 31 December 2018. industry having held a number of senior roles in the UK, Europe and US for IBM, as well as board memberships of both listed and Responsibilities private companies.
The Committees key responsibilities continue to be to: All members of the Committee are independent in judgement review the integrity of the Groups financial statements and mindset.
Both the Committee and the Board are satisfied and reporting: that the Committees members have the broad commercial review and monitor the effectiveness of the Groups risk knowledge and competence in the business-to-business management programme and internal control procedures: information services market and vertical industries in which oversee the relationship with the external auditor including Informa operates.
Each also offers a relevant mix of business appointments, qualifications, independence, fees and and financial experience that positions them to effectively performance: and discuss, challenge and oversee critical financial matters and review the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function and fulfil their responsibilities.
For the purposes of the 2016 Code, the annual Internal Audit plan Ihave been deemed to meet the specific requirement of having significant, recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committees terms of reference, which are reviewed annually and approved by the Board, most recently in December2018, are There were four meetings in 2018, structured to allow a full, available on our website: http: www.
open and robust investigation into key accounting, audit and risk issues relevant to the Group.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 107 Governance Audit Committee Report continued All members of the Board have an open invitation to attend In addition, I hold regular meetings with the Board Chairman, Committee meetings.
Members of the Senior Management the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director, Team, including the Chief Financial Officer, the Head of Group as well as other members of management to obtain a good Finance, the Head of Internal Audit and the General Counsel understanding of issues affecting the Group and to identify & Company Secretary attend each meeting together with matters which require meaningful discussion at Committee representatives of the external auditor.
I also meet the external audit partner and Head the Head of Group Tax, Head of Group Risk, Head of Group of Internal Audit privately to discuss any matters they wish Compliance and the Group Treasurer are also invited to attend to raise or concerns they may have.
to facilitate information-sharing and discussion.
Twice a year, Committee meetings conclude with private meetings between Training and external advice the members and the external and internal auditors without As noted in the Corporate Governance Report on page 101, all management being present.
new members of the Board and the Committee follow a formal induction programme on appointment, to provide them with Activities during the year The Committee performed the following activities to the date of this report: Financial reporting Considered the accuracy and integrity of the Groups full-year and half-year financial results and the Annual Report and Accounts Assessed whether the Annual Report and Accounts and half-year press release were fair, balanced and understandable Reviewed the opinions of management and the external auditor on the carrying values of the Groups assets Reviewed the information and underlying assumptions in support of the Viability Statement and the going concern assessment for the 18-month period to 31 December 2020 Discussed different presentational options for the Groups financial statements following the combination with UBM Considered key accounting matters and new accounting standards Reviewed non-financial KPIs relevant to the Group Considered the FRC thematic review of alternative performance measures External Audit Approved the external auditors audit plan for the Groups 2018 financial statements and associated audit fee schedule including a review of the scope of work subsequent to the acquisition of UBM and a review of the key risks Reviewed and approved non-audit services and related fees payable to the Groups external auditor Reviewed external auditor effectiveness including confirmation of independence Reviewed the external auditors report on the 2017 full-year and 2018 half-year financial statements Assessed the materiality levels applied to the financial statements by the external auditor Internal Audit Reviewed and approved the annual Internal Audit plan Reviewed the work done by Internal Audit and monitored the subsequent actions Considered and approved the structure of a revised Internal Audit function following the acquisition of UBM Reviewed the effectiveness of Internal Audit Continued monitoring the implementation of the new enterprise resource planning system across shared service centres Risk management Reviewed the adequacy and appropriateness of the Groups system of controls and its effectiveness, with relevant input from the and internal Companys internal and external auditors controls Reviewed work undertaken by the Risk Committee and the Governance Risk sub-committee Reviewed risk appetite and tolerance, the Groups principal risks and the material controls in place to mitigate those risks Managed risks following the acquisition of UBM and streamlining processes for the new combined Group Reviewed IT risk and the appointment of a Chief Information Security Officer responsible for cyber security and technology risk Reviewed tax, treasury and other risks relating to the increased size and complexity of the Group following the acquisition of UBM Corporate Reviewed fraud and fraud reporting across the Group including cyber attacks Governance Reviewed reports on the Groups whistleblowing, anti-bribery and corruption procedures Other key matters Reviewed the Group treasury policy considered Reviewed the Group tax strategy Considered the outcome of the annual effectiveness review and updated the Committees terms of reference 108 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements detailed information about the Group.
Directors are given incorporated financial statements provide a fair, balanced and updated information on legal and governance requirements understandable assessment of the Groups financial reporting.
on an ongoing and timely basis.
Members of the Committee are able to obtain training at the Companys expense on any legal In approaching this, the Committee assesses whether suitable or accounting requirements required to carry out their roles.
accounting policies have been adopted.
It also considers accounting papers prepared by management that provide The Committees terms of reference also allow members of the details on the main financial reporting judgements and on the Committee to obtain independent legal and professional advice at approach taken to ensure that the Annual Report as a whole is the Companys expense.
No such advice was obtained during 2018. fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committee considers how the overall position and Financial reporting prospects of the Group are disclosed, in particular: At the request of the Board, the Committee continues to review the content and tone of the preliminary results announcement, whether the overall message of the narrative reporting is Annual Report and Accounts and the half-year financial results.
consistent with the primary financial statements, the Drafts of the Annual Report are reviewed by the Committee industry as a whole and the wider economic environment: Chairman and the Committee as a whole prior to formal whether the Annual Report is consistent with messages already consideration by the Board.
communicated to investors, analysts and other stakeholders: the consistency of the Strategic Report and the financial Fair, balanced and understandable reporting statements: and As in previous years, the Committee has given significant time the linkage between the Companys performance, business and attention to ensuring that this Annual Report and the model and strategy.
Significant judgement areas The critical accounting judgements and key accounting matters considered by the Committee in relation to the financial statements during the year ended 31 December 2018 are set out below: Valuation of To determine the value of separately identifiable intangible assets on a business combination, and deferred tax on these intangibles, the separately Group is required to make judgements when using valuation methodologies.
These include the use of discounted cash flows, revenue identifiable forecasts and estimates for the useful economic lives of intangible assets.
intangible assets There are significant judgements involved in assessing what amounts are recognised as the estimated fair value of assets and liabilities acquired through business combinations: in particular the amounts attributed to separate intangible assets such as titles, brands, acquired customer lists and associated customer relationships.
These judgements impact the amount of goodwill recognised on acquisitions.
Any provisional amounts are subsequently finalised within the 12-month measurement period, as permitted by IFRS 3.
In 2018 the significant judgements are in relation to the acquisitions of UBM plc and ICON Advisory Group, Ltd.
The Group has built up considerable knowledge of these valuation techniques, and for major acquisitions, defined as when consideration is 75m or above, the Group also considers the advice of third party independent valuers to identify and calculate the valuation of intangible assets arising on acquisition.
Details of acquisitions in the year are set out in Note 18.
Measurement The measurement of the retirement benefit obligation and surplus involves using a number of assumptions.
The most significant of these of retirement relate to the discount rate, the rate of increase in salaries and pension and mortality assumptions.
Note 34 details the principal assumptions benefit which have been adopted following advice received from independent actuaries.
It also provides sensitivity analysis with regard to changes obligations to these assumptions.
Impairment Identifying indicators of asset impairment involves estimating future cash flows based on a good understanding of the value drivers behind of assets the asset.
At each reporting period, an assessment is performed to determine whether there are any such indicators of impairment, which involves considering the performance of our businesses, any significant changes to the markets in which we operate and future forecasts.
For impairment testing purposes, goodwill is allocated to the specific groups of cash generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from the goodwill.
When there are changes in business structure, judgement is required to identify any changes to the CGU groups, taking account of the lowest level of independent cash inflows being generated, among other factors.
The Group has considered a number of assumptions in performing impairment reviews of assets, which are set out in Note 16.
The determination of whether assets are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the CGU groups to which assets have been allocated, except where a fair value less costs to sell methodology is applied.
The value in use calculation requires the Group to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from each CGU group, using three-year projections and determining a suitable discount rate to calculate present value and the long-term growth rate.
The Directors are satisfied that the Groups CGU groups have a value in use in excess of their Balance Sheet carrying value.
The sensitivities considered by the Directors for CGUs that have less headroom are described in Note 16.
Contingent When the consideration transferred by the Group in a business combination includes assets or liabilities from a contingent consideration consideration arrangement, it is measured at its acquisition-date fair value and is included as part of the consideration transferred in a business combination.
The contingent consideration is based on future business valuations and profit multiples and has been estimated on an acquisition by acquisition basis using available profit forecasts.
The higher the profit forecast, the higher the fair value of any contingent consideration subject to any maximum payout clauses.
Changes in fair value of the contingent consideration that qualify as measurement period adjustments are adjusted retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments against goodwill.
These adjustments will result in a restatement to previous reported results if the changes relate to amounts arising in previously reported periods.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 109 Governance Audit Committee Report continued The Committee also reviews reports by the external auditor on In 2018 the Committees focus areas included the following: the full-year and half-year results, which highlight any issues identified in their audit process.
Cyber security: The Risk Committee continued its work in establishing a Cyber Security Capability Roadmap with additional initiatives and frequent reporting on the improvements made.
Risk management and internal controls During the year the IT Security teams priorities were email The Board has delegated responsibility for overseeing the security and phishing, systems vulnerabilities and raising effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal awareness of IT security issues.
The acquisition of UBM also control systems to the Audit Committee.
The Committee has required a remodelling exercise on the IT risk framework and established, and has oversight of, an executive Risk Committee, a reassessment of the key issues faced by the enlarged Group.
receiving minutes of all its meetings and discussing any significant matters raised.
Data management: In May 2018, the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR came into force, imposing new rules on Systems, security and data capabilities the handling of personal data.
As reported in the 2017 Annual As part of its remit, the Committee regularly monitors the Report, the Company began its preparations early in order Groups investment and approach in areas that are critical to consider the impact of any issues that might arise.
In this to performance, the protection of its intellectual property reporting year, the Group Data Protection Officer continued and the integrity of its data and financial reporting.
work on building a GDPR framework setting out the Companys reviewing the Groups approach to, and management Risk Committee of, health and safety risks, including the Health and The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring Group risk Safety Risk Appetite Statement: is managed effectively.
The Risk Committee monitors business reviewing the adequacy and security of the Companys risks and their impact on the Group and reports its findings whistleblowing arrangements for colleagues and contractors to the Committee.
During the year under review, the Risk to raise concerns in confidence about possible wrongdoing Committee comprised the Chief Financial Officer of each Division, in financial reporting or other matters: the Group Chief Information Security Officer, the Group General reviewing the Groups instances of fraud and fraud Counsel & Company Secretary, the Group HR Director, the Head reporting to the Committee: and of Group Finance, the Head of Group Risk, the Head of Internal reviewing the Groups insurance arrangements.
Audit and the Head of Compliance.
Gareth Wright, Group Finance Director, is Chairman of the Risk Committee.
The Risk Committee monitors the divisional risk registers on a quarterly basis and assesses changes and emerging risks, The Risk Committee meets quarterly and its principal updates the Group risk register and recommends the principal duties include: risks and any changes to risk ratings.
providing guidance to the Board and the Audit Recommendations for the treatment of significant risks, and Committee regarding the Groups overall risk reports on the progress and status of risks that require action, appetite, tolerance and strategy: are made to the Board.
overseeing and advising the Board and the Audit Committee on the Groups current risk exposures and In addition to the regular engagement with the Knowledge & recommending which risks should be recognised as Networking and Business Intelligence leaderships, the risk the Groups principal risks: management function also: ensuring that a robust assessment is completed of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that worked with training the Global Exhibitions senior would threaten its business model, future performance, leadership team to identify risks to business as usual solvency or liquidity: resulting from the combination and developed mitigations reviewing the Groups overall risk assessment processes, for these risks: and the parameters of the qualitative and quantitative metrics facilitated Academic Publishings deep dive on emerging used to review the Groups risks, and monitoring the and significant risks facing that business and used a actions taken to mitigate them: structured risk and problem-solving approach to identify monitoring and reviewing all material controls: new mitigations.
reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk management systems, including all material operational and compliance controls: 110 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The Committee takes seriously its responsibility for the T he Committee takes development, implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on external audit.
This policy assigns oversight seriously its responsibility responsibility for monitoring independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical and regulatory requirements to the Committee, and day-to-day responsibility to the Group Finance for the development, Director.
It states that the external auditor is jointly responsible to the Board and the Committee, with the Committee as the implementation and primary contact.
The policy also sets out which categories of non-audit services the external auditor will and will not be monitoring of the allowed to provide to the Group, subject to fide minimis levels.
Groups policy on Non-audit services The Committee considers that certain non-audit services external audit.
should be provided by the external auditor, because its existing knowledge of the business makes this the most efficient and objectives on data protection compliance and embedding the effective way for non-audit services to be carried out.
ways to achieve them within the Divisions.
A programme of training was rolled out from Group level through to the The Committee regularly reviews the Non-Audit Fees Policy in Divisions, and a Data Protection Management Forum was order to safeguard the ongoing independence of the external established comprising key individuals within the business.
auditor and ensure the Group complies with the FRCs Ethical GDPR remains an agenda item at every Risk Committee meeting Standard for Auditors and other EU audit regulations.
and the Audit Committee continues to monitor and shape the approach taken to data privacy.
The policy defines and describes: Enterprise resource platform: Following the 2017 rollout of those services the auditor is and is not permitted to provide: a new SAP enterprise resource platform across the Group, the those services where provision by the external auditor has Committee monitored a programme of operational stabilisation been pre-approved by the Committee or where the specific which was completed in 2018 and involved a project team to approval of the Committee is required before the auditor resolve issues identified in 2017.
With the acquisition of UBM provides the service: in June 2018, the Group now has a second major enterprise the fee arrangements appropriate for external auditor resource platform which is Oracle-based and covers the engagements: and majority of UBM legacy legal entities.
the internal approval and external reporting mechanisms.
The policy allows the external auditor to provide the following External auditor non-audit services to the Informa Group: Deloitte LLP Deloitte was reappointed as the Groups external auditor following a competitive tender in 2016.
Full details of Audit-related services.
the process are set out in the 2016 Annual Report.
Deloitte was Reporting accountant services.
first appointed as the Groups external auditor in 2004.
The Assurance services in relation to financial statements within Committee will keep its external auditor under review on an an M&A transaction such as providing comfort letters in annual basis and, in accordance with legislation and its own connection with any prospectus that Informa may issue.
terms of reference, will ensure that a competitive tender for Tax advisory and compliance work for non-EEA subsidiaries.
external audit services takes place every 10 years.
last eligible year to serve as the Groups external auditor is Other non-audit services not covered in the list of the year ending 31 December 2023. prohibited and permitted services, where the threat to the auditors independence and objectivity is considered With effect from August 2018, the external audit engagement trivial and safeguards are applied to reduce any threat partner is Anna Marks.
She is a qualified accountant, a senior to an acceptable level.
audit partner in the London audit practice and a Vice-Chairman of the UK firm.
Anna replaces William Touche who was appointed as the Groups external audit engagement partner in July 2015.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 111 Governance Audit Committee Report continued Details of all fees charged by the external auditor during the year Internal Audit are set out in Note 7.
During the year ended 31 December 2018, During the first half of 2018, the Internal Audit function continued the non-audit fees paid to Deloitte totalled 2.8m 2017: 0.3m to be outsourced to KPMG.
KPMG provided independent assurance and were 88% 2017: 14% of the 2018 audit fee.
The increase in through planned audit activities, identifying controls on a sample non-audit fees relates to Deloittes engagement to assist with and rotational basis and reviewing whether these controls are the acquisition of UBM which incurred 2.6m in exceptional adequately designed and implemented.
The Audit Committee approved the appointment of Deloitte in relation to the acquisition on the basis that they Following the acquisition of UBM, the Informa outsourced were best placed to provide these services and that there was model was combined with UBMs Internal Audit function and no conflict of interest with their external auditor role.
UBMs Head of Internal Audit was appointed as Group Head of Internal Audit.
The remainder of the non-audit fees were for advisory services relating to the Companys launch of the EMTN programme At the beginning of each year the Committee approves the and the closure of a subsidiary company in Saudi Arabia.
annual Internal Audit plan with an emphasis on the Groups The non-audit fees incurred were disclosed to the Committee key risk areas and certain key financial controls.
The Head in accordance with Group policy and were approved by the of Internal Audit attends each Audit Committee and Risk Chairman of the Committee.
Committee meeting, tabling reports on: The Audit Committee reviewed Deloittes independence any issues identified around the Groups business processes following the completion of the UBM acquisition and Deloitte and control activities during the course of their work: ceased providing services which had created a conflict of interest.
the implementation of management action plans to address any identified control weaknesses: and External auditor effectiveness any management action plans where resolution is overdue.
In accordance with best practice, the performance of the external auditor is reviewed annually to assess the delivery of An Internal Audit effectiveness review is carried out each year to the external audit service and identify areas for improvement.
assess the delivery of the function and areas for improvement.
The review takes into account the quality of planning, delivery The last review, which was carried out prior to the Internal Audit and execution of the audit including the audit of subsidiary function being restructured, concluded that KPMG continued companies, the technical competence and strategic knowledge to work well and provided the Company with assurance over of the audit team and the effectiveness of reporting and its risk and control environment.
communication between the audit team and management.
Performance is assessed according to whether the audit Committee effectiveness exceeds, meets or is below expectations against a variety The 2018 evaluation of the Committees performance was of factors, with a questionnaire completed by Group and undertaken as part of the broader performance evaluation divisional colleagues in different locations.
conducted by the Chairman of the Board.
Details of the evaluation process are set out on pages 101 and 102 and I am Deloittes performance was assessed as to whether it exceeded, pleased to confirm that its conclusion was that the Committee met or was below expectations for each of these factors.
The continued to operate effectively.
Nevertheless, continuing to evaluation concluded that Deloitte continues to be viewed spend time understanding the enlarged business, particularly as a strong and effective auditor by the business.
the newly acquired elements, will improve the Committees effectiveness over the coming year.
John Rishton Chairman of the Audit Committee 6 March 2019 112 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018
