Chairs governance statement Strong and robust corporate governance delivering accountability Good governance is an essential part of our ethos underpinning the delivery of our vision for the benefit of colleagues, shareholders and stakeholders.
Howard Pien Chair of the Board Dear Shareholder, Culture and governance On behalf of the Board, I am The Indivior Guiding Principles pleased to present the Corporate the values we respect and our Governance Report for the year Code of Conduct the behaviors we ended December 31, 2018.
As Chair of expect underpin everything that we the Board, my role is to manage the do and the type of organization we Board and to ensure that it operates want to be.
Everyone who works for effectively.
This year has seen and with us is required to comply continued focus on the Groups with these.
The Board, Executive corporate governance arrangements, Committee and our management ensuring that we have strong and understand that how we work is as robust corporate governance at the important as what we achieve.
Our heart of everything we do.
culture and values are not only championed by the Board and the The Board continues to adhere to Executive Committee but permeate the principles of integrity, respect, throughout our organization.
Board members are expected to lead by Activities during the year example and exemplify the highest During 2018, the Board formally met standards of propriety, diligence on five occasions and held a further and accountability.
17 ad hoc meetings, which were primarily held by conference telephone.
The ad hoc meetings dealt with matters covering the ongoing DOJ investigation, antitrust litigation matters, litigation regarding Orange Book-listed patents and the possibility of a 36 36 www.
com Governance launch of a generic buprenorphine As the UK Government continues Looking ahead naloxone film product.
its Brexit negotiations, uncertainty Maintaining the highest standards remains as to the extent to which of corporate governance is integral To further strengthen governance our business will be affected in the to the delivery of our vision.
Your and oversight within the business, longer term.
To prepare for all Board remains focused on ensuring we made two strategic appointments eventualities, we formed a Brexit our shareholders and stakeholders during the year.
The Internal Audit Steering Committee which met will benefit from the strong and Risk Management functions regularly throughout the year and governance ethos which is present were combined and a new Vice has led the Group in preparing throughout the Group.
President, Head of Internal Audit to satisfy the new regulatory and Risk Management was Howard Pien environment, especially in the EMEA appointed.
We also created the Chair of the Board region, and to mitigate any risk.
new role of Chief Integrity and Further reference to Brexit is set Compliance Officer, which is an March 1, 2019 out on page 31.
The strengthening of our subsidiary Board effectiveness governance was another area of As part of its annual cycle of focus during the year.
Led by the business, the Board undertook Company Secretary, further an evaluation to consider the enhancements including process performance of the Board, each and monitoring initiatives were of the Directors, and the Boards introduced Group-wide.
The appointed a new service provider, report was prepared by Lintstock Eversheds Sutherland International and detailed several areas for LLP, to assist with the ongoing consideration, as outlined on page administrative requirements for 48.
The Board and committees will many of the Groups overseas focus attention on these areas subsidiary companies, and during the coming year.
The overall developed a bespoke training performance of the Board and its program for subsidiary directors, committees was positively rated, which included a focus on subsidiary especially given the challenges governance and directors duties.
This program will continue to be enhanced during 2019.
UK Corporate Governance Code The UK Corporate Governance Code, published in April 2016 by the Financial Reporting Council the Code, sets out standards of good practice in relation to Board leadership and effectiveness, remuneration, accountability and relations with shareholders.
The report on pages 42 to 82 describes how the Board has applied the Main Principles of the Code.
Throughout the financial year and to the date of this report, the Company has complied with the provisions of the Code.
A copy of the Code is available from the FRC website www.
A new UK Corporate Governance Code was published in 2018 and will apply for the financial year ending December 31, 2019.
The Board has undertaken an assessment of its readiness to comply with and report against the 2018 Code, and we have begun to adopt certain changes to prepare for compliance with the new Code.
