Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Nomination Committee Report Nomination Committee Report The Committees terms of reference, which are reviewed annually and approved by the Board, most recently in December2018, are available on our website: http: www.
A verbal report is given to the Board on the outcome of Committee meetings and all Directors receive the minutes of Committee meetings for information.
The Committee met four times during the year.
The Group Chief Executive, Company Secretary and former Director of Talent & Transformation attended meetings by invitation Derek Mapp where appropriate.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee Membership and attendance Members of the Committee during the year, and to the date of this report, are: Dear Shareholder Committee Attendance I am pleased to present the Report of the Nomination Committee Members member since during 2018 the Committee for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Derek Mapp Chairman 10 March 2008 4 4 Gareth Bullock 24 July 2014 4 4 Responsibilities Stephen Davidson 25 May 2018 1 1 The Committee has been tasked by the Board to continuously David Flaschen 25 May 2018 1 1 assess and review how the Board is structured, consider whether Greg Lock 15 June 2018 1 1 any changes are required, and monitor the engagement and Mary McDowell 15 June 2018 1 1 retainment of talent across the Group, focusing on the following Helen Owers 25 May 2018 1 1 key areas: John Rishton 25 May 2018 1 1 Cindy Rose 24 July 2014 3 4 Reviewing the size, structure and composition of the Board: David Wei 15 June 2018 1 1 1 Stephen A. Carter 1 January 2015 1 1 identifying and recommending suitable candidates for Board appointments: the reappointment and the annual re-election 1.
S tephen A. Carter ceased to be a member of the Nomination Committee of Directors by Shareholders: and their membership of the on 27 February 2018.
Ensuring appropriate succession plans are in place for the Full biographies of the Committee members and their attendance Board and reviewing similar plans for Senior Executives.
at all meetings during the year are on pages 94 to 97.
Reviewing colleague engagement activities in line with legal requirements such as gender pay gap reporting, and monitoring diversity and inclusion initiatives across the Group.
Assisting the Chairman with implementing the annual Board evaluation process, ensuring that an externally facilitated evaluation is performed at least every three years.
Reviewing and approving the Committees disclosures in the Annual Report and reviewing the Committees terms of reference on a regular basis.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 103 The Committee made these additional recommendations Governance to the Board during the year and to the date of this report: Nomination Committee Report continued the appointment of Stephen Davidson, Helen Owers, DavidFlaschen and John Rishton to the Nomination Committee with effect from 25 May 2018: reappointment of Stephen Davidson for a second three-year term with effect from 1 September 2018: reappointment of David Flaschen for a second three-year term with effect from 1 September 2018: Key activities during 2018 reappointment of Cindy Rose for a third three-year term Board and Committee membership, independence with effect from 1 March 2019: and and re-election election or re-election of continuing Directors at the AGM.
This year, the Committee has focused on the benefits of appointing former UBM Directors to the Board following the Before recommending resolutions to reappoint any Noncombination.
In addition to the continuity of knowledge these Executive Directors to the Board, or the election or re-election appointments would bring, the Committee considered the areas of Directors at the AGM, the Committee assesses their of experience which would most benefit the combined Group, continued independence, the time commitment required and and agreed that: whether the continued appointment would be in the best interests of the Company.
It gives detailed consideration to knowledge of the US and Chinese markets would be each Non-Executive Directors contribution to the Board and highly beneficial and help to further internationalise its Committees, together with the overall balance of knowledge, Board membership: skills, experience and diversity on the Board as a whole.
expertise in digital media, technology and analogous sector content would be beneficial: and Cindy Rose will have served for more than six years at the time finance and capital markets experience would be helpful of the 2019 AGM.
In considering her reappointment to the since the Group would be looking to refinance over the Board, and her re-election by Shareholders, the Committee gave next 12 months.
detailed consideration to the expertise she brings to the Board and the Committees on which she serves.
The Committee The Committee considered the attributes offered by each of unanimously concluded that Cindy Rose continued to bring the UBM Non-Executive Directors and, noting that each offered expertise in technology and digital media to the Board, excellent and relevant experience, made the following remained independent in character and judgement and recommendations to the Board: continued to discharge her responsibilities effectively.
appointment of Greg Lock as Deputy Chairman of the Board The Committee also believes that each of the remaining Nonand as a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees: Executive Directors continues to demonstrate commitment appointment of Mary McDowell as a Non-Executive Director to their role as a member of the Board and its Committees, and as a member of the Nomination and Remuneration discharges their duties effectively and makes valuable Committees: and contributions to the leadership of the Company for the appointment of David Wei as a Non-Executive Director and as benefit of all stakeholders.
Greg Lock will retire at the conclusion a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
of the 2019 AGM and will not therefore be seeking election by Shareholders.
Accordingly, the Committee recommended to Each appointment was effective from completion of the the Board that resolutions to elect or re-elect each continuing combination.
Details of each Directors professional experience Non-Executive Director be proposed as appropriate to the AGM is shown in their biographies on pages 94 and 95, and an alongside the resolutions to re-elect the Executive Directors.
overview of the entire Boards skill-set is set out below.
Biographies for each Director can be found on pages 94 and 95.
Board balance by experience and skills Experience and skills Media and Technology sector Business-to-business operations US market experience Digital and technology Financial management Governance and risk control Marketing engagement M&A International experience PLC expertise 104 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Directors do not participate in any debate or decision about Informa believes that colleagues are amongst our most their own reappointment.
important assets and we set great store by difference and diversity.
There is a focus throughout the business on attracting, supporting and engaging colleagues wherever they work, and Board balance by independence maintaining a culture of openness and respect.
In turn, the Executive Directors 17% Committee receives updates and monitors the application of Independent talent and colleague-focused policies in the wider Group.
Non-Executive Directors 83% The Committee believes that diversity and maintaining a balanced mix of talent at all levels brings competitive advantage to the Group and supports the businesss future growth and potential.
Informa operates an Apprenticeship Scheme and a Graduate Fellowship Scheme as an additional way of attracting early-career talent.
Informa is accredited by the UK Living Wage Foundation and UK colleagues are paid at least the independently calculated Living Wage, above the Governments National Minimum Wage, Succession planning which is regularly audited.
The Committee keeps succession planning for the Board and the Executive Management Team under review.
It specifically considers The Group will shortly publish the second of its Colleagues and the succession plans for the Chairman and Executive Directors, and Pay reports, which include the difference between the average monitors talent and performance management of Senior Executives pay of UK female and male colleagues as required under UK across the Divisions.
As at April 2018, the Groups UK gender pay gap stood at 21.5% 2017: 23.2% compared with a UK national The Committee undertook an in-depth discussion regarding average pay gap of 17.9% 2017: 18.4%.
The bonus pay gap was the performance of the Executive Management Team and 37.3% 2017: 17.6% after a material increase in the amount of other Senior Management during the year, particularly in female and male colleagues participating in a bonus scheme relation to the combination with UBM, and reviewed both in one of our businesses.
short and long-term succession plans.
Informa continues to undertake a range of initiatives designed Diversity to ensure that all colleagues can develop their careers on an Informa aims to recognise diversity in its broadest sense, equal basis and have opportunities to participate and engage including but not limited to gender, age, disability, ethnicity, fully in work life at the Group.
For more information on some education and social background, and to uphold a working of these, see pages 30 to 36 and the Colleagues and Pay reports environment that is welcoming, stimulating, based on respect available on the Informa website.
and providing opportunity to all.
Board and colleague balance by gender: The Board continues to support the findings of the HamptonAlexander Review on womens representation in senior Average over 2018 Average over 2017 leadership positions, and the Parker Review on the ethnic Colleagues F 6,649 F 59% F 4,220 F 56% diversity of Boards.
The Group Chief Executive is a member of M 4,548 M 41% M 3,305 M 44% the 30% Club, an international organisation working to increase Senior F 80 F 32% F 46 F 27% the representation of women and diverse talent at all levels, and Leadership M 170 M 68% M 123 M 73% Team the Group is also involved in the organisation of the 30% Clubs Directors F 3 F 25% F 2 F 22% annual flagship event.
The appointment of Mary McDowell to the M 9 M 75% M 7 M 78% Board has increased the number of women on our Board to three and increased the percentage of female Board members to 25% Effectiveness 2017: 22%.
The Boards international breadth also developed The review into the Committees effectiveness was carried out with the appointment of both Mary McDowell and David Wei.
as part of the internal Board evaluation.
I am pleased to report it found that the Committee continued to operate effectively Board balance by gender and that the inclusion of all Non-Executive Directors in its membership had been welcomed.
Nevertheless, the Board felt Female 25% that further work could be undertaken on succession planning Male 75% and talent management and this will be the key focus for the Committee in 2019.
Derek Mapp Chairman of the Nomination Committee 6 March 2019 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 105 Governance Accountability Accountability Business planning each Operating Division produces C. 1 Financial and business reporting and agrees an annual business plan against which the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report performance of the business is regularly monitored.
The Statement of Directors Responsibilities Financial analysis each Divisions operating profitability can be found on page 133 and includes an explanation of how and capital expenditure are closely monitored.
Management the Directors ensured that the Annual Report for the year incentives are tied to annual and longer-term financial ended 31December 2018 is fair, balanced and understandable.
These results include explanations of variance Details of the business model and how the Company generates between forecast and budgeted performance and are value for stakeholders are set out on pages 20 and 21 of the reviewed in detail by the Executive Management Team Strategic Report.
Key financial information is regularly reported to the Board.
C. 2 Risk management and internal control Group Authority Framework the framework provides The Board is responsible for ensuring that Informa maintains a clear guidelines on approval limits for capital and operating sound system of internal controls and reviewing its effectiveness.
expenditure and other key business decisions for all Divisions.
It recognises that risks must be taken to achieve the Companys Risk assessment risk assessment is embedded into the business objectives and has mandated a responsible and operations of the Group and reports are provided to the balanced approach to managing risk through its risk appetite Executive Management Team, Risk Committee, Audit and tolerance statement.
Compliance compliance controls are based on the Informas system of internal controls is designed to manage USFederal Sentencing Guidelines.
risks by addressing causes and mitigating their potential impact.
It can only provide reasonable, rather than absolute, assurance The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups against material misstatement or loss, a concept that recognises system of internal controls, including financial, operational that the cost of control procedures should not exceed their and compliance controls, risk management and the Groups expected benefits.
high level internal control arrangements.
Responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Group The Audit Committee has been charged by the Board with rests with the Group Chief Executive, supported by the oversight of these controls and has considered the following Executive Management Team.
The Executive Management factors in determining the overall effectiveness of the Groups Team includes the CEO of each Division together with key Senior risks and associated control environment: Management from Group functions.
During 2018 the Executive Management Team met bi-weekly by phone and bi-monthly in The Risk Committee, a sub-committee of the Audit Committee, person to consider the implementation of Group strategies, reports on the effectiveness of risk management, governance plans and policies, to monitor operational and financial and compliance activity within the Group.
performance and to manage risks.
As far as possible, each The Audit Committee approved a schedule of work to be Division is given operational autonomy within an internal undertaken by the Groups Internal Audit team during the control framework.
Details of the activities of the Operating year.
It receives reports on any issues identified during Divisions are set out on pages 38 to 59. these audits and follows up on the implementation of management action plans, ensuring any identified As illustrated in the Risk Management section on page 62, control weaknesses are addressed.
the Board has adopted a risk management framework for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks C. 3 Audit Committee and auditors faced by the Group which is overseen by the Risk Committee.
The Audit Committee Report, including details on the Informas internal control and risk management systems and Companys auditors, follows.
procedures around financial reporting include the following: 106 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018
