Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance | Governance at work 61 Governance at work This section of the Board activities in 2018 Annual Report summarises how we manage the Reviewed the Groups strategy in relation to technology capabilities: approved investment in future ground networks to support new satellites being built and investments in key operating Company to meet the systems to improve billing and IT infrastructure to benefit customers and employees needs of the business Discussed the Groups capital structure and took the decision to reduce the dividend payment and our stakeholder Discussed the conditional proposal from EchoStar to reach a decision on how to respond responsibilities Discussed the Nomination Committees recommendations for re-election of existing Directors and the appointment of an additional Director The Board is committed to the highest Received feedback from the extensive engagement programmes with major shareholders standards of governance and it does this regarding their response to the dividend reduction, share price performance and whilst being responsible for the overall remuneration consultation conduct of the Groups business and by For more information please see Role of the Board on page 68 providing leadership and guidance.
Leadership Accountability In this section In this section This section provides an overview of the Board The work of the Audit Committee extends and how it and its Committees work together.
and expands as the number of new auditing Details of the type of activity considered by the and governance requirements grows.
Board and also some of the core responsibilities Why this is important for certain Directors are also explained.
As part Two of our Board Committees have of the external Board evaluation process, the responsibility for oversight of our telecoms Directors are asked to consider a wide range regulatory requirements and audit reporting.
of discussion areas and there are comments These are significant areas of focus for our from the review within this Report.
business and it is important for stakeholders Why this is important to know that this is recognised at the highest It is important to have strong leadership from level in the Company.
It is critical to know that the Board as a whole to support the Executive there is a process of accountability running Directors and management in their day-to-day throughout the Company with good processes running of the business.
The Board supports an in place and defined levels of responsibility.
open and transparent culture which is endorsed See pages 75 to 79 by the Executive Directors and the Executive Management Team.
See pages 67 to 71 Effectiveness Remuneration In this section In this section In the Report from the Nominations Committee This section of the governance report provides Chairman, we reflect on the elements of how a review of what remuneration has been paid to the Board is made up, how we plan to ensure Executive Directors in 2018 and what is intended to success in the future and how we make sure on an be paid in 2019 called the implementation report annual basis that we are being held accountable and how we have structured a new Remuneration to each other as Board members and also to Policy following extensive shareholder our stakeholders.
Shareholders are asked to vote at the AGM annually on the implementation report, Why this is important and in 2019, on a new Remuneration Policy.
Having an effective and contributing diverse Board, with the right skills, experience and Why this is important willingness to contribute to the Companys culture, Our Remuneration Committee carries the is very important to our success as a company responsibility to deliver a clear articulation and therefore to our stakeholders.
It is incumbent of our Remuneration Policy and consider this on the Board to make sure that it is diligent in its in the context of the pay arrangements for all our succession planning at Board level and also employees.
It is important for stakeholders to contributing to what happens at the Executive understand how remuneration is determined and Management Team level and understanding that the appropriate links between remuneration, succession planning generally.
strategy, risk and our KPIs are made.
