CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statement of compliance The role of the Board REPORT The Code sets out the principles and Board leadership provisions relating to good governance Introduction The Board is responsible for leading and of UK listed companies and can controlling the Company and has IntegraFin Holdings plc be found on the FRCs website at overall authority for the management IHP, the Company is required to www.
and conduct of the Groups business, comply with the 2016 UK Corporate The following report sets out how strategy and development.
The Board is Governance Code Code, however the Company has complied with the also responsible for ensuring the IHP is already considering what provisions of the Code, with the maintenance of a sound system of actions it needs to take to comply exception of the composition of the internal controls and risk management with the new 2018 Code issued in Remuneration Committee which is including financial, operational and July 2018 which will not apply until discussed below.
compliance controls and for reviewing 30 September 2019.
IHPs Board the overall effectiveness of systems in considers the terms of the Code in Detailed reporting on remuneration can place as well as for the approval of any determining appropriate and be found in the Directors Remuneration changes to the capital, corporate and or proportionate corporate governance Report on page 56 to 78. management structure of the Group.
arrangements for the Group as the nature, scale and complexity of its Board of Directors The Board promotes the long-term business evolves.
Accordingly, the success of the Company and the Christopher Munro Groups corporate governance Group and ensures effective operational Interim Independent arrangements reflect the standards management and strategic development Non-Executive Chair of practice required by the Code in of the proposition, having due regard relation to the management of the Michael Howard to all stakeholders including Group and are designed to: Executive Director safeguarding of its clients interests.
To achieve these goals the Board: Promote business effectiv eness, Ian Taylor efficiency, responsibility and Chief Executive Officer CEO Ensures the Company acts accountability: at all times within the articles Alexander Scott of association: Assist the effectiv e review and Chief Financial Officer CFO monitoring of the Groups activities: Ensures the Company and the Neil Holden Group implements good management Help identify and mitigate significant Independent Non-Executive Director policies and practices to ensure that risks to the Group: and Caroline Banszky the Company and the Group are Pro vide the necessary disclosures to Independent Non-Executive Director managed in an accountable, stakeholders to make a meaningful efficient and effective manner: Victoria Cochrane analysis of the Groups business Senior Independent Non-Executive Considers and scrutinises advice activities and its financial position.
Director and reports from the executive and, where appropriate to the Company A number of appointments took place and Group, matters escalated by in the financial year, including the the Committees: appointment of Christopher Munro as Interim Chair following Patrick Reviews and approves the annual Snowballs resignation in August report and accounts, half-yearly 2018, and the appointment of two reports and quarterly financials for additional independent Non-Executive the Company on a stand-alone basis Directors, Caroline Banszky in August and on a consolidated basis in 2018 and Victoria Cochrane in relation to the Group and IFAL September 2018.
Group together: INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 41 GOVERNANCE continued Ensures the Company and the Board composition Group as a whole remains compliant The Company has three Executive with all applicable statutory Directors and four independent standards, rules and guidelines: Non-Executive Directors including Considers and approves appointments the Chair and therefore complies to the Board and approves the with the Code in respect of the board remuneration arrangements for composition for a company that is not Directors within the terms of the a small company.
Remuneration Policy: and The Code recommends that at least Approves the appointment of any half the board of directors of a UK providers of outsourced services to listed company, excluding the chair, the Company or Group and reviews should comprise Non-Executive and considers their performance.
Directors determined by the Board to be independent in character and Relations with stakeholders judgement and free from relationships or circumstances which may affect, The Board maintains close relationships or could appear to affect, this judgement.
with the Companys institutional shareholders through periodic Independence meetings.
Board members receive copies of the latest analysts and Taking into account the provisions of brokers reports on the Company along the Code, the Board has determined with a quarterly Investor Analytics that all of the Non-Executive Directors report which details the top shareholders, are independent Non-Executive shareholder history, top buyers and Directors within the meaning of sellers, market analysis and share price the Code and remain free from performance to aid familiarity with any business or other relationship details of shareholdings.
that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent The CEO and CFO hosted shareholder judgement.
roadshows where the Companys half year results were presented The Code recommends that a chair to institutional investors invited by should meet the independence criteria the Companys brokers.
set out in the Code on appointment.
The Board has concluded that In September 2018 the Company Christopher Munro is an independent appointed Victoria Cochrane as chair for Code purposes.
The Chairs Senior Independent Non-Executive other commitments are listed in his Director SID.
The Chair, SID and biography and the Company has other Non-Executive Directors are concluded these do not affect his ability available for consultation with to undertake the role.
Any significant shareholders upon request and will commitments must be disclosed to attend and be available for questions the Board as and when they arise at and after the AGM, further details for consideration.
of which will be sent out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
42 INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 Conflicts of interest Committees The Companys articles of association There are three Committees of the permit the Board to consider and Board: Audit and Risk: Nomination: authorise situations where a Director and Remuneration.
The Remuneration has an actual or potential conflict of Committee and the Audit and Risk interest in relation to the Group.
Committee are wholly non-executive The Company maintains a conflicts of committees and the members are all interest register which is reviewed independent Non-Executive Directors.
In addition, The Chair of the Board is a member prior to each Board meeting, of and chairs the Nomination the Directors are asked to declare Committee.
The other members of any conflicts they may have with the Nomination Committee include regard to the business meeting.
The membership and terms Directors who declare a conflict of of reference of these Board interest may be authorised by the rest Committees are reviewed annually of the Board to participate in decision and are available on the Companys making in accordance with section website www.
co. uk or on 175 of the Companies Act 2006. request from the Company Secretary.
The Board considers and, if appropriate, Matters reserved for the Board authorises any conflicts or potential conflicts of Directors and imposes any The Board is the main decision making limitations, qualifications or restrictions and review body for the Company.
Additionally, when making It determines the overall strategic new appointments, the Board takes direction of the Company and is into account other demands on responsible for the overall management Directors time.
Significant commitments of the Company and the business are disclosed with an indication of operations for its subsidiaries.
time involved and any additional The Boards remit is documented external appointments must be in its terms of reference which includes approved in advance by the Company.
details of matters reserved for the The Board has also reviewed Board and matters delegated by the the other commitments of the Board.
The terms of reference including Non-Executive Directors and matters reserved for the Board are concluded they are satisfied that reviewed and updated annually.
the Non-Executive Directors remain Matters which are reserved for the able to commit sufficient time as Board include strategy and management, required to the Companys business.
structure and capital, financial reporting and controls, internal controls, contracts, communication, Board membership and appointments, remuneration and corporate governance matters.
The Board makes decisions as to delegating to Committees of the Board and the management team.
Matters which are delegated to the management team include changes to the Companys management structure, approval of resolutions and corresponding documentation to be put to shareholders at general meetings, and approval of the levels of insurance in place for the Group.
INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 43 GOVERNANCE continued Setting the Business Model Board meetings and attendance and Strategy The Board met at least six times, The Board retains responsibility in accordance with its terms of for the overall management of reference.
Attendance by each member the Company and approval of any of the Board as at 30 September 2018 long-term objectives of the Company.
A review of the performance against Meetings eligible Meetings the Companys strategy, objectives, to attend attended business plans and budgets is Chair considered at each board meeting.
Christopher Munro 13 12 Maintaining oversight of the Companys operations, ensuring Members competent and prudent management, Michael Howard 13 8 sound planning, an adequate system Ian Taylor 13 13 of control, adequate accounting in addition to reviewing any significant Alexander Scott 13 12 risks faced by the Company and Neil Holden 13 13 establishing and maintaining Caroline Banszky 2 1 risk management systems in Victoria Cochrane 0 0 co-ordination with the Audit and Risk Committee ensures the There were no meetings in the financial year following Victoria Cochranes appointment Company fulfils its business on 28 September 2018 objectives.
The Board also retains responsibility for considering the balance of interests between Michael Howard was unable to attend shareholders, employees, five meetings due to the timing and customers and the community.
frequency of Board meetings in the run up to the IPO.
Christopher Munro, Alexander Scott and Caroline Banszky were each unable to attend one meeting arranged at short-notice.
44 INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 Board effectiveness review - 2018 Election and re-election of Directors The Board conducts an annual The Companys articles of association evaluation of its own effectiveness and require all existing directors to retire that of its Committees and individual from office at each AGM and be Board members.
All members of the eligible for re-election.
Board with the exception of the Chair As Non-Executive Directors appointed undertook an annual performance since the last AGM, Caroline Banszky evaluation of the Chair.
The evaluations and Victoria Cochrane will be standing consist of a questionnaire designed to for election at the next AGM.
review the performance against the matters delegated in the terms of Annual General Meeting reference.
The findings of which and any action points arising are discussed The AGM provides shareholders with and remedied.
Each Board member a further opportunity to communicate is responsible for identifying training with the Board both during the AGM appropriate to their needs, and the and informally afterwards.
Notice of Non-Executive Directors maintain the AGM will be sent in accordance individual annual training logs.
with the Companies Act 2006 and made available on a dedicated As part of the annual performance shareholder website along with any evaluation of the effectiveness other relevant documentation.
of the Board and its Committees, the experience, independence and knowledge of the Directors and the By order of the Board diversity representation of the Board, how the Board works together and other factors relevant to its Christopher Munro effectiveness were considered.
Chair FTSE350 companies are required 12 December 2018 by the Code to have an externally facilitated evaluation at least every three years.
The Company will ensure this is facilitated by 2020 in keeping with Code requirements.
INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 45
