GOVERNANCE continued AUDIT AND Reviewing the integrity and RISK COMMITTEE REPORT effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting process including the Statement from the Chair of the internal controls structure and Audit and Risk Committee procedure for financial reporting and the integrity and appropriateness I am pleased to present the Audit of the Companys and Groups and Risk Committees report for 2018. consolidated Financial Statements: The Audit and Risk Committee has Reviewing the manner in which the provided oversight and advice to Company implements and monitors assist IHP in fulfilling its the adequacy of internal financial responsibilities in respect of financial and operational controls: reporting, financial and operational controls and risk management across Monitoring and reviewing the IHP and the companies within the effectiveness of the Groups Group.
It oversees the effectiveness Internal Audit function: of the Groups internal risk controls Reviewing external audit and accounting procedures to ensure arrangements and making appropriate levels of external and recommendations to the Board internal audit and risk assessment regarding any changes to the are maintained.
It has overseen the external auditor as well as review integrity of the financial reporting and approval of their remuneration process and reviewed the work of and terms of engagement: and both external and internal auditors.
Reviewing and monitoring the Role of the Audit and independence and objectivity of Risk Committee the external auditor as well as the effectiveness of the audit process, The role and responsibilities of the taking into consideration relevant Audit and Risk Committee are set out professional and regulatory in its terms of reference and are requirements.
summarised below: The Committee reports its findings Reviewing the manner in which the to the Board, identifying any matters Group companies implement and in respect of which it considers that monitor the adequacy of the Groups action or improvement is needed, risk management framework: and makes recommendations as to Assisting the Board in fostering a the steps to be taken.
However, the culture within the Group which Board retains ultimate responsibility encourages good stewardship of risk for reviewing and approving financial and emphasises the benefits of a reports and other public statements.
risk-based approach to management of the Group: 46 INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 Composition of the Audit and Risk Committee The members of the Audit and Risk Committee at 30 September 2018 were: Financial Experience Date of Appointment Chair Neil Holden Chartered Accountant 2 February 2018 Members Christopher Munro Chartered Accountant 2 February 2018 Caroline Banszky Chartered Accountant 22 August 2018 Victoria Cochrane 28 September 2018 All members of the Committee, In adherence with the Code members to support them in carrying including the Chair, are independent requirement to include at least one out their duties effectively.
Committee member with recent and delivered by in-house technical staff, relevant financial experience, through the attendance at formal On an on-going basis, membership both the Audit and Risk Committee conferences, and an online training of the Committee is reviewed by the Chair and Caroline Banszky are programme.
Chair of the Committee in collaboration qualified Chartered Accountants.
with the Nomination Committee and any recommendations for new The Group also provides initial and appointments are made to the Board.
on-going training for Committee Committee meetings and attendance The Audit and Risk Committee meets Meetings eligible Meetings at least four times each year but to attend attended more frequently when required.
Chair The Committee has met four times Neil Holden 4 4 Members during this financial year.
Attendance by each member of the Committee as Christopher Munro 4 4 at 30 September 2018 is set out below.
Caroline Banszky 1 1 Victoria Cochrane 0 0 There were no further meetings in the financial year following Victoria Cochranes appointment on 28 September 2018 The CEO, CFO, Group Counsel and the Committee meetings for external Head of Internal Audit are routinely audit planning and reporting purposes.
invited to, and attend, the majority Between meetings the Committee of meetings, although the Committee Chair keeps in regular contact reserves the right to request any of with the CEO, CFO, Group Head these individuals to leave the meeting.
of Internal Audit, and the Senior The Groups external auditor Engagement Partner of BDO.
BDO LLP BDO also attended specific INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 47 GOVERNANCE continued Overview of the actions taken by The Group adopts an overall the Audit and Risk Committee to conservative approach which is discharge its duties reflected in its risk appetite values and preferences in the overall The Audit and Risk Committee has approach to risk management.
focussed on five main areas during The Committee has reviewed the the year: manner in which the Group Risk Management: companies have implemented and monitored the adequacy of the Financial Reporting: Groups risk management framework.
Internal Financial and Operational It has assisted the Board in fostering Controls: a culture within the Group which encourages good stewardship of risk Effectiveness of Internal Audit: and and emphasises and demonstrates Effectiveness and independence of the benefits of a risk-based approach the external auditor.
to management of the Group.
The Committee maintained oversight Risk Management of risk management activities in Risk management activities encompass relation to IHP and monitored their all financial, strategic and operational effectiveness.
All reports from the risks which may threaten the Head of Actuarial and Risk on IHP business model, future performance, specific matters were reviewed by the solvency or liquidity of IHP.
The Group implements a nature of the activities undertaken by comprehensive top-down and the Group, the key risks faced are bottom-up approach to managing financial risks market risk, liquidity risks through regular assessments, risk, outflow risk, expense risk and monitoring including horizon credit risk and non-financial risks scanning and reporting in conjunction regulatory risk, operational risk, with senior management and risk competition risk, geopolitical risk owners.
The Risk Management and reputational risk.
The Group function reports to the Integrated ensures risks taken are aligned with Financial Arrangements Ltd risk its long-term strategic aims and committee IFAL Risk Committee, provide an acceptable level of return.
providing information and analysis on the key risks the Group faces, The principal risks identified as being capital requirements and comparison faced by the Company with a against risk appetites.
The Chair of description of how the Company the IFAL Risk Committee then manages and mitigates the risks is set provides a summary to the members out in the Risk and Risk Management of the Board and the IHP Audit and section on page 25 to 34.
The Committee also sought assurance from the Chair of the IFAL Risk Committee that management responses had been provided to any findings and recommendations from the Head of Actuarial and Risk recorded in reports on IHP specific matters and that any exceptions were escalated to the Committee Chair.
48 INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 The Groups Risk Management Financial Reporting Framework is designed along the The financial reporting undertaken three lines of defence model by the Group has been reviewed and comprising of risk ownership, challenged by the Committee, with oversight and assurance.
The three input and support from the Groups stages of oversight ensure that the external auditor.
It assessed whether regulated subsidiaries operate within suitable accounting policies have the risk appetite which is defined been adopted, whether management by the IFAL Risk Committee and have made appropriate estimates and approved by the boards of each judgements and whether disclosures Regulated Subsidiary.
in published Financial Statements The Committee reviewed and were fair, balanced and understandable.
challenged as necessary the As part of its work during the year, The Committee did this by ensuring management information reporting the Committee, on behalf of the there was a thorough process of on the status of the Groups risk Board, has examined the Annual challenge, including challenge by the profile - by reference to risk appetite, Report and Financial Statements, Committee itself.
The Committees trends and concentrations against half-yearly reports, interim own challenge process included the most significant risks affecting management statements and other questioning the Group Chief IHP individually and the risk profile of formal announcements relating to Executive Officer on the overall the Group as a whole.
financial performance, reviewing and message and tone of his review Any escalations from the Group reporting to the Board on significant statement, examining and company boards or committees which financial reporting issues and challenging reports from both affect IHP or which, in the view of judgements which they contain, management and the external a Group Company Board or the having regard to matters auditor relating to the Annual Report, IFAL Risk Committee, impact the communicated to it by the external and reviewing consistency with Group as a whole, were considered.
The Committee also internal reports presented to the The Committee also considered the examined the consistency of Board by management, the Group progress of identified management accounting policies and the financial Chief Financial Officer, Group Head of actions.
Any matters of relevance to reporting process.
This included the Internal Audit and Group Head of the Board were escalated.
review and approval of the Annual Risk during the year.
Additionally the Report, and consideration of the Committee reviewed the Companys Income Statement, Statement of statements on compliance with the Comprehensive Income, Statement Code and the corporate governance of Financial Position, Statement of statement.
Following this assessment Changes in Equity, Going Concern the Committee recommended to the statement and the Statement of Cash Board that the 2018 Annual Report Flows, with an emphasis on ensuring and Financial Statements are fair, that these are fair, balanced and balanced and understandable and understandable.
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 49 GOVERNANCE continued The Committee reviewed the key Receiving a quarterly internal audit accounting and financial risk and report on recommendations to meet the steps taken by management to identified internal control deficiencies address them.
The Committee and review progress of agreed actions received a report from the Companys in response to identified deficiencies: external auditors confirming that Gaining assurance from the chair of they had not identified any nonthe IFAL Audit Committee regarding compliance with Group accounting completion of management actions policies or the applicable accounting in response to the findings and framework and that they had not recommendations of internal audit identified any significant accounting reports: and policy changes impacting the financial year.
Further information on the key Seeking assurance annually on financial risks can be found in note 4 the adequacy and security of to the Financial Statements.
the Groups arrangements for employees and contractors to raise Internal Controls concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial The Audit and Risk Committee reporting or other matters that receives reports at each meeting these arrangements allow from the Group Internal Audit proportionate and independent function reporting on any recently investigation of such matters and completed audits specifically relating appropriate follow up action.
The content and accuracy of these reports was assessed and The Audit and Risk Committee met challenged by the Committee to with the Head of Internal Audit ensure the necessary controls are privately this year in order to discuss implemented.
matters directly in the absence of management.
Effectiveness of Internal Audit Effectiveness and independence The Audit and Risk Committee reviews of the external auditor how the Company implements and monitors the adequacy of internal The Audit and Risk Committee has financial and operational controls.
primary responsibility for the Groups The Committee achieves this by: relationship with the external auditor BDO and for monitoring its Requesting that the Internal Audit independence, objectivity and Plan for IFAL includes specific areas compliance with ethical and regulatory of review on matters relating to IHP requirements.
The Audit and Risk Receiving and reviewing copies of Committee has primary responsibility all formal internal audit reports for making recommendations on escalated by the Integrated appointment, reappointment and Financial Arrangements Ltd Audit removal of external auditors to the Committee IFAL Audit Committee Board to be put to shareholders for in respect of IHP or activities within approval at the AGM.
other companies in the Group which present a significant risk to the Group as a whole 50 INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 The Committee has responsibility to the Group that it remains for reviewing the external auditors independent.
BDO has acted as remuneration and reviewing auditor to the Group for eight years whether fees for audit and or and to the Company since its non-audit services are appropriate.
Public interest entities The Committee undertakes an annual are required to put the external audit review of the policy to govern the contract to tender at least every ten supply of non-audit services by the years and so the Company intends to external auditor.
At each meeting, do so before the end of 2021. the Committee is informed on any The Committee concluded that it is non-audit services provided in that satisfied with the performance and period by the external auditor to effectiveness of BDO and has demonstrate the amounts being concluded that BDO continues to incurred do not give rise to a display the necessary attributes of conflict of their independence.
The Committee also satisfies itself that there are no relationships Whistleblowing such as family, employment, investment, financial or business The Chair of the Risk and Audit between the external auditor and the Committee is a key contact in the Company other than in the ordinary Whistleblowing Policy and fulfils the course of business which could role of whistleblowers champion adversely affect the auditors under the Senior Insurance independence and objectivity.
The Committee also ensures there is The Committee reviewed the appropriate liaison and co-ordination Whistleblowing Policy and the between the internal and external framework for reporting and confirmed auditor.
The non-audit fees paid to that they are appropriate to the BDO during the 2018 financial year Group structure and organisation.
The non-audit fees paid to BDO related to IPO work Committee self-evaluation and were approved prior to the IPO by the Board.
The Audit and Risk Committee has also conducted a self-assessment of The Committee undertakes an annual its own effectiveness as well as an assessment of the external auditors evaluation of the Chair in the period independence and objectivity taking since formation and was satisfied into account relevant professional with the results achieved and has and regulatory requirements and the agreed actions where improvements relationship with each auditor as a were suggested.
whole, including the provision of any non-audit services.
The Committee undertook an effectiveness review of Signed on behalf of the the external auditor in August, where Audit and Risk Committee it discussed performance and the FRCs Audit Quality Inspection on BDO.
Neil Holden There are no contractual or similar Chair of the Audit and obligations restricting the Groups Risk Committee choice of external auditor and IHPs external auditor, BDO, has confirmed 12 December 2018 INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 51
