GOVERNANCE continued NOMINATION COMMITTEE Role of the Nomination Committee REPORT The role and responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are set out Statement from the Chair in its terms of reference and are of the Nomination Committee summarised below: I am pleased to present the Nomination Reviewing the structure, size and Committees report for 2018. composition including the skills, The primary purpose of the knowledge, experience and diversity Committee is to develop and maintain of the Board to ensure that best a formal, rigorous and transparent practice corporate standards are procedure, and to lead the process for met on an ongoing basis and make Board and Committee appointments recommendations to the Board with and re-appointments, including regard to any changes that the making recommendations to the Committee believes to be necessary: Board.
To achieve optimal composition Considering succession planning for of the Board, the Committee has IHP directors, taking into account regard to its size and composition, the challenges and opportunities the extent to which skills, experience facing the Group, and the skills and or attributes are represented and the expertise needed on the Board in need to maintain high standards of the future: corporate governance.
Reviewing the leadership needs of The Committee regularly reviews the the Company, both executive and composition of the Board to ensure non-executive, with a view to ensuring that the necessary skills, knowledge the continued ability of the Group to and experience are available and to compete effectively in the marketplace: ensure that best practice corporate standards are met on an ongoing Keeping up to date and fully informed basis.
In doing so, the Committee on strategic issues and commercial considers the successful achievement changes affecting the Company: of the Companys long-term objectives Identifying and nominating for the whilst taking into account relevant approval of the Board, candidates to regulatory requirements, market fill Board vacancies as and when pressures and value for money.
they arise: In all its activities the Committee Prior to any appointment, gives due consideration to laws and evaluating the balance of skills, regulations, the provisions of the knowledge, experience and diversity Code, the requirements of the UK on the Board and in light of this Listing Authoritys Listing, Prospectus evaluation, preparing a description and Disclosure Guidance and of the role and capabilities required Transparency Rules and any other for a particular appointment: and applicable rules, as appropriate.
When considering the appointment of both Executive and Non-Executive Directors to the Board, reviewing such directors positions and interests in other companies or firms in order to identify any conflicts or potential conflicts of interests and make recommendations to the Board as to whether these positions and interests should be authorised.
52 INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 The Committee discusses and agrees annually the relevant measures for achieving diversity on the Board and recommends them to the Board for implementation.
The Committee Chair reports to the Board on its proceedings after each meeting on all matters within its duties and responsibilities.
The Committee also recommends to the Board as and when it deems appropriate on any area within its remit where action or improvement is needed.
Composition of the Nomination Committee The members of the Nomination Committee at 30 September 2018 were: Date of Appointment Chair Christopher Munro 2 February 2018 Members Ian Taylor 19 January 2018 Victoria Cochrane 28 September 2018 In adherence with the Code, the majority of members of the Nomination Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chair of the Board chairs the Committee, however he will not chair when the Committee is dealing with nominating a successor.
The Group also provides initial and on-going training for Committee members to support them in carrying out their duties effectively.
This is delivered by in-house technical staff, through the attendance at formal conferences as required, and an online training programme.
INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 53 GOVERNANCE continued Committee meetings and attendance The Nomination Committee meets annually and more frequently when required.
The Committee has met five times during this financial year Attendance by each member of the Committee as at 30 September 2018 is set out below.
Meetings eligible Meetings to attend attended Chair Christopher Munro 5 5 Members Victoria Cochrane 0 0 Ian Taylor 5 5 There were no meetings in the financial year following Victoria Cochranes appointment on 28 September 2018 Only members of the Committee place, the Nomination Committee have the right to attend Committee recommends the preferred candidate meetings.
However, other individuals to the Board for approval.
such as the Head of Human Resources Appointments to the Committee are and external advisers may be invited made by the Board and shall be for a to attend for all or part of any meeting.
period of up to three years, which may be extended for two further periods Appointment process of up to three years, provided the The appointment process commences Director still meets the criteria for when the need for additional skills, membership of the Committee.
knowledge, experience or diversity are identified.
This can be prompted Succession through a Director resigning, such as Having evaluated the balance of in the case of Patrick Snowball, skills, knowledge, experience and or through the Committees regular diversity on the Board, and in review of the structure, size and keeping with the role and responsibility composition of the Committee which conferred on the Nomination Committee, was the case with Caroline and two additional Non-Executive Directors Victorias appointments.
Once the were appointed during this financial need for a candidate is identified, year.
To facilitate the search, the Committee will ordinarily arrange the Company used Korn Ferry.
for advertising and or make use of an Korn Ferry does not have any other external search agent, failing which connection with the Company or any an explanation will be provided.
In August and September, In identifying suitable candidates Caroline and Victoria respectively for appointment to the Board, were appointed.
In compliance with the Committee will consider candidates the Code recommendation that on merit against objective criteria the board of directors of a company with due regard for the benefits of diversity.
Once interviews have taken with a premium listing on the 54 INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 Official List should appoint one of the In identifying suitable candidates independent Non-Executive Directors for appointment to the Board, the to be the Senior Independent Committee considers candidates on Director, the Company appointed merit against objective criteria with Victoria Cochrane to this role.
due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board.
As part of Following the resignation of Patrick the selection process, where search Snowball, a focus of the Nomination agents are used, they are required to Committee in 2019 will be to source consider all aspects of diversity when a replacement chair on a permanent preparing long lists of candidates.
The Nomination Committee will be responsible for preparing a Committee self-evaluation role specification which will include the time commitment expected.
The Nomination Committee Where possible, the appointment will conducted a self-assessment of its be made with a view to achieving a own effectiveness as well as an balance of relevant skills with evaluation of the Committees Chair diversity.
Any recommendations will in the period since formation and was be made to the Board along with a satisfied with the results achieved disclosure of any of the proposed and has agreed actions where Chairs other significant commitments.
Diversity Signed on behalf of the The Company recognises the benefits Nomination Committee of companies having a diverse Board and sees diversity at board level as important in maintaining good Christopher Munro corporate and board effectiveness.
Chair of the Nomination The objective of the Groups diversity Committee policy is to ensure that new appointments 12 December 2018 to any board within the Group are made on merit, taking into account the different skills, industry experience, independence, knowledge and background required to achieve a balanced and effective board.
When determining the composition of the Board, consideration is given to the diversity of Board members and when possible appointments are made with a view to achieving a balance of skills with diversity.
The Committee considers the benefits of all aspects of diversity in order to enable it to discharge its duties and responsibilities.
The Company recognises that providing the opportunity for employees to contribute their talent, experiences and skills aids us in achieving our strategic objectives, boosting our financial performance and delivering sustainable commercial opportunities.
INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 55
