Directors' Report | Corporate Governance LEADERSHIP COMPLIANCE WITH THE 2016 UK CORPORATE conduct and success of the business through entrepreneurial GOVERNANCE CODE 'CODE' and innovative leadership, and setting the strategic aims of the This report has been prepared in order to provide stakeholders Company, its values, standards and culture.
The Board also with a comprehensive understanding of our governance decides and reviews all key policies and regulations, its strategy, framework and to meet the requirements of the Code, the Listing operating plans, large acquisitions, corporate governance, major Rules 'LR' and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules investments and disposals, the appointment and removal of 'DTR'.
A copy of the Code is available at www.
During Directors, risk management, financial reporting, audit, 2018, the Company has complied with the provisions of the Code sustainability, ethics, the environment and people policies.
A more detailed explanation of our compliance can also be The Board reviews and approves the method and approach found on our website at www.
The information to risk management and internal control systems and the Groups required to be disclosed in accordance with DTR 7.2.
The overall powers of Directors are set out in the found in the Other Statutory Information section on pages 110 Companys Articles of Association Articles and may be to 112. amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
THE BOARD AND ITS RESPONSIBILITIES The Board is responsible for ensuring that appropriate financial The Board has the ultimate responsibility to promote the and human resources are in place to achieve its long-term long-term sustainable success of the Company, generating value strategy and deliver sustainable performance.
Our strategy for shareholders and contributing to wider society, to the and progress towards delivering these strategic aims is set out Companys shareholders and our stakeholders for the proper in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 65.
Intertek Board of Directors Biographical details can be found on pages 74 and 75.
Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Membership as at Membership as at Membership as at 31 December 2018 31 December 2018 31 December 2018 - Andrew Martin Chair - Sir David Reid Chair - Gill Rider Chair - Dame Louise Makin - Graham Allan - Graham Allan - Jean-Michel Valette - Gurnek Bains - Gurnek Bains - Lena Wilson - Dame Louise Makin - Andrew Martin Read more on pages 83 to 88.
- Lena Wilson Read more on pages 89 to 107.
Ethics & Executive Sustainability Group Risk Compliance Investment Disclosure Management Operating Committee Committee Committee Committee Team Committee - Andr Lacroix - Andr Lacroix - Andr Lacroix - Andr Lacroix Biographical - Andr Lacroix Membership - Tony George - Tony George - Ross McCluskey - Mark Thomas details of the team - Nimer Al-Hafi as at 31 - Mark Thomas - Mark Thomas can be found on - Darrin Harkness December pages 20 and 21.
- Ann-Michele 2018 Bowlin - Josh Egan - Matthew Allen Responsible for the management of risk.
Responsible for the Responsible for Responsible for Responsible for Responsible for Role To develop, oversee and promote the monitoring of reviewing overseeing the Interteks global advancing Interteks continuous improvement of the Groups risk ethical, compliance significant Groups compliance operations, the initiatives in both management, internal controls and assurance and HSE issues contracts, leases with securities Team meets our internal framework and the related procedures and affecting any part and acquisitions, dealing as well as regularly to discuss sustainability systems: to oversee the development, of the Intertek undertaking post continuous and and review business activities, as well as implementation and adoption of any policies, Group.
investment periodic disclosure and operational our external procedures and systems which are identified appraisal reviews, requirements.
sustainability as being required to address, or as a overseeing capital services for clients.
consequence of, Group-wide approach to expenditure and identifying and managing the Groups investments as emerging and systemic risk environment.
described in the Groups Authorities Grid.
Products, Trade and Resources Support Business Lines and Country Management Functions 68 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors' Report The Board Approval Matrix formally outlines the matters The Board also delegates specific responsibilities, subject to specifically requiring the consent of the full Board.
Each of the certain financial limits, to management and this is governed by Boards Committees has received delegated authority to carry the Core Mandatory Controls and the Group Authorities Grid, out the business defined in its respective terms of reference.
which are regularly reviewed and refreshed.
This agreed framework of controls enables strategic aims and financial The Board has reviewed the terms of reference for each of these performance to be delivered whilst also allowing risk to be Committees and is satisfied that they reflect current best assessed and managed.
practice and satisfy the terms of the Code.
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES There is a clear division of responsibilities between the running of the Board a key responsibility of the Chairman and the day-to-day running of the Companys business the responsibility of the CEO.
These responsibilities have been formalised in writing.
Roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer andSeniorIndependent Non-Executive Director ROLE NAME RESPONSIBILITIES Chairman Sir David Reid Leading and governing the Board to ensure its effectiveness in directing the Company.
Assessing and monitoring the culture within the Company and ensuring that it aligns to the Companys purpose.
Ensuring the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information to enable them to discharge their duties to promote the long-term sustainable success of the Company.
Ensuring effective two-way communication between the Board and shareholders and stakeholders.
Communicating to all Directors any of the major shareholders issues and concerns.
Facilitating openness and debate and the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors.
Chief Andr Lacroix Proposing and agreeing the strategy with the Board.
Running the day-to-day operation of the business in line with the agreed strategy Executive and commercial objectives.
Officer Promoting and conducting the affairs of the Company with the highest standards of ethics, integrity, sustainability and corporate governance.
Leading the Executive Management Team.
Senior Graham Allan Providing a sounding board for the Chairman.
Being available as an intermediary between other Directors and the Chairman.
Independent Leading the annual performance review of the Chairman.
Non-Executive Being available to meet with shareholders and other stakeholders should they have Director any concerns that have not been resolved through the normal channels.
GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group The Group Company Secretary supports the Chairman in the Company Secretary, including access to independent professional delivery of the Board and governance procedures, in particular advice at the Groups expense.
She ensures that an accurate with the planning of agendas for the annual cycle of Board and record of all the Board and Committee meetings is taken and if Committee meetings, the planning of the induction for new a member of the Board has any concerns about the Company or Directors and in ensuring that information is made available any of the decisions taken, the minutes reflect this.
No such to the Board members on a timely basis.
She arranges for the concerns were raised during the year.
Non-Executive Directors to meet with investors to discuss The Company has granted an indemnity, to the extent permitted aspects of Interteks corporate governance arrangements on by law, to each of the Directors and the Group Company Secretary.
request, and supervises the arrangements for them to visit Directors and Officers liability insurance is also in place.
Interteks operations to enhance their knowledge and understanding of the business.
She also provides updates to the Board on regulatory and corporate governance issues, new legislation, and Directors duties and obligations.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 69 Directors' Report | Corporate Governance LEADERSHIP continued MEETING, ATTENDANCE & INDEPENDENCE BOARD BALANCE & COMPOSITION The table below sets out the Board and Committee attendance As at 31 December 2018, the Companys Board comprised the during the year to 31 December 2018.
Attendance is shown as Chairman, two Executive Directors and seven Non-Executive the number of meetings attended out of the total number of Directors.
Biographical details of individual Directors are set out meetings possible for the individual Director to attend during on pages 74 and 75.
The Directors are of the view that the Board the year.
and its Committees consist of Directors with the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of Whenever a Director is unable to attend a meeting, they will go the Group to ensure the business continues to be run effectively through the papers, which have been circulated in advance, and and the Board's decision-making is not dominated by any one give feedback and discuss any issues with the Chairman and CEO.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors meet regularly There continues to be a focus on maintaining an effective without the Executive Directors or management being present.
and complementary Board, whose capability is appropriate The Chairman also maintains regular contact with the Senior for the scale, complexity and strategic positioning of the Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Board reviews the independence of the Non-Executive The Nomination Committee is responsible for reviewing the Directors, other than the Chairman, as part of its annual Board composition of the Board and its Committees.
More detail on effectiveness review.
The Chairman is committed to ensuring the process for appointments can be found in the report of the Board comprises a majority of independent Non-Executive the Nomination Committee on pages 80 to 82.
Directors, who objectively challenge management, balanced against the need to ensure continuity on the Board.
The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms subject to election and re-election by shareholders at the The Board recognises the recommended term within the Code Annual General Meeting 'AGM' each year, if the Board, and as such, any term beyond six years for a Non-Executive on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, Director is subject to a particularly rigorous review to ensure the deems it appropriate that they remain in office.
progressive refreshing of the Board meets the evolving needs of the Company.
The letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors, as well as the service agreements of Executive Directors, Board and Committee meeting attendance are available for inspection at the Companys registered office DIRECTOR BOARD AUDIT NOMINATION REMUNERATION and at the AGM.
Sir David Reid Chairman 5 5 3 3 Andr Lacroix Chief Executive Officer 5 5 1 Edward Leigh Chief Financial Officer 3 3 2 Ross McCluskey Chief Financial Officer 2 2 Graham Allan Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 5 5 3 3 3 3 Gurnek Bains Non-Executive Director 5 5 3 3 3 3 Dame Louise Makin Non-Executive Director 5 5 4 4 3 3 Andrew Martin Non-Executive Director 5 5 4 4 3 3 Gill Rider Non-Executive Director 5 5 3 3 Jean-Michel Valette Non-Executive Director 5 5 4 4 Lena Wilson Non-Executive Director 5 5 4 4 3 3 When required the Board also met at short notice on a quorate basis.
Edward Leigh ceased to be a Director on 22 August 2018.
Ross McCluskey was appointed to the Board with effect from 22 August 2018.
70 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors' Report GENDER DIVERSITY OF THE BOARD TENURE OF THE NON-EXECUTIVES AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 30% 70% 37.5% 50% 1 to 3 years Male Female 3 to 6 years 12.5% 6 to 9 years COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD 1 7 2 Chairman Executives Non-Executives EXPERIENCE OF THE BOARD With a wide range of knowledge and experience from sectors and and strong independent insight to the deliberations of the Board industries which complement the Companys operations, the and its Committees.
The table below shows the professional and Companys Non-Executive Directors bring external perspectives sector experience as at 31 December 2018.
Professional Experience PREVIOUS LISTED CURRENT PREVIOUS OUR RISK CUSTOMER COMPANY CHIEF NED DIRECTOR SECTORS CONSULTING MANAGEMENT SERVICE CARE PEOPLE FINANCE INTERNATIONAL DIRECTOR EXECUTIVE EXPERIENCE Sir David Reid Andr Lacroix Ross McCluskey Graham Allan Gurnek Bains Dame Louise Makin Andrew Martin Gill Rider Jean-Michel Valette Lena Wilson PRODUCTS TRADE RESOURCES Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 71 S U P E R I O R T E C H N O H L T O G W Y O R G E L B A N I A T S U S G N S I R E R V I L E E D E N D E R L G I S S R I O E L N Directors' Report | Corporate Governance LEADERSHIP continued BOARD ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR To maintain the highest standards of governance, the Directors The Chairman, and the respective Committee Chairs, develop and receive a reminder of the Directors' duties under section 172 of agree a forward agenda for Board and Committee meetings for the Act and Directors received refresher training on their the year ahead to ensure that proper oversight of key areas of responsibilities under section 172 of the Act during the year.
responsibility are scheduled regularly and that adequate time is The Board considers its major stakeholder groups as shown available during the year for the Board to fully consider strategic in the diagram below when agreeing its strategic priorities matters.
Papers, including minutes of Board and Committee and enablers.
meetings held since the previous meeting, are circulated in Since the year end, the Board approved the Annual Report and advance of each meeting.
In addition to scheduled Board Accounts for 2018 and has concluded that, taken as a whole, meetings, there was frequent ad hoc contact between they are fair, balanced and understandable.
The Notice of Directors to discuss the Groups affairs and the development AGM was also approved, the payment of a final dividend to of its business.
shareholders was recommended and the Board has received and discussed the report on the external effectiveness of the Board during 2018.
BOARD AND STAKEHOLDERS COMMUNITIES CUSTOMERS INVESTORS THE BOARD SUPPLIERS PEOPLE 72 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 B G A H O N E U R E E P R E K U O T P L L A U E C T C I R S T N E C - R E M O T S U D C I R S C U I O P L G I N N I E V D I L P E R F O R M A N C E M A N A G E M E N T Directors' Report BOARD AGENDA IN 2018 Feb May Aug Oct Dec Corporate Governance Reports of the activities of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees AGM Preparation Chairmans script, Questions & Answers, proxy votes and voting reports Re-election of Directors at the 2018 AGM Directors' Conflicts of Interest 2017 Board, Director and Committee Evaluation Process 2018 External Board Effectiveness Review Process Purchase of shares by ESOT Compliance & Risk Integrated Risk, Control, Compliance and Quality Report Modern Slavery Statement Customers TQA Customer Value Proposition ATIC Innovation Strategy ATIC Update People Management Group People Strategy Global Talent Planning Executive Committee Succession Planning Performance Management CEO Report Finance Report Financial forecasts Funding Report Approval of full-year results, Annual Report and Accounts, half-year results, the AGM circular and dividends Group Portfolio update Shareholder Engagement Chairmans Shareholder Roadshow Feedback IR Report Strategy 2018 Board Strategic Agenda Group M&A Strategy Group Strategy & Strategic Plan Global Macro-trends Geopolitical Perspective Group IT Strategy Assurance Strategy Topics for 2018 Strategy Session 2019 Annual budget and Five-year plan Sustainability Group Sustainability Strategy Other Presentations by regions, country and business lines Updates on developments, acquisitions and disposals CUSTOMERS COMMUNITIES INVESTORS PEOPLE SUPPLIERS OTHER Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 73
