ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 59 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RISK COMMITTEE REPORT Our work focuses on having a robust risk management framework to identify, assess and manage the principal risks that could impact our business, within our defined risk appetite.
This includes external risks, emerging risks and the oversight of risk related regulations such as the ICAAP.
KATHRYN PURVES CHAIR OF THE RISK COMMITTEE The following pages set out the Risk The principal risks faced by the Group and DEAR SHAREHOLDER Committee Committee report for how they are managed are set out on pages The Board is accountable for the oversight financial year 2018.
The report is 30 to 33 of this Annual Report.
of risk management, as an effective risk structured in three parts: As previously mentioned, I consider that management framework and risk culture 1.
Committee governance: roles and a core component of an effective risk are critical components to support the responsibilities, composition and management framework for a financial achievement of our strategic goals.
effectiveness page 60 services business is the Internal Capital Good risk management practice requires Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP.
a sound understanding of the Groups 2. Review of the year: significant risk The ICAAP is an important tool in risks, the appetite for risk taking and areas we addressed page 62 understanding the impact of business mitigations to limit downside exposure 3.
Internal audit and compliance decisions and external events on the Groups and maximise opportunities.
monitoring page 63 regulatory capital position.
The ICAAP is I am pleased to report that during utilised on an ongoing basis, in particular to the year the Board has overseen the assess the regulatory capital implications continued enhancement of the Groups of major business decisions, and is formally risk management framework and risk reviewed by the Committee on at least an culture.
The Committee undertook a robust annual basis.
The Committees current year assessment of the Groups principal risks review included the challenge of the stress and associated risk appetite, taking into test calculations, consideration of the account changes in the business and the Pillar 1 credit risk calculations and external environment adding a specific increased disclosure of liquidity risk principal risk in relation to supplier processes.
Internal audit, with the support management.
Enhancements were made of our outsourced providers, has reviewed to management information and risk the ICAAP process which along with further reporting, and there was a continued benchmarking with peers, advice from focus on emerging and external risks.
consultants and monitoring of the FCA During the year, the Commercial and developments have helped the Board to Operational Committees were established.
ensure our ICAAP continues to be enhanced.
These, in addition to the activities of the The Committee has continued its focus Operational Risk Group and Investment on systems of control and monitoring.
Committees, further strengthen the robust In particular, a controls assurance report governance processes.
ISAE3402 Type I was produced for certain parts of the ICG business, and key controls were independently tested by Deloitte.
The focus on senior managers accountability 60 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED for operating key controls continues and GOVERNANCE OF RISK Composition this Committee, together with the Audit On behalf of the Board, the Committee The Committee consists of Non-Executive Committee, reviewed the reporting on the encourages, and seeks to safeguard, high Directors only.
The current members are effectiveness of material controls meeting standards of risk management and effective Kathryn Purves Chair of the Committee, the requirements of the UK Corporate internal controls.
Peter Gibbs, Virginia Holmes, Rusty Governance Code Nelligan, Amy Schioldager and Kim Wahl.
Roles and responsibilities see page 27.
Biographical details can be found The Committee meets regularly, four on pages 40 and 41.
A particular focus of the Committee has times during the current year, and is been the work delivered by the Group As neither Peter Gibbs nor Kim Wahl is responsible for: to implement the MiFID II regulatory seeking re-election to the Board at the requirements and establishing a Advising the Board on the Groups overall Companys Annual General Meeting on Luxembourg office with an AIFM licence risk appetite and tolerance 26 July 2018 they will stand down from approved by the Luxembourg regulator.
Reviewing the Groups risk management the Committee at this time.
framework and approving risk policies, On going themes include cyber risk and the The Committee members have a wide range standards and limits within the overall implementation of General Data Protection of business and financial experience, appetite and tolerance approved by Regulation GDPR.
The Committee is including risk management, fund the Board satisfied with the work done to date, and management and investment, regulation and will continue to monitor progress over the Annually reviewing, and recommending to compliance, M&A, tax and international coming year.
the Board, the Groups principal risks business practices.
In particular, Kathryn Purves was the CRO of Partnership Keeping under review the effectiveness of The Committee continued to work Assurance Group plc.
These skills enable the Groups risk management systems closely with the Audit Committee and the the Committee to fulfil its terms of reference Remuneration Committee throughout the Reviewing and approving the statements in a robust and independent manner.
year with the aim of effectively covering to be included in the Annual Report The Executive Directors of the Board are pertinent topics, such as succession concerning risk management not members of the Committee but attend planning, in the most suitable forum.
Reviewing any reports on the effectiveness meetings at the invitation of the Chair of the The Committee will continue to focus on of systems of risk management and or the Committee.
The CRO, Group Compliance maintaining a strong control environment Groups attitude to, and tolerance of, risk, Officer, Head of Internal Audit and the and monitoring the principal risks faced including financial and non financial risks Company Secretary attend all the meetings.
by the Group in delivering its strategic Reviewing the Companys procedures objectives, particularly emerging and Terms of reference for identifying, assessing, controlling and external risks which include the impact of mitigating the material risks faced by the The Committees terms of reference are the UKs departure from the EU and other Group: and ensuring these procedures approved and reviewed by the Board on a possible political developments.
Key areas allow proportionate and independent regular basis, most recently in May 2018. of priority will be the implementation of the investigation of such matters and The terms of reference are available on General Data Protection Regulation GDPR appropriate follow up action the Groups website or by contacting the and the Senior Managers and Certification Company Secretary.
Annually considering and approving the Regime SMCR for Asset Managers, whilst remit of the risk management function: remaining vigilent to cyber threats and and ensuring it has adequate resources continuing to develop our risk culture.
and appropriate access to information to I would be pleased to discuss the enable it to perform its function effectively Committees work with any shareholder.
and in accordance with the relevant KATHRYN PURVES professional standards CHAIR OF THE RISK COMMITTEE Receiving timely notification of material 21 MAY 2018 breaches of risk limits and the remedial action taken or proposed Advising the Remuneration Committee on the alignment of remuneration with risk appetite Informing the Remuneration Committee of the conduct of any individual who has acted without appropriately taking account of risk ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 61 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Effectiveness AREAS OF COMMITTEE FOCUS The Committee reviews its terms of reference and effectiveness GOVERNANCE PRINCIPAL AND EMERGING RISKS annually.
The terms of reference are Committee governance Identification and management summarised above.
of principal risks Oversight of risk and compliance policies Risk appetite and tolerances During the year the Committee members and attendees completed a detailed Best practice and governance Identification and management code developments of principal risks questionnaire, provided by Independent Audit to evaluate the Committees effectiveness.
Overall, the results were positive and confirmed that the implementation of a robust risk management framework was progressing well and that the Committee was operating effectively by providing a constructive balance of challenge, support and insights.
As a result of this evaluation, some specific areas for enhancement were agreed, including the continued focus on embedding the risk culture into core processes and decision making.
Summary of meetings in the year The Committee held four meetings during the year.
In each of its meetings, it received a report from the CRO and the Group Compliance Officer providing an assessment on each principal risk versus appetite, key RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT risk events, key emerging risks, actions PROCEDURES FRAMEWORK AND CONTROLS taken or being taken to manage the risks, Review of the updated reports on global compliance including the Effectiveness of risk risk management management systems framework monitoring programme and implementation Review of risk events Industry developments of relevant regulatory developments.
and remedial actions Risk culture training Other work is undertaken periodically including deep dives into particular risk areas such as cyber risk and global economic and political risks.
Over the course of REGULATORY RISKS the year the Committee considered and Impact and implementation discussed the following significant matters: of regulatory change IC A A P Resourcing 62 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED REVIEW OF THE YEAR THE ISSUE AND ITS SIGNIFICANCE WORK UNDERTAKEN COMMENTS AND CONCLUSION The Group is exposed to risk as The Committee received regular updates setting out The regular updates provide sufficient the regulatory requirements for its the enacted and expected changes to regulations, information to enable the Committee to be activities change including the FCA Business Plan, GDPR and the SMCR satisfied that the Group has appropriate for Asset Managers.
systems and controls to identify and implement regulatory change.
Furthermore, the Committee In particular, the Committee considered in detail the was comfortable with the changes being requirements of MiFID II and the impact and changes made to satisfy the requirements of the MiFID implemented on the Groups business processes.
Committee noted that the most significant impact was on the business processes related to its Capital Markets Principal risk see pages 30 to 33 strategies and product governance.
Risk appetite and key risk indicators The Committee considered its risk appetite for the The Committee is satisfied that the framework principal risks and how the appetite for risk varied across established is operating effectively to identify the classes of principal risk.
areas where risk is increasing or decreasing and to highlight where particular risks may be Key risk indicators were reviewed and the thresholds set approaching, or outside, risk appetite.
were updated as part of the discussion of risk appetite to ensure that the risk framework functioned holistically.
Principal risk see pages 30 to 33 ICAAP the Internal Capital The Committee undertook a detailed review of the The Committee is satisfied that the Group has, Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP, with the assistance of our external advisers, and will have, adequate regulatory capital based reviewing the current and expected future impact of the on its current risk profile.
principal risks facing the Group on the Groups regulatory The ICAAP is an important tool and will continue capital position.
to be used in decision making processes.
As part of this review the Committee received feedback The updated Pillar 3 disclosures are available on from Internal Audit and Deloitte.
In addition the the Companys website at www.
com Committee challenged the assumptions made relating to stress testing.
Thereafter, the ICAAP was updated and the assumptions relating to the stress testing were made more severe and greater detail was included on how liquidity risk is managed.
Following the enhancements made the Committee approved the revised ICAAP.
The Pillar 3 disclosures were reviewed and approved.
Other principal risks see pages 30 to The Committee has overseen and challenged the The Committee considers that the principal 33 the Group uses a principal risk assessment and management of principal risks faced by risks faced by the Group and the risk appetite register as a key part of the Group's the Group by reference to the risk scorecard and risk and key risk indicators for each principal risk are risk management framework.
The appetite which has been presented to the Committee adequately captured by the processes in place.
register summarises the principal regularly during the year.
The Committee is satisfied that the risk register risks faced by the Group and the Supplier Management was added as a principal risk faced is an effective mechanism for identifying and high level risk appetite and specific by the Group during the year as this is becoming a key monitoring the business risks to which the Group risk tolerances.
Key risk indicators feature of our business model.
is exposed: and to ensure that management are reviewed periodically for each actions are taken where appropriate.
principal risk to assess the extent to which the risk appetite and tolerances are being approached and where appropriate the associated management actions being taken.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 63 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REVIEW OF THE YEAR THE ISSUE AND ITS SIGNIFICANCE WORK UNDERTAKEN COMMENTS AND CONCLUSION Major external change Specific risk reviews The Committee was satisfied with the updates provided, on major external change and the The Committee was regularly updated on the global resultant actions being taken to manage risks economic and political risks.
As a result of Brexit and within appetite.
its potential impact on the Groups ability to access European clients, the Committee provided oversight and Principal risk see pages 30 to 33 monitored the establishment of a regulated Luxembourg entity.
In relation to FX risks, the Committee reviewed and approved the enhanced Treasury policy.
The Committee also received updates on SMCR and a detailed working session on culture.
The Committee will continue to monitor the progress made in embedding these activites into core processes and decision making.
Specific deep dive risk review in areas such as cyber security were also a key feature during the year.
Regulatory and legislative compliance risk The Committee was satisfied that appropriate action was being taken to manage the regulatory The Committee periodically reviewed the detailed plans for risk of the Group.
all key regulatory and legislative changes during the year.
The Committee supported the proposal to Specifically, the Committee monitored the progress made in enhance compliance monitoring and increase the implementing changes resulting from MiFIDII and GDPR.
focus and resourcing in this area.
Specifically, Working with EY a risk assessment was carried out to assess as the Group's Capital Markets business the processes in relation to a new legislation on corporate grows, the Committee will oversee the related tax evasion.
Actions have since been implemented to ensure enhancements in systems and controls.
reasonable procedures are in place to comply.
Principal risk see pages 30 to 33 Hong Kong introduced the Manager in Charge regime.
The Committee received an update on the implementation of this.
Compliance policy enhancements were reviewed by the Committee: this included Financial Crime and Whistleblowing.
People risk The Committee was satisfied that managements systems to identify, monitor and manage people The Committee considered the implications of staff risk were appropriate.
turnover on the operational risk of the Group and, in particular, where it relates to Fund key person clauses.
Principal risk see pages 30 to 33 The Committee was briefed on the actions being taken to mitigate the risks, specifically in relation to succession planning for all key roles.
Other matters considered Internal audit and During the year the Committee ensured that compliance monitoring appropriate monitoring was undertaken in In addition to the significant matters accordance with the approved programme addressed above, the Committee maintained The Committee supported the Audit for the year.
No significant matters of a rolling agenda of items for its review Committee in its oversight of the internal concern were identified.
The Committee including funds risk management and audit programme see page 58, which has endorsed managements desire to operational controls, the adequacy of is risk based.
It is designed to permit increase the scope and depth of compliance resourcing in the compliance and risk changes to the programme in the light monitoring and additional resource has functions, updates on key policies and of changed circumstances.
review of the Money Laundering Officers In conjunction with the Audit Committee, annual report.
In addition, the Committee were provided the Committee reviews and approves the updates on the development of the programme of compliance monitoring to ISAE3402 type 1 controls assurance be undertaken during the following fiscal report.
This was completed during the year and at each of its subsequent meetings year for relevant parts of the business, with reviews the status and output of compliance over 130 key controls independently tested monitoring actually undertaken relative to by Deloitte.
