ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 49 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Audit Committee Report We oversee the Groups financial reporting and related elements of its accounting, internal controls and regulatory compliance, in addition to the internal and external auditing processes.
Our work focuses on the evaluation of significant estimates and judgements underlying the financial statements and the overall fairness and clarity of reported financial information.
RUSTY NELLIGAN CHAIR OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The following pages set out the Audit DEAR SHAREHOLDER where possible, reconciled to relevant IFRS Committee Committee report for GAAP measures see page 168.
In addition, Key responsibilities of the Committee financial year 2018.
The report is the Committee, alongside management, has are to ensure the presentation of fair, structured in five parts: evaluated and refined the presentation and balanced and understandable financial disclosures in the Annual Report, to improve 1.
Committee governance: roles and information by the Group and, that the the understandability of the Groups responsibilities, composition and related internal controls and audit are performance and financial position.
effectiveness page 50 effective throughout the period.
This also means ensuring that underlying critical The balance sheet portfolio remains a 2. Review of the year: significant estimates and judgements by management significant component of the Groups financial reporting and auditing are suitably scrutinised and challenged financial statements and, therefore, as in issues we addressed page 52 where appropriate.
prior years, the valuation of the investment 3.
Internal controls: assessment of the in funds and portfolio companies remains The financial statements of the Group adequacy of the control framework an area of significant judgement and are prepared in accordance with IFRS page 55 corresponding oversight by the Committee.
and include the consolidation of 14 credit In addition to other review work during the 4.
External auditor: appointment, funds which are determined, in accordance year, we supported the emphasis of this rotation, independence and with IFRS, to be controlled by the Group, area by the external auditor and obtained effectiveness page 55 although the Groups loss exposure to these specific, satisfactory assurance from internal funds is limited to the capital invested by 5.
Internal audit: review of the audit audit on the quality and effectiveness of the Group in each fund.
The Committee plan, performance and effectiveness the processes underpinning net investment therefore believes that the presentation of page 55 returns.
For certain of the more significant alternative performance measures, including and complex valuations, we reviewed eliminating the impact of the consolidation and debated critical assumptions and of credit funds, enhances shareholders judgements as outlined in specific papers understanding of the Groups performance.
The Committee has continued to evaluate The Committee routinely evaluates the Groups use of alternative performance the quality of the Groups financial measures, in part due to the guidance management and internal controls over issued by the European Securities and financial reporting: the scope, direction Markets Authority and the increased and nature of assurance provided by attention on this area by the Financial internal audit including external co-source Reporting Council.
Our focus has been to partners for specific assignments : and ensure that where alternative performance the independence and effectiveness of measures are used, they do not detract our external auditors.
We have advocated from IFRS GAAP measures, and they are continuous reflection, improvement appropriately presented, defined and, and investment in these areas in light of 50 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT AUDIT COMMITtEE REPORT CONTINUED increasing levels of regulation and risks, COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE Reviewing and assessing the annual as well as the expanding size and complexity internal audit plan and resources, receiving On behalf of the Board, the Committee of our business.
I consider oversight of these internal audit reports, and monitoring encourages and seeks to safeguard high processes to be a critical responsibility managements responsiveness to internal standards of integrity and conduct in of the Committee.
audit findings and recommendations financial reporting and internal control.
In carrying out its duties, the Committee The Audit Committee has continued to Role and responsibilities is authorised by the Board to obtain any work closely with the Risk Committee and The Committee meets regularly, at least information it needs from any Director the Remuneration Committee with the aim four times a year.
The terms of reference or employee of the Group.
It is also of effectively covering pertinent topics in have recently been reviewed and updated.
authorised to seek, at the expense of the the most suitable forum.
The Audit and Risk Under these terms, the Committee is Group, appropriate external professional Committees have worked closely together responsible for: advice whenever it considers it necessary.
to enable the Group to prepare its financial During the year the Committee received accounts on a going concern basis and to Selecting and recommending the independent advice on the appropriateness issue its viability statement see page 29, appointment and reappointment of the existing Annual Report disclosures taking into account the Groups ICAAP.
including conducting any tender for third party carried interest.
This The Audit Committee supported the Risk of the external auditor and negotiating advice concluded that the Group met Committees review of the effectiveness of and agreeing their fees and scope of audit the requirements for disclosure for a UK material controls see page 27, including Reviewing the performance of the external listed company accounting in accordance material controls over financial reporting.
auditor in respect of scope of work, with IFRS.
Further details can be found in the Risk quality of opinion and quality of service: Committee report on pages 59 to 63.
Composition and ensuring the successful rotation of the lead audit partner For the year ahead, the Committee expects The Committee consists of independent to focus significant time on the planned Non-Executive Directors only.
The current Reviewing the independence and tender of the external audit see page 55 members are Rusty Nelligan Chair of the remuneration of the external auditor which, among other things, will involve Committee, Peter Gibbs, Kathryn Purves, and the relationship between audit careful consideration of both audit and Amy Schioldager, Andrew Sykes and Kim and non audit work performed non audit services to comply with auditor Wahl.
Biographical details can be found on by the external auditor independence requirements.
Reviewing the annual and interim accounts this action well in advance of the required before they are presented to the Board, in As neither Peter Gibbs nor Kim Wahl is rotation date to support a smooth transition particular addressing any significant issues seeking re-election to the Board at the for this important activity.
arising from the audit: accounting policies Companys Annual General Meeting on and clarity of disclosures: compliance with Lastly, in terms of the Committees own 26 July 2018 they stand down from the applicable accounting and legal standards: updated assessment of effectiveness, we Committee at this time.
and information used in making significant conducted a structured internal survey, The Committee members have a wide judgements, including provisioning, going as a follow-on to the external review range of business and financial experience, concern and viability conducted in the prior year.
The results including risk management, fund were broadly positive.
Further details Monitoring the integrity of the financial management and investment, regulation can be found on page 54 of this report.
statements of the Group, including and compliance, M&A, tax and international its annual and half yearly reports, I believe the comprehensive reporting of business practices.
These skills ensure trading updates and any other formal our Audit Committees work is a valuable the Committee has the relevant sector announcements relating to its financial component of the Annual Report and should competence to enable it to fulfil its terms performance and advising the Board reassure shareholders of the importance of reference in a robust and independent whether it considers the Annual Report placed on formal reporting and challenge of manner.
Rusty Nelligan, a US Certified to be fair, balanced and understandable executive management by the Non Executive Public Accountant, was previously a partner Approving the appointment or termination Directors.
I would therefore be pleased at PwC working for over 20 years as lead of the Head of Internal Audit: approving to discuss the Committees work with client partner for  the internal audit charter: and monitoring any shareholder.
global companies in financial services and the effectiveness of the internal audit pharmaceutical life sciences.
The Board RUSTY NELLIGAN function in the context of the Groups considers that he has competence in CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE overall risk management framework 21 MAY 2018 accounting and auditing as well as recent and relevant financial experience.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 51 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Executive Directors and Chairman AREAS OF COMMITTEE FOCUS of the Board are not members of the Committee but regularly attend meetings at FAIRNESS AND CLARITY GOVERNANCE the invitation of the Chair of the Committee, OF REPORTED FINANCIAL Committee governance together with Deloitte LLP, the Companys INFORMATION Best practice developments external auditor, the Head of Internal Content of annual and other People and business changes Audit, the Head of Finance and the Chief periodic financial reporting Risk Officer.
Annual Report: fair, balanced and understandable The Committee meets separately with the external auditors and Head of Internal Audit without management present at least twice a year to ensure that they are receiving full cooperation from management, obtaining all the information they require and are able to raise matters directly with the Audit Committee if they consider it is desirable to do so.
In addition, the Chair of the Committee meets with the external auditors, internal audit, Executive Directors, and other members of financial and operational management separately, and as ACCOUNTING AND INTERNAL CONTROLS appropriate, throughout the year.
FINANCIAL REPORTING AND INTERNAL AUDIT Evaluation of significant Oversight of internal Terms of reference estimates and judgements audit function The Committees terms of reference are recognition, measurement Evaluation of and disclosure approved and reviewed by the Board on a financial operations EXTERNAL AUDIT regular basis, most recently in May 2018.
Assessment of going Assessment of effectiveness concern and the viability Appointment and The terms of reference are available on of internal controls over statement remuneration of auditors financial reporting the Groups website or by contacting the Oversight of Company Secretary.
auditor independence Effectiveness Evaluation of audit scope, quality and effectiveness The Committee reviews its terms of reference and effectiveness annually.
The terms of reference are summarised above.
to be performing well, is rigorous and Summary of meetings in the year effective in discharging its responsibilities The annual evaluation of the Committees The Committee held four meetings and providing the Board with assurance.
effectiveness was undertaken through during the year in line with the quarterly In terms of areas for possible improvement, an online questionnaire managed by reporting dates.
The Committee members achieving the right balance of information Independent Audit.
The findings relating attending each of the meetings can be in the papers to facilitate debate of to the Committee were discussed with found on page 46.
In addition, there was critical assumptions and judgements was the Committee Chair and shared with the full one sub-Committee meeting to review key something to focus on as well as ensuring Board.
Overall, the Committee is considered aspects of the report and accounts in April that our overall assurance structure 2018.
The bulk of the Committees time continued to reflect changes to the Groups has been spent on financial reporting and principal risks.
presentation and the external and internal audit activities.
52 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT AUDIT COMMITtEE REPORT CONTINUED REVIEW OF THE YEAR The agenda of the Committee comprises recurring, seasonal and other business.
Over the course of the year, the Committee considered and discussed the following significant matters: REVIEW OF THE YEAR THE ISSUE AND ITS SIGNIFICANCE WORK UNDERTAKEN COMMENTS AND CONCLUSION Alternative performance measures The Group uses a number of alternative performance We were satisfied that alternative performance non IFRS GAAP aid understanding measures, including but not limited to: measures, which are widely used in the asset of the financial statements but management industry, can provide insight into Weighted average fee rate must not detract from IFRS GAAP performance from the perspective of measures see KPIs on pages 16 Operating margin our shareholders and other stakeholders.
to 19 and the Finance and operating We reviewed the alternative performance Investment portfolio review on pages 20 to 26 measures and were satisfied that they did Cash generated from operating activities not detract from IFRS GAAP measures and were: sufficiently defined and qualified, Asset impairments where necessary: consistently applied, and, Cash and debt position where possible, reconciled to relevant IFRS GAAP measures.
Gearing A full list can be found in the glossary on page 167.
We discussed the use of alternative performance measures with executive management and the external auditor and reviewed their continued appropriateness and consistency with prior years.
We received comfort from internal audit that the alternative performance measures had been prepared on a consistent basis with prior years and were subject to adequate review and validation controls.
The content of the annual, We reviewed all sections of the Annual Report We concluded that the Group controlled 14 credit semi-annual and quarterly financial having particular regard for the Committees specific funds and exercised significant influence over 5 reporting needs to be appropriate, responsibilities for the financial statements.
entities during the financial year.
Accordingly the complying with relevant laws and We reviewed and challenged the information analysed controlled entities have been consolidated into regulation see page 100 and the by management to assess which third party funds, carried the Groups financial statements, and the entities Auditors Report on pages 102 interest partnerships, and portfolio companies are over which the Group exercises significant to 109 either controlled by the Group or over which the Group influence have been equity accounted.
We reviewed all accounting has had the impact of grossing up the balance policies for continued appropriateness and consistency.
sheet, with total assets and total liabilities both increasing by 3.8bn 2017: 3.6bn.
We reviewed and challenged managements assessment of potential tax risks in light of the completion of the There were no significant changes to accounting Groups transfer pricing review and a further year without policies see pages 116 to 118 and we concluded any open tax enquiries.
While there are inherent risks for the accounting policies remained appropriate.
this area, we agreed with managements conclusion that Based on our enquiries of management and there was no longer sufficient basis to maintain provisions external auditors, we concluded policies for this uncertainty, in accordance with the relevant are being properly applied in areas such as accounting standards.
assessing control and significant influence, revenue recognition, valuation of financial assets, We also reviewed the effectiveness of the financial impairments and taxation provisions.
control environment, including the controls over financial reporting and the preparation of financial information We concluded that the areas of judgement included in the Annual Report.
Our assessment of these see pages 116 and 118 are properly explained.
controls was taken into account by the Board when We gained comfort from management and the undertaking its review of the effectiveness of material external auditors that the Group complied with controls see page 27. its reporting requirements.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 53 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REVIEW OF THE YEAR THE ISSUE AND ITS SIGNIFICANCE WORK UNDERTAKEN COMMENTS AND CONCLUSION Taken as a whole, the Annual Report We held preparatory discussions with management to We received confirmation that individuals needs to be fair, balanced and determine the format of the Annual Report and reviewed responsibilities had been fulfilled and confirmed understandable so that it is relevant the assigned responsibilities for its content and overall that the overall report was consistent with the to readers see page 100 cohesion and clarity.
Management compared our Annual Directors knowledge and understanding of the Report with that of other alternative asset managers Group.
This supported the Committees, and the and best practice more widely.
In light of that work we Boards, assessment that the Annual Report taken commented on design and detailed content, ensuring as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable.
that feedback on the prior year Annual Report had been We were satisfied that the information presented addressed and examples of best practice had been in the Strategic Report was consistent with carefully considered in the context of the Group.
A late the performance of the business reported in draft of the Report and Accounts was reviewed by both the financial statements.
In particular, we were the Audit Committee and the Board.
satisfied that the estimates and quantified We used the Executive Directors and the Committees risk disclosures in the financial statements collective knowledge to determine the overall fairness, are consistent with those identified in the balance and understandability prior to final approval Strategic Report.
The Committee concluded by the Board.
In this context, we especially considered that appropriate judgements had been applied judgemental matters such as the key risks see pages in determining the estimates and that sufficient 28 to 31, estimates and the period covered by the disclosure had been included to allow readers viability statement.
to understand the uncertainties surrounding outcomes.
The Committee welcomed the enhancements made to the presentation of the financial statements and related disclosures in the current year.
We were satisfied that the viability statement should consider a three year time horizon reflecting both our internal planning cycle and the timescale over which changes to major regulations and the external landscape affecting our business typically take place.
We will continue to monitor feedback and enhance the presentations and disclosures in the Annual Report.
Investments represent 83% of our We reviewed a detailed report on the valuation process The Committee concurred with the valuations total assets.
97% are carried at fair management have undertaken and the judgements made and determined that no adjustments value and 3% are carried at amortised in determining the value of the portfolio.
In addition, the were necessary.
As the assets are mainly Committee reviewed in detail the valuation of a technology unquoted and illiquid, considerable asset where the assessment of fair value was particularly professional judgement is required sensitive to valuation inputs.
We enquired into the realised in determining their valuations gains in the income statement as an indicator of the and associated provisions and reliability of the valuation process.
In addition to executive impairments see notes 4 management procedures and the work of the external and 9 to the financial statements auditors, internal audit reviews the valuation process and and the Auditors Report on pages provides the appropriate assurance to the Committee 102 to 109 of managements compliance with the Groups valuation policies, process and procedures.
Revenue recognition involves We reviewed the revenue recognition of management We concluded that revenue has been properly certain estimates and judgements, fees, performance fees and investment income to confirm recognised in the financial statements.
particularly in respect to the timing that the treatments were consistent with the Groups of recognising performance fees, accounting policies.
which are subject to performance conditions.
see note 1 to the financial statements and the Auditors report on pages 102 to 109 54 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT AUDIT COMMITtEE REPORT CONTINUED REVIEW OF THE YEAR THE ISSUE AND ITS SIGNIFICANCE WORK UNDERTAKEN COMMENTS AND CONCLUSION The auditor needs to be independent We reviewed the standing policy on services that can We concluded that our conflicts of interest of management to report on the be provided by Deloitte see External auditor on page policy remains appropriate and in line with consolidated and parent financial 55 and approved the provision of non audit services current guidance.
We determined that the Group statements without conflicts of as required in accordance with this policy.
We received audit fee of 1.0m 2017: 0.9m appropriately interest see the Auditors report confirmations from management and Deloitte of reflected the scope and complexity of the work on pages 102 to 109 adherence to this policy and reviewed and approved undertaken by Deloitte.
the audit fees in the context of the size and complexity The Committee determined that any non audit of the Groups audit.
The Committee also received services performed by Deloitte during the period reports from Deloitte at each meeting on the fees incurred were in compliance with the Groups non audit for audit and non audit services relating to the Group and services policy and applicable regulation, and associated entities.
were not deemed to impair their independence.
A detailed analysis of fees paid by ICG plc and consolidated subsidiaries to Deloitte LLP is shown in note 10 on page 140.
The audit process needs to be We discussed the areas of risks that may result in a material We were satisfied that the audit is effective effective so that the auditors misstatement of the financial statements with Deloitte.
and that the approach was directed to provide opinion is credible and reliable We determined that we had a shared understanding of a reliable audit opinion with a reasonable see the Auditors report on pages these risks.
expectation of detecting material errors, 102 to 109 irregularities and fraud.
Whilst planning the audit, Deloitte set out for the Audit Committee the key tests that they would perform on the higher-risk areas, and the Committee was satisfied with the proposed scope.
The Committee requested detailed feedback on findings and discussed those findings prior to the approval of the Annual Report.
Further details on the work the Committee undertook to assess the effectiveness of the audit, including a review of the Audit Quality Review of Deloitte and an interview with Deloitte about their approach to the audit of the financial statements can be found on page 56.
Oversight of the internal During the year the Committee considered and approved The Committee is satisfied that the Internal audit function the updated Internal Audit Strategy including the Audit Strategy and Plan will provide appropriate risk-based plan for FY18 and FY19 and other internal assurance on the controls in place to manage the audit activities.
principal risks to the Group.
The Committee reviewed the scopes of the internal audit The Committee is satisfied that reports are issued reviews performed: the agreed reports produced, and in a timely manner following reasonable challenge monitored managements progress in implementing the of recommendations: and that deadlines for actions agreed.
changes are being set appropriately.
The Committees review of the work undertaken by internal audit focused on significant risk issues identified, ensuring that reports were agreed and issued in a timely manner and that the timetable for implementation of agreed recommendations was both realistic and adhered to.
Further details of the work of internal audit can be found on page 58.
In addition to the significant matters addressed above, the Committee maintained a rolling agenda of items for its review including the capital strategy, financial and management reporting, risk and treasury management capabilities, relevant people changes, the going concern concept of accounting see page 95, the viability statement see page 29, the Auditors report see pages 102 to 109, accounting developments and the auditors management letter.
No issues of significance arose.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 55 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERNAL CONTROLS The Committee complies with the UK The selection of new auditors will be Corporate Governance Code, the Financial completed by 31 March 2019 so that Risk management and internal control Reporting Council FRC Guidance on Audit the successful firm can ensure they matters are the responsibility of the Committees and the EU Regulation on Audit are independent ahead of their formal Groups Risk Committee.
In addition, the Committee complies appointment.
This will be achieved by the is set out on pages 59 to 63. with all aspects of the Competition and new auditors ceasing any non audit services The Committee reviewed the operation Markets Authority Statutory Audit Services that are outside the Groups policy from no of the finance function to ensure it was Order.
Accordingly, we are required to later than that date.
Furthermore, Deloitte sufficiently resourced and had the change our audit firm for the 2022 LLP will not be invited to participate in the appropriate processes and controls over year-end audit.
tender process due to their length of tenure financial reporting to fulfil its first line as the Groups auditors.
Absent any major service or quality issues, of defence duties.
The Committee was the desirability of a change of auditor is a A detailed short-listing process is satisfied that the function was able to delicate balance between a fresh pair of underway which will consider each firms meet its relevant responsibilities and that eyes and accumulated knowledge applied independence and ability to effectively the control environment continued to be to produce a robust audit.
The Committee manage the external audit of a Group of enhanced to meet regulatory and business is satisfied that David Barnes has the ICGs scale, complexity and geography.
The Committee also noted experience, independence and industry Three mid-tier and the three remaining that ad hoc projects, such as updating the knowledge to be an effective lead audit large-tier firms were included in this Groups transfer pricing documentation, partner and propose to tender the audit so process, although the short list consisted often benefitted from specialised that the successful firm will succeed Deloitte of only the large-tier firms as none of the external resource.
when David Barnes term as lead audit mid-tier firms were deemed to have the The Group has an established control partner comes to an end with the completion necessary skills and or experience to make framework as described on page 27. of the 2020 year-end audit.
The framework is designed to manage Audit tender The Tender Committee will conduct but not eliminate risks, and is designed meetings with the proposed lead audit The Committee is responsible for the tender to provide reasonable but not absolute partners from the short-listed firms prior process and will take all key decisions assurance against material losses or to the formal tender process being initiated concerning timing, approach, evaluation misstatements.
The Group is expanding in September 2018. criteria and recommendations.
A Tender and this adds to complexity and risk.
Committee has been appointed by the The Boards responsibilities for the Committee to manage the tender process, management of risk are addressed further chaired by the Chair of the Audit Committee, in the report of the Risk Committee.
Rusty Nelligan and also including Kathryn Purves, Chair of the Risk Committee and EXTERNAL AUDITOR Chief Financial and Operating Officer, Audit appointment Philip Keller.
Following the review of the 2017 year-end audit, the Audit Committee recommended that Deloitte LLP should be proposed to shareholders as the Companys auditors.
The shareholders voted in favour of this reappointment.
Deloitte has been the Companys external auditor since its commencement of trading.
In accordance with professional and regulatory standards, the lead audit partner has changed regularly since that time to safeguard the independence and objectivity of the audit process.
The most recent audit partner rotation occurred following the conclusion of the 2015 year-end audit.
56 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT AUDIT COMMITtEE REPORT CONTINUED Audit quality and effectiveness In addition to the annual evaluation, In accordance with relevant independence the Committee undertakes an ongoing standards, the external auditors do not place The Audit Committee places great assessment of external audit quality and direct reliance on the work of internal audit.
importance on the quality and effectiveness effectiveness in the following ways: of the external audit.
In assessing quality Audit materiality and effectiveness, the Committee The Committee discusses and agrees We have discussed the accuracy of financial looks to the audit teams objectivity, the scope of the audit prior to its reporting with Deloitte both as regards professional scepticism, continuing commencement.
The full scope audit accounting errors that will be brought to professional education and its relationship coverage amounted to 96% 2017: 96% the Committees attention and as regards with management.
of the Groups profit before tax and amounts that would need to be adjusted 95% 2017: 99% of the Groups net so that the financial statements give a true The Committees assessment includes an assets.
Specific review procedures and fair view.
Errors can arise for many annual evaluation of the independence and were performed on another 17 reasons ranging from deliberate errors objectivity of the external auditor and the non significant entities fraud etc.
to estimates that were made effectiveness of the audit process, taking The Committee reviewed, and was at a point in time that did not consider all into consideration relevant professional and satisfied with, the content of Deloittes available information.
This assessment Audit Transparency Report for the is based in part on the results of observation, Overall audit materiality was set at year ended 31 May 2017 which sets out inquiry and questionnaires completed by 12.2m 2017: 11.9m.
This equates to Deloittes commitment to audit quality the Committee members, the Executive approximately 1% of net assets.
A lower and governance Directors and other relevant senior materiality of 4.8m 2017: 3.7m has management.
The results of the evaluation The Audit Quality Review team AQRt been applied for fund management were last reported to the Audit Committee of the Financial Reporting Council revenues.
This is within the range that in September 2017. performs an annual audit of Deloittes audit opinions are conventionally thought audits.
Following discussion with Deloitte, to be reliable.
The auditors use the overall Having completed the review, and discussed insofar as the issues might be applicable, materiality combined with their knowledge its findings with the auditors, the Committee the Committee was satisfied that Deloitte of the Group, controls environment and remains content with Deloittes work, had proper and adequate procedures assessment of significant risks, to determine whilst identifying some areas for service in place for our audit which group entities require full scope improvement including strengthening their The Committee enters into a formal audits or specific audit procedures to be coordination with their tax and overseas engagement with the auditor, negotiates performed in order to confirm that the financial statement audit teams.
The Audit and agrees its audit fee financial statements are free of material Committee discussed the output with misstatement.
Further details can be found Deloitte who acknowledged that changes The Committee Chair has at least biin the Auditors Report on page 102. could be made to improve their service monthly meetings with the lead audit delivery, and have responded accordingly.
partner to discuss Group developments To manage the risk that aggregate The Committee receives at every uncorrected errors become material, Audit Committee meeting an update we agreed that Deloitte would draw to of Deloittes work, compliance with the Committees attention all identified independence and its findings uncorrected misstatements greater than 245,000 2017: 215,000 and for There was a detailed interview by the fund management revenues 95,000 Audit Committee Chair, of the audit 2017: 72,000. partner and director focusing on the work undertaken to support their opinion on the financial statements and the consistency of the remainder of the report and accounts with their work The Committee reviewed and discussed the audit findings, including audit differences prior to the approval of the financial statements ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 57 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The aggregated net difference between Book-keeping and other services Deloitte is a leading market participant in the reported pre-tax profit and the related to accounting records and the non audit sector, having a reputation auditors judgement of pre-tax profit was financial statements for quality, and having a local presence 0.8m, which was significantly less than in the countries in which the services Internal audit services audit materiality.
The gross differences were performed.
Audit objectivity and Financial information system design were attributable to various individual independence was safeguarded by and implementation components of the income statement.
all advice being provided by partners Actuarial services No audit difference was qualitatively or and staff that have no involvement in quantitatively material to any line item in Management functions the audit of the financial statements.
either the income statement or the balance Advice was not dependent on a particular Valuation services sheet.
Accordingly, the Committee did not accounting treatment and the outcome or Legal services require any adjustment to be made to the consequences of the advice did not have Preparation of tax filings and other financial statements as a result of the audit a material effect on the Groups financial services related to tax filings differences reported by the auditor.
No services were provided to Provision of tax advice ICG Group entities pursuant to contingent Non audit services fee arrangements.
In addition, the level of permissible non audit The Board has an established policy services must not exceed 70% of the average A detailed analysis of fees paid by ICG plc setting out what non audit services can of the statutory audit fees for the previous and consolidated subsidiaries to Deloitte be purchased from the firm appointed as three years.
The cap applies prospectively LLP is shown in note 10 on page 140. external auditors.
The Committee regularly from 1 April 2017 and will therefore first monitors non audit services being provided apply for our financial year beginning to the Group by Deloitte to ensure there 1 April 2020. is no impairment to their independence or objectivity.
Procedures are in place to During the year the Group paid 0.4m determine that all significant non audit 2017: 0.3m to Deloitte LLP for the work performed by the auditor in excess provision of corporate non audit services of 50,000 is approved in advance by which is within the 70% audit fees limit that the Committee.
Engagements are only will apply over a rolling three year period.
approved if they do not, and will not, impair, Of this, 0.1m is in respect of services in their or appear to impair, the auditors judgement capacity as auditor and 0.3m of fees were or independence.
incurred for advisory services not related to the audit of the financial statements.
The procedures set out the categories of All non audit services were approved by the non audit services which the external auditor Committee.
Deloitte also provides services is and is not allowed to provide to the Group, to funds and portfolio companies that are including those which are pre-approved managed by the Group but over which it by the Committee and those which require does not exercise control.
specific approval before they are contracted for, subject to fide minimis levels.
A copy of the policy can be found on the Groups website www.
The policy prohibits the external auditor from being contracted to perform the following work: 58 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT AUDIT COMMITtEE REPORT CONTINUED Auditor reappointment During the year 13 risk based reviews were Internal audit effectiveness completed, responded to by management Deloitte has reviewed its own and its In the prior year, Independent Audit and reviewed by the Audit Committee.
relevant affiliates independence in line with undertook a review of the effectiveness The Committee pays particular attention its internal criteria and ethical standards.
of the internal audit function.
The review to remedial actions and timescales and They have confirmed to the Committee concluded that the function had, in its deadlines that are not achieved.
that following the review, they are satisfied short life, succeeded in establishing itself that they have acted in accordance with as a necessary and valuable element of Throughout the year, the Committee relevant regulatory and professional the Groups risk and control framework.
monitored the development of internal audit requirements.
Deloitte has also confirmed to Independent Audit provided some reports, commenting specifically on scopes us that the audit complies with their internal suggestions for the Committee to consider of reviews.
Reports have been tailored independent review procedures.
The suggestions to the Groups risks, focusing on areas of included regular visits to all significant concern and future indicators of risk whilst The Committee, having considered locations, enhancing the reports to include at the same time highlighting opportunities compliance with our policies on more context about the control environment to streamline processes.
independence, the findings of our quality and consideration of succession planning.
review and service enquiries is satisfied The Committee has monitored the working that Deloitte has demonstrated the During the current year the Committee relationship between the Head of Internal skills and service standards to justify a monitored the successful implementation Audit and the CRO, ensuring that the roles recommendation to shareholders for their of all the agreed improvements identified are coordinated and optimised to reduce reappointment as auditors for the year during the review of the effectiveness the potential for significant gaps in oversight ending 31 March 2019.
Accordingly, a motion of the internal audit function.
and unnecessary duplication of efforts.
to that effect will be put to the 2018 Annual The Committee is satisfied that internal General Meeting of shareholders.
audit is independent of the first and second lines of defence.
During the year an internal Internal audit audit review of the risk function and the The Group has a Head of Internal Audit who Groups ICAAP was undertaken with the draws on the services of our outsourced assistance of our outsourced internal audit internal audit providers, RSM and KPMG provider.
This review was closely monitored to supplement her capacity.
The Head by the Audit Committee to ensure that of Internal Audit reports to the Audit the independence of internal audit was Committee Chair.
The Committee approves the annual internal audit plan and the internal audit charter.
The scope of internal audit is not restricted, and the plan is developed from a consideration of the principal risks to the Group and coverage of the Group as a whole.
Its development reflects the priorities of management, the CRO, our regulators and the Committee.
Internal audit retains sufficient flexibility to embrace intra-year changes, such as the establishment of new investment strategies or changes to the principal risks of the Group.
