34 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 BUSINESS MARKETPLACE GROUP GROUP RESOURCES AND MODEL AND STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RISKS RELATIONSHIPS OUR RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS DELIVERING ON OUR STRATEGY Developing our talent We consider that training and development are essential to attract and retain people of the highest calibre OUR RESPONSIBILITY and invest significantly in this area.
Our performance management system, actively encouraging our managers TO OUR PEOPLE to deliver effective career coaching and providing To successfully deliver our strategic tailored training opportunities, enable our people to develop and enhance core skills, increase technical priorities we need to attract, engage, competency and develop future leaders.
motivate and retain the best talent.
Effective two way communication Effective two way communication with our people is essential to build and maintain engagement.
We have a number of formal and informal channels to achieve this, including our regular, confidential, employee engagement surveys, quarterly whole company business briefings and regular team meetings.
Our employee engagement surveys inform us where we are doing well and where there is room for further development.
Our most recent survey was conducted during the year, once again demonstrating that we perform well against other high performing companies.
Flexible and inclusive culture We aim for employees to have a sense of wellbeing, and promote an agile and inclusive working culture where employees can freely question practices and suggest alternatives.
We support flexible working, with 8% of employees benefitting from these arrangements, and offer access to a range of flexible benefits.
We ensure our levels of overall remuneration are without gender bias, and sufficiently designed to attract, develop and retain talented employees.
diversity & INCLUSION Our vision is to provide an inclusive and respectful environment in which each individual is motivated to make their fullest contribution: in which they feel fairly recognised, rewarded and included regardless of age, gender, race, sexual orientation, disability, religion or beliefs.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 35 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO OUR COMMUNITY We are proud that our corporate and social responsibility policies and practices have Supporting ThinkForward helped promote opportunities to young We have supported ThinkForward, a charity working people and are committed to expanding our to reduce the risk of young people becoming NEET contribution to our community.
not in education, employment or training since its inception.
Our partnership was extended for a further five years in 2016 with an annual commitment of 100,000.
Supporting young people ICGs investment has enabled a full time coach to be placed into the Harpley Centre at Tower Hamlets Pupil Referral Unit to work with those young people most at risk of becoming NEET.
The coach supports them to maximise their opportunities whilst in full time education, to develop their skills and work readiness so that they are more likely to transition into long term employment or further education.
Increasing our community involvement We recognise that the level of charitable donations made by the Company could be more generous and aligned to our purpose.
We have established a working party to look at this issue, with a view to increasing our charitable givings, and the Board will consider its recommendations.
Diversity We have developed a diversity and inclusion strategy with the aim of increasing diversity and creating an inclusive workplace.
Whilst diversity is wider than gender balance, our employees represent 31 different nationalities: we recognise that our female population of 29% of permanent employees Supporting women in private equity is unrepresentative.
Our strategy will tackle this Emma Osborne, one of our fund managers, is issue by reviewing our employee brand, our external one of the founders of Level 20, a not for profit profile and talent pipeline, our environment and our organisation set up to attract, nurture, and promote employee retention.
women in private equity, to achieve greater gender diversity both for the benefit of the industry and the community at large.
We are proud to support and be associated with Level 20.
36 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 BUSINESS MARKETPLACE GROUP GROUP RESOURCES AND MODEL AND STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RISKS RELATIONSHIPS OUR RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS CONTINUED OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO OUR ENVIRONMENT ICG recognises that businesses have a responsibility to protect the environment and understand the impact their operations have, and we take appropriate measures to limit our energy use and carbon output.
We quantify and report our organisational greenhouse gas emissions in alignment with the World Resources Institutes Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and in alignment with the Scope 2 Guidance update to the Corporate Standard.
We quantify and report Scope 2 emissions according to two different methodologies: the location based method, using average emissions factors for the country in which the reported operations take place: and the market based method, which uses the actual emissions factors of the energy procured.
We voluntarily report our Scope 3 indirect emissions from business travel and water consumption using the GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain Scope 3 Standard.
Our absolute Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions have decreased, despite the increase in numbers of staff meaning our GHG emissions re full time employees has also decreased.
This is due to several factors, such as increased use of video conferencing facilities, reductions in emission factors for electricity use and an increase in rail travel.
We will continue to look for opportunities to improve performance in this area.
Operational scope Greenhouse gas emission source 2018 2017 Units Direct emissions Scope 1 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 48 74 Tonnes CO e 2 Indirect emissions Scope 2 Purchased electricity heat location based 603 852 Tonnes CO2e Purchased electricity heat market based 624 840 Tonnes CO2e Indirect emissions Scope 3 Business travel: flights and rail 2,254 2,888 Tonnes CO2e Total 2,905 3,814 Tonnes CO e 2 Emissions per FTE 7.4 11.7 Tonnes CO2e per FTE Modern slavery ICG abhors slavery and human trafficking.
We seek to ensure there are no such practices in our business and supply chain.
During the year we have carried out staff training and awareness raising and incorporated slavery considerations into supplier selection and due diligence.
We have also conducted a review of our own business, our investee companies that are covered by our statement, and material suppliers.
No concerns were raised in any of our due diligence.
The Groups full policy on Modern Slavery can be found at www.
com Bribery and corruption ICG is committed to ethical business across all its operations and investments.
ICGs policy is never to offer, pay, request or receive bribes, and to refuse any request to pay them.
ICG ensures that opportunities for corruption are reduced, that it will not invest in companies or projects that engage in corruption and will investigate and deal with all reported cases of corruption in line with the policy.
The policy applies to all entities within the ICG Group wherever ICG does business.
Employee diversity As at 31 March 2018, of our permanent employee population of 297, 85 are women and 212 men.
While we do not record the religion or ethnicity of employees we benefit from our employees representing 31 different nationalities.
The senior management team excluding the Groups Board comprises of one woman and seven men.
ICGs Board of 11 comprises two Executive Directors, and nine Non-Executive Directors of which three are women.
Two men leave the Board at the AGM which will result in women comprising 33% of the Board.
Biographies of the Board are on pages 40 and 41.
Human rights We do not tolerate discrimination of any nature and comply fully with appropriate human rights legislation.
We aim for employees to have a sense of wellbeing, and we promote a working culture where employees can freely question practices and suggest alternatives.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 37 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance CONTENTS Letter from the Chairman 38 Board of Directors 40 Our corporate governance framework 42 The Boards year 44 Induction and training 46 Board evaluation 47 Engagement with stakeholders 48 Audit Committee report 49 Risk Committee report 59 Nominations and Governance Committee report 64 Remuneration Committee report 68 Summary of remuneration policy 72 Employee context 75 Annual report on remuneration 77 Directors report 93 Directors responsibilities 100
