Directors' Report | Corporate Governance EFFECTIVENESS continued Sir David Reid NOMINATION COMMITTEE Chair of the Nomination Committee ROLE AND KEY RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COMMITTEE Review the structure, size and composition of the Board and its Committees: Identify, review and nominate candidates to fill Board 1 vacancies : Evaluate the balance of skills, independence, knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board and its Committees: Review the results of the performance evaluation process that relates to the composition of the Board and its Committees: and Review the time commitment required from Non-Executive Directors.
For the Committees terms of reference, see www.
Neither the Chairman nor the CEO participates in the recruitment of their As the Chair of the Nomination Committee Committee, I am own successor.
pleased to present to you the Nomination Committee Report for MEMBERSHIP OF THE COMMITTEE 2018.
Over the past 18 months we have spent our time on the The membership of the Committee at the year end was Sir David Board refreshment programme and were pleased to welcome Reid Committee Chair, Graham Allan, Gurnek Bains, Dame Louise three new Non-Executive Directors and one Executive Director Makin and Lena Wilson.
These appointments have strengthened our Board bringing new skills, experiences and attributes.
During 2018, the During the year, the Committee held three formal meetings.
Committee continued discussions on the core skills and attributes Attendance of members at formal meetings is shown in the table required by our Board now, and those of future candidates, to on page 70.
The Group Company Secretary attends all formal support and drive the long-term sustainable success of our 5x5 meetings of the Committee.
The Committee invites the CEO and differentiated strategy for growth as outlined in pages 2 to 3. the EVP, Human Resources to attend meetings when the subject matter deems their presence appropriate.
To ensure that members of the Board and senior management have the appropriate balance of skills and experience to support ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR the Groups strategic objectives, succession planning is a matter Performance Evaluation that the Board as a whole considers.
This ensures that the The evaluation of the performance of the Committee was Company benefits from the views and experience of all Board conducted during the year and it was shown that the Committee members in this discussion.
During the year, we reviewed the continues to be effective.
Group People Strategy and the Executive Management Team Board and Committee Composition succession planning and the progress being made to develop During the year, the Committee undertook its annual review the skills and capabilities we need going forward.
We aim to of the Boards effectiveness and composition in relation to ensure both our Directors and members of the Executive long-term succession planning.
To ensure that the Board Management Team and other senior managers, who are potential comprises a broad range of skills, experience and attributes, successors to the Executive Management Team or Board, are the Committee discusses and reviews extensively the skills and well equipped with the right skills and experience and, where capabilities required of future Directors including qualities of necessary, address any developmental needs.
ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE 2018 Performance Evaluation Reviewed the results of the 2017 Committee evaluation.
Board and Committee Composition Continued to monitor the composition of the Board and its principal Committees, and the independence of its Non-Executive Directors.
Evaluated the current composition of the Board.
Board Appointments and Rigorously reviewed the reappointment of Dame Louise Makin and Lena Wilson as Reappointments Non-Executive Directors for their third three-year term.
Reviewed the reappointment of Gill Rider as a Non-Executive Director for her second three-year term.
Recommended to the Board the appointment of Ross McCluskey, to succeed Edward Leigh, in the role of Chief Financial Officer.
Talent Mapping and Succession Discussed the skills and attributes desired for the pipeline of future Non-Executive Directors.
Planning Actively evaluated the objective criteria, and enhanced skills, experience and diversity desired of future Board members.
80 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors' Report the individual required to ensure the right fit with the culture mapping across the Group in respect to Regional, Country and and style of Intertek.
The skills matrix is outlined on page 71. functional roles.
This has enabled the Board to gather insights on the key success factors desired for senior roles within the Group.
The review concluded that the current composition of the Board and each Committee contained a good balance of skills, industry During 2018, the following appointments were made to the and geographic experience, as well as diversity.
On 1 January 2018, Patrick Lee was appointed as Executive Vice President, North East Asia The Committee unanimously agreed, following the consideration and Australasia.
Prior to joining Intertek, Patrick was CEO of of the independence of each Non-Executive Director, that each Inchcape Greater China and has over 30 years management Non-Executive Director continued to be independent in experience with a proven track record of success with blue-chip accordance with the criteria set out in the Code.
companies including P&G, Coca-Cola and Agfa Gevaert.
Board Appointments and Reappointments Patricks appointment has added depth to the Groups The Board, upon the recommendation of the Committee, leadership pool and gives Intertek more strength in pursuing approved the internal appointment of Ross McCluskey as Chief the good-to-great journey.
Ross joined the Board as an Executive Director In May 2018, Dr Diane Bitzel was appointed to the Executive and the Executive Management Team on 22 August 2018.
Management Team in the role of Chief Information Officer, He joined Intertek in August 2016 as the Groups Financial succeeding Ann-Michele Bowlin who was subsequently promoted Controller, which enabled him to gain an extensive understanding as Chief ATIC Innovation Officer, a role in which she leads the of the complexities of the Group.
Prior to Ross employment with development and drives the ATIC innovation strategy and Intertek, he held senior operational finance positions at Inchcape roadmap across the organisation.
Diane has over 22 years of plc for five years, including Finance Director of Inchcapes global management experience, particularly in the areas of IT Australasian and UK businesses.
Between 2002 and 2011, strategy, operations and management, HR transformation, Ross worked within the investment banking sector, specialising and business strategy and process implementation.
Diane has in mergers and acquisitions, holding roles at J. P. Morgan, Gleacher previously held roles as CIO for global life science and food Shacklock and Greenhill and Co. companies, including Syngenta AG, Apetito AG and Lonza Group.
Both Dame Louise Makin and Lena Wilson have been members Dianes appointment, and Ann-Micheles promotion, further of our Board for six years.
During 2018, a detailed and rigorous strengthens the Executive Management Team, and in turn review was carried out, following which the Committee agreed provides additional focus on the areas that will make a difference to recommend to the Board that they both be reappointed for to the Groups success.
a third term of three years from 1 July 2018.
Having come to Full biographical details of the Executive Management Team can the end of her first term, Gill Riders appointment was also be found on pages 20 to 21. reviewed.
Following this review, the Committee was pleased to recommend the reappointment of Gill for a further three years, DIVERSITY POLICY from 1 July 2018.
Where the reappointment of a member of The Board is committed to achieving a Board which will include the Committee is being discussed, they are precluded from and make the best use of differences in culture, gender, skills, any involvement in the discussions.
In the instance where background, regional and industry experience and other qualities.
the reappointment of the Chairman is being discussed, All of these factors are considered in determining the the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director would chair composition of the Board, and all Board appointments will the Committee meeting.
continue to be made on merit, in the context of the skills, diversity and experience the Board, as a whole, requires for it to Biographies for all of the Directors are available on pages 74 be effective.
In reviewing Board composition, the Committee aims and 75 and a resolution for each Director will be proposed to maintain an appropriate balance of skills, experience, and at the forthcoming AGM for their election or re-election.
background on the Board, by considering all aspects of diversity, Talent Mapping and Succession Planning including gender.
In identifying suitable candidates to recommend The Committee, over the last 18 months, have focused their for appointment to the Board, the Committee considers discussions on the objective criteria they require of future candidates on merit, against objective criteria, and with due Board members, and in turn highlighting the must-have skills, regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board to achieve the experience, personal characteristics and behaviours they deem most effective Board possible.
We expect to continue to make necessary to lead Intertek.
Such criteria have been used to further progress as our existing Non-Executive Directors rotate actively refresh the Board with three new members in 2017, in the ordinary course of business.
and one new member in 2018, representing a high quality The Committee and the Board are collectively mindful of the and balanced Board, which functions effectively.
recommendations of both Lord Davies in his report Women on The Committee recognises the increased emphasis on providing Boards, and the Hampton-Alexander Review the Review, oversight of the development of a diverse pipeline for succession.
complementary to Davies report, which encourages FTSE 350 Due to the strategic importance of talent mapping and companies to achieve at least 33% female representation at succession planning to the long-term sustainable success of Board level by 2020.
As at 31 December 2018, there were three the Group, the Board, as a whole, discuss and support succession female Non-Executive Directors on the Companys Board, planning on the Executive Management Team, as well as talent Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 81 Directors' Report | Corporate Governance EFFECTIVENESS continued representing a 30% female membership: following the Review in November 2018, Intertek was ranked as having the potential to be on target or high performing.
However, when recommending new candidates to the Board, the Committee ensures that the correct balance of skills, knowledge and experience is maintained, as this is paramount for Interteks long-term sustainable success.
Further detail regarding gender diversity across the Group and in the Executive Management Team, and their direct reports, can be found within the Sustainability Report on page 29.
The Group also supports, and already complies with, the Parker Review Beyond One by 21 recommendation that FTSE 100 company boards should have at least one ethnically diverse director by 2021.
The Committee continues to monitor the overall diversity of Interteks leadership at Board and senior management level, to ensure the broadest spectrum of leaders are considered for new appointments.
Sir David Reid Chair of the Nomination Committee 82 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
