Directors' Report ACCOUNTABILITY The Board has established formal and transparent arrangements Andrew Martin to apply the corporate reporting, risk management and internal Chair of the Audit Committee control principles as set out in the Code.
INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Board is ultimately responsible for monitoring the Groups system of internal control and risk management and has overall responsibility for ensuring its effectiveness.
The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management controls and reports to the Board on its evaluation of the systems in place.
The Board confirms that the Company has fully complied with the FRC's Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
Further information on the framework and its effectiveness can be found on pages 87 to 88.
Risk management and internal controls are embedded in the running of each division, business line, country and support function and oversight is provided by divisional, regional and AUDIT COMMITTEE functional risk committees.
Each risk committee in turn reports to the Group Risk Committee 'GRC'.
The Group identifies and tracks DEAR SHAREHOLDER its risk environment using a risk register process: the risk On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the report committees produce a register of risks in their area of of the Audit Committee 'Committee' for the year ended responsibility, and these risk registers are then consolidated at 31 December 2018.
The GRC uses the Group Risk Footprint for the year We were pleased to welcome Dame Louise Makin as a member under review with associated mitigation action plans as its of the Committee from 1 January 2018 adding her valuable baseline, to then add new risks and or plans facilitated by the expertise to our discussions.
One of the key responsibilities GRCs quarterly risk review process.
The Group General Counsel of the Committee is to monitor the integrity of the financial then presents at each Board meeting an integrated risk, control, statements of the Company and measure the performance compliance and quality report including a review of: of the Company against the financial goals of our strategy.
The Groups emerging risk environment, the status of the This is key for our shareholders and other stakeholders in order quarterly emerging risk mitigation action plans and the new for them to understand the financial strength of the business.
quarterly emerging risk mitigation plans: During 2018, the Committees primary focus centred on the The specific systemic risks including quarterly hotline and accuracy of the Groups financial reporting, together with the whistleblowing reports, key claims and unlimited liability ongoing improvements in internal control activities and risk and contracts: and compliance matters.
 LLP PwC The Groups systemic risk environment, the status of the completed their second full audit of the Company for the year quarterly systemic risk mitigation action plans and the new ended 31 December 2017.
During the year, the Committee quarterly systemic risk mitigation plans.
reviewed and agreed that the audit process continued to be effective with PwC being independent from management, COMPLIANCE, WHISTLEBLOWING AND FRAUD establishing positive relationships and providing a good level of Intertek is committed to maintaining a culture where issues of service to the Company whilst seeking continual improvements integrity and professional ethics can be raised and discussed, in the audit of Intertek.
which is aligned to our sustainability priority to always do the right thing with precision, pace and passion and also forms part of our Throughout the year the Committee also ensured that separate 5x5 differentiated strategy for growth.
The Groups key ethics and meetings with the CFO, Group Audit Director and the external integrity policies are set out in the Code of Ethics and a detailed auditor took place without management present in order to description of the topics covered by the Code of Ethics, its provide an open forum for any issues to be raised.
operation during the year and the outcomes of these policies are The internal evaluation of the Committee was conducted during contained in the Sustainability report on pages 30 to 31. the year and it was shown that the Committee is able and The Group has a whistleblowing process, which includes a global effective in discharging its duties in accordance with its terms hotline system enabling all employees, contractors and others of reference and the requirements of the Code.
representing Intertek to confidentially report suspected breaches This report aims to outline the activities and the responsibilities of the Code of Ethics.
This is supported by dedicated Compliance of the Committee, on behalf of the Board, in scrutinising the Officers across the Groups markets who undertake investigations conduct of the business, its management and auditors to protect of issues that arise from reports to the hotline system or from the interests of our shareholders, the livelihoods of our other sources, such as routine compliance questions.
The Group employees, and the confidence of our customers and suppliers Compliance function is independent of the Groups operational in the long-term financial strength of our business.
business and reports directly to the Group General Counsel.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 83 Directors' Report | Corporate Governance ACCOUNTABILITY continued COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Internal control and risk management systems The membership of the Committee at the year end was Andrew Keep under review the adequacy and effectiveness of the Martin Committee Chair, Dame Louise Makin, Jean-Michel Valette internal financial controls and the internal control and risk and Lena Wilson.
With effect from 1 January 2018, Dame Louise management and assurance systems.
Makin was appointed a member of the Committee.
Andrew Review and approve the statements to be included in Martin, who is a qualified accountant, has extensive recent and the Annual Report and Accounts concerning internal controls relevant financial experience as required by the Code as he was and risk management and assurance.
until 2012 the Group Finance Director of Compass Group plc and Whistleblowing and fraud through his other current and previous appointments.
The Board Review the adequacy and security of the Companys considers that, as a whole, the Committee has the competence arrangements for its employees and contractors to raise and broad experience relevant to the sectors in which Intertek concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial operates as Dame Louise Makin, Jean-Michel Valette and Lena reporting or other matters ensuring that these arrangements Wilson all have experience in those sectors.
An overview of allow proportionate and independent investigation of such the background, knowledge and experience of the Committee matters and appropriate follow up action.
Chair and each of the Committee members can be found on pages 74 and 75 and in the table on page 71. Review the Companys systems and procedures for detecting fraud: for the prevention of bribery and receive regular reports On appointment, new Committee members receive an appropriate on non-compliance and keep under review the effectiveness induction, consisting of the review of the terms of reference, of the compliance function.
previous Committee meeting papers and minutes, information on the Companys financial and operational risks and also have Internal audit access to, and meetings with, senior management and the Monitor the effectiveness and resources of the internal Groups internal and external auditors.
Approve the appointment and removal of the Group Audit Director.
The business of the Committee is linked to the Groups financial calendar of events and the timetable for the annual audit.
During Agree internal audit plans and review reports of the internal the year, the Committee held four formal meetings.
members at meetings is shown in the table on page 70.
The Group Review and monitor managements responsiveness to control Company Secretary attends all the meetings of the Committee.
observations made by the internal auditor.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman, CEO, CFO, External audit Deputy Group Financial Controller and the Group Audit Director Consider and make recommendations to the Board, to be put attended the meetings.
The audit partner and his team attended to shareholders for approval at the AGM, in relation to the all meetings held during the year.
Other senior executives were appointment, reappointment and removal of the Companys invited to attend the Committee meetings as necessary.
The internal evaluation of the performance of the Committee Oversee the relationship with the external auditor.
was conducted during the year and entailed the completion Ensure that at least once every 10 years the audit services of a detailed questionnaire by each of the Committee members, contract is put out to tender.
the review and discussion of the results of the evaluation and identifying and agreeing areas for improvement.
It was shown Monitor and review the independence and performance that the Committee is able and effective in discharging its duties of the external auditor and evaluate their effectiveness.
in accordance with its terms of reference and the requirements For the Committees terms of reference, see www.
SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE COMMITTEE ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COMMITTEE In preparation for each year end, the Committee reviews the Our role and responsibilities, as authorised by the Board, are set significant accounting policies, estimates and judgements to out in the terms of reference of the Committee and fall into be applied in the financial statements and discusses their the categories below: application with management.
The external auditor also Financial reporting considers the appropriateness of these assessments as part Monitor the integrity of the financial statements and their of the external audit.
compliance with UK statutory requirements.
In accordance with the Code, the external auditor prepares a Review significant financial reporting issues and judgements, report for the Committee on both the half-year and full-year accounting policies and compliance with accounting standards, results, which summarises the approach to key risks in the including the implementation of new accounting standards.
external audit and highlights any issues arising out of their work on those risks, or any other work undertaken on the audit.
Narrative reporting Where requested by the Board, to review the Annual Report During the year, the Committee reviewed and considered and Accounts, and advise the Board on whether, taken as a the following estimates and areas of judgement to be exercised whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides in the application of the accounting policies: the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
84 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors' Report Claims Impairment From time to time the Group is involved in various claims The Groups strategy includes acquisition-led growth to generate and lawsuits incidental to the ordinary course of business.
new services and expand into new locations.
These acquisitions, The Committee considered the claims provision which reflects being in the service sector, can generate significant goodwill that the estimates of amounts payable in connection with identified benefits the Group as a whole and specifically the business to claims from customers, former employees and others.
Goodwill, aggregated at the cash generating unit CGU level, must be tested annually for The Committee noted that once claims have been notified the impairment under IAS 36 Impairment IAS 36, or when there are finance teams liaise with the business to determine whether indicators of impairment.
a provision is required, based on IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent liabilities and Contingent assets IAS 37.
The Committee reviewed the impairment consideration and calculations prepared by management considering the trading The level of provision is subsequently reviewed on a regular basis assumptions, the discount rates used as well as the sensitivities with the Group General Counsel, taking into account the advice of included by management, details of which are contained in external legal counsel.
The Committee, following assurance from note 9 to the financial statements.
The Committee also took into management and review of the report presented by the external account the work undertaken by the external auditor in respect auditor, considered and agreed that the claims provision was of impairment and is satisfied that no impairment was required appropriate given the size and status of claims reported.
Taxation The significant issues considered by the Committee in relation The determination of profits subject to tax is calculated to the financial statements were consistent, with the exception according to complex laws and regulations, the interpretation of restructuring, with those identified by the external auditor and application of which can be uncertain.
In addition, deferred in their report on pages 169 to 175. tax assets and liabilities require judgement in determining the amounts to be recognised, with consideration given to the timing The Committee reviewed and answered the correspondence and level of future taxable income.
The main areas of judgement received from the Financial Reporting Council FRC in the Group tax calculation are the expected central tax following their thematic review of Alternative Performance provisions for the full year and the recognition of the UK deferred Measures carried out on our 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
The Committee has overseen the incorporation of reporting improvements agreed with the FRC following their review.
Twice a year, the Committee receives a report from management The FRCs review only covered the specific disclosures relating providing an evaluation of existing risks and tax provisions which to their thematic review and the Committee notes that the FRC is reviewed by the Committee.
The Committee also considered does not provide assurance that the Annual Report and Accounts reports presented by the external auditor before determining are correct in all material respects as the FRCs role is to consider that the levels of tax provisioning were appropriate.
Restructuring FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE ASSESSMENT In reviewing the provision for restructuring, the Committee The Code provides that through its financial reporting, the Board reviewed details of the activities pursued as part of the should provide a fair, balanced and understandable assessment restructuring to ensure that the appropriate level of provision of the Companys prospects.
is put in place, that these activities are aligned with the Group's strategy for growth and their classification as a separately At the Boards request, the Committee reviewed the Annual disclosed item is appropriate.
The Committee also sought Report and Accounts to determine whether it considered confirmation from the external auditor that the restructuring that the document, taken as a whole, meets this standard plan met the criteria for recognising a provision under IAS 37 and provides the necessary information for shareholders before determining that the provision was appropriate.
and other readers of the Annual Report and Accounts to assess the Groups position and performance for 2018, its business Accounting for acquisitions model and strategy.
In August 2018, the Group made the significant acquisition of Alchemy Investment Holdings, Inc in the US.
The provisional In justifying this statement, the Committee has considered recognition of goodwill, intangible assets, other assets and the robust process that underpins it, which includes: liabilities and estimates of the fair value of consideration Clear guidance and instruction given to all contributors, transferred for acquisitions made are based on a number of including at business line level: assumptions.
In 2018, management concluded its final Revisions as a result of regulatory requirements monitored assessment of these assets and liabilities for acquisitions on a regular basis: made in 2017 and presented an update to the Committee.
The Committee reviewed managements final accounting paper Pre-year end discussions held with the external auditor on acquisitions made in 2017 and 2018, and took into account in advance of the year-end reporting process: the report presented by the external auditor, before determining Pre-year end input provided by senior management and that the acquisition accounting was appropriate.
corporate functions: A verification process dealing with the factual content of the reports to ensure accuracy and consistency: Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 85 Directors' Report | Corporate Governance ACCOUNTABILITY continued Comprehensive review by the senior management team The results are presented to the Committee to ensure compliance to ensure overall consistency and balance: with the Code.
The Committee challenges judgemental statements to ensure that they are reasonable within the Review conducted by external advisors and the external context of the report.
This process enabled the Committee, and auditor on best practice with regard to the content then the Board, to confirm that the 2018 Annual Report and and structure of the Annual Report and Accounts: Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable Review and consideration of the Annual Report and and provides the information necessary for shareholders to Accounts by the Committee: and assess the Companys position, performance, business model Final sign-off provided by the Board.
ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR During the year the Committee discussed the following items: AUDIT COMMITTEE AGENDA ITEMS 2018 Financial statements and reports Feb May Aug Dec Full-year results 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Management highlights memorandum Going concern assessment Fair, balanced and understandable assessment Review of significant accounting policies Half-year results 2018 Risk Register and Viability Statement process External audit PwC 2018 audit plan Audit fee proposal 2018 PwC engagement letter PwC year end report and controls update PwC half-year report and controls update Intertek assessment of PwC effectiveness Letter of representation to the auditors Independence confirmation and review of non-audit spend and policy PwC pre year-end report to the Committee Internal Control Environment 2019 Internal Audit plan and Charter Internal Controls process and sign-off Internal audit reports Assessment of Internal Audit effectiveness Core Mandatory Controls and Assurance Map update Other 2018 Rolling Committee agenda 2017 Evaluation of the Committee and Committee terms of reference IFRS accounting standards update EXTERNAL AUDITOR Following this process PwC have been the Companys auditors The Statutory Auditors and Third Country Auditors Regulations and Ian Chambers the Audit Partner since May 2016.
2016, which implement the EU Audit Directive and Audit In line with current regulation, the Company is required to put its Regulation, has resulted in changes to the Companies Act 2006 external audit process out to tender again in 2025 2026. and to the Code.
Amongst other things, the Company is now required to tender its audit every 10 years, to give advance notice The independence of the external auditor is critical for the of any tendering plans and to cap the non-audit fees paid to integrity of the audit.
We sought confirmation from the auditor auditors at 70% of the three-year average audit fees at Group that they are fully independent from the Companys level, with there being a prohibition on the provision of certain management, are free from conflicts of interest and have non-audit services.
assessed the nature and level of non-audit fees paid to PwC and have determined that PwC are fully independent.
As noted in this report last year, the Group completed a transparent and independent audit tender process in 2015.
86 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors' Report Effectiveness of the external audit auditors providing factual accounts to explain positions taken The Committee conducts an annual review to assess the during the course of their work: tax services in relation to independence and objectivity of the external auditor and marketing, planning, or opining in favour of an aggressive tax the effectiveness of the audit as part of the year-end process.
position or transaction: any other services that, locally, are This process is conducted in three parts: prohibited through regulation: and personal tax compliance services to members of the Groups management who have Annually, PwC presents to the Committee its approach to a financial reporting oversight role.
maintaining audit quality including addressing any risks they face in maintaining audit quality across their network: In the event that an engagement for non-audit services arises, the policy is designed to ensure that the external auditor is only The views of management and the Directors on PwCs service appointed where it is considered to be the most suitable supplier are obtained via a questionnaire survey and the feedback is of the service and the necessary prior approvals have been given presented to the Committee: and in accordance with the policy.
The key findings and recommendations from both processes form the basis of the assessment of PwCs effectiveness The Committee annually reviews and re-approves the framework together with the Committees experience of dealing with of permitted non-audit services as set out in the policy, taking PwC during the year.
into account any changes in legislation and best practice.
PwC also provide an update on the spend for non-audit services twice The survey assessed the effectiveness of the PwC audit across a year.
For 2018, the Committee pre-approved a total non-audit its three main stages: Planning, Fieldwork and Reporting.
As per the policy, all non-audit services have Following this review, the Committee considered in detail the to be approved by the CFO, and in the event that the prefeedback received from a selection of Intertek personnel, approved limit is exceeded, the Committee Chair and the CFO including Committee Members, Group functions, regional finance have to approve an increase to the pre-approved limit.
In 2018, teams and country finance managers.
Overall the feedback was this process operated effectively.
positive and demonstrated that there had been improvements A summary of the fees paid for non-audit services is set out year-on-year with better communication with local audit teams below and further information is contained in note 4 to the and finance.
Teams across the globe approached the audit with financial statements on page 128. an appropriate mindset and were focused on the key risk areas.
The audit findings were discussed at the May 2018 Committee AUDIT FEE BREAKDOWN FOR SERVICES PROVIDED BY meeting and PwC effectively addressed questions and challenges PwC IN 2018 provided by Committee members.
However, it was felt that, 2018 2017 while maintaining quality, further improvements in efficiencies m m and in areas such as the use of a centralised audit team could Total non-audit fees 0.2 0.2 still be achieved.
audit-related services 0.2 0.2 tax services The Committee concluded, at the meeting held in May 2018, other non-audit services that PwC remained independent and that overall, PwC completed Audit fee 3.9 3.6 a robust and fit-for-purpose audit process across the Group with % of audit fee 5% 5% a satisfactory level of resource and continued to build their knowledge of the business.
The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market The effectiveness for the 2018 audit of the Group will be Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender reviewed by the Committee in May 2019.
Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 CMA Order Statement of compliance AUDIT AND NON-AUDIT FEES The Company confirms that it complied with the provisions of The Company has set out a policy on the provision of non-audit the CMA Order for the financial year under review.
work by the external auditor consistent with the Revised Ethical Standard 2016 issued by the FRC and it is designed to ensure INTERNAL CONTROLS AND FINANCIAL REPORTING that the provision of such services does not create a threat to Doing Business the Right Way is at the heart of what we do and the external auditors independence and objectivity.
is a key enabler of our 5x5 strategy for growth.
The Intertek Core Mandatory Controls CMCs are an integral part of Doing It identifies certain types of engagement that the external Business the Right Way, and provide the mechanism by which auditor shall not undertake, including bookkeeping or other we define, monitor and achieve consistently high standards services related to accounting records or financial statements: in our control environment throughout the whole organisation.
financial information systems design and implementation: An updated set of CMCs v4.0 has been developed reflecting appraisal or valuation services: actuarial services: internal audit feedback on the existing framework and how the Groups risk outsourcing or co-sourcing services: management functions or environment has evolved during the year.
human resources services: broker or dealer, investment advisor or investment banking services: legal services which can only be In order to provide assurance that the Intertek controls and policy provided by a qualified lawyer: expert services unrelated to the framework is being adhered to, a self-certification exercise is audit that include advocating Interteks interests in litigation, undertaken across the Groups global operations.
This exercise is regulatory or administrative proceedings not precluding the reviewed and refreshed each year to ensure that it encapsulates Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 87 Directors' Report | Corporate Governance ACCOUNTABILITY continued all new areas of risk identified and to support the continued Reviewed the annual assessment on the effectiveness of development of the Groups control environment.
An online the Group Internal Audit function which included feedback questionnaire requesting confirmation of adherence to controls, from key business stakeholders and an action plan for areas financial and operational, is sent to all Intertek country and of improvement: an independent review of effectiveness, finance operations.
Where corrective actions are needed, carried out every three years, will be undertaken in 2019. the country is required to provide an outline and a confirmed PRIORITIES FOR 2019 timeline.
These items are monitored closely to ensure timely The priorities for the Committee over the next 12 months are completion.
This process is facilitated by the Legal, Risk and as follows: Compliance function.
Continue to monitor the external auditor: A consolidated assessment is made at regional level for senior Ensure that the audit continues to evolve and align with leadership approval.
An evaluation is then undertaken with the the changes in the business and strategic objectives: Executive Management Team following which a Company-wide position is submitted to the CEO and the CFO.
A final summary Continue to develop and refine the CMCs in line with the assessment is provided to the Committee.
The self-assessment evolving risk environment of the Company: exercise has been reviewed during the year to ensure global Continue to monitor the impact of external economic factors coverage and to reflect Interteks operational and financial on the Group and its financial position: and structure, and in order to enhance the alignment of the selfReview the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code and assessment to the assurance process.
incorporate any changes as necessary into the Committee's A detailed verification programme also provides assurance to the terms of reference.
Committee and the Board when checking that all the statements GOING CONCERN made in the Annual Report and Accounts are accurate.
Interteks The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group Manual of Accounting Policies and Procedures is issued to all has adequate resources for a period of at least 12 months from finance staff and gives instructions and guidance on all aspects the date of signing this Annual Report and Accounts, and have of accounting and reporting that apply to the Group.
therefore assessed that the going concern basis of accounting The Committee can confirm that it reviewed the Groups internal is appropriate in preparing the financial statements and that controls and risk management systems and concluded that there there are no material uncertainties to disclose.
was a sound and effective control environment in place across This conclusion is based on a review and an assessment of the the Group during 2018, and up to the date on which these levels of facilities expected to be available to the Group, based on financial statements were approved.
No significant failings or levels of cash held, Group Treasury funding projections, and the weaknesses had been identified.
Groups financial projections for a period to 31 December 2023.
INTERNAL AUDIT With the exception of US$20m of facilities that matured and The Group has an Internal Audit function whose activities are were repaid in January 2019, all the current borrowing facilities, overseen by the Committee, and which provides assurance as disclosed in note 14 of the financial statements, are expected over compliance with the Groups framework of financial CMCs.
to be available at 31 December 2019.
In 2018, the Committee: In making this assessment, management has considered the Oversaw the independence of Internal Audit by maintaining covenants attached to the Groups borrowing facilities and a direct independent reporting line between the Group Audit performed downside scenarios on the Groups financial Director and the Committee Chair, and by meeting with the projections of 10% and 20% reduction in EBITDA forecast.
Group Audit Director without the presence of management: Even in these circumstances, there is significant headroom on the debt covenants.
Approved the Internal Audit Charter, which sets out the basis on which audits are carried out in the Group: After making diligent enquiries the Directors have a reasonable Oversaw investment in the Internal Audit function, to ensure expectation based upon current financial projections and bank adequate resourcing that provides value for money assurance: facilities available, that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the Reviewed and approved the audit plan that has ensured all going concern basis in preparing the Groups financial statements.
significant businesses have received multiple audits since the launch of the controls framework in 2016: Reviewed reports on internal audit activities including overall progress in delivering the plan and summaries of each audit performed, with commentary on compliance with the controls framework, areas of good practice and areas for improvement: the Committee has noted a steady improvement in audit scores over the period since the introduction of the mandatory Andrew Martin controls framework: Chair of the Audit Committee Monitored management's progress on addressing audit actions: and 88 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
