Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Audit Committee We continue to focus on risk management in a changing and uncertain environment Areas of focus in 2018 Dear shareholder Responsibilities financial information and risk The Audit Committees key responsibilities management in relation to two As the Chairman of the Audit Committee are to monitor and review: potential offers which did not complete it is my role to present to you the Audit cash flow forecasting Committee report for 2018. the integrity of the financial property valuations statements, including a review of procurement The Audit Committee has this year the significant financial reporting cybersecurity continued to focus on risk management, judgements and accounting policies culture specifically in relation to our cash flows, the Companys relationship with developments developments in the UK, cyber risks the external auditor, including its as well as the impact of potential independence Members in 2018 transactions in 2018, which did the effectiveness of the Groups not complete.
internal control and risk management Chairman the Groups overall approach to Adle Anderson The Groups approach to risk monitoring areas of risk Independent Non-Executive Director management is described in detail on the effectiveness of the internal Members pages 38 and 39 and the principal risks audit function, including the Rakhi Goss-Custard are detailed on pages 40 and 41. work programme undertaken Independent Non-Executive Director by the function Andrew Strang to 30 September 2018  PwC has the Groups policy on and approach Independent Non-Executive Director been intus audit firm for more than to whistleblowing Ian Burke from 1 October 2018 30 years and a tender process was Independent Non-Executive Director commenced in 2016 and concluded Main activities during the year during 2017, with Deloitte being selected The Audit Committee considered For members other Board appointments, for appointment.
After a one-year deferral the following key matters in 2018: skills and experience see Board of Directors on pages 62 and 63 owing to the potential transaction for the business announced in December 2017 regular review of cash flow forecasting Areas of focus in 2019 and aborted in April 2018, we have valuation of the Groups investment cash flow forecasting recommended that Deloitte be and development property effective transition of external audit appointed for the 2019 audit.
the Groups culture process from PwC to Deloitte the Groups cybersecurity plans property valuations accounting treatment of the most developments significant transactions including the cybersecurity part disposal of intu Chapelfield, the culture refinancing of intu Puerto Venecia and the new debt raised on Barton Square the 2018 internal audit plan and audit charter the viability statement completed a review of supplier payment policy and compliance with Prompt Payment Code appropriateness of Q3 profit estimate included in intus October 2018 trading update intu properties plc Annual report 2018 71 Governance Audit Committee continued Key financial reporting and These matters were discussed by the significant judgements Audit Committee following finalisation During the year the Audit Committee of the audit.
discussed the planning, progress and final conclusions of the external audit process.
The Audit Committee takes into account The audit plan was reviewed and the views of the external auditor in approved at the July 2018 Audit understanding and assessing whether Committee meeting.
The significant risk suitable accounting policies have been areas identified were: investment and adopted, whether management has development property valuations: made appropriate estimates and significant transactions during the year: judgements and whether disclosures revenue recognition: and management are balanced and fair.
The main issues override of controls.
International discussed by the Audit Committee in Standards on Auditing UK identify the year are detailed in the table below.
these latter two risks as significant for all companies.
Issue Action taken Valuation of For the interim results at 30 June 2018 the Audit Committee carried out a review of the investment property valuations.
investment The full Board carried out a review of the 31 December 2018 valuations included in this report.
and development Due to the overall importance of the valuations to the Groups results, the relevant Audit Committee meeting included property a presentation from and discussion with Knight Frank as part of the valuation process and the relevant Board meeting included presentations from Knight Frank and CBRE.
The Audit Committee review included discussion with management and the external auditor of the key assumptions and results of the valuation process undertaken by the independent third party valuers.
This review also included understanding which general factors had influenced the valuers in concluding on appropriate yields to use in the valuations.
This involved factors affecting both the investment and occupier markets and recent comparable market transactions.
Particular emphasis was given to understanding the factors that had resulted in individual property valuations being either significantly above or below the average movement in the Groups valuations.
Presentation Operating through joint ventures is a core part of intus strategy.
Management both reviews and monitors the business, of information including the Groups share of joint ventures, on an individual line basis not on a post-tax profit loss or net investment basis.
The figures and commentary presented in the strategic report have therefore been presented consistently with this management approach.
Reconciliations between the management and statutory bases are provided in the other information section on pages 165 to 169.
The Committee has reviewed the prominence given to both statutory information and information on a management basis, and concluded that the approach adopted provides the most useful analysis of the results for the year.
Going concern The Companys going concern review, which is based on 18-month cash flow projections following the balance sheet date with particular focus on the next 12 months from the date of this report, was discussed with management.
The projections cover the major trading cash flows, being rental income and interest expense, and capital expenditure plans in the context of the latest debt maturity profile.
Stress tests of the projections were considered, covering potential further reductions in the value of the Groups properties, a fall in income as well as the inability to execute the capital recycling transactions, and what impact such changes may have on both the Groups liquidity and its ability to meet the financial covenants on its debt facilities.
The discussion and analysis also considered what actions were available to the Group to mitigate the impact of such reductions on the cash flow projections.
Viability In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has assessed the prospects of the statement Company over a longer period than that required in adopting the going concern basis of accounting.
The viability statement is included on page 70 and sets out the conclusion of that assessment.
The same stress tests as outlined in the Going concern section above were conducted on the projections underpinning the five-year viability assessment.
The Audit Committee assessed the viability position and reported its recommendations to the Board.
72 intu properties plc Annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Fair, balanced and understandable External auditor announced in December 2017 At the request of the Board, the Audit The Audit Committee has assessed the and aborted in April 2018, we have Committee considered whether the 2018 effectiveness of the external auditor, recommended that Deloitte be annual report was fair, balanced and PwC, in line with the approach set out appointed for the 2019 audit, subject understandable and whether it provided in the FRCs Audit Quality Practice Aid.
to shareholder approval at the 2019 the necessary information for shareholders In carrying out the evaluation the Audit annual general meeting.
to assess intus performance, business Committee has held discussions without The Audit Committee will continue model, position and strategy.
As part of its the auditor, asked the auditor to explain to review the effectiveness and considerations the Audit Committee took the risks to audit quality that they have independence of the external auditor into account the preparation process identified and their firm-wide controls each year.
detailed below which, together with relied upon, enquired about the findings opinions of key executives and the external from internal and external inspections auditor, has been designed to assist the of their audit, challenged the auditors Non-audit services Audit Committee in reaching its view: strategy and plan and discussed the On 1 January 2017 the Group outputs of the audit with the auditor.
implemented the FRCs Ethical Standard at an early stage, a matrix is produced This included direct meetings, review of for Auditors which imposes restrictions on identifying key themes and the reporting issued by the external auditor certain non-audit services.
A number of sections in which those themes and review of independent reports: non-audit services are prohibited and should be reflected others require approval by the Audit individual sections of the annual report senior finance staff reviewed the Committee.
There is an overall fee limit are drafted by appropriate senior detailed execution of the 2017 audit of 70 per cent of the average of audit fees management with regular review plan with the engagement team and charged in the past three years, and meetings to ensure consistency across incorporated any findings into the hence the fee limit comes into force for the whole document 2018 plan the financial year to 31 December 2020. a verification process is undertaken the Chair of the Audit Committee and to ensure that information contained the Chief Financial Officer each met The Audit Committee has sole authority is appropriately supported and privately with a senior partner of to approve contracts for non-audit factually accurate PwC unrelated to the engagement services with the external auditor subject detailed reviews of drafts of the annual to review the performance of the firm to observing certain guidelines including: report are undertaken by members of the Audit Committee reviewed the the Executive Committee and other audit plan provided by PwC, including the Audit Committee must consider senior management the risks identified and its approach whether the proposed arrangements drafts are discussed with the Groups to these will maintain audit independence legal advisers and brokers the external auditor must satisfy a final draft is reviewed by the Audit The Company has complied with the the Company that it is acting Committee and discussed with senior provisions of The Statutory Audit Services independently management prior to consideration for Large Companies Market Investigation by the Board Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender The table below summarises the fees Processes and Audit Committee paid to the auditor over the last three As a result of its considerations the Responsibilities Order 2014 and in doing years.
The three-year average ratio of Audit Committee is satisfied that, taken so has applied the transitional provisions non-audit fees to audit fees is 16 per cent.
as a whole, the annual report is fair, related to the audit tender process.
2018 non-audit fees primarily relate balanced and understandable and has to reporting accountants work in relation recommended it as such to the Board.
The tender process commenced during to profit estimates required under 2016 and concluded during the first half Takeover Code rules.
of 2017 with Deloitte being selected for appointment.
After a one-year deferral owing to the potential transaction 2018 2017 2016 000 000 000 Audit fees 823 789 705 Non-audit fees 281 49 48 Total fees paid to auditor 1,104 838 753 Ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees 34% 6% 7% intu properties plc Annual report 2018 73 Governance Audit Committee continued Risk management and Internal audit Committee membership internal control The Group has an internal audit function The Audit Committee members have been The Board has overall responsibility to within the risk and assurance team which selected to provide the wide range of oversee the Groups system of internal reports to the Audit Committee.
The financial and commercial expertise control and to keep its effectiveness internal audit function reviews internal necessary to fulfil the Committees duties under review, as well as to determine the controls and reports to the Audit and responsibilities.
The Board is satisfied nature and extent of the risks it is willing Committee on whether such controls that the Audit Committee has recent and to take in achieving its strategic objectives are in place and are being operated relevant financial experience for the based on the balance of potential risks effectively.
The function covers intu purposes of the UK Corporate Governance and reward.
The Groups approach to risk properties plc and its subsidiaries and Code.
Additionally, in accordance with the management is described in detail on internal audits are also occasionally 2016 Corporate Governance Code the pages 38 and 39 and the principal risks conducted at joint ventures.
Board has determined that the current are detailed on pages 40 and 41. composition of the Audit Committee as The internal audit function has a rolling a whole has competence relevant to the The Audit Committee oversees the programme of reviews ensuring that all sector in which the Company operates.
Boards annual review of the effectiveness centres, functions and areas of the For full detail of the members experience of the risk management and internal business are reviewed regularly.
The most and skills please see Directors biographies control systems.
During this review the significant areas covered in 2018 included on pages 62 and 63.
Board has not identified nor been made shopping centre health checks, treasury aware of any failing or weakness which process, GDPR compliance, letting it has determined to be significant.
process, life-cycle maintenance process, HR and payroll processes, new processes The key elements taken into account and tax compliance and procedures.
in this review include: Additionally, annual assurance activities were performed, including a review of the Groups internal audit functions the assurance map.
work during the year see right the Groups risk management process The Audit Committee regularly reviews the Groups controls over its financial the effectiveness of the risk and internal reporting process including: the audit function and in particular ensures comprehensive system for reporting that the function remains sufficiently results to the Board for review and independent of the wider business to consideration: the review process ensure it can carry out its work effectively.
underlying the production of the An independent review of the internal consolidated financial statements: audit function is carried out every five and the experience and quality of years and was last performed at the end the team involved in the financial of 2013.
A further review is currently in reporting processes progress and results will be reported to the Audit Committee during 2019.
The Following on from the review of culture in key recommendations from an external 2017, which helped the Audit Committee review of the Groups risk management contexualise risks and risk management process at the end of 2015 have all practices, a follow-up review was been implemented.
performed by the risk and assurance team during 2018.
A number of actions have been completed, including the development and distribution of an employee culture guide and the internal relaunch of the intu brand.
Additionally, the employee appraisal process has been enhanced and communicated.
A number of other actions are scheduled to be completed in 2019.
74 intu properties plc Annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Whistleblowing policy FRC communications The Audit Committee is responsible for On 20 December 2018, the FRC wrote overseeing the Groups whistleblowing to the Company to ask for certain policy and procedures, under which explanations in respect of the 2017 employees can raise concerns about annual report.
We have reviewed the possible improprieties whether financial responses provided to the FRC, including or otherwise within the Group on a explanations and certain proposed confidential basis.
enhancements to disclosure which have been included in this annual report.
During the year the Audit Committee The related correspondence has reviewed and strengthened the policy subsequently been closed.
and procedures and a Whistleblowing Committee was established with set The FRC notes that they only reviewed terms of reference, with key certain aspects of the 2017 annual report representatives from HR, operations and the review did not benefit from a and finance, which reports regularly to detailed knowledge of the business and the Audit Committee.
All whistleblowing the underlying transactions.
Further, the incidents are reported to this FRC also notes that their review provides Whistleblowing Committee which no assurance that the 2017 annual report fully investigates each event deemed is correct in all material respects, and that a whistleblower incident and the FRCs role is not to verify the agrees any remedial action such as information provided but to consider procedures being reviewed and improved compliance with reporting requirements.
Audit Committee effectiveness There were six whistleblowing disclosures As part of the Board evaluation process, relating to the intu Group during 2018. the effectiveness of the Audit Committee These included: was reviewed and this confirmed that the Committee remained effective at report of alleged breach of meeting its objectives.
environmental regulations, where the individual concerned has now received Adle Anderson additional training Chairman of the Audit Committee two reports that resulted in 20 February 2019 disciplinary hearings and appropriate disciplinary action one disclosure which was deemed not to be a whistleblowing incident two further disclosures which, upon investigation, could not be substantiated intu properties plc Annual report 2018 75
