Governance Nomination and Review Committee We continue to follow a robust process and best governance practice whenever key decisions are taken find successors to retiring Non-Executive Highlights of 2018 Dear shareholder Directors.
The sub-committee met chief executive succession planning frequently to progress matters.
Non-Executive Director succession 2018 was an important and busy year for planning the Nomination and Review Committee.
Statement on diversity policy Members in 2018 As Chair of the Committee it is my The Nomination and Review Committee, responsibility to ensure that we continue and the Board, have always recognised Chairman to follow a robust process and best the importance of boardroom diversity, John Strachan governance practice whenever key providing a wide range of perspectives, Chairman of the Board decisions are taken, in particular relating and the Committees policy is to seek to Members to new appointments and when ensure that a range of suitable candidates Adle Anderson considering the composition of the Board.
is taken into account when drawing up Senior Independent Non-Executive longlists and shortlists.
The priority of the Director Responsibilities and how they were Committee is to ensure that the Group Ian Burke from 1 October 2018 discharged in 2018 continues to have the most effective Independent Non-Executive Director The principal role of the Nomination and Board possible and all appointments to Review Committee is to evaluate the skills the Board are made on merit against Rakhi Goss-Custard available on the Board and to determine objective criteria.
A description of intus Independent Non-Executive Director when appointments and retirements approach to diversity can be found on Louise Patten are appropriate.
Independent Non-Executive Director In addition to its key responsibilities set Board composition Andrew Strang to 30 September 2018 out above, the Committee is also The Committee is satisfied that the Independent Non-Executive Director responsible for carrying out the annual balance of skills, knowledge and Steven Underwood performance evaluation of the Board, experience on the Board and its Alternate Director to John Whittaker its committees and individual directors, committees continues to be appropriate.
as well as making recommendations on appointments to the Board, including The Board is supportive of Lord Davies Areas of focus in 2019 the induction programme for newly aspirational target of 33 per cent female ensure smooth succession of the appointed directors, and on succession Board representation by 2020 and is chief executive planning.
Those Non-Executive Directors pleased to confirm that the Boards ensure smooth succession of Nonwho have served on the Board for six female representation in the year was Executive Directors to ensure optimal years or more have been subject to at 33 per cent.
Further information Board composition a particularly rigorous review.
regarding our diversity policy is set out above.
The Committee carried out a formal Board performance evaluation process, Succession planning by way of an externally facilitated Following the announcement that questionnaire.
The outcome of the review David Fischel will be standing down is summarised on page 77. as Chief Executive, the Committee engaged Heidrich & Struggles in the The Committee met twice in 2018 search for his successor.
The process with its main focus on the composition was deferred pending the outcome of the Board and succession planning, of the potential offer for intu by the in particular in relation to the succession Consortium comprising of the Peel of the Chief Executive and planned Group, the Olayan Group and Brookfield Non-Executive Director changes.
Following the withdrawal of the potential offer, the search was A sub-committee of the Committee was resumed.
Good progress is being established to lead the process to find a made and we expect to make an successor to the Chief Executive and to announcement in the near future.
76 intu properties plc Annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Heidrich & Struggles has no other Performance evaluation connection with the Company other Every year, the Board conducts a performance evaluation of the performance of the Board than in connection with the Chief and its committees.
In addition, the Chairman reviews the performance of each Director and Executive appointment.
the Senior Independent Director oversees the review of the Chairmans performance.
The areas identified for attention during 2018 were as shown in the table below: The Committee also engaged Korn Areas identified for attention Action taken Ferry to assist with the appointment Board succession planning Ian Burke was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in place of Ian Burke as an Independent Nonof Andrew Strang who resigned in September 2018.
Board also commenced a comprehensive search for a new Chief Executive Subsequent to their engagement in this Balance between Considerably more time has been devoted to discussion of key search, Korn Ferry was appointed as the presentations and matters relating to the day-to-day operation of the business Remuneration Committees independent discussion at meetings remuneration adviser with effect from Time discussing strategic A significant amount of time was spent discussing strategic 1 January 2019.
Prior to this appointment topics topics, particularly given the challenging market conditions they had no other connection with the Company other than providing input into 2018 performance evaluation the Boards succession planning.
This involved an external independent facilitator, Lintstock, engaging with the Chairman and Company Secretary to set the context for the evaluation and tailor surveys for all directors to The Board, through the Nomination and the specific circumstances of intu.
Lintstock is a specialist corporate governance consultancy Review Committee, has focused on and has no commercial dealings with the Group, other than for the provision of corporate succession planning of Non-Executive governance services to the Board.
The anonymity of all respondents was ensured throughout Directors following Andrew Strangs the process in order to promote the open and frank exchange of views.
Rakhi Goss-Custard will not be seeking As a result of the review, among other things the Board agreed that it should continue re-election at the forthcoming annual to devote attention to ensuring a successful transition to a new Chief Executive, focus general meeting and the Company on succession planning for Non-Executive Directors and consider the overall role played announced on 18 February 2019 the by the Board in relation to corporate transactions involving Hammerson and the Consortium resignations of Louise Patten and Richard comprising the Peel Group, the Olayan Group and Brookfield Property Group, including Gordon.
A search for at least one new lessons that the Board can draw from these processes.
Non-Executive Director is well underway.
Induction for new Directors We expect to announce the new There is a comprehensive induction programme for new Directors which is tailored by the appointment of a new independent Chairman, in consultation with the Chief Executive and Company Secretary, depending Non-Executive Director to replace Rakhi on the type of appointment.
The programme ordinarily includes meetings with Board Goss-Custard before the annual general members, senior management and external advisers, as well as a high-level review of all meeting.
Full details will be provided in current projects, Board strategy and an in-depth review of the Groups assets.
Additional the Notice of annual general meeting elements are added to the programme as needed following discussion between the Chairman which will be distributed to shareholders and the individual Director.
Where required, the Company Secretary provides guidance and facilitates the provision Talent, training and development of training on directors duties under the Companies Act 2006 and on legal, regulatory and Talent development is a key focus of governance matters with which the Company, Board and individual Directors must comply.
the Committee and a comprehensive talent and leadership programme, including succession planning, has been implemented for senior management across the Group.
The Committee The Board also recognises the need for Re-election of Directors receives regular update reports regarding Directors to keep up-to-date with relevant All Directors will submit themselves for progress and remains confident in the legislative and regulatory developments re-election at the forthcoming annual future potential of the Groups most as well as changes to corporate general meeting in May 2019, other than promising executives and staff.
governance best practice and investor Rakhi Goss-Custard who, having reached expectations.
The Company Secretary the end of her tenure, is not seeking As Chairman, with the assistance of reports to each Board meeting on these re-election.
the Nomination and Review Committee, matters, drawing attention to any issues I regularly consider the need for Directors of particular relevance.
John Strachan to update and expand their skills and Chairman knowledge.
Training is provided for 20 February 2019 Non-Executive Directors in the form of presentations at Board meetings, attendance at relevant seminars and courses.
intu properties plc Annual report 2018 77
