Strategic report Relationships People are what make us tick.
Our relationships and reputation with our stakeholders are important to the overall sustainable success of our business e maintain close relationships Working with our stakeholders of areas relevant to tenants including with our stakeholders, checking Customers reputation, service, products, innovation, W in with them regularly to find Our customers are at the heart of relationships and value for money.
out what we are doing well, what we can everything we do, so we listen to them We also interviewed senior retailer do better, and where their needs have carefully to keep our centres continually executives to gain a wider perspective changed.
Our materiality process takes a evolving and meeting their requirements.
about their views and requirements.
formal sounding of the issues around our Our net promoter score, which we assess The research has delivered valuable business that are most relevant to them.
from Tell intu and is consistently high at insights which have been used to inform 75, shows where we are succeeding and our revised strategy.
We use our reputation management where we could make improvements.
framework to measure how we are As well as day-to-day contact we hold perceived by our stakeholders so that In 2018 we introduced mystery shopping regular client reviews with customer we can ensure that our strategy reflects at all UK intu-branded centres.
We have an their needs and perceptions.
It focuses 216 visits over the year, during which nine annual service charge roadshow to on the five primary groups customers, touchpoints were scored, we gathered present and discuss the service charge.
tenants, investors, local and national key information into how our centres We host regular Merchants Associations meetings and other events around the government and employees and are performing through the eyes of country.
We also attend a wide range measures against a number of core customers.
Changes already made as of industry conferences and exhibitions competencies.
a result have had a tangible impact giving retailers the opportunity to meet on our NPS.
In 2018, the third year of measuring, saw an industry-wide drop in reputation, and This year we continued our research Investors we too saw a slight drop in overall into the customer journey which aims to We deliver long-term value to our reputation, driven by the uncertainty enhance customer experience in our investors through strong, stable income around the failed corporate transactions centres.
Our brand tracker measures streams from our high-quality shopping and, particularly, the negative media awareness, advocacy and consideration centres.
Understanding the requirements sentiment that surrounded them.
of our brand by customers spontaneous and concerns of both existing and Among the general public, the perception awareness was 28 per cent at the end potential investors is key.
of products and services, intu as an of 2018.
We heard from 22,000 shoppers innovative company and as employers through our Tell intu customer feedback This year we conducted 370 meetings all rose.
programme and our Shopper View with investment institutions.
We hosted research panel of 300 customers regular investor visits to our centres to Next year we will look to supplement the participated in 12 projects.
show how we are meeting our objectives reputation framework by implementing and attended investor conferences in the media RepTrak mining.
We will introduce Tenants UK and internationally.
We visited intu new studies for employees and tenant Good relationships with our tenants Asturias, intu Xanad and intu Watford clients, and more clearly link our CR are essential to understanding their with analysts and investors in 2018. programme with intu in the minds of requirements and helping them flourish.
We also engaged in environmental, social In 2018 we carried out two types of and governance indices which show high tenant research.
The first was a performance year-on-year.
qualitative research project into a number 32 intu properties plc Annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Suppliers We host an annual parliamentary dinner Local communities We rely on our suppliers to help our for MPs with an intu centre in their intu centres are at the heart of the business run smoothly, from day-to-day constituency.
The event allows senior communities where they are located.
operations through to the construction members of the intu management team Good community engagement benefits of major developments.
We have open, to hear first hand from MPs and provides our customers and local people and transparent and long-term relationships an opportunity for us to raise industry ultimately is good for our business.
with suppliers to ensure they maintain concerns such as business rates and the same high standards we set ourselves.
This year intu staff spent almost 11,000 We also encourage new suppliers into the hours helping local community groups.
market, both through our intu Accelerate We regularly participate in relevant We held 250 community activities in innovation initiative and through general government consultations that have our centres and engaged with over procurement.
We created our Longevity a potential impact on our business.
800 people reported that lifecycle management programme with they had developed new skills through new start-up Invida which has since gone Our people our various employment and other on to win awards for its effectiveness.
Our employees are the experts behind community partnerships.
In total, the success of the business.
In centres, we donated almost 1.7 million in Local and national government they are the face of intu and delivering community support through time, Successful relationships with local our brand promise is central to making space, money and leverage.
authorities, MPs and city centre both customers and retailers happy.
Our management bodies such as Business commitment to employee engagement Improvement Districts BIDs are vital to is the key to our motivated workforce.
our sustainability as a long-term business.
This year all staff participated in new We contribute management time and brand training, designed to give our financially to a number of BIDs covering people an enhanced understanding of the intu centres.
We play a leadership role core principles of the brand and how they in some BIDs, for example Uxbridge.
Such can contribute to driving intus reputation.
partnerships, including links with local chambers of commerce and branches of We engaged with our employees through national industry bodies such as the CBI, many channels including the roll out of Management viewpoint reinforce our substantial and long-term the intranet to all staff, presentations, commercial and social engagement at briefings and consultation forums and By listening closely to our tenants the heart of many UK towns and cities.
provided many opportunities for them intu Experiences creates bespoke packages In some the local authority is our to feed back.
We have noted an increase of opportunities from traditional mall investment partner.
in employee engagement as a result of merchandising to experiential and digital the many communications in 2018 to activations to offer new experiences to A number of our centres are in areas ensure staff were kept informed during customers.
The value brands place on this covered by elected mayors and combined the potential corporate transactions.
is shown by the growth in income of intu authorities and we have quickly forged Experiences to 23 million a year.
good relations with these influential Roger Binks regional representatives.
Customer Experience Director intu properties plc Annual report 2018 33
