Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance Sound corporate governance is implicit in Investecs values, culture, processes, functions and organisational structure.
Theboardsets the tone from the top in the manner in which itconducts itself and oversees the structures and the framework forcorporate governance Former chairmans introduction Dear Shareholder Investec thrives on change, continually challenging the status quo and recognising that success depends on flexibility, innovation and enthusiasm in meeting the needs of our changing environment.
In light thereof, I am pleased to announce that as part of the management succession plan, as announced by the board and as discussed in more detail below, I stepped down as chairman of the board on 15May2018.
Perry Crosthwaite, the Investec groups former senior independent non-executive director became chairman of the group on 15May2018.
Perry Crosthwaite was appointed as non-executive director of the Investec Limited and Investec plc board in June2010.
Perry stepped down as chairman of the remuneration committee with Philip Hourquebie assuming the position on 1April 2018.
Iamhumbled to be continuing with the Investec group as joint chief executive officer with effect from 1 October 2018.
We present the annual corporate governance report for the year ended 31 March 2018, which describes our approach to corporate governance.
For the purpose of this report, the boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited will be referred to as the board.
This year two chairmans letters will be included in the report as a result of the management change implemented as indicated above.
From an outlook perspective, the past year was difficult to navigate as uncertainty in both South Africa and the UK remained.
Corporate failures within all jurisdictions exacerbated this uncertainty.
On a macro front the global economy experienced synchronised growth for the first time since before the global financial crisis.
The complexities of Brexit continue to cause uncertainty in the UK economy.
While growth inSouth Africa was down in the first quarter of 2018 relative to the final quarter of 2017, the rest of the year should be positive due to a mix of investor confidence and a rebound in consumer spending.
Sound corporate governance is implicit in Investecs values, culture, processes, functions and organisational structure.
Our values require that directors and employees behave with integrity, displaying consistent and uncompromising moral strength in order to promote and maintain trust.
We demand cast-iron integrity in all internal and external dealings, consistently and uncompromising displaying moral strength and behaviour.
We believe that open and honest dialogue is the appropriate process to test decisions, real consensus and accept responsibility.
We have adopted a multidimensional approach involving everyone in the organisation which incorporates challenge at every level as a defence mechanism against corruption and fraud.
Creating fraud and ethics awareness throughout the organisation assists in influencing ethical behaviour.
The board oversees and monitors, on an ongoing basis, how the consequences of our organisations activities and outputs affect its status as a responsible corporate citizen.
This oversight and monitoring is performed against measures and targets agreed with management in the workplace, economy, society and the environment.
Our group wide philosophy seeks to maintain an appropriate balance between the interests of all stakeholders, and is closely aligned to our culture and values which include risk consciousness, meritocracy, material employee ownership and an unselfish contribution to colleagues, clients and society.
We respect the dignity of all individuals and embrace diversity through openness and by the sincere, consistent and considerate manner in which we seek to interact.
The past year in focus In an uncertain and volatile world, Investecs culture and values continue to support the organisation in achieving its strategic objectives.
The board has remained committed to the highest standards of integrity and ethical behaviour.
Our client focus and entrepreneurial spirit have continued to be front of mind over the past year.
The board and management have sought to develop a strategy for the group which isbalanced in terms of managing the risks presented in these uncertain times and positioning for future opportunities as they arise.
Management succession The board, working closely with the DLC nominations and directors affairs committee nomdac, continued to drive and monitor succession planning.
Succession of the groups long-serving executive management has been an ongoing focus area for the board with the groups initial announcement in this regard made in November 2015, with further announcements in February 2018 and May 2018.
The details pertaining to the management succession will be addressed in more detail in the governance report.
110 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued Diversity At Investec, we are committed to attracting, developing and retaining a diverse team of talented people.
A diverse workforce is vital to our ability to be an innovative organisation that is able to adapt and prosper in a fast changing world.
Our recruitment strategies prioritise previously disadvantaged, female and disabled candidates where possible.
We have various processes to encourage debate and dialogue around valuing diversity and difference.
To help us measure the pace of change, we have set a number of goals and targets.
Investec is a member of the 30% Club in SouthAfrica and the UK committing to a goal of 30% women on the board, and has made good progress towards the target of 33% female representation by 2020, per the Hampton-Alexander Review.
Investec has signed up to the Women in Finance Charter in the UK, pledging to promote gender diversity by having a senior executive team member responsible and accountable for gender diversity and inclusion, setting internal targets for gender diversity at senior management levels, publishing progress annually against these targets, and linking thepay of senior executives to delivery against these gender diversity targets.
In addition, during the year we reported on our gender pay gap.
We are confident that across our organisation men and women are paid equally for doing the same job.
Our gender pay gap occurs primarily because there is a lower proportion of women in senior leadership and revenue-generating roles which attract higher market levels of pay.
We are dedicated to improving our position in line with our commitment to promote diversity.
We know that while we have worked to address greater representation of women, we have more to do.
We have measures in place to improve this and we are committed to advancement and holding ourselves publicly accountable.
Having a diverse board and workplace is and remains important to the group bringing as it does the clear benefits of distinct and different outlooks, alternative viewpoints, and challenging mindsets.
Strategic initiatives The board has continued to exercise leadership, integrity and judgement in pursuit of Investecs strategic goals and objectives.
In terms of positioning for future opportunities, the group has continued to invest into the business ensuring that it remains competitive and relevant in the markets in which it operates.
Strategic initiatives were focused on improving the position and returns of the UK bank, reshaping the midmarket corporate offering in South Africa and improving economic returns across the group.
Board effectiveness The board continues to regularly contemplate its own effectiveness and therefore undertakes an evaluation of its performance and that of its committees and individual directors annually, with independent external input into the process every third year.
The last board effectiveness review conducted by an independent external facilitator in 2015.
This year the board effectiveness review was internally facilitated.
The responses received from the review indicated that the board is satisfied with the various aspects in relation to the board and committee governance and functioning.
Comments and scores received provided a sense that the board members were of the opinion that the boards dynamic continued to strengthen and improve.
Strengths highlighted in the comments in respect of board effectiveness indicated that the board is increasingly more effective and the board was settling down after a number of members joined the board.
Shareholder engagement During the past year, the board continued its shareholder consultations.
The primary focus of these consultations was executive remuneration and succession, however, these consultations have also provided an opportunity to discuss governance and business strategy more broadly with shareholders.
From a governance perspective, the dialogue centred on the composition of the board, whilst on remuneration, the discussion related to the new remuneration policy and creating appropriate linkage between pay and performance.
Composition With regard to the composition of the board, Peter Thomas stepped down from the board following the annual general meeting on 10August 2017 and Philip Hourquebie was appointed to the board on 14 August 2017.
Conclusion I would like to thank the board for their dedication and the time spent with them during my time as chairman of the board.
I would furthermore like to congratulate Perry Crosthwaite on his new appointment and wish him all the best in this new endeavour.
The group will benefit from his continued contribution and dedication.
Fani Titi Former chairman 15 June 2018 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 111 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued Chairmans introduction Dear Shareholder As newly appointed chairman of the board I am pleased to provide you with our corporate governance report.
it is a great honour to be appointed chairman of Investec.
The year ahead We approach the year ahead with confidence in our leadership and strategy.
Stability within the group and the orderly transition of leadership roles within the organisation has been and will continue to be a key area of focus for the board.
The board will continue to motivate and lead our people to ensure long-term success, and to ensure that we operate from an agile and  platform.
In this continually changing environment, the board more than ever, needs to focus on key strategic priorities.
The board will also continue to ensure that Investec has the ability to react rapidly to the changing environment, and ensure that Investecs strategic objectives remain valid.
Conclusion The board congratulates the new executive team on their appointments.
The board is confident that Fani Titi and Hendrik du Toit together with senior management, will continue to grow and build Investecs core businesses and deliver the right outcomes for the groups clients and stakeholders.
Over the following pages, you will find more detail of our governance framework, including who our board and management are, how they make decisions and what they have done over the past year in terms of their leadership, strategic direction and oversight of the organisation.
We hope that this report, together with the integrated report and financial statements will provide you with an overview of how we are managing the group and looking after the interests of our stakeholders.
Perry Crosthwaite Chairman 15 June 2018 112 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued Within this report you will find: Page Who we are Governance framework 114 Board roles 117 Director biographies 118 Board composition 124 What we did Board report 126 DLC nominations and directors affairs committee report 131 DLC social and ethics committee report 137 Investec plc audit committee report 141 DLC board risk and capital committee report 147 DLC remuneration committee report 151 Management committees 151 How we comply Regulatory context 152 Statement of compliance 152 Other statutory information 152 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 113 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued Who we are From a legal perspective, the DLC is The boards of Investec plc and Investec Governance framework comprised of: Limited are identical in terms of their Investec operates under a dual listed composition and board meetings are held Investec plc a public company company DLC structure and considers jointly.
The committee structure has been incorporated in the UK and listed on the corporate governance principles and derived from the requirements of the UK the London Stock Exchange with a regulations of both the UK and South Africa Corporate Governance Code and the secondary listing on the Johannesburg before adopting the appropriate standard KingIV Report on Corporate Governance, Stock Exchange: and for the group which also complies with as well as the activities of the group.
Investec Limited a public company incorporated in South Africa and listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, with secondary listings on the Namibia Stock Exchange and the Botswana Stock Exchange.
Investec plc and Investec Limited INL board of directors DLC nominations DLC remuneration DLC audit DLC board risk and DLC social and Group investment and directors affairs committee committees capital committee ethics committee committee committee Policy Review Group Group risk Audit DLC capital executive executive legal risk and capital sub-committees committees risk review risk review forums committee forum forum Global Deal forum forums new product committees forum Audit and compliance implementation forums Global credit committee Internal Global market risk forum audit Group asset and liability committees Group operational risk committees IT strategy committee Compliance Global compliance forum Global customer and conduct committee Stakeholders employees, shareholders, government, regulatory bodies, clients, suppliers, communities 114 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued Kim McFarland, chief operating officer Chairman of Investec Bank Management and Board COO and chief financial officer CFO Limited and Investec Bank plc Succession of Investec Asset Management since Fani Titi has stepped down as chairman December 1993, will take over as group Stephen Koseff chief executive officer of Investec Bank Limited with Khumo finance and operations director on of the Investec group, Bernard Kantor Shuenyane assuming this position 1April 2019.
Kim will continue with her managing director MD of the Investec on 15May 2018.
Khumo has been a duties as COO and CFO of Investec group and Glynn Burger risk and finance director of Investec Bank Limited since Asset Management until 31 March 2019 director of the Investec group are part of August2014.
to support an orderly transition in this the founding members of Investec and for business.
almost 40 years, together with the board Fani Titi has stepped down as chairman and the groups senior management team, of Investec Bank plc with Brian Stevenson Ciaran Whelan, who has held various have steered the group to becoming an assuming this position on 15 May 2018. senior positions globally with the Investec internationally recognised specialist bank Brian has been a director of Investec Bank group over the past 30 years, and who is and asset manager.
plc since September 2016. currently global joint head of the Specialist Bank and Global Head of Private Banking, As part of the groups succession plan Global divisional management will succeed Glynn Burger as director of and orderly transition from the founding risk on 1 April 2019.
Ciaran will remain John Green and Mimi Ferrini became members to the next generation of the global head of the Private Bank until deputy CEOs of Investec Asset leadership, the following management 31March2019.
Management on 1 April 2018 and from and board succession changes have and 1October 2018, will assume the roles of shall be implemented subject to regulatory During the transition period Stephen, Joint CEOs of the business.
approval: Bernard and Glynn will work closely with the new executive designates to ensure a David van der Walt and Richard Wainwright Investec Limited and Investec smooth and orderly transition.
remain CEOs of Investec Bank plc and plc board executive director Investec Bank Limited, respectively.
changes Investec Limited and Investec Davidvan der Walt will remain joint global plc board non-executive head of the Specialist Bank together with Stephen Koseff and Bernard Kantor director changes will step down from their roles on Richard Wainwright who replaced Ciaran Whelan in this role on 1 April 2018.
From that date until Fani Titi has stepped down as group 31March 2019 they will continue to serve chairman.
Steve Elliott remains global head of Investec as executive directors and be available to Wealth & Investment.
provide support and advice to the incoming Perry Crosthwaite, the Investec groups senior independent non-executive director executives.
As from 1April2019 they will Nishlan Samujh, the current global group become non-executive directors.
has been appointed as chairman of the chief financial officer CFO, will remain in group on 15 May 2018.
Glynn Burger, group risk and finance was appointed as a non-executive director, will retire on 31 March 2019. director of the board in June 2010.
Glynnremains available and willing to assist Perrysbiography follows later in this report.
in any capacity that the new management Perry Crosthwaite has stepped down team require him for.
as chairman of the remuneration Fani Titi who has been a non-executive committee with Philip Hourquebie director on the Investec group board since assuming the position on 1 April 2018.
January 2004 and chairman of the group Philip was appointed as a non-executive since November 2011, and Hendrik du director of the board in August 2017.
Toit the founding CEO of Investec Asset Philipsbiography follows later in this report.
Management and an executive director Zarina Bassa has been appointed of the group since December 2010, have been appointed as Joint CEO designates as the groups senior independent non-executive director on 1 April 2018. on 1April 2018.
On 1 October 2018 they will become joint CEOs of the group and will Zarinawas appointed as a non-executive director of the board in November 2014. be held jointly accountable and responsible Zarinasbiography follows later in this for the leadership and management of report.
Hendrik will remain CEO of Investec Asset Management until 30 September 2018 to ensure an orderly transition in this business.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 115 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued Timeline of board and management changes Current changes Future changes Philip Hourquebie Fani Titi Stephen Koseff StephenKoseff and StephenKoseff and BernardKantor BernardKantor Became chairman of DLC Stepped down as Will step down as remuneration committee group, IBP and IBL group CEO remains Will step down as Will join the group chairman and chairman an executive director executive directors of board Investec Limited Zarina Bassa of DLC nomdac of Investec Limited and Investec Limited and and Investec plc as Became group senior Investec plc Investec plc non-executive directors Perry Crosthwaite independent nonBernard Kantor Glynn Burger Ciaran Whelan executive director Became chairman of Investec group and Will step down as Will step down as Will become group risk Perry Crosthwaite chairman of DLC group MD remains an group risk and finance director Stepped down as nomdac executive director of director Kim McFarland chairman of DLC Investec Limited and Brian Stevenson Ciaran Whelan remuneration committee Will become group Investec plc Became chairman of Will step down as finance and operations Richard Wainwright Fani Titi and Hendrik IBP and chairman Global Head of Private director du Toit Became Joint Global of IBP nominations Bank Head of the Specialist committee Will assume Joint CEO Bank with David van roles Khumo Shuenyane derWalt Mimi Ferrini and Becamechairman Ciaran Whelan John Green ofIBL Stepped down as Joint Will become Joint Global Head of the CEOs of Investec Asset Specialist Bank but Management remains Global Head of the Private Bank Fani Titi and Hendrik duToit Appointed as Joint CEO designates 1 April 2018 15 May 2018 1 October 2018 31 March 2019 1 April 2019 Investec Bank plc.
116 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued Board roles The key governance roles and responsibilities of the board are outlined below: Chief executive officer and managing Chairman director joint group CEOs Group risk and finance director Fani Titi Perry Crosthwaite StephenKoseff and BernardKantor up Glynn Burger effective from 15 May 2018 to 30 September 2018 Hendrik du Toit and Fani Titi effective from 1 October 2018 Set the board agenda, ensuring that Lead and manage the group within the Ensures that the groups risk there is sufficient time available for authorities delegated by the board management processes are effective discussion of all items Execution of group strategy Leads and manages the group finance Encourage open and honest dialogue functions Ensuring Investecs unique culture is between all board members embedded and perpetuated Provides the board with updates on the Lead and manage the dynamics of the groups financial performance Development and growth of all board, providing direction and focus Investecs businesses Approval of the risk management plan Ensure that the board sets the strategy of the group and assist in monitoring progress towards achieving the strategy Perform director evaluations Serves as the primary interface with regulators and other stakeholders on behalf of the board Senior independent director SID Non-executive directors Company secretary Perry Crosthwaite Zarina Bassa Zarina Bassa, Laurel Bowden, David Miller effective from 1 April 2018 Cheryl Carolus, David Friedland, Philip Hourquebie, Charles Jacobs, IanKantor, Lord Malloch-Brown KCMG, Khumo Shuenyane, Peter Thomas Resigned on 10 August 2017 from Investec Limited and Investec plc Address any concerns or questions Bring unique perspectives to the Maintains the flow of information to the from shareholders and non-executive boardroom to facilitate constructive board and its committees and ensure directors dialogue on proposals compliance with board procedures Provide a sounding board to the Constructively challenge and contribute Minutes all board and committee chairman to assist in developing the groups meetings to record the deliberations and strategy decisions taken therein Lead the board in the assessment of the effectiveness of the chairman, or the Monitor the performance of Ensures that the board complies with relationship between the chairman and management against their agreed relevant legislation and regulation, the CEO strategic goals including Listings Requirements Available to act as trusted intermediary Ensure the effectiveness of internal Maintaining the companies statutory for non-executive directors if required to controls and the integrity of financial registers assist them to challenge and contribute reporting Ensures good corporate governance is effectively Contributing to board effectiveness implemented and advise the chairman through outside contacts and opinions and board in that regard Ensure succession is in place Manage risk Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 117 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued Director biographies as at 31 March 2018 Biographies of our directors are outlined below, including their relevant skills and experience, other principal appointments and any appointments to Investecs DLC committees for the year under review.
Fani Titi, chairman, Investec Limited and Investec plc Age: 56 Qualifications: BSc cum laude, BSc Hons cum laude in Mathematics, MA in Mathematics, MBA Relevant skills and experience Fani Titi has been a member of the boards of Investec Limited and Investec plc since January 2004 and has been non-executive chairman of Investec Limited and Investec plc from November 2011.
He has also been a member of the Investec Bank Limited board from July 2002, and has chaired its board from June 2007.
He has been a member of the Investec Bank plc board from August 2011, and its chairman from August 2014.
He has served on the board of Investec Asset Management from November 2013.
Fani was a founding member of the private investment group Kagiso Trust Investments Limited now Kagiso Tiso Holdings, and later cofounded and led the public offering of Kagiso Media Limited on the JSE Limited as its CEO.
Fani was subsequently the founding executive chairman of the private investment firm the Tiso Group, which subsequently merged with Kagiso Trust Investments to form Kagiso Tiso Holdings.
Fani stepped down from the Tiso Group in 2008 to concentrate his time on his duties at the Investec group, while also looking after his private investment portfolio.
Fani has over two decades of investment banking experience, and has sat on the boards of different investee companies and JSE listed companies Other principal appointments Investec Bank plc, Investec Bank Limited, IEP Group Proprietary Limited, Investec Asset Management Holdings Proprietary Limited, Investec Asset Management Limited and a number of Investec subsidiaries Committees DLC remuneration, DLC board risk and capital, DLC nominations and directors affairs chairman and DLC social and ethics chairman Date of appointment 30 January 2004 Resigned from DLC remuneration committee as at 23 February 2018 Resigned as chairman of the DLC nominations and directors affairs committee and social and ethics committee Perry KO Crosthwaite, senior independent director SID Age: 69 Qualifications: MA Hons Oxon in modern languages Relevant skills and experience Perry was appointed chairman of Investec plc and Investec Limited on 15 May 2018.
Perry was previously senior independent director of Investec plc and Investec Limited, a post he held from August 2014 to March 2018, having joined the boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited in June 2010.
Perry is a former chairman of Investec Investment Banking and Securities and left the group on 31March2004 Perry has financial experience gained through a distinguished career in investment banking with over 30 years of experience as a director in the city of London.
Perry has served as a non-executive director of Melrose Industries plc from July 2005 to May 2016, andwas a founding member of Henderson Crosthwaite Institutional Brokers Limited, serving as its director from 1986 to 1998 Other principal appointments Investec Holdings Ireland Limited chairman and Investec Capital and Investments Ireland Limited Committees DLC nominations and directors affairs and DLC remuneration chairman Date of appointment 18 June 2010 Resigned as chairman of the DLC remuneration committee on 31 March 2018 118 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued Stephen Koseff, group chief executive officer Age: 66 Qualifications: BCom, CA SA, H Dip BDP, MBA Relevant skills and experience Stephen joined Investec in 1980.
He has diverse experience within Investec as chief accounting officer and general manager of banking, treasury and merchant banking Other principal appointments Investec Bank Limited, Investec Bank plc and a number of Investec subsidiaries, Bid Corporation Limited chairman, IEP Group Proprietary Limited Committees DLC board risk and capital, DLC social and ethics and DLC capital chairman Date of appointment 26 June 2002 Bernard Kantor, group managing director Age: 68 Qualifications: CTA Relevant skills and experience Bernard joined Investec in 1980.
He has had varied experience within Investec as a manager of the trading division, marketing manager and chief operating officer Other principal appointments Investec Bank Limited, Investec Bank plc and a number of Investec subsidiaries, Phumelela Gaming and Leisure Limited chairman and IEP Group Proprietary Limited Committees DLC board risk and capital, DLC social and ethics and DLC capital Date of appointment 19 March 2002 Glynn R Burger, group risk and finance director Age: 61 Qualifications: BAcc, CA SA, H Dip BDP, MBL Relevant skills and experience Glynn joined Investec in 1980.
His positions within Investec have included chief accounting officer, group risk manager and joint managing director for South Africa Other principal appointments Investec Bank Limited and a number of Investec subsidiaries Committees DLC board risk and capital and DLC capital Date of appointment 3 July 2002 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 119 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued Hendrik J du Toit, Investec Asset Management chief executive officer Age: 56 Qualifications: BCom Law, BCom Hons cum laude, MCom cum laude, MPhil Cambridge Relevant skills and experience After lecturing economics at the University of Stellenbosch, Hendrik joined the Investment division of Old Mutual from where he moved to Investec in 1991 to establish Investec Asset Management Other principal appointments Investec Asset Management Holdings Proprietary Limited and Investec Asset Management Limited as well as their subsidiaries and non-executive director of Naspers Limited.
Over the past two years, Hendrik has also served on the Global Business Commission for Sustainable Development Committees None Date of appointment 15 December 2010 Zarina BM Bassa, independent non-executive director Age: 54 Qualifications: BAcc, DipAcc, CA SA Relevant skills and experience Zarina is a former partner of Ernst & Young Inc. She joined the Absa Group in 2002 and was an executive director and a member of the groups executive committee, with accountability for private banking.
She has previously chaired the South African Public Accountants and Auditors Board and the South African Auditing Standards Board, has been a member of the JSE GAAP Monitoring Panel and the Financial Service Board.
Zarina has previously served as a non-executive director of Kumba Iron Ore Limited and Sun International Limited amongst other Other principal appointments The Financial Services Board, Oceana Group Limited, Yebo Yethu Limited, Vodacom Proprietary Limited and Woolworths Holdings Limited and various Investec subsidiaries including Investec Bank Limited, Investec Bank plc, Investec Life Limited Zarina has been appointed as the senior independent director SID of Investec plc and Investec Limited effective from 1 April 2018 Committees DLC audit chairman, Investec plc audit chairman, Investec Limited and Investec Bank Limited audit chairman, Investec Bank plc audit, DLC remuneration, DLC nominations and directors affairs and DLC board risk and capital Date of appointment 1 November 2014 Laurel C Bowden, independent non-executive director Age: 53 Qualifications: MBA INSEAD, BSc Electronic Engineering, HND Eng Relevant skills and experience Laurel is a founding partner at 83 North UK LLP a private equity business, where her areas of focus include internet, enterprise software and fintech.
Laurel has over 15 years investment experience and has led investments in many leading European technology companies, including Just Eat, Qliktech and Hybris acquired by SAP.
She was previously a director at GE Capital in London Other principal appointments 83 North Limited, Bluevine Capital Inc, Ebury Partners Limited, iZettle AB, Celonis GmbH, Mirakl SAS, TIS GmbH, Wonga Group Limited, MotorK Limited, Workable Technology Limited the majority of these are companies which Laurel serves on as a representative of 83North Committees None Date of appointment 1 January 2015 120 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued Cheryl A Carolus, independent non-executive director Age: 60 Qualifications: BA Law, Honorary doctorate in Law Relevant skills and experience Cheryl was the South African High Commissioner to London between 1998 and 2001 and was chief executive officer of South African Tourism Other principal appointments fide Beers Consolidated Mines Limited, Gold Fields Limited chairman, The IQ Business Proprietary Limited, Ponahalo Capital Proprietary Limited, executive chairperson of Peotona Group Holdings Proprietary Limited chair and director of a number of the Peotona group companies and International Crisis Group.
Constitution Hill Education Trust chairman and WWF South Africa Committees DLC social and ethics Date of appointment 18 March 2005 David Friedland, independent non-executive director Age: 65 Qualifications: BCom, CA SA Relevant skills and experience David is a former partner of both Arthur Andersen and KPMG Inc. where he also served as head of audit and risk in the KPMG Inc. CapeTown office before leaving in March 2013 Other principal appointments Investec Bank Limited, Investec Bank plc, The Foschini Group Limited, Pick n Pay Stores Limited and Pres Les Proprietary Limited Committees DLC board risk and capital chairman, DLC capital and DLC nominations and directors affairs Date of appointment 1 March 2013 Philip A Hourquebie, independent non-executive director Age: 65 Qualifications: BAcc, BCom Hons, CA SA Relevant skills and experience Philip has been a longstanding Regional Managing Partner of two regions of Ernst & Young Inc. Africa and Central and South East Europe, including Turkey.
Philip left Ernst & Young in 2014.
As a senior partner at Ernst & Young Inc. Philips background is in the advisory services in both the private and public sector.
As an advisory partner and senior client service partner, he has worked, interalia, with clients in financial services, mining, telecommunications, consumer products and retail, state-owned enterprises, government agencies and government departments at all three levels.
Philip has also been a past chair of the board of South African Institute of Chartered Accountants SAICA Other principal appointments Aveng Limited and Investec Property Fund Limited Committees DLC audit, Investec plc audit, Investec Limited and Investec Bank Limited audit, DLC remuneration chairman, DLC board risk and capital, DLC nominations and directors affairs Date of appointment 14 August 2017 Effective from 1 April 2018 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 121 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued Charles R Jacobs, independent non-executive director Age: 51 Qualifications: LLB Relevant skills and experience Charles brings to the board a valuable combination of knowledge of the UK regulatory and corporate governance standards, global capital markets and M&A.
Charles sits on the board of Fresnillo plc, a FTSE 100 company.
Charles was elected as chairman and senior partner at the global law firm Linklaters LLP in October 2016, having been appointed a partner in 1999, and has over 27 years of experience of advising companies around the world, including in relation to their legal and regulatory requirements.
Charles chairs the Linklaters Partnership Board and holds an LLB from Leicester University Other principal appointments Linklaters LLP and Fresnillo plc senior independent non-executive director and chairman of the remuneration committee Committees DLC remuneration Date of appointment 8 August 2014 Ian R Kantor, non-executive director Age: 71 Qualifications: BSc.
MBA Relevant skills and experience Ian is co-founder of Investec, served as the chief executive of Investec Bank Limited until 1985 and was the chairman of Investec Holdings Limited.
Ian is currently a non-executive director on the boards of Investec Asset Management Holdings Proprietary Limited and Investec Asset Management Limited Other principal appointments Chairman of Blue Marlin Holdings SA formerly Insinger fide Beaufort Holdings SA, in which Investec Limited indirectly holds an 8.3%interest Committees None Date of appointment 26 June 2002 Lord Malloch-Brown KCMG, independent non-executive director Age: 64 Qualifications: BA Hons History, MA Political Science Relevant skills and experience Lord Malloch-Brown is chairman of SGO Corporation Limited and Senior Advisor to the Eurasia Group, he was a UK government minister and member of the cabinet.
Lord Malloch-Brown was formerly the deputy secretary-general of the United Nations as well as a vice president at the World Bank and head of United Nations Development Programme and a journalist at the Economist with wide ranging experience of boards Other principal appointments Seplat Petroleum Development Company plc, ISquared Capital and Kerogen Capital Committees DLC social and ethics chairman and DLC nominations and directors affairs Date of appointment 8 August 2014 Effective from 1 April 2018 122 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued Khumo L Shuenyane, independent non-executive director Age: 47 Qualifications: BEcon, CA England and Wales Relevant skills and experience Khumo serves on the boards of a number of companies, in the Investec group.
He is also a partner at Delta Partners, an advisory firm headquartered in Dubai focused on the telecoms, technology and digital sectors across emerging markets.
Between 2007 and 2013 Khumo served as group chief mergers and acquisitions officer for MTN Group Limited and was a member of its group executive committee.
Khumo was previously head of Principal Investments at Investec and was a member of Investecs Corporate Finance division for a total of nine years.
Prior to joining Investec in 1998, Khumo worked for Arthur Andersen in Birmingham UK and Johannesburg for six years from 1992.
He qualified as a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in1995 Other principal appointments Investec Bank Limited chairman, Investec Life Limited, Investec Specialist Investments RF Limited, Investec Asset Management Holdings Proprietary Limited and Investec Asset Management Limited Committees DLC audit, Investec plc audit, Investec Limited and Investec Bank Limited audit, DLC board risk and capital and DLC nominations and directors affairs Date of appointment 8 August 2014 Effective from 15 May 2018 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 123 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued Philip Hourquebie has been a longstanding the retention of certain members beyond Board composition Regional Managing Partner of two regions nine years may in certain circumstances be Independence of Ernst & Young Inc. Africa and Central beneficial in ensuring this balance and that South East Europe, including Turkey orderly succession can take place.
Theboard concluded that compliant with Provision B.
1.2 of the The board follows a thorough process of notwithstanding his previous association UKCorporate Governance Code in that assessing independence on an annual with Ernst & Young Inc. Philip retains at least half the board, excluding the basis for each director whose tenure independence of judgement as he was chairman, comprises independent nonexceeds six years.
The board does not never Investec Limiteds designated auditor.
The board isofthe believe that the tenure of any of the current viewthat the chairman, PerryCrosthwaite, Charles Jacobs is the chairman and senior non-executive directors interferes with their wasconsidered independent on partner of the global law firm Linklaters independence of judgement and their ability appointment.
Linklaters is currently one of Investecs to act in Investecs best interest.
The board considers As at 31 March 2018, the board is Accordingly, the board has concluded independence on an annual basis and compliant with King IV in that the majority that Cheryl Carolus, despite having again concluded that, notwithstanding ofnon-executive directors are independent.
been a director of Investecformore this link, Charles retains independence of than nineyears, retains bothfinancial A summary of the factors the board judgement.
Charles does not form part of independence and independence of usestodetermine the independence the Linklaters team that provides advice to character and judgement.
ofnon-executive directors are detailed Investec and he has not provided advice below: to Investec for over a decade.
In addition, Notwithstanding the guidelines set out in selection of legal advisors is not a board the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Relationships and associations matter and is decided at the management board is of the view that Cheryl Carolus is Ian Kantor is the brother of Bernard Kantor, level.
If any decision were to be made independent of management and promotes Investecs managing director.
Ianis also the at the board level regarding Linklaters, the interest of stakeholders.
The balance of founder and was previously chief executive which has not happened to date, Charles the executive and non-executive directors officer of Investec.
Accordingly, the board would recuse himself in accordance with is such that there is a clear division of concluded that Ian could not be considered the provisions of the relevant Companies responsibility to ensure a balance of independent under the UKCorporate Act relating to directors interests.
Charles power, such that no one individual or Governance Code and King IV.
plays no role in any team advising Investec.
group can dominate board processes Where advice is provided by Linklaters or have unfettered powers of decisionPrior to joining the board on 1March2013, to Investec, it is provided by separate making.
Theboard believes that it functions David Friedland wasa partner of KPMG Inc. Linklaters partners and not Charles.
effectively and evaluates its performance KPMG Inc. along with Ernst & YoungInc.
Thelegal fees paid to Linklaters have annually.
are joint auditors of Investec Limited.
not been material either to Linklaters or Theboard concluded that, notwithstanding Attendance at credit Investec.
his previous association with KPMGInc.
David Friedland regularly attends credit David retains independence of judgement Tenure committees of the group.
The board given he was never Investec Limiteds The board is also mindful of its responsibility considers his attendance at these designated auditor or relationship to ensure that there remains an appropriate committees to be desirable in terms of partnerand was not involved with the balance of skills and experience on the developing an understanding of the day-toInvestec account.
board, and it is therefore of the view that day issues facing the business.
Independence Balance of non-executive and executive directors: Non-independent non-executive directors 1 Independent non-executives including chairman 10 Executives 4 of board Non-executive 73% 66.6% independent Executive 27% 124 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued services of the company secretary, whose Terms of appointment Independent advice appointment and removal is a boardmatter.
On appointment, non-executive directors Through the senior independent director SID are provided with a letter of appointment.
or the company secretary, individual directors In compliance with the UK Corporate The letter sets out, among other things, are entitled to seek professional independent Governance Code, the board has considered duties, responsibilities and expected time advice on matters related to the exercise of and is satisfied that the company secretary is commitments, details of Investecs policy on their duties and responsibilities at the expense competent, has the relevant qualifications and obtaining independent advice and, where of Investec.
No such advice was sought experience and maintains an arms-length appropriate, details of the board committees during the 2018 financial year.
In evaluating of which the non-executive director will these qualities, the board has considered the Company secretary be a member.
Investec has an insurance prescribed role and duties pursuant to the policy that insures directors against liabilities David Miller is the company secretary of requirements codified in the UK Companies they may incur in carrying out their duties.
The company secretary is Act of 2006 and the listings and governance Onthe recommendation of the nomination professionally qualified and has gained requirements as applicable.
and directors affairs committee nomdac, experience over a number of years.
His non-executive directors will be appointed for In addition, the board confirms that for the services are evaluated by board members an expected term of nine years threetimes period 1 April 2017 to 31March 2018 the during the annual board evaluation process.
three-year terms from the date of their first company secretary did not serve as a director He is responsible for the flow of information appointment to the board.
on the board nor did he take part in board to the board and its committees and for deliberations and only advised on matters of ensuring compliance with board procedures.
Alldirectors have access to the advice and Diversity Age: Geographical mix: Board gender balance: 40 50 7% 51 60 40% 61 and above 53% Aspirational target: Per the Hampton-Alexander Review: Good progress has been made towards the target of 33% female South Africa 47% Male 80% representation by 2020 which UK 47% Female 20% continues to be a priority.
Other 6% Tenure Average tenure: Average length of service years : 4 for non-executive directors UK Corporate Governance recommendation: Recommendation that non-executives should not serve longer than nine years from the time of their appointment.
0 - 3 years 3 3 - 6 years 3 6 - 9 years 2 9 years plus executive 3 9 years plus non-executive 4 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 125 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued What we did Furthermore, during the year ended The terms of references of board Board report 31March 2018, the boards held two committees and the group policies were Role additional meetings each in the UK and reviewed on an ad hoc basis.
Unscheduled meetings are The board seeks to exercise leadership, The annual meeting with the South African called as the need arises.
Comprehensive integrity and judgement in pursuit of Prudential Authority previously known as information packs on matters to be Investecs strategic goals and objectives the Banking Supervision Division of the considered by the board are provided to to achieve long-term sustainability, growth South African Reserve Bank, to discuss directors in advance of the meetings.
In fulfilling this objective the strategy performance, risk and the flavour board is responsible for: of the year topics of International Financial Key matters deliberated by our Reporting Standards IFRS 9 and effective board approving the groups strategy risk data aggregation and risk reporting, acting as a focal point for, and custodian Apart from standard and regular agenda was attended by board members.
of corporate governance items, such as report backs from each During the course of the year the board board committee and comprehensive providing effective leadership on an received training in respect of the senior reports from the CEO and financial director, ethical foundation management and certificate regime, the discussions in relation to succession ensuring the group is a responsible Financial Conduct Authority FCA approach planning was of material importance for corporate citizen and hot topics including IFRS 9, Markets the group.
The board remains focused on being responsible for the governance in Financial Instrument Directive MiFID II, the groups orderly transition plan to move of risk, including risks associated with Advanced Internal Rating Based AIRB from the founding members to the next information technology approach and General Data Protection generation of leadership.
ensuring the group complies with The board focused on gender initiatives the applicable laws and considers in the UK and South Africa and reviewed adherence to non-binding rules and the headcount and revenue per employee standards within the organisation.
Furthermore the monitoring performance new remuneration policy was considered.
ensuring succession plan is in place.
The board complied with Investecs policy regarding directors conflicts of interest and The board dealings with the group.
Meeting schedule and attendance Performance of the banks in the UK, The board meets at least six times including digitalisation, and performance annually, excluding the annual two-day reviews of the business were debated.
For the period The board effectiveness review was 1April 2017 to 31March2018, four board considered and the strength and meetings were held in the UK and four in weaknesses highlighted and appropriate South Africa, in line with the requirements steps to address the weaknesses were ofInvestecs DLC structure.
126 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued How the board spent its time Strategy formulation and monitoring Finance and operations including monitoring Governance, of implementation performance, capital and liquidity compliance and risk Other 25% 50% 20% 5% Composition and meeting attendance Investec plc Board member since 8 meetings in the year Eligible to Members during the year Independent Investec plc attend Attended F Titi former chairman On appointment 30 Jan 2004 8 8 PKO Crosthwaite chairman Yes 18 Jun 2010 8 8 ZBM Bassa Yes 1 Nov 2014 8 8 LC Bowden Yes 1 Jan 2015 8 8 GR Burger Executive 3 Jul 2002 8 7 CA Carolus Yes 18 Mar 2005 8 8 HJ du Toit Executive 15 Dec 2010 8 8 D Friedland Yes 1 Mar 2013 8 8 CR Jacobs Yes 8 Aug 2014 8 8 B Kantor Executive 19 Mar 2002 8 8 IR Kantor No 26 Jun 2002 8 8 S Koseff Executive 26 Jun 2002 8 8 Lord MallochBrown KCMG Yes 8 Aug 2014 8 8 KL Shuenyane Yes 8 Aug 2014 8 8 PA Hourquebie Yes 14 Aug 2017 6 6 PRS Thomas Yes 26 Jun 2002 2 2 F Titi stepped down as chairman of the board on 15 May 2018.
PKO Crosthwaite was appointed as chairman of the board on 15 May 2018.
PA Hourquebie was appointed to the Investec boards with effect from 14 August 2017.
PRS Thomas stepped down from the Investec boards with effect from 10 August 2017.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 127 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued Board activities Areas of focus What we did Group strategy The board: formulated and monitored the implementation of its strategy provided constructive challenge to management monitored progress made with regard to agreed strategic initiatives Group compliance, risk and The board: corporate governance and audit received and reviewed compliance reports in order to confirm that the group meets all internal and regulatory requirements dialogued and approved the 2017 2018 risk appetite framework regularly assessed the groups overall risk profile and emerging risk themes, receiving reports directly from the group risk manager and the chairman of the BRCC received reports on the groups operational and technology capability, including specific updates on cyber risk capability and the strategy for technology and infrastructure services received reports in respect of specific risks within the group including updates in respect of General Data Protection Regulation GDPR, Advanced Internal Rating Based AIRB, Foundation Internal Rating Based FIRB and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 9 considered and approved capital plans considered the impact of the revised UK Corporate Governance Code adopted the group Anti-Money Laundering AML and Counter Terrorism Financing CFT Policy approved the Recovery and Resolution Plans for the UK considered and confirmed the independence of the non-executive directors having regard to factors that might impact their independence considered auditor independence, appointment and monitoring of audit quality and related parties activities Leadership The board: considered regular updates by the various committees including the remco, nomdac, theaudit committee, social and ethics committee SEC and BRCC ensured that policies and behaviours set at board level are effectively communicated and implemented across the group Effectiveness The board: considered the process for the 2018 board effectiveness review which took the form of a self-assessment followed by one-on-one meetings between the chairman and directors amended added questions to the board effectiveness self-assessment regarding risk and audit, the presentation of projects to the boards, IT and succession planning noted that the 2018 effectiveness review showed good progress on those issues identified in the independently facilitated 2015 effectiveness review in light of the outcome of the board effectiveness review, finalised topics for directors development sessions 128 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued Board activities continued Areas of focus What we did Remuneration The board: received a report from the remco chair at each meeting which covered a variety of topics including: regulatory developments pertaining to remuneration considered a communication plan for business to communicate their compliance with the UKGender Pay Gap Reporting Requirements in conjunction with remco revised the new remuneration policy Relations with stakeholders The board, in order to ensure satisfactory dialogue with shareholders, and to foster strong and open relationships with regulators, noted and discussed the key areas of feedback from shareholders, including feedback relating to: board refreshment and succession succession planning for the CEO, managing director and senior management remuneration of executive directors regular meetings and open dialogue with regulators improving returns across its businesses Corporate citizenship The board discussed and monitored the various elements of good corporate citizenship including: the promotion of equality, the prevention of unfair discrimination and the reduction of corruption consideration of sponsorships, donations and charitable giving environmental, health and public safety, including the impact of the groups activities and of its products and services consumer relationships including the groups advertising, public relations and compliance with consumer protection laws labour and employment the groups standing in terms of the international labour organisation protocol on decent work and working conditions, employment relationships and its contribution towards the educational development of its employees The board: satisfied itself that the Investec groups standing and commitment to the various elements of good corporate citizenship remained in place and was actively enforced promoted the role Investec played in society Subsidiary board and committee The board: composition and governance discussed succession planning including an update on senior management succession received reports on the composition of the key subsidiaries of Investec plc received reports on suggested changes to Investec Bank plcs governance arrangements received reports from the nomdac at each meeting covering the matters within its delegated authority for review and consideration noted changes made to subsidiary boards on the recommendation of nomdac Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 129 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued Board activities continued Areas of focus What we did Financial results, liquidity, solvency The board: and viability statement considered and reviewed and approved the financial results for the year ended 31March2018 for Investec plc considered, reviewed and approved the financial results for the half year ended 30 September 2017 for Investec plc assessed, confirmed and satisfied itself of the groups viability statement i. e. its ability to continue in operation and meet its liabilities taking into account the current position of the group, the boards assessment of the groups prospects and the principal risks it faces confirmed that the group was liquid and that the solvency and liquidity test has been satisfied i. e. a company satisfies the solvency and liquidity test at a particular time if, considering all reasonably foreseeable financial circumstances at that time: the assets of the company, as fairly valued, equal or exceed the liabilities of the company, as fairly valued: and it appears that the company will be able to pay its debts as they become due in the ordinary course of business for a period of: 12 months after date on which the test is considered: or In the case of a dividend, 12 months following the distribution confirmed that adequate resources existed to support the group on a going concern basis and accordingly adopted the going concern concept Management succession The board: considered matters relating to board succession and approved appointments to the board and board committees has and is ensuring the orderly transition from the founding members to the new generation in accordance with the agreed management succession plan Marketing initiatives The board: received regular updates in respect of marketing initiatives within the group Terms of reference and policies The board: reviewed and received regular updates in respect of the various committees terms of reference and policies within the group 130 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued DLC nominations and directors affairs committee At investec, our report culture and values Dear Shareholder are at the core of how The DLC nomdac, is pleased to present its report for the year ended 31 March 2018. we make decisions Duringthe past financial year, the committee focused on executive succession planning, board composition and ongoing director development.
and how we are The key objectives of the nomdac are designed to ensure the ongoing continued governed strengthening of the governance processes in the subsidiaries, not only for regulatory purposes, but also to enhance the effectiveness of the work performed by the boards.
At Investec, our culture and values are at the core of how we make decisions and how we DLC nomdac are governed.
Fani Titi As such, the tone is set from the top and the board and committees alike live and Former chairman of the DLC nomdac demonstrate our values and integrity.
In this respect, the nomdacs continued work onrefreshing the subsidiary boards and director development was to ensure that the Key achievements in FY 2018 boardwere able to fulfil their mandates with particular focus on the long-term success of theentities.
Succession planning The nomdac was always cognisant of the imminent executive management changes with particular reference to the founding members.
We deliberated and debated the new Areas of focus in FY 2019 management structure of Investec extensively and concluded that the succession of the aforementioned executives should be from within the organisation and therefore, no help Strengthening the governance was sought from external recruitment agencies.
processes in the subsidiaries We are proud of our achievements and successes during the financial year.
However, while Enhance the effectiveness of the we strive to improve our processes and functions, we take mistakes made from inside work performed by the board and outside the organisation as opportunities to grow and develop.
This approach will undoubtedly encourage us to stay on top of our game and remain disciplined.
Finally, the nomdac would like to extend its congratulations to Perry Crosthwaite on his appointment as the chairman of nomdac.
We also congratulate the new executive management appointed to various positions.
We are confident that the group will benefit from their continued contribution.
Fani Titi Former chairman, DLC nomdac 15 June 2018 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 131 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued DLC nominations and directors affairs committee report We are, pleased to report that Investec has entered a new era with the appointment of thenew joint CEOs, Fani Titi and Hendrik du Toit with effect from 1October2018.
Leading up to the announcement of the new leadership, the nomdac was engaged in rigorous discussions around the new leadership of the organisation.
Given Fanis role in the new leadership, the succession discussions were led by myself as senior independent director.
Thenomdac and the boards have every confidence that both Fani Titi and Hendrik du Toit will continue to grow Investec from strength to strength.
As part of the handover, the newly appointed and outgoing CEOs will meet regularly over the next six months to ensure a smooth transition and minimal disruptions.
This would ensure continuity and stability within the organisation.
The group remains optimistic and confident in the new leadership.
We wish to acknowledge and thank Stephen Koseff and Bernard Kantor for their hard work, commitment and endless dedication to Investec.
Through the years and under their leadership, Investec became a market leader in several territories.
We also wish to thank Glynn Burger for his contribution to the success of Investec.
We wish them the very best in their future endeavors.
Following the implementation of the new management succession plan Khumo Shuenyane will be joining nomdac as Investec Bank Limiteds representative, Philip Hourquebie as chairman of remco and Lord Malloch-Brown as chairman of the SEC.
Going forward, the nomdac will continue to ensure the successful delivery of its mandate and strategic plans for the future.
Perry Crosthwaite Chairman DLC nomdac 15 June 2018 132 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued How the nomdac works Role The nomdac is an essential part of the groups governance framework to which the board has delegated the following key functions: identification and nomination of candidates for board vacancies, as and when they arise evaluation of the adequacy of the groups corporate governance structure maintenance of the board directorship refreshment programme, which addresses succession planning consideration of other key matters relating to the election of directors, including the definition of key board roles, terms of appointment and regular review of the appropriateness of the boards composition succession planning.
Composition The board has formed the opinion that the nomdac has the appropriate balance of knowledge and skills in order to discharge its duties.
In particular, the majority of members are independent non-executive directors and all members have the relevant experience for them to be able to consider the issues that are presented to the committee.
Meeting schedule and attendance In terms of the approved terms of reference for the nomdac, meetings of the committee shall be held at least three times per annum and as and when required on an ad hoc basis.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2018, the committee met on five occasions.
How the committee spent its time Corporate governance Training and review and Board of developSuccession planning composition of boards and committees effectiveness disclosures ment 65% 15% 10% 10% Composition and meeting attendance 5 meetings in the year Eligible to Members during the year Committee member since attend Attended F Titi former chairman 9 Sep 2010 5 5 PKO Crosthwaite chairman 16 Sep 2014 5 5 ZBM Bassa 1 Apr 2017 5 5 D Friedland 16 Sep 2014 5 5 PRS Thomas 9 Sep 2010 5 5 SE Abrahams 9 Sep 2010 1 1 F Titi stepped down as chairman of nomdac on 15 May 2018.
F Titi recused himself from all discussions in relation to the appointment of the joint chief executive officer of the group.
PKO Crosthwaite was appointed as chairman of nomdac on 15 May 2018.
In principle, it has been agreed that the chairs of the groups key governance committees audit, board risk and capital, remuneration committees and social and ethics committees beappointed to the nomdac.
PRS Thomas was appointed to the committee as a representative of Investec Bank Limited.
SE Abrahams stepped down from nomdac at the Investec plc and Invested Limited AGM on 10 August 2017.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 133 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued Succession Independence Diversity A key area of focus for the nomdac Open and honest debate is part of The nomdac, in considering the has been with regard to succession Investecs culture.
Robust independent composition of the board, is mindful of all planning.
The nomdac has conducted challenge is a critical component of aspects of diversity.
This includes gender, formal succession appraisals for all key how the board operates.
Investec has race, skills, experience and knowledge and positions, and continues to ensure that always been an organisation that places a diversity policy as approved by the board.
succession plans are in place that will value on substance over form, and the At Investec we embrace differences as allow the managing director and the CEO nomdac therefore considers all relevant a strength within our company.
Having a to hand over operational responsibilities circumstances regarding directors diverse board is a clear benefit, bringing and leadership of the group to the next independence.
However, its obligation is to with it distinct and different outlooks, generation of leaders.
ensure that directors, in fact demonstrate alternative viewpoints, and challenging independence of character and judgement, With regard to succession of the chairman, mindsets.
and exhibit this in the boardroom by the nomdac considered whether an external providing a challenge to the executive With regard to race and gender search consultancy or advertising should be board members.
diversity, Investec is cognisant of the used.
It concluded that, with the significant recommendations of the Hamptonleadership changes being implemented in Nomdac considers tenure when Alexander Review pertaining to the 2018, providing stability and continuity was considering independence, and when setting of a policy and, targets for the of great importance.
Thenomdac considers considering the composition of the board representation of women on the board, that the appointment of the previous as a whole.
The nomdac is mindful that and has a aspirational target of 33% female senior independent director SID, Perry there needs to be a balance resulting from representation by 2020.
However, Investec Crosthwaite, enhances the effectiveness of the benefits brought on board by new is a meritocracy, and believes that targets the board, and brings a new chairman who independent directors, versus retaining should be achieved without the setting has strength of character, independence of individuals with valuable skills, knowledge, of formal quotas.
We therefore recognise mind and also has considerable knowledge experience, and an understanding of the need to create opportunities for and experience of the group.
Investecs unique culture that has been talented individuals to move up through the developed over time.
For this reason, The nomdac considers succession planning organisation.
Toassist with this, Investec Investec has, over a number of years, both in terms of ensuring that there are undertakes a number of diversity initiatives operated a structured board refreshment named individuals able to step in and across the organisation which promotes programme whereby longer-serving provide cover in the event of an immediate female board representation.
members of the board step down and are vacancy, and in terms of ensuring that the replaced with new non-executive directors.
Investec has signed up to the 30% club group is increasing the internal pool of in both South Africa and the UK, which talented and skilled individuals by providing The nomdac continues to challenge and promotes female board representation, opportunities for individuals to develop and assess the independence and performance andin the UK, the bank has signed grow within the organisation.
of directors, regardless of tenure, however, up to the Women in Finance Charter, after nine years service, non-executive Investecs approach to succession has which commits the bank to support the directors are subjected to a rigorous test been a successful one, the organisation progression of women into senior roles to establish whether they continue to has an excellent track record of developing through focusing on the executive pipeline demonstrate independence of character talent and managing transition, and has and mid-tier level.
Furthermore, all new never had a situation where it was unable appointments of non-executive directors Subsidiary board composition to fill a key management position through are made for an initial period of three years internal resources.
In addition to considering the composition with a clear understanding that they will of the board, the nomdac reviewed the be unlikely to serve for a period exceeding Skills, knowledge and composition of a number of subsidiary nineyears.
experience boards including, Investec Bank plc, There has been a significant amount of Investec Wealth & Investment Limited and The nomdac continually monitors the change and previous board effectiveness Investec Asset Management Limited.
composition of the current board and reviews clearly articulated the need to let considers what attributes, skills and Related parties these changes settle down before further experience are necessary in order for changes to the composition of the board the board to effectively discharge its Investec has processes and policies in were considered.
The nomdac has overseen place to govern the review, approval and the programme of directors development disclosure of related party transactions to ensure that it includes training to entered into with directors, management keep directors up to speed with the and staff.
Nomdac reviewed key related latest relevant developments, including party transactions during the year and technology and cyber security.
ensured that the appropriate policies had been complied with.
134 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued Committee activities Areas of focus What we did Succession planning The committee: continually monitored, reviewed, discussed and assessed succession planning received a forward looking report on future succession implemented the appointment of: Fani Titi and Hendrik du Toit as the designate joint CEOs of Investec Perry Crosthwaite as chairman of the Investec plc and Investec Limited boards Zarina Bassa was appointed as SID of the group Subsidiary board composition The committee received reports on the composition of key subsidiaries of Investec plc including: Investec Bank plc Investec Wealth & Investment Limited Investec Asset Management Limited The committee: reviewed the composition of each of the key subsidiaries of Investec plc considered any vacancies, new appointments or changes that would enhance the effectiveness of the boards, with particular regard to group oversight and governance of subsidiary companies with due regard to local regulatory or legal requirements and best practice, and ensuring an appropriate level of independent scrutiny at subsidiary level agreed on the following matters: appointment of Brian Stevenson as the Chairman of Investec Bank plc Ciaran Whelan would succeed Glynn Burger as director of risk on 1 April 2019 Kim McFarland would succeed Glynn Burger as finance and operations director from 1April 2019 Corporate governance The committee: considered the independence of Investec plcs non-executive directors, with particular regard to: directors who had served on the boards for a period longer than nine years factors that might impact their independence the directors contribution at board meetings and whether they in fact demonstrated independent challenge specifically considered the independence of Cheryl Carolus who had served on the boards for a period exceeding nine years and concluded that it was satisfied that she remained independent and should be regarded as an independent non-executive director Board diversity The committee: considered the target for the representation of women on the board of Investec Bank plc and Investec plc and confirmed its support of the 33% target by the end of 2020 noted governance requirements that required certain regulated entities to adopt a board diversity policy and a target for female representation on the board approved amendments to its terms of reference in order to include these duties to ensure that Investec boards remained compliant Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 135 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued Committee activities continued Areas of focus What we did Board effectiveness The committee: considered the process for the 2018 board effectiveness which took the form of a selfassessment followed by one-on-one meetings between the chairman and directors amended added questions to the board effectiveness self-assessment regarding risk and audit, the presentation of projects to the boards, IT and succession planning noted that the 2018 effectiveness review showed good progress on those issues identified in the independently facilitated 2015 effectiveness review Directors development The committee: considered dates and topics for future directors development training and identified the following key topics affecting the business including: UK regulatory requirements amendments to the UK Corporate Governance Code senior managers & certificate regime Financial Conduct Authority FCA and hot topics Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID II cyber crime and IT governance cryptocurrency culture client asset sourcebook CASS considered the attendance of the subsidiary boards to the training sessions the subsidiary boards would be included in the training as necessary Looking ahead The nomdac will continue to focus on how to further develop senior management in order to support our succession plans as well as provide oversight to ensure orderly transition from founders to new appointees.
Furthermore, the nomdac will ensure the robustness of the board effectiveness programme, with due consideration and challenge and interrogation of the independence of those directors who have served for longer than nine years.
The committee continuously looks forward to the challenges and opportunities that the group will face, and will continue to review the composition of the board to ensure that it is optimally structured to drive forward the strategy that will enable the group to succeed.
The nomdac will continue to focus on the composition of the board with respect to race and gender diversity.
136 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued DLC social and ethics committee report Dear Shareholder Investec lives in The DLC SEC is pleased to present its report for the 2018 financial year.
society and not off it The SEC is a committee which assists both the Investec plc and Investec Limited boards in monitoring the groups performance in terms of social, environmental and governance indicators.
The report aims to explain how the SEC has discharged its duties across DLC social and ethics committee thegroup.
Fani Titi The environment in which the group operates has been challenging.
We have seen the Former chairman of the DLC SEC ethical behaviour of organisations and boards across all sectors of the economy being questioned and interrogated.
At Investec, we aim to ensure that the tone set at board level Key achievements in FY 2018 is filtered across the organisation in order to drive ethical behaviour which is embedded in our culture.
0.9% CSI spend as a % of We recognise that economic growth and societal transformation are vital to creating operatingprofit for Investec plc a sustainable future for all the communities in which we operate and that we play a 2017: 0.9% meaningful role in enabling this.
We have a number of projects in place that speak to youth Learning and development spend employment, academic programmes and Corporate Social Investment CSI initiatives in as a % of staff costs is 0.8% for all territories.
Furthermore, the SEC considered the environmental impact that society, as a Investec plc 2017: 1.1% whole, was having on the environment.
Please refer to the corporate responsibility report on our website for comprehensive feedbank on these activities.
Areas of focus in FY 2019 Investec also recognises the contribution each employee makes towards the success of Investec.
We aim to make the workplace a safe, non-biased environment in which each Oversight and coordination of employee can flourish.
The flat management structure at Investec is a mechanism which groupsocial, environmental and allows free and open discussions and enhances collaboration between divisions and ethicsmatters employees.
The committee reviewed our practices around creating a fair, diverse and Improved communication of the inclusive working environment.
various group environmental, social With this in mind, we placed focus on any race related matters, gender inequality and pay and ethics efforts disparities.
Strong focus on sustainable development goals SDGs We would like to congratulate Lord Malloch-Brown on his appointment as the new chairman of the SEC.
We look forward to his valuable input to the committee.
Fani Titi Former chairman, DLC SEC 15 June 2018 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 137 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued DLC social and ethics committee report Dear Shareholder Core to the objectives of the SEC are the values and principles of Investec and the desire to make a meaningful contribution to the world we live in.
While our shareholders remain at the forefront of the boards attention, our purpose is not only about driving profits.
Westrive to be a distinctive and relevant specialist bank and asset manager, demonstrating cast iron integrity, moral strength and behaviour which promotes trust.
Our core values include unselfishly contributing to society, valuing diversity and respecting others.
Outstandingly empowered talent, entrepreneurial spirit and regard for the planet are other qualities that align our culture and our approach to responsible business.
There is a strong focus on Sustainable Development Goals SDGs which tackles the worlds most pressing social, economic and environmental challenges and how companies align these 17goals to their strategies.
Investec undertook to establish a SDG forum which will drive the SDG agenda and monitor progress.
During the 2019 reporting period, the committee will continue to monitor Investecs environmental and social responsibilities.
We are extremely proud of some of the initiatives we have in place across various territories, which include but are not limited to, academic programmes, reducing our environmental footprint, and improving our environmental social governance ESG policies and practices.
I would like to thank Fani Titi on his contributions made to this committee and I look forward to my new role as the chairman of the SEC.
Lord Malloch-Brown Chairman, DLC SEC 15 June 2018 138 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued How the SEC works Role Our commitment to corporate responsibility means integrating social, ethical and environmental considerations.
For Investec, being a good corporate citizen is about building our businesses to ensure we have a positive impact on the economy and social progress of communities and on the environment, while growing and preserving clients and stakeholders wealth based on strong relationships and trust.
The SEC is an essential part of the groups governance framework to which the board has delegated the monitoring of the groups activities in relation to: social and economic development including human rights good corporate citizenship ethical business practices improving our environmental social governance ESG policies and practices.
Composition The nomdac and the board have formed the opinion that the SEC has the appropriate balance of knowledge and skills in order to discharge its duties.
In particular, the majority of members are independent non-executive directors and all members have the relevant knowledge and experience for them to be able to consider the issues that are presented to the committee.
Meeting schedule and attendance In terms of the approved terms of reference for the SEC, meetings of the committee shall be held quarterly, although the committee could determine that one of the scheduled meetings could be cancelled.
How the committee spent its time DLC corporate responsibility Policy matters Employment matters Reputational risk 35% 25% 20% 20% Composition and meeting attendance 4 meetings in the year Eligible Members during the year Committee member since to attend Attended F Titi former chairman 17 May 2012 4 4 Lord Malloch-Brown KCMG chairman 8 August 2014 4 4 CA Carolus 17 May 2012 4 4 B Kantor 17 May 2012 4 4 S Koseff 17 May 2012 4 3 PRS Thomas 17 May 2012 4 3 F Titi stepped down as chairman of SEC on 1 April 2018.
Lord Malloch-Brown KCMG was appointed as chairman of SEC on 1 April 2018.
PRS Thomas is a representative of Investec Bank Limited.
The composition of the committee is in accordance with the requirements of section 72 8 of the South African Companies Act, 2008, as amended, and its associated regulations.
Other regular attendees Head of sustainability and strategy Head of organisational development Head of human resources Head of investor relations Head of company secretarial and staff share schemes Head of Wealth & Investment Head of Investec Asset Management Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 139 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued Committee activities Areas of focus What we did Social and economic development The committee: including human rights monitored the groups standing in terms of the goals and purposes of: the 10 principles set out under the United Nations Global Compact Principles UNGC.
Thecommittee remained committed to the 10 principles of the UNGC with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption the Organisation of Economic Co-Operation and Development OECD recommendations regarding corruption ensured that the Investec group and its subsidiaries adhere to the relevant laws in all itsjurisdictions and strive to advance the United Nations UN principles within its sphere ofinfluence submit a communication of progress to the UN Global Compact on an annual basis Good corporate citizenship The committee: monitored various initiatives across the group discussed and monitored the various elements of good corporate citizenship satisfied itself that the groups standing and commitment to the various elements of good corporate citizenship remained in place and was actively enforced Contribution to the development of The committee: communities monitored Investec plc and its subsidiaries activities in contributing to the development of the communities in which its activities were predominantly conducted or within which its products and services are predominantly marketed received regular reports on the groups corporate and social investment initiatives as well as the strategy and spend in respect thereof satisfied itself that the Investec group contributed to the development of communities Talent retention and attraction The committee: ofemployees agreed to the investment in learning and development opportunities for employees as well as individuals outside of the workplace received regular reports on the learning opportunities and development of employees and others outside of the workplace Culture and ethics The committee: received regular reports on the groups activities in respect of programmes offered to enhance its core values which included unselfishly contributing to society, valuing diversity and respecting others satisfied itself that the Investec groups core values had a positive impact on the success and well-being of local communities, the environment and on overall macro-economic stability Reporting to shareholders of The committee: Investec plc reported to the shareholders on matters within its mandate on its activities on an annual basis by means of the annual reports and at the annual general meeting of both companies ensured that it complied with this principle Looking ahead The SEC will continue to monitor the economic, social and governance aspects of the organisation in accordance with best practice and statutory requirements in the jurisdictions the group operates in.
140 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued Audit committee report Dear Shareholder Investecs robust I am pleased to present you with the report of the Investec plc audit committee for the governance financial year ended 31 March 2018. framework is Over the following pages we will share with you some key information about the role and functioning of Investec plcs audit committee.
In addition to outlining the audit committees supported by its structure, we have included some insight into how decisions are made and where judgement should be applied to the significant issues addressed by the audit committee open and honest during the financial year.
Information has been provided under the following headings, which align to the key functions of the audit committee: culture which helps financial reporting to ensure any issues external audit are escalated in a internal controls.
timely manner Committee performance The audit committees performance was considered as part of the board effectiveness process conducted during the financial year, which was carried out using an internal selfInvestec plc audit committee assessment questionnaire.
This process did not identify any material areas of concern about the functioning of the audit committees.
Zarina Bassa Chairman of the Investec plc audit Role of the chair committee from 1 April 2017 The role of the chairman of the audit committee requires regular meetings with the heads of Key achievements in FY 2018 internal audit, compliance, legal, tax, operational and IT risk, credit, finance, the group head of corporate governance as well as the lead external audit partner and senior management outside of formal committee meetings in order to maintain and develop an understanding of Implementation of IFRS 9 the groups operations and the risks facing the business.
These interactions are an essential Monitoring of audit quality, external part of the role of the chairman of the audit committees, as it provides an additional layer audit and audit partner accreditation of assurance to gain comfort that these control functions are aligned in terms of their and results of quality reviews understanding of the risks facing the business and mitigation thereof.
Putting into place additional local The audit committee and the BRCC continue to be chaired by different independent nonand international cross reviews to executive directors.
David Friedland chairs the risk committee.
These committees have met ensure both actual and perceived all legal and regulatory requirements from a composition and independence perspective, audit quality and by so doing provide an additional layer of independence between the said committees.
Given the synergies and nature of matters considered by the committees, their membership Areas of focus in FY 2019 is such that an element of commonality has persisted.
IT risk and cyber security Looking ahead Business continuity In advancing the audit committees efforts of the prior year, focus will be centred on the Conduct implementation of IFRS 9 and issues relating to conduct.
Theimpact of the anticipated changes to the UK Corporate Governance, as proposed by the Financial Reporting Council Audit quality FRC, will also feature as a key consideration on the agendas of the audit committees.
Auditor independence Additionally, attention will be paid to the macro and micro impact of recent political events Monitoring and closing audit findings from both a UK and South African perspective, including the negotiation of post-Brexit Related party processes and arrangements and the investigation into the capture of the South African state.
The audit disclosures committee will continue to consider auditor independence and audit quality measures.
Zarina Bassa Chairman, Investec plc audit committee 15 June 2018 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 141 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued How the audit committee works Role The audit committee is an essential part of the groups governance framework to which the board has delegated the following key functions: oversight of the groups financial reporting process and risks managing the relationship with the groups external auditor reviewing the groups internal controls and assurance processes, including that of internal audit.
Structure of the audit committees In terms of Investecs DLC structure, the Investec plc board has mandated authority to the Investec plc audit committee and the Investec Limited board has mandated authority to the INL audit committee to be the audit committees for those respective companies and their subsidiaries.
The DLC audit committee, has responsibility for audit-related matters that are common to both Investec plc and Investec Limited.
Inparticular, the combined group annual financial statements and year-end and interim results are considered and recommended forapproval to the board by the DLC audit committee.
Investec Bank plc, Investec Asset Management Limited and Investec Wealth&Investment Limited independently conducted audit committees report into the Investec plc and INL audit committee.
TheDLCauditchair attends these audit committee meetings.
Composition The audit committee is comprised entirely of independent non-executive directors who must meet predetermined skills, competency and experience requirements.
The members continuing independence is assessed annually by the nomdac, which in turn make a recommendation on the members independence to the board.
The nomdac and board have formed the opinion that the audit committee has the appropriate balance of knowledge and skills in order for them to discharge their duties.
In particular, a majority of the members are chartered accountants and by virtue of their experience in the banking, financial services and audit sectors, members collectively have competence relevant to the sector in which the group operates.
Further details of the experience of the members can be found in their biographies on pages 118 to 123.
Meeting schedule and attendance During the financial year ended 31 March 2018, the DLC, Investec plc and INL audit committees each met four times, resulting in 12meetings in aggregate.
In addition, a number of specific meetings were convened to discuss external auditor quality, partner accreditation and independence.
A further three meetings were convened to deliberate and conclude on IFRS 9.
4 meetings in the year Eligible Members throughout the year Committee member since to attend Attended ZBM Bassa 1 Nov 2014 4 4 LC Bowden 1 Jan 2015 1 0 PA Hourquebie 14 Aug 2017 3 3 K Shuenyane 8 Aug 2014 4 4 PRS Thomas 17 May 2006 1 1 LC Bowden stepped down from the audit committee with effect from 16 August 2017.
PA Hourquebie was appointed to the audit committee with effect from 14 August 2017.
PRS Thomas stepped down from the DLC and plc audit committees with effect from 10 August 2017, but remains a member of the INL audit committee representing Investec Bank Limited.
142 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued Other regular attendees Chairman of the group Chief executive officer of the group Managing director of the group Group risk and finance director of the group Head of compliance Head of IT Head of operational risk Head of internal audit Head of finance External auditors Head of company secretarial and staff share schemes Head of corporate governance Head of legal Head of tax Chief operational officers Investec plc and Investec Limited board of directors Investec Limited and Investec plc DLC Investec Bank Limited audit committee audit committee auditcommittee Responsible for all legal and Responsible for matters that are Responsible for all legal and regulatory requirements as common to the Investec plc and regulatory requirements as necessary under the UK legislation INL audit committee, including the necessary under South African and listing rules including the combined group financial statements legislation and listing rules UK Disclosures Guidance and and results announcements, review of including King IV Transparency Rules and the UK the independence and effectiveness Corporate GovernanceCode, the of the external audit function, review three pillars of Specialist Bank, of the going concern concept, group Investec Asset Management and viability statement, review of the finance Investec Wealth & Investment function and finance director and internal auditoreffectiveness Subsidiaries and audit sub-committee Assurance functions, including group compliance, group legal, group finance, tax, internal audit, external audit and group risk How the committee spent its time PLC Financial reporting External audit matters Internal audit matters Risk management Other and internal controls including macro including BCP, IT risk issues and reports and cyber security from subsidiary committees 25% 25% 25% 15% 10% Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 143 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued The audit committees receive reports from Areas of judgement and Financial reporting group finance and external audit at each significant issues Process of their quarterly meetings.
The committee The audit committees have assessed meetings afford the non-executive The audit committees primary responsibility whether suitable accounting policies have directors the opportunity to discuss with in relation to the groups financial reporting been adopted and whether management management the key areas of judgement is to review with both management and has made appropriate judgements and applied and significant issues disclosed in the external auditor the appropriateness estimates.
The main areas of judgement the financial statements.
and accuracy of the half-year and annual that have been considered by the audit financial statements.
IFRS 9 implementation committees to ensure that appropriate In this process, amongst other matters, the rigour has been applied are outlined below.
The group adopted IFRS 9 on 1 April2018.
audit committees consider: The audit committee has dedicated All accounting policies can be found on the appropriateness of accounting a substantial amount of its time to pages 32 to 40 in volume three of the 2018 policies and practices and any areas of understanding and challenging the IFRS integrated annual report of Investecplc and judgement 9 implementation programme.
significant issues that have been dedicated audit committee meetings, of a combined audit committee BRCC, were discussed with the external auditor convened to deliberate and conclude on the clarity of disclosures and compliance IFRS 9. with financial reporting standards and other relevant financial and governance reporting requirements.
Significant judgements and issues Committee review and conclusion the committee challenged the level of provisions made and the assumptions used to Impairments calculate the impairment provisions held by the group including assessing impairment Determining the appropriateness of experience against forecasts.
Particular focus was given to the legacy portfolio and impairment losses requires the group exposures which are affected by the current macro-economic environment to make assumptions based on certain members of the audit committee attend the BRCC where impairment provisions management judgement are also challenged at a more granular level.
The BRCC has oversight of the governance Implementation of IFRS 9 and Day 1 process pertaining to impairments adjustment the committee was satisfied that the impairment provisions were appropriate one of the key developments in accounting policy during the year was the preparation for the implementation of the IFRS 9 impairment standard on 1 April 2018 the audit committee received updates and challenged the groups key judgements, scenarios and assumptions, in addition to the key features of the IFRS 9 impairment process and the impact on financial results, capital, stress testing and earnings volatility three dedicated audit committee meetings of a combined audit committee BRCC were convened to conclude on IFRS 9 the audit committee is satisfied that the group has worked with industry guidance and has taken note of the best practice recommendations which have been issued Valuations material individual positions, in particular the unlisted private equity investments, are challenged and debated by the committee with the most material noted as standing The group exercises judgement in the agenda items for each of the audit committees throughout the year valuation of complex illiquid financial the committee debated the portfolio valuation adjustment which was recorded to take instruments, unlisted investments and into account macro-economic risks on the South African private equity portfolio embedded derivatives, particularly the level 3 instruments within the portfolio at the year-end, prior to the audit committee meetings, the audit committee chair met with management and received a presentation on the material investments across the group including an analysis of the key judgements and assumptions used the audit committee approved the valuation adjustments proposed by management for the year ended 31 March 2018 Uncertain tax positions the audit committee receives regular updates on this topic from tax, group finance and legal to enable it to evaluate the appropriateness of the tax provision There are certain legacy structured the audit committee analyses the judgements and estimates made and discusses the transactions within Investec plc where potential range of outcomes that might arise there is uncertainty over the outcome of the tax positions and judgement the committee confirmed the tax provisions and disclosures for the year end is required over the calculation of the provision 144 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued Going concern External audit Non-audit services The audit committee has adopted a policy One of the key roles of the Investecplc The Investecplc audit committee has on the engagement of the external auditors audit committee is to review the going responsibility for reviewing the groups to provide non-audit services.
This policy, concern concept as presented by relationship with its external auditors, designedto safeguard auditor objectivity management and, if appropriate, make the including, considering audit fees, nonand independence, includes guidelines on necessary recommendation to the boards audit services and the independence and permitted and non-permitted services and in thisregard.
objectivity of the external auditors.
The audit on services requiring specific approval by committee confirms its satisfaction with the Whilst the liquidity and solvency of the the audit committees.
The audit committees performance and quality of external audit, Investec group is closely monitored on a review whether the level of non-audit fees the external auditors and lead partners.
daily basis by relevant individuals in the could impact the independence of the groups risk management division, the Auditor appointment auditors.
This is monitored by reference to Investecplc audit committee and board the level of fees paid for services, excluding Ernst & Young LLP are the auditors of the expressly consider the assumptions services which are required to be provided Investec plc.
Ernst & Young have been the underlying the going concern of by the external auditors due to their office, Investec plc auditors since Investecplcs Investecplc as part of the annual financial against the fees paid for the audit of the listing on the London Stock Exchange statement process.
Total audit fees paid to all auditors in2002.
for the year ended 31 March 2018 were The following areas are considered in order The Investecplc audit committee considers 13.6 million 2017:10.1 million, of which to make this statement: the re-appointment of the external auditors 2.6 million 2017: 2.8 million related to budgets and forecasts each year before making a recommendation the provision of non-audit services.
to the board and shareholders.
profitability The summary of the nature of these capital There will be a mandatory rotation for services is set out in note 6 operatingcost.
the 2025 audit and a competitive tender liquidity Total non-audit fees for each of the process will be conducted in advance of this solvency.
auditing firms were approved by the audit time.
See further information on re-election committee at least quarterly.
Ernst & Young For the year ended 31 March 2018, the of auditors on page 146. non-audit service fees were pre-approved Investecplc audit committee recommended Auditor independence and by the chairman of the audit committee to the board that, based on its knowledge prior to commencing the work in line with objectivity of the group, key processes in operation Ernst & Young policy.
and enquiries, it is reasonable for the The Investecplc audit committee considers financial statements to be prepared on a the reappointment of the external auditors The decision to approve the engagement going concern basis.
each year before making a recommendation of the external auditor for the services to the board and shareholders.
It assesses noted above was due to factors including Fair, balanced and the independence of the external auditors synergies and efficiencies relating to the understandable on an ongoing basis.
The external auditors audit work and their existing knowledge of are required to rotate the lead audit partner At the request of the board, the Investecplc Investec which allowed work to commence every five years and other senior audit staff quality and with minimal disruption.
audit committee has considered whether, in every seven years.
Partners and senior staff its opinion, the annual report and financial On the basis of the abovementioned policy associated with the Investec audit may only statements for the year ended 31 March and reviews, the audit committee was be employed by the group after a cooling off 2018 is fair, balanced and understandable, satisfied that the quantity and type of nonperiod.
The lead partner commenced their and whether it provides the information audit work undertaken throughout the year five-year rotation period in 2014 Ernst & necessary for shareholders to assess the did not impair the independence of Ernst & Young LLP: 1 April 2014. groups position and performance, business Young LLP.
Following due consideration, we continue to Working with the external auditor believe that partner rotation, limitations on In forming its opinion, the Investecplc audit The audit committee meets with the external non-audit services including pre-approval of committee has: auditors to review the scope of the external non-audit work and the confirmation of the met with senior management to gain audit plan, budgets, the extent of non-audit independence of both Ernst & Young and assurance that the processes underlying services rendered and all other audit matters.
their respective audit team are adequate the compilation of the annual financial The external auditors are invited to attend safeguards to ensure that the audit process statements were appropriate audit committee meetings and have access is both objective and effective.
conducted an in-depth, critical review to the audit committees chairman.
The auditors have confirmed their of the annual financial statements The audit committee evaluated the independence and were requested to and, where necessary, requested effectiveness of the auditors through review and confirm the level of staff amendments to disclosure.
completion of a questionnaire which, transactions with Investec, if any, to ensure As such, the Investecplc audit committee amongst other things, assessed the audit that all auditors on the Investec audit meet has formed the view that the annual report the independence criteria.
and financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 is fair, balanced and understandable.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 145 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued partners, audit team and audit approach Risk management planning and execution, during their The Investec plc audit committee receives presentations at audit committee meetings regular reports from operational risk, and ad hoc meetings held with the auditors information technology and compliance.
Senior finance function During the course of the year, key topics that executives also provided feedback to the have been discussed and debated by the audit committees.
Investec plc audit committee hasbeen: Re-election of auditors The board and the audit committee is Business continuity recommending the re-election of Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of Investec plc at its Consideration of the impact of the annual general meeting in August 2018.
London office move in 2018 on the continuity of business operations Internal controls Information cyber security The Investec plc audit committee has responsibility for assessing the adequacy Received and discussed the findings of of the groups internal controls.
To fulfil a follow-up targeted attack simulation this responsibility, the Investec plc audit that was performed on Investec by an committee receives regular reports from risk external provider management, compliance and internal audit including a written opinion from internal Regulatory compliance audit on the risk management framework, internal controls and internal financial Review and monitoring of results of controls.
Outlined below are some of the regulatory compliance reviews key areas of focus of the Investec plc audit committee over the past year in terms of their ongoing assessment of the adequacy of the groups internal controls.
Internal audit In 2015, Grant Thornton were engaged to complete an external review on the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
A recommendation of this review was to streamline the internal audit process and, in particular, reduce the number of lower level reviews.
Since then, this has been a focus area for internal audit and an area of discussion at Investec plc audit committee meetings.
During the course of this year, challenge at committee meetings was centred on getting this balance right in terms of the number of audits, given the risk profile of business activities.
Delivery of the internal audit plan has been another key area of focus by the Investec plc audit committee.
Monitoring the completion of overdue audit findings and the resourcing of the internal audit function has also been addressed.
Based on its review and the above actions, the audit committees concluded that the internal audit function continued to be effective.
146 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued Board risk and capital committee report Dear Shareholder Role of the chair We believe As the chairman of the board risk and During the year, meetings were held that robust risk capital committee the BRCC, during the regularly with the heads of business, as financial year ended 31 March 2018, I am well as heads of the risk disciplines outside management pleased to present our report.
of formal committee meetings in order to maintain and develop an understanding systems and The role of the committee is to review, of the groups operations and risks facing on behalf of the board, management processes are in the business.
These interactions are an recommendations on a range of risks facing essential part of the role of the chairman, as the business.
We perform this function by place to support the it provides an additional layer of assurance considering the risk reports presented and to help gain comfort that these risks that group strategy question that either no management action are reported to the committee accurately is required or that existing actions taken reflect the risks facing the business.
by management following discussion are appropriate.
The audit committee has the primary role DLC board risk and capital in providing assurance to the board that During the year under review all risk and committee enterprise wide risks have been correctly capital measures remained within the identified and appropriate controls are board-approved risk appetite despite a David Friedland in place.
Therefore, the audit committee number of emerging economic and political Chairman of the DLC BRCC will rely on the output of the BRCC to risks which presented itself.
The committee give assurance as regards enterprise reviewed and approved the capital plans for Key achievements in FY 2018 wide risk.
As it is essential that there Investec Limited and Investec plc.
are some synergies in membership of Review of successful targeted attack As a committee, we gained comfort the DLC audit committee and BRCC, simulations to mitigate cyber crime in the fact that a detailed review of the common membership will be retained risk risk appetite limits was conducted by by Zarina Bassa, asthe chair of the DLC Understanding and challenging the the executives in policy executive risk audit committee, Philip Hourquebie and implementation of IFRS 9 review committee Policy ERRF, who KhumoShuenyane.
recommended the risk appetite limits to Areas of focus by in 2019 the committee for approval.
Wereviewed Looking forward the risk appetite limits and challenged the In the year ahead, the committee will assumptions contained therein.
Monitoring and continued mitigation continue to focus on matters related to of risks related to cyber crime and Reports to the committee focus on the key the impact of economic conditions on information security risk disciplines of credit, operational, legal, Investec, effective risk data aggregation, the Effective risk data aggregation fully conduct, reputational, capital, liquidity, implementation of regulatory requirements, compliant by 1 April 2018 market risk and cyber security.
However, information security, cyber crime and risks due to the dynamic nature of the business Impact of economic conditions on associated with the fast pace of regulatory Investec environment in which Investec operates, change faced by the business and the committee is flexible to consider assessing the impact of external factors on The BRCC will adjust its meeting plan other matters of relevance as they arise.
and focus in accordance with any For example, the committee requested new risks identified The committee will continue to focus on a number of ad hoc reports in order to the requirements in relation to the General adequately assess risks that are due to Data Protection Regulation GDPR and the once off events.
At each board meeting, a report is presented on the key matters discussed at the committee and focus in accordance David Friedland with any new risks identified.
Chairman, DLC BRCC Committee performance 15 June 2018 Evaluation of the committees performance was conducted and no areas of concern in respect of the functioning of the committee were identified.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 147 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued Board risk and capital committee report How the BRCC works Role The BRCC is an essential part of the groups governance framework to which the board has delegated the monitoring of the groups activities in relation to a number of risks and capital management.
The BRCC is the most senior risk management committee of the group and comprises executive and non-executive membership the majority of which are non-executive directors.
It covers each material banking, wealth management and asset management subsidiary company within the wider group The BRCC has to ensure that all risks are identified and properly mitigated and managed.
Good client and market conduct is paramount in all the group does and the BRCC ensures a robust culture supported by oversight and management information to evidence good practice.
The BRCC is also the appointed board committee to meet the requirements of the South African Banks Act, 94 of 1990 and the Capital Requirements Regulation and Directive CRR CRD IV, adopted by the European Commission and implemented in the UK.
This requires the board of directors of a bank and aholding company to appoint a risk and capital committee.
The nomdac and the board have formed the opinion that the BRCC has the appropriate balance of knowledge and skills in order to discharge its duties.
In particular, the majority of members are independent non-executive directors, and all members have the relevant knowledge and experience for them to be able to consider the issues that are presented to the committee.
Meeting schedule and attendance BRCC meets at least six times every year.
During the year ended 31 March 2018, the BRCC met six times.
A combined BRCC audit committee meeting was held to receive a status update on the IFRS 9 project.
How the committee spent its time Other Including legal, operational, group insurance, conduct risk business continuity, cyber crime andIT Capital Balance sheet risk Credit risk Market risk 25% 25% 20% 20% 10% Composition and meeting attendance 6 meetings in the year Committee Eligible to Members throughout the year member since attend Attended D Friedland chairman 13 Sept 2013 6 6 SE Abrahams 11 Mar 2011 6 5 ZBM Bassa 14 Nov 2014 6 6 GR Burger 11 Mar 2011 6 5 H Fukuda OBE 13 Sept 2013 6 6 PA Hourquebie 17 Aug 2017 4 4 B Kantor 11 Mar 2011 6 5 S Koseff 11 Mar 2011 6 6 KL Shuenyane 16 Jan 2015 6 6 B Stevenson 4 Sept 2016 6 6 F Titi 11 Mar 2011 6 4 PRS Thomas 11 Mar 2011 6 6 SE Abrahams is a representative of Investec Bank Limited.
H Fukuda is a representative of Investec Bank plc.
B Stevenson is a representative of Investec Bank plc.
148 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued Other regular attendees Operational risk Head of IT Security Investec Wealth & Investment Global Head Chief risk officer Investec Limited Chief risk officer Investec plc Investec Asset Management COO Investor relations representative Global head of governance and compliance Committee activities Areas of focus What we did Recovery and The committee: resolution plan annually review the recovery and resolution plan for Investec plc questioned the contents of the recovery and resolution plans which address how the board and management will recover from extreme financial stress to avoid liquidity and capital difficulties in Investec plc the committee gained comfort that adequate plans had been put in place for a scenario where Investec plc was required to recover from extreme financial stress Operational risk The committee: Exposure to any monitored operational losses to ensure no further risk exits instance where there reviewed the overall risk rating for the group is potential or actual considered and reviewed the risk appetite limits for the group impact to the group monitored and reviewed regulatory compliance risk, information security risk, access risk and regulatory resulting from failed developments internal processes, people, systems, or from external events This risk includes fraud, legal risk, information and IT risk Capital The committee: management measured key capital ratios against the internal and regulatory limits and what actions management planned to The progress plan to meet these ratios limits achieving required reviewed impending regulations on the management of capital regulatory and internal the committee satisfied itself that Investec plc was adequately capitalised and that progress was being made targets and capital and towards achieving impending regulatory amendments to capital ratios leverage ratios Market risk The committee: Market risk capital monitored risk appetite breaches and challenged management action which addressed these breaches requirements the committee gained comfort that the group had addressed breaches to limits appropriately Credit and The committee: counterparty risk monitored the risk appetite limit and queried management action taken in respective of breaches Risk of an obligor failing the committee challenged the effectiveness of the management of such risks within the business to meet the terms of any agreement Investment risk The committee: The probability or received regular reports regarding investment risk likelihood of occurrence reviewed and questioned the investment risk reports submitted to the committee of losses relative to the expected return of any particular investment Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 149 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued Committee activities continued Areas of focus What we did Reputational risk The committee: Risk of damage to our monitored events which could potentially create reputational risk reputation, name or gained comfort that reputational risk was mitigated as much as possible through detailed processes and brand governance escalation procedures from business units to the board, and from regular, clear communication with all stakeholders Conduct risk The committee: Risk that detriment reviewed and questioned the conduct risk report which is discussed at each meeting caused to the bank, challenged the effectiveness of the management of such risks within the business its customers, its counterparties or the market as a result of inappropriate execution of business activities Balance sheet risk The committee: Financial risks relating reviewed a report which highlights bank activity, liquidity balances and key measures against thresholds to our asset and liability andlimits portfolios, comprising challenged the effectiveness of the management of such risks within the business market liquidity, funding, concentration, nontrading interest rate and foreign exchange, encumbrance and leverage risks Business The committee: continuity risk reviewed, challenged and debated reports which highlight processes in place to manage this risk Strategy to be able to challenged the effectiveness of the management of such risk within the business function in the event of a disaster Cyber crime risk The committee: Cyber crime risk is received regular reports regarding the cyber crime landscape, including lessons learnt from external cyber the risk the group is attacks exposed to by criminal activities carried out by received the targeted attack simulation results and ensured that any remediation required was completed means of computers or gained comfort that the management of cyber crime was given the necessary priority the internet 150 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued DLC remuneration committee report For information on the decisions taken by the remuneration committee, refer to the remuneration report contained on pages 124 to 140.
11 meetings in the year Committee Eligible Number of meetings Members during the year member since to attend attended PKO Crosthwaite former chairman 2 Feb 2011 11 11 PA Hourquebie chairman 14 Aug 2017 7 7 ZBM Bassa 10 Sep 2015 11 11 CR Jacobs 8 Aug 2014 11 10 F Titi 18 Sep 2013 10 10 PKO Crosthwaite stepped down as chairman of the DLC remuneration committee with effect from 31 March 2018.
PA Hourquebie was appointed to the DLC remuneration committee with effect from 14 August 2017 and was appointed chairman with effect from 1April2018.
PA Hourquebie recused himself from any discussions in relation to the remuneration of the chairman of the DLC remuneration committee.
F Titi stepped down from the DLC remuneration committee with effect from 23 February 2018.
Management committees A number of management committees have been established to support management in their governance of the group.
In particular, four key committees have been established to assist with the management and monitoring of the risks facing the group.
These are the: Group risk and capital committee GRCC Review executive risk review forum Review ERRF Policy executive risk review forum Policy ERRF DLC capital committee.
Each of these committees have been established by the BRCC and the reporting line back into the board is outlined below, as well as the division of responsibilities.
Investec plc and Investec Limited boards BRCC GRCC Mandated by the BRCC to manage, monitor and mitigate enterprise-wide risk Review ERRF Policy ERRF DLC Capital Committee Mandated by the BRCC and reporting Mandated by the BRCC and Mandated by the BRCC and reporting into the GRCC to assist in determining reporting into the GRCC to assist into the GRCC to assist with the categories of risk, the specific risks with the review of risk management management of capital allocation and the extent of such risks the group policies and practices to ensure the and structuring, capital planning and should undertake organisation remains in line with the models, performance measurement group risk appetite and capital-based incentivisation Global forums committees Including global credit committee and group investment committee Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 151 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued How we comply Through its various sub-committees, the group is required to stress its capital Regulatory context notably the audit committee the GRCC, the and liquidity positions under a number of Investec operates under a dual listed BRCC and the management and GRCC severe stress conditions.
Investecs stress companies DLC structure which capital committees, the board regularly testing framework is well embedded in its requirescompliance with the principles carries out a robust assessment of these operations and is designed to identify and contained in the South African KingIV risks, and their potential impact on the regularly test the groups key vulnerabilities Code of Corporate Governance performance, liquidity and solvency of under stress.
Theactivities of these board Scenario modelling and rigorous daily co. za and the April 2016 edition of sub-committees and the issues considered liquidity stress tests are performed the UKCorporate Governance Code by them are described in this governance to measure and manage the groups availableatwww.
respective banking entities liquidity We believe that sound corporate Taking these risks into account, together positions such that payment obligations governance depends on much more with the groups strategic objectives and can be met under a wide range of company than mere compliance with regulations.
the prevailing market environment, the specific and market-driven stress scenarios.
Goodconduct and ethical practice is board approved the overall risk appetite The objective is to have sufficient liquidity, embedded in everything that we do at for the Investec group.
The groups risk in an acute stress scenario, to continue to Investec.
Byacting in accordance with our appetite statement sets broad parameters operate for a minimum period as detailed values and principles, we believe that good relating to the boards expectations around in the board-approved risk appetite and governance is ensured.
performance, business stability and risk as required by the regulators.
risk appetite also requires each banking Statement of compliance entity to maintain a minimum cash to The board considers that prudential risk customer deposit ratio of 25%, and ensure UK Corporate Governance Code management is paramount in all it does.
that the respective banking entities are Protection of depositors, customers During the year ended 31 March 2018, not reliant on wholesale funding to fund interests, capital adequacy and shareholder Investec has complied with all the core asset growth.
Each banking entity returns are key drivers.
To manage the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance is required to be fully self-funded.
Our groups risk appetite there are a number of Code.
banking businesses exceed the regulatory detailed policy statements and governance requirements for the net stable funding structures in place.
The board ensures that Other statutory ratio and liquidity coverage ratio.
Investec there are appropriate resources in place information plc currently has 5.8 billion in cash and to manage the risks arising from running near cash assets, representing 50.0% of Viability statement our business by having independent risk customer deposits.
management, compliance, and financial In addition to providing a going concern control functions.
These are supplemented The group develops annual capital plans statement, the board is required, in terms by an internal audit function that reports that look forward over a three-year period.
of the UK Corporate Governance Code, independently to a non-executive audit These plans are designed to assess the to make a statement with respect to the committee chairman.
capital adequacy of the groups respective groups viability i. e. its ability to continue banking entities under a range of economic in operation and meet its liabilities taking The board believes that the risk and internal conditions, with the impact on into account the current position of the management systems and processes we earnings, asset growth, risk appetite and group, the boards assessment of the have in place are adequate to support the liquidity considered.
The output of capital groups prospects and the principal risks it groups strategy and allow the group to planning allows senior management and faces.
Following confirmation by the BRCC operate within its risk appetite framework.
the board to make decisions to ensure comprising a majority of non-executive A review of the groups performance that the group continues to hold sufficient directors, which includes members of the measurement against its risk appetite capital to meet internal and regulatory audit committee, the audit committee framework is provided at each BRCC capital targets over the medium term i. e. recommended the viability statement for meeting and at the main board meetings.
Thegroup targets a minimum board approval.
capital adequacy ratio of 14% to 17%, a In terms of the FCA and PRA requirements The board has identified the principal and common equity tier 1 ratio in excess of 10% the group is also required to meet emerging risks facing the group and these and a leverage ratio in excess of 6% for regulatory standards with respect to capital are highlighted on pages 22 to 28. each of its banking entities.
In terms of these requirements, 152 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued The parameters used in the capital and and capital difficulties in its separately The viability statement should be read in liquidity stresses are reviewed regularly, regulated companies.
conjunction with the following sections taking into account changes in the business in the annual report, all of which have Thecapital and liquidity plans, stress environments and inputs from business informed the boards assessment of the scenarios, recovery and resolution plan units.
A detailed bottom-up analysis groups viability: and the risk appetite statement are is performed in designing Investecs Pages 5 to 13 which show a strategic reviewed at least annually.
In addition, specific stress scenarios.
The group also and financial overview of the business senior management hosts an annual incorporates the Bank of England BoE three-day risk appetite process at which Pages 22 and 28 which provide detail annual cyclical stress scenarios into its the groups risk appetite framework on the principal and emerging risks the capital and liquidity processes.
is reviewed and modified to take into group faces Investec plc runs a number of stress account risk experience and changes in Page 49 which highlights information on scenarios, some of which are briefly the environment.
Furthermore, strategic the groups risk appetite framework highlighted below: budget processes which focus on, amongst Pages 45 to 47 and page 50 which other things, the business and competitive The BoEs annual cyclical stress provide an overview of the groups landscape: opportunities and challenges: scenario: this scenario incorporates a approach to risk management, and the financial projections take place within UK slowdownin GDP growth, a material processes in place to assist the group in each business division at least annually.
slump in Pounds Sterling, increasing mitigating its principal risks A summary of these divisional budgets, inflationary pressures which are Pages 47, 53, 79, 84, 87 and 101 which together with a consolidated group budget, combated by an increase in UK interest highlight information on the groups is presented to the board during its rates to 4%, in addition to a significant various stress testing processes strategic review process early in the year.
house price fall Pages 86 and 87 which specifically A scenario where there is a material In assessing the groups viability, the board focus on the groups philosophy and stress on corporates and protracted has taken all of the abovementioned approach to liquidity management weak global growth with low interest factors, documents and processes into rates Pages 99 to 102 which explain the consideration.
The directors can confirm A scenario where there is increased groups capital management framework.
that they have a reasonable expectation political uncertainty and a domestic that Investec will continue to operate and This forward-looking viability statement household shock incorporating a meet its liabilities as they fall due over the made by the board is based on UK downturn, high UK interest rates next three years.
The board has used a informationand knowledge of the group at and a UK housing market slump.
three-year assessment period as this is 15 June 2018.
There could be a number Inthis scenario we assume that the aligned to the groups medium-term capital of risks and uncertainties arising from international backdrop is benign with plans which incorporate profitability, liquidity, but not limited to domestic and global some slight negative spill over from the leverage and capital adequacy projections economic and business conditions beyond UK through various linkages to the Euro and include impact assessments from a the groups control that could cause the area, with Ireland most acutely exposed.
The board groups actual results, performance or We also carry out reverse stress tests, has assessed the groups viability in its achievements in the markets in which it i. e. those scenarios that would cause the base case and stress scenarios.
Detailed operates to differ from those anticipated.
group to breach its capital and liquidity management information therefore exists requirements.
These scenarios are to provide senior management and the considered highly unlikely, given the groups board sufficient and realistic visibility of the strong liquidity position and sound capital groups viability over the next three years and leverage parameters.
to 31March 2021 under these various scenarios.
In assessing the groups viability, Furthermore, the group is required to have a number of assumptions are built into its a recovery and resolution plan.
The purpose capital and liquidity plans.
In the stress of the recovery plan is to document how scenarios these include, for example, the board and senior management will dividend payments being reduced and ensure that the group recovers from asset growth being curtailed.
extreme financial stress to avoid liquidity Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 153 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued The UK Companies Act requires directors Conflict of interest to disclose any direct or indirect material Certain statutory duties with respect interest they have in contracts, including to directors conflict of interest are in proposed contracts, which are of force under the UK Companies Act significance to the companys business.
and the South Africas Corporation Act.
Directors are required to make these Inaccordance with the Act and the Articles disclosures at board meetings, and all of Association Articles of Investec plc, disclosures made are recorded in the the board may authorise any matter minutes of that meeting.
that otherwise may involve the directors Staff are required to undertake not to use breaching their duty to avoid conflicts any personal hedging strategies to lessen of interest.
The board has adopted a the impact of a reduction in value of any procedure, as set out in the Articles that share award or any vested shares which are includes a requirement for directors to subject to a retention period following any submit, in writing, disclosures detailing any vesting date.
Any breach of this condition actual or potential conflict for consideration, will result in the lapse of any unvested and if considered appropriate, approval.
proportion of such reward, unless the External directorships DLC remuneration committee determines otherwise.
Outside business interests of directors are closely monitored and we are satisfied Directors dealings that all of the directors have sufficient time Directors dealings in the securities of toeffectively discharge their duties.
Investec plc are subject to a policy Dealings in securities based on the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules of the UKLA Dealings in securities are subject to the Requirements.
Thepolicy is based on regulatory guidance and All directors and company secretaries industry practice and is updated to ensure dealings require the prior approval of the compliance with applicable regulations and compliance division and the chairman, industry best practice.
thesenior independent director or the chairman of the audit committee.
The policy is designed to discourage speculative trading and highlight potential All dealings of persons discharging conflicts of interest between the interest management responsibilities require of employees and the Investec group or approval by line management, any of its clients, shareholders or potential thecompliance division and the chairman.
The UKLAs Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules require Report to shareholders us to disclose transactions in shares and This report to shareholders has been related securities by all persons discharging approved and authorised for issue to the management responsibilities and their shareholders of Investec plc on 15 June connected persons.
These include 2018 and signed on its behalf by: directors and senior executives of the group.
Staff are prohibited from dealing in all listed Investec securities during closed periods.
Tradings are restricted in respect of all David Miller Investec Limited, Investec plc, Investec Company secretary Property Fund Limited IPF and Investec Australia Property Fund Limited IAPF Investec plc securities as well as any warrants, OTC and exchange traded derivatives on the said securities.
Staff are restricted from exercising options through Investec Staff Share Schemes during closed periods.
154 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018
