IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT ANNUAL REMUNERATION STATEMENT CONTINUED E ective dates of service contracts of the executive directors 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Present Alan 20 January 2005 Aubrey Mike 5 March 2007 Townend Greg 2 June 2011 Smith David 20 March 2015 Baynes E ective dates of letters of appointment of the Non-executive directors Jonathan 31 August 2011 Brooks Elaine 30 July 2015 Sullivan David 18 October Begg 2017 Heejae 03 May Chae 2018 Sir Douglas 17 Sep Flint 2018 Eective as chair from 1 November 2018 Committee meetings are administered and minuted by the Consideration by the directors of matters Company Secretary.
In addition, the Committee received relating to directors remuneration assistance from the CFO, CEO, COO and Head of HR who The full terms of reference of the Committee, which are attend meetings by invitation, except when matters relating reviewed annually, are available on the Groups website to their own remuneration are being discussed.
In summary, the Remuneration During the year, the key activities carried out by the Committee has specific responsibility for advising the Groups Committee were: Board on the remuneration and other benefits of executive directors, an overall policy in respect of remuneration of Consideration of the Groups overall remuneration other employees of the Group and establishing the Groups philosophy to ensure it continues to promote the Groups policy with respect to employee incentivisation schemes.
strategy, including the blend of fixed and short and longer-term variable pay.
The Remuneration Committee currently comprises the Consideration of the skills and experience of the following independent non-executive directors whose executive directors and carrying out of benchmarking in backgrounds and experience are summarised on pages 68 order to determine base salaries and total remuneration and 69: opportunity for the period 1April 2018 to 31March 2019 Jonathan Brooks Chair and giving further consideration to base salaries and total Douglas Flint remuneration opportunity with effect from 1April 2019.
Elaine Sullivan Review of the Groups approach to non-director David Begg remuneration, including base salaries and incentive Heejae Chae scheme targets and pay-outs.
indd 114 16 04 2019 15:13:37 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six OUR GOVERNANCE Consideration of LTIP awards and vesting targets for External advisers 2018 and 2019 awards and outturns for the 2015 and 2016 The Remuneration Committee is authorised, if it wishes, to awards.
seek independent specialist services to provide information Consideration of AIS awards and vesting targets for 2018 and advice on remuneration at the Companys expense, and 2019 as well as outturns for 2018. including attendance at Committee meetings.
Review and consideration of the further evolution of During the year, the Remuneration Committee continued its the application of the Groups Remuneration Policy for review of executive remuneration and took into consideration non-director employees with particular consideration professional advice from Deloitte LLP in respect of the for matters related to the integration of Touchstone development of the Groups Remuneration Policy and its Innovations.
application, and reporting under the revised Directors Approval of the Groups DRR, including the updated Remuneration Reporting Regulations.
Deloitte is a founding Remuneration Policy.
member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to its Code in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Fees paid to Deloitte LLP in connection with advice to the Committee in 2018 were 17,600.
Deloitte LLP also provided advice to the Group in 2018 in connection with the restructuring of its long-term incentive carry scheme and in connection with valuations of certain of its unlisted portfolio company holdings.
Statement of shareholder voting The table below sets out the proxy results of the votes on the Groups Remuneration Report at the Groups 2018 AGM.
Votes for Votes against % of votes % of votes Total votes Votes Number cast Number cast cast withheld Remuneration Report 870,461,996 98.68 11,608,257 1.32 882,070,253 4,645,794 Remuneration disclosure This report complies with the requirements of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013, the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code July 2018 and the Listing Rules.
indd 115 16 04 2019 15:13:37 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six IP GROUP ANNU IP GROUP ANNUAL REPOR AL REPORT AND A T AND AC CC COUNT OUNTS 20 S 2018 18 REPORT OF THE AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE 2018 represented another very busy year for the Audit and Risk Committee Jonathan Brooks Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee The Committee met five times during the year.
All of the Audit & Risk Committee ARC or the meetings with the exception of one were attended by Committee responsibilities the four independent non-executive directors who were The Committee monitors the integrity of the financial members of the Committee at the relevant time.
The statements of the Group, and reviews all proposed annual members of the Committee for the entire year were Dr Elaine and half-yearly results announcements to be made by the Sullivan and Professor David Begg with myself as Chair.
Group with consideration being given to any significant Heejae Chae joined the Board and the Committee on 3May financial reporting judgements contained in them.
The 2018 while Professor Lynn Gladden retired from the Board Committee also advises the Board on whether it believes and the Committee on 30September 2018. the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is The Groups Chairman, Chief Financial Officer, Group fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Financial Controller, and the external auditor were also invited information necessary for shareholders to assess the to attend all of the meetings and did so.
Other members Companys performance, business model and strategy.
of the Groups management were invited to attend as The Committee considers internal controls, compliance required for specific subjects.
In December, the Groups new with legal requirements, accounting standards and the outsourced internal auditor attended the Committee and will Listing, Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial be invited to attend future meetings.
At the end of each of Conduct Authority, and also reviews any proposed change the meetings, the Committee met with the auditor without in accounting policies and any recommendations from the any members of the executive management team being Groups auditor regarding improvements to internal controls present.
and the adequacy of resources within the Groups finance function.
Finally, the Committee takes responsibility on behalf Activities during the year of the Board for the review of risk management and controls The main activities of the Committee during 2018 can be within the Group, as well as conducting an annual robust seen by referring to the summary agenda items in the table assessment of these.
During 2018 this was clearly divided between A full copy of the Committees Terms of Reference is available matters of financial oversight and those concerned with from the Companys website at www.
2018 was another particularly active year for the Committee with the acquisition of Committee membership the Touchstone Innovations portfolio leading to a much The Committee comprises four independent non-executive increased workload both for management, the Board and the directors, with myself as Chair.
As the Chair of the external auditors.
Committee, I am deemed by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience, being a Fellow of the Chartered Valuation portfolio assets Institute of Management Accountants and having held senior This remains the key audit risk for the Group, and at each financial positions in my career.
The Board is satisfied that reporting event the Audit & Risk Committee discusses with for the year under review, and thereafter, the Audit & Risk management and the auditor the approach that has been Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the sector taken in assessing all key estimates.
in which the Company operates.
Professor Begg was unable to attend one meeting during the year due to a family illness.
He gave input on the matters being discussed at the meeting to the Chairman in advance.
indd 116 16 04 2019 15:13:38 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six OUR GOVERNANCE The most material area of judgement in the financial With the passage of time, more certainty has been statements has always related to the valuation of the established in the valuation of these assets and we now feel unquoted equity investments, and the acquisition of the that the valuation of the former Touchstone portfolio meets portfolio from Touchstone towards the end of 2017 made this what we consider to be our more exacting approach to task more difficult throughout the year as we came to terms portfolio valuation.
with each of its major investments.
Impairment of goodwill As we disclosed in last years report, several of Touchstones At year end, the fair value of the Groups intangible assets unquoted investments had not completed a funding round was 0.3m and goodwill was 0.4m, compared with within the previous year and a number were only held by 10.2m and 202.5m respectively at the end of 2017.
The a small number of investors, and this limited our ability Group has historically recognised goodwill in respect of to validate the carrying values by reference to recent several acquisitions, most recently in the 2017 acquisition funding rounds or an extensive shareholder base.
An of Touchstone Innovations plc.
Following a number of additional complication has been that several of the higher potential impairment triggers in the year, including 2018s value investments were in the Life Sciences sector, where poor portfolio returns which led to a significant divergence investment returns can be more binary: if a medical trial between forecast and actual portfolio returns performance, fails, the valuation of the asset can be severely reduced.
As a management has impaired the majority of the goodwill response, and post consultation with the external auditor, the balance.
See further discussion in the financial review on Group has increased its use of external valuation specialists pages 38 to 43. as part of its valuation procedures.
Summary agendas for the Audit & Risk Committee meetings in 2018 Primarily audit-focused business Primarily risk-focused business February 2018 Review of draft 2017 Annual Report and Repatriation of Touchstone LuxCo structure Accounts Risk and Control Update Significant accounting and disclosure Approval of Long-Term Viability Statement and judgements going concern review KPMG FY2017 audit update Anti-facilitation of tax evasion legislation Committee effectiveness review March 2018 Significant accounting and disclosure Risk and Control Update judgements 2017 Annual Report and Accounts: review and recommendation for approval KPMG FY2017 audit report June 2018 HY Report: planning for key judgement areas Regulated activities update KPMG HY Planning memorandum Anti-facilitation of tax evasion update GDPR update Cyber and IT update Controls review update Consideration of internal audit function Treasury policy and board authorities Touchstone Luxembourg repatriation project 117 2018-IP Group-AR.
indd 117 16 04 2019 15:13:38 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 REPORT OF THE AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE CONTINUED Primarily audit-focused business Primarily risk-focused business July 2018 Significant accounting judgements and Overview of risk management framework estimates Review of controls over principal risks KPMG HY2018 auditor review 2018 internal audit control project planning HY Report: Review and recommendation for Group insurance policies approval December 2018 2018 Annual Report and Accounts planning FY19 internal audit work programme KPMG FY Planning document Operational, strategic and principal risks and controls review External auditor performance review Anti-bribery and corruption policy update including gifts and entertainment review Long-term viability statement 2018 planning Cyber and IT update Regulated business update Brexit readiness review Annual review of policies and procedures: Whistleblowing, Anti-Bribery, Related party transactions existing investments with further capital, the business model Regulatory compliance is currently inherently cash-consuming, although a greater Ensuring compliance for FCA regulated businesses also degree of realisations were made in 2018 compared to prior represents an important control risk from the perspective of years.
With a closing balance of gross cash and deposits the ARC.
Ongoing internal reviews are conducted through totalling 219.0m at the end of 2018, the Group has sufficient the use of a compliance monitoring programme, annual cash reserves to continue to provide capital to its existing external evaluations are conducted by a specialist firms and portfolio and to create and fund new businesses at a broadly local advisers are employed to advise on areas of regulation similar rate to previous years for at least two years, assuming relevant to the Groups operations.
broadly similar levels of net operating expenditure and an increase in portfolio realisations.
Review of Annual Report and Accounts The Committee, as in previous years, decided that the longand Half-yearly Report term viability of the Group remained principally related to The Committee carried out a thorough review of the Groups a number of factors.
These included the inherent risks of 2018 Annual Report and Accounts and its 2018 Half-yearly investing in early-stage technology companies, changes Report resulting in the recommendation of both for approval in the ability to raise further capital, different outcomes by the Board.
In carrying out its review, the Committee gave following a range of Oxford Nanopore exit events, and particular consideration to whether the Annual Report, macroeconomic conditions, particularly relating to quoted taken as a whole, was fair, balanced and understandable, markets and the potential significant volatility that is being concluding that it was.
It did this primarily through seen as the UK approaches Brexit.
The impact of these on consideration of the reporting of the Groups business model each of a series of forecast scenarios was assessed.
In the and strategy, the competitive landscape in which it operates, scenario with significant downside, where no further funding the significant risks it faces, the progress made against its was available to the Group for the next three years, together strategic objectives and the progress made by, and changes with a halving in value of the entire portfolio, assuming a in fair value of, its portfolio companies during the year.
corresponding reduction in overheads, the business remained viable for three years.
In the light of this, both the Committee Going concern and long-term viability and the wider Board came to the conclusion that the viability Annually, the Committee considers the going concern period should not be greater than three years.
principle on which the financial statements are prepared and also considers and approves the long-term viability review prepared by management.
As a business which seeks to establish and invest in new ventures as well as support 118 2018-IP Group-AR.
