Governance Management Board Julian Bellamy Carolyn McCall Chris Kennedy Managing Director, ITV Studios Chief Executive Group CFO Appointed: February 2016 Appointed: January 2018 Appointed: February 2019 Experience: Julian joined ITV in 2014 as Experience: Biography on page 66.
Managing Director of ITV Studios in the UK Kevin Lygo Kelly Williams and was promoted to Managing Director of Director of Television Managing Director, Commercial ITV Studios in February 2016.
Julians previous Appointed: August 2010 Appointed: December 2014 roles included Creative Director and Head Experience: Kevin joined ITV as Managing Experience: Kelly joined ITV in 2011 asGroup of Commissioning at Discovery Networks Director of ITV Studios in 2010 and became Commercial Director and joined the Management International, Head of Programming at Director of Television in February 2016.
He is also Chairman of Channel 4 and prior to that he ran BBC3 previous roles included Director of Television Thinkbox, sits on the BARB Strategyboard and and E4.
He also spent time as Channel 4s and Content at Channel 4, Director of is Vice Chairman of the Advertising Association.
Head of Factual Entertainment and was Programmes at Channel 5 and a number Before joining ITV, Kellywas the Sales Director a commissioning editor of Channel 4 News of positions at the BBC, including Head of at Channel 5 and priorto that held various and Current Affairs.
positions at UKTV, Skyand Thames Television.
David Osborn Rufus Radcliffe Group HR Director Group Marketing and Research Director Appointed: October 2014 Appointed: April 2017 Experience: David joined ITV as the HR Director Experience: Rufus joined ITV in 2011 and was for ITV Studios in 2011 and was promoted promoted to the Management Board in 2017. to Group HR Director and appointed to He also sits on the Freeview Board and is the Management Board in 2014.
David has a Fellow of the Marketing Society.
Before gained previous experience in both the UK joining ITV, Rufus spent ten years at Channel 4, and internationally whilst working in a variety and prior to that held various positions at of businesses including EMI Music, Vodafone, McCann Erickson and JWT.
VisaEurope and Marks and Spencer.
Julian Bellamy David Osborn Carolyn McCall Kevin Lygo Rufus Radcliffe Chris Kennedy 68 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Management Board Julian Ashworth Kyla Mullins Director of Strategy and Direct to Consumer General Counsel and Company Secretary Appointed: February 2018 Appointed: January 2019 Experience: Julian joined ITV in 2018 to lead Experience: Kyla joined ITV in January 2019 as the strategy review and development of the General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Before Direct to Consumer business.
Before joining ITV, joining ITV, Kyla held senior legal positions in the Julian was Global Director of Policy Strategy at media, entertainment and strategic outsourcing BTand prior to that held various strategy and sectors.
Kyla was General Counsel and Company business development and commercial roles Secretary at easyJet plc and Mitie Group plc: at RELX plc, Centrica plc and Bain & Company.
Global General Counsel of EMI Music: and Group He has also served as a member of the UK Legal Director at ITV plc and Granada Media.
Governments Digital Economy Council, a board Paul Moore member of TECHUK, the British Screen Advisory Group Communications and Corporate Council, the Royal Taskforce against cyberbullying Affairs Director and as a member of the UK Council for Child Appointed: June 2018 Internet Safety.
Experience: Paul joined ITV in 2018 as Group Mark Smith Communications and Corporate Affairs Director.
Group Chief Technology officer Before joining ITV, Paul was the Communications Appointed: September 2018 and Public Affairs Director at easyJet plc from Experience: Mark joined ITV in 2011 as a member 2010 and prior to this worked for FirstGroup of the technology management team and was andalso Virgin Atlantic Airways for ten years promoted to Chief Technology officer in 2015, asDirector of Corporate Affairs.
Paul first started before taking on the Group Chief Technology his career as a civil servant and worked for the officer role in 2018.
Prior to joining ITV Mark Department of Transport.
held senior technology positions at the BBC, BBC Worldwide and Sky.
Over the past 15 years Mark has specialised in digital transformation and has led the design, build and delivery of industry leading VOD platforms.
Mark started his career asa software engineer at BT.
Kelly Williams Julian Ashworth Mark Smith Kyla Mullins Paul Moore 69
