Governance Board of Directors Carolyn McCall Sir Peter Bazalgette Chris Kennedy Chief Executive Chairman Group CFO G N R G Appointed: January 2018 Appointed: June 2013 Appointed: February 2019 Key areas of prior experience: Strategy Key areas of prior experience: Media Key areas of prior experience: Corporate finance and change management, media, retail and consultant, digital media investor and and financial restructuring, media.
Current external appointments: Non-executive Current external appointments: Non-executive Current external appointments: Chairman, Director, Whitbread plc: Director of Great Ormond Director and member of the Audit and Lovecraft Collective Ltd and Non-executive Street Hospital for Children NHS Foundation Trust.
Nominations committees, Burberry Group plc: Director of UK Research and Innovation: Previous experience: Chief Financial officer, Non-executive director, Department of Business, Member of Advisory Board for YouGov plc Micro Focus International plc, Arm Holdings Energy and Industrial Strategy: Trustee of the and Bartle Bogle Hegarty.
Various senior management roles Development Board of the Royal Academy of Arts.
Previous experience: President, theRoyal at EMI Music including UK Chief Financial officer, Previous experience: Chief Executive easyJet plc, Television Society: Chairman, the Arts Council Chief Operating officer International, Group Guardian Media Group plc and Guardian News ofEngland, ENo and Endemol UK Ltd: NonCFO and Chief Investment officer.
and Media: Non-executive Director of LloydsTSB executive Director of Nutopia, Rightster, DCMS, Margaret Ewing Limited, Tesco plc, NewLook plc: Director of Critical Information Group plc and Channel Four Non-executive Director, Chair of the Audit and French Chamber of Commerce: Chair, Television Corp: Senior Non-executive Director RiskCommittee Opportunity Now.
and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee N A and member of the Audit and Risk Committee of Appointed: October 2017 YouGov plc: Non-executive Director and Chairman Key areas of prior experience: Financial of Mirriad Ltd: Trustee of DebateMate: Deputy accounting, corporate finance, strategic Chairman andDirector of the National Film and capital planning.
and Television School: Adviser to Sony Musics Committee membership Current external appointments: Non-executive television division: Chairman of the UK production G Director and member of the Audit and Risk General Purpose business of Sony Pictures Television Inc. : Chief Committee and Corporate Responsibility A Creative officer at Endemol Group BV and Audit and Risk Committee of ConvaTec Group plc: Trustee Endemol Entertainment UK Limited: NonN Nomination of the Board, Great Ormond Street Hospital executive Director and adviser, Base 79 Ltd. R Remuneration Childrens Charity.
Previous experience: External member of the Audit and Risk Committees, The Lawn Tennis Association and John Lewis Partnership: Full biographies can be found on our website: Non-executive Director and member of Audit www.
com about board-of-directors Committees of Standard Chartered plc, Whitbreadplc and CBI: Managing Partner and Vice Chairman, Deloitte LLP: Chief Financial officer, BAA plc and Trinity Mirror plc: Head of Corporate Terms of engagement for the Non-executive Finance Transaction Services and Senior Manager Directors and job descriptions for the Chairman, and Partner in corporate finance, Deloitte LLP.
Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director are available on our website: www.
com investors governance Carolyn McCall Sir Peter Bazalgette Chris Kennedy Margaret Ewing Edward Bonham Carter 66 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Board of Directors Edward Bonham Carter Duncan Painter Anna Manz Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director N A N R N A R Appointed: October 2018 Appointed: May 2018 Appointed: February 2016 Key areas of prior experience: Fund management, Key areas of prior experience: Digital media, Key areas of prior experience: Strategy stock markets and investor relations.
Current external appointments: Vice Chairman, Current external appointments: Chief Current external appointments: Group Jupiter Fund Management plc: Senior Independent Executive officer, Ascential plc: Non-executive Finance Director, JohnsonMatthey plc.
Director, Land Securities Group plc: Board member, Director, Investis Limited.
Previous experience: Various appointments The Investor Forum: Trustee, The Orchestra of Age Previous experience: Executive at BskyB plc, at Diageo plc including: Group Strategy Director, Enlightenment Trust and The Esmee Fairbairn Global Product Leader, Experian plc: Founder Regional Finance Director Asia Pacic, Group Foundation: Member of the Strategic Advisory and Chief Executive officer, Clarityblue, Treasurer, Finance Director Global Marketing, Board, Livingbridge: Non-executive Director, European Systems Integration Director, Sales and Innovation: other finance roles at Netwealth Investments Ltd. Hitachi Data Systems.
Previous experience: Group Chief Executive, Mary Harris Roger Faxon Jupiter Fund Management plc: Chief Investment Non-executive Director, Chair of the Non-executive Director officer, Jupiter Fund Management plc: Fund Remuneration Committee N R Manager, Jupiter Fund Management and Electra N A R Appointed: October 2012 Investment Trust: Investment Analyst, Schroders.
Appointed: July 2014 Key areas of prior experience: Broad commercial, Salman Amin Key areas of prior experience: Business digital and media rights experience, development Non-executive Director management consulting, sales and marketing, ofbusiness strategy and finance.
N R mergers and acquisitions, media, television Current external appointments: Chairman, Appointed: January 2017 and interactive media investments anddigital Mirriad Advertising Ltd: Director, The John Key areas of prior experience: General rights management.
management, marketing, advertising and Current external appointments: Non-executive Previous experience: Non-executive Director, media planning.
Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Pandora Media Inc: Director, EMI Group Global Current external appointments: Chief Committee, Reckitt Benckiser Group PLC: Member Limited and EMI Group plc: Chief Executive officer Executive officer, Pladis Global.
ofthe supervisory board of Unibail Rodamco SE: of EMI Group Limited: Chairman and CEO ofEMI Previous experience: Strategic Advisor, Member of Remuneration Committee, St Hildas Music Publishing: Director, theSongwriters Hall 4CInsights: Chief Operating officer, Global College, Oxford University.
ofFame: otherappointments at theAmerican Commercial Division and Chief Operating Previous experience: Non-executive Director Society of Composers and Authors and Lancit officer, North America SC Johnson and Son Inc: andChair of the Remuneration Committee of Media Entertainment Ltd in the US: Chairman various positions at Pepsico including: Chief J. Sainsbury plc: Member of the supervisory ofVIVA Television in Germany and Channel V Marketing officer, Purchase: President, board, TNT Express NV, TNT NV, Scotch and Networks inAsia.
PepsiCo UK and Ireland: Senior VP Marketing, Soda NV andIrdeto BV: Partner, McKinsey Purchase and Snacks and GM, Quaker: VP & Company, Amsterdam: various positions Marketing, International Snacks: VP Marketing, worldwide with McKinsey &Company, Maxwell International Beverages: other marketing and Entertainment Group, Pepsi Cola Beverages various positions within brand management, and Goldman Sachs&Co.
personal care, paper products and food in the US, Saudi Arabia, Germanyand Switzerland at Procter & Gamble.
Salman Amin Duncan Painter Mary Harris Anna Manz Roger Faxon 67
