Governance Corporate Governance Our Governance structure Board Audit and Risk Committee Disclosure Committee Nomination Committee See the Audit and Risk Committee Report Group CFO and other senior managers Chairman and Non-executive Directors on page 80.
Meets to ensure compliance with the Meets to review the structure, size, and continuing obligations under the Market composition of the Board, including skills, Abuse Regulation MAR and Disclosure knowledge and experience.
Identies and Guidance and Transparency Rules DTRs.
nominates for Board approval candidates to ll Board vacancies, and considers Remuneration Committee succession planning for Directors and other See the Remuneration Report on page 92.
Considers and reviews Tax and Treasury Committee any conflicts of interest that may be Group CFO and other senior managers reported by the Directors.
Meets to consider and approve tax and treasury related matters in respect of General Purpose Committee Matters reserved for the Board and Committee corporate transactions or other activities.
Executive Directors terms of reference are available on our website: Monitors compliance with tax and treasury Meets as required to conduct business within related policies and procedures.
clearly dened limits set by the Board.
com investors governance Management Board Meets to consider, approve and implement strategy, operational plans, policies, procedures and budgets: monitors operating andnancial performance: assesses and manages risk: prioritises and allocates resources: monitors competitive forces and HR issues.
Studios Board Integrated Broadcast Business Resilience Corporate Meets to consider and Board Response Team Responsibility Board approve operational matters.
Meets to consider and The tactical response team Manages the direction Assesses and manages risk approve operational matters.
in the event of an incident, and delivery of ITVs as well as aspects mentioned Assesses and manages risk supporting the Management Corporate Responsibility above for the Management as well as aspects mentioned Board in dealing with Strategy including in relation Board but in relation to the above for the Management a crisis.
Develops business to diversity and inclusion, Studios business.
Board but in relation to the area response plans, environment, communities Integrated Broadcast business.
testing programmes and and social causes see incident reporting.
Programme Compliance Direct to Consumer Advisory Group Operational Committee Manages and considers Assists in assuring the issues and risks in relation successful expansion of ITVs to programme compliance Direct to Consumer business.
70 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Corporate Governance Board experience Sector experience International experience Board tenure Board gender diversity as at date of publication as at date of publication Media 26% United Kingdom Retail 33% 02 years United States Investment 10% 25 years Netherlands Finance 19% 59 years 40% 60% Digital 12% Saudi Arabia Germany Ireland Switzerland Southeast Asia China Board and Committee membership and attendance Board and Committee membership and attendance at scheduled meetings in 2018 is set out below.
Attendance at meetings Date of appointment Date elected by Nomination Remuneration Audit and Risk Status Notes to the Board shareholders Board Committee Committee Committee Current Peter Bazalgette Chairman 1 1 June 2013 14 May 2014 10 10 1 1 7 7 Salman Amin Independent 2 9 January 2017 10 May 2017 10 10 1 1 4 4 Edward Bonham Carter Independent SID 11 October 2018 2 2 1 1 Margaret Ewing Independent 31 October 2017 10 May 2018 10 10 1 1 5 5 Roger Faxon Independent 3 31 October 2012 15 May 2013 10 10 1 1 6 7 Mary Harris Independent 4 28 July 2014 14 May 2015 10 10 1 1 7 7 5 5 Anna Manz Independent 1 February 2016 12 May 2016 10 10 1 1 7 7 5 5 Carolyn McCall Executive 8 January 2018 10 May 2018 10 10 Duncan Painter Independent 1 May 2018 6 6 1 1 1.
Peter Bazalgette acted as Executive Chairman from 1 July 2017 until 8 January 2018.
Salman Amin was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 1 June 2018.
Roger Faxon was unable to attend the Remuneration Committee in July due to a prior commitment.
Mary Harris was appointed Interim Senior Independent Director on 10 May 2018 until Edward Bonham Carters appointment on 11 October 2018.
Attendance at meetings Date of appointment Date left Nomination Remuneration Audit and Risk Status to the Board the Board Board Committee Committee Committee Past Ian Grifths Executive 9 September 2008 31 December2018 10 10 Andy Haste Independent 11 August 2008 10 May 2018 4 4 2 2 John Ormerod Independent 18 January 2008 10 May 2018 4 4 3 3 2 2 Board and Committee meetings Board meetings are structured around the Senior executives are regularly invited The number of meetings held during the following areas: to attend meetings for specic items.
In year and attendance of Directors is set addition to formal Board andCommittee out in the table above.
The Board agrees Operational and functional updates meetings, meetings take place between: an annual schedule of matters it wishes Financial updates to consider at each of its meetings and Strategy and strategy implementation Board members and Management those of its Committees.
The schedule Progress against strategy Boardmembers ensures that all relevant matters are Business plan and performance Chairman and Non-executive Directors considered and receive appropriate againstplan Individual Non-executive Directors and attention.
Meetings are normally held Risk management framework, key risk members of senior management at one of the London sites or one of areas and risk appetite Senior Independent Director and the regional orinternational ofces.
Other reporting and items for approval Non-executive Directors without the Chairman present 71 Governance Corporate Governance continued Key matters considered in 2018 2018 activity Link to principal risks Strategy refresh Strategy day considered and set refreshed strategy as announced to the market Principal risks are set in July 2018 and at the Capital Markets Day in September 2018. out on pages 56 to 61 Succession planning and organisational design reviewed proposals toreorganise resource more efficiently and effectively to enable delivery of the strategy.
Strengthen 360 recommissioning process reviewed the process to provide visibility over the total Principal risks 5 and 6 Integrated Producer valuation of each production toensure appropriate investment decisions.
Broadcaster Branding and Hub investment reviewed and approved investment for enhanced Principal risk 3 and improved branding and marketing.
Commercial reviewed reorganisation of the Commercial team to ensure resource Principal risk 7 was focused on creativity and building relationships.
Grow Reviewed priorities and future improvement plans including leveraging the producer Principal risks 5 and 6 UK and global broadcaster model to create joint initiatives.
production Reviewed proposals to improve structure, direction and integration of acquired businesses.
Principal risk 6 Create Team reviewed proposals for the creation of the Direct to Consumerteam.
Principal risk 3 Direct to Consumer Business plan reviewed and approved business plan.
SVOD proposition business plan reviewed progress on developing SVOD strategy Principal risk 3 and research and considered risks and challenges.
Data and analytics reviewed plans for enhancing data analytics.
A more in-depth data Principal risk 4 strategy will be considered in 2019.
Other Brexit and regulation reviewed key policy andregulatory issues, including Brexit, Principal risk 1 Digital Services Tax and advertising restrictions.
This will be kept under review together with other issues that could have potential long-term impact on the business.
Pensions reviewed and approved Buy In ofsections B and C to mitigate future risk.
Principal risk 2 Property portfolio reviewed the strategy for the London properties.
The Board concluded that it was not in the best interests of the Company to continue with the proposed development plan and a decision to sell the Southbank site was made.
For further information on risks please see pages 56 to 61 of the Strategic Report and the Audit and Risk Committee Report pages 80 to 91.
72 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Corporate Governance Focus for 2019 Strategy and operations Governance Strategy implementation progress 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code compliance Deep dives on strategic initiatives Culture Data strategy Stakeholders Brexit and Regulation Total viewing and Direct to Consumer Total advertising Succession planning The Board recognises that effective succession planning is key to the Companys ability toachieve its strategic objectives and is also integral to maintaining an effective Board.
TheBoard has in place a framework which the Nomination Committee keeps under review to ensure that: The Board is refreshed appropriately in order to encourage new ideas: There is a diverse Board with a wide range of skills and experience: and Board tenure is appropriate and Board members remain independent.
During the year the Board has undergone some changes as set out below.
Group CFO: In June 2018 it was announced that Ian Grifths would be leaving ITV.
The Board commenced therecruitment process for a successor.
As part of its succession planning process, the Nomination Committee and the Board had already discussed the key skills, experience and other requirements of the role.
They established asub-committee comprised of Peter Bazalgette, Margaret Ewing, Anna Manz and Roger Faxon to nalise the process and Spencer Stuart were engaged to assist.
Face-to-face interviews were held and a strong shortlist was agreed.
The Board agreed that Chris Kennedy should be asked to join ITV asGroup CFO, which was announced on 5 November 2018.
Ian Grifths stepped down from the Board on 31 December 2018, and Chris joined the business on 21 February 2019.
Non-executive Directors: During the year, we welcomed two new Non-executive Directors: Duncan Painter with effect from 1 May 2018 and Edward Bonham Carter with effect from 11 October 2018.
The Nomination Committee engaged Founders Keepers and Spencer Stuart respectively to assist with the recruitment following a similar process as that set out above for the Group CFO.
Duncan Painter has a broad range of experience in digital media, consumer intelligence and targeted advertising, all of which the Board considered to complement the More than TV strategy.
When considering the recruitment of Edward Bonham Carter, the Nomination Committee was mindful of the need to secure a Senior Independent Director.
The Board considered Edwards broad range of experience, particularly in the understanding of stock markets and investor expectations, as well as his position as Senior Independent Director of Land Securities plc, would provide valuable insight for the Board.
Both John Ormerod and Andy Haste stepped down from the Board following the AGM in May 2018.
Committees: The Board also reviewed Committee membership and during 2018 Margaret Ewing succeeded John Ormerod as Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee.
In addition, Salman Amin and Duncan Painter joined the Remuneration Committee and Edward Bonham Carter joined the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Nomination Committee reviews succession planning for the senior executives annually.
More information on succession planning at ITV can be found in the Directors Report on page 110.
73 Governance Corporate Governance continued Diversity The Board has a diversity policy to retain a talented and diverse Board with a mix of expertise, experience, skills and backgrounds reflecting the business environment in which we operate.
Amongst other things the policy aims to: Maintain at least 30% female Directors on the Board over the short to medium term: Ensure Non-executive Director shortlists include at least 50% female candidates: Ensure the Non-executive Director search pool is sufciently wide and covers candidates from BAME backgrounds and candidates with a wide range of expertise, skills and backgrounds: and Only use search rms who have signed up to the voluntary code of conduct on gender diversity.
A copy of the policy can be found on our website www.
com investors governance We believe that the ITV Board is a diverse group in terms of experience, age, gender and educational and professional background.
We consider diversity as part of our succession planning process but recognise it is important toensure that the most appropriate person is chosen for the relevant position.
More information on diversity at ITV can be found in the Directors Report on page 109.
Induction All Directors who join ITV receive a comprehensive induction providing an overview of the industry and important key themes for the Company.
Itis also used to familiarise each Director with the different areas and allow them to meet colleagues from across the business.
General board induction All Directors Executive Non-executive Operational overview Build relationship with Chairman, Meetings with internal and external Financial review Management Board, Executive Leadership advisers as appropriate Strategic overview Team and Senior Leadership Team Visits to main hub sites and studios Budget and five year plan Visits to main hub sites, studios and Meetings with Management and Directors duties and responsibilities regional news teams Divisional Board members Risk management Succession planning Governance structure Inductions in the year: Banking and investment Previous minutes and meetingpapers Carolyn McCall Investor relations Meetings with other Board members Chris Kennedy Business development Inductions in the year: Duncan Painter Edward Bonham Carter 74 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Corporate Governance Training and development During a directors period of appointment, they are continually updated on the Groups different business areas and the competitive and regulatory environment in which they operate.
This is done through: Updates and papers which cover changes affecting the Group and the market in which itoperates and meetings with senior executives across the Group and key advisers: Regular updates on changes to the legal and governance requirements of the Group andin relation to their own position as Directors: and Presentations given at Board and Committee meetings on business matters and technical update sessions from external advisers where appropriate.
Executive Directors may accept external appointments as Non-executive Directors of other companies and retain any fees paid to them.
Further details of external positions held by Executive Directors can be found on page 107.
Board evaluation External The Board undertakes an external evaluation every three years to review its effectiveness and consider development.
As the last external Board evaluation took place in 2016 the process will be undertaken again in 2019.
Internal The work of the Board and its Committees is reviewed annually.
The evaluation takes the form of a detailed questionnaire and interviews with the Board and Committee members eliciting feedback on a wide range of topics.
In addition, input is sought from theExecutive Directors, other relevant senior executives and external advisers.
Results arethen passed tothe relevant Chairman and a report of proposed actions is submitted and agreed as appropriate.
Our three year Board evaluation cycle Internal evaluation Questionnaire circulated to the Board, senior executives and external advisers enabling an evaluation of performance in 2017.
2017 Conclusions presented which were discussed and actions for the forthcoming year agreed see below.
Internal evaluation Questionnaire circulated to the Board, senior executives and external advisers enabling an evaluation of performance in 2018 2018 and progress against actions agreed following the 2017 evaluation.
Conclusions presented which were discussed and actions for the forthcoming year agreed see page 76.
External evaluation To engage an independent party to facilitate a formal evaluation.
Further details will be provided in next years report.
2019 75 Governance Corporate Governance continued Actions in 2018 Composition Effectiveness Stakeholder engagement Action: Ensure there is a broad range Action: Review meeting structure to Action: Engage more regularly on wider of experience and perspective on the enhance productivity and efficiency and stakeholder engagement.
In particular, media, technology allow for greater in-depth discussions.
time understanding and visiting UK and and digital experience.
Outcome: The meeting timetable was Outcome: Duncan Painter was appointed altered to be more efficient, particularly Outcome: The Board is kept up-todate in May 2018 due to his experience in the for those Directors travelling from on the progress of acquisition integration.
More time was allocated Board members undertook visits to can be found on page 67. to deep dive on strategic matters and Cattleya in Italy, Talpa in the Netherlands risks.
The annual programme and agenda as well to businesses in the US.
Action: Consider the successor for the are kept under constant review to ensure Senior Independent Director.
For more information on stakeholder sufficient time is available for robust engagement see page 78.
Outcome: Edward Bonham Carter was discussion and challenge.
appointed in October 2018 due to his investor experience and his position as Senior Independent Director of Land Securities Group plc.
His biography can be found on page 66.
Actions for 2019 Action: Nomination Committee structure Action: Review terms of reference Action: Review and consider approach and process to be reviewed to enable more of the Committees and review the job and programme for continuing time to consider succession planning and descriptions of the Chairman, Senior professional development, as part skills gaps for the Board and succession Independent Director and Chief Executive of the external evaluation exercise.
planning for the senior executives and to ensure alignment with the 2018 UK put appropriate action plans in place.
76 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Corporate Governance Culture Embedding corporate culture Assessment ITV has an open, inclusive and collaborative We seek to instill an inclusive One ITV The Board considers and acts upon culture across all areas ofthe business.
wayofworking through our global feedback from colleague engagement At its core, ITV puts trustand an open and network of eighty Ambassadors who surveys to assess and monitor the honest working environment for all as its represent all parts of the business.
perception of our culture against our most important values.
The role of an Ambassador is to represent values and beliefs.
The last global survey colleague interests, share information was undertaken in 2016 and indicated Board engagement and help shape our culture by giving that colleagues are broadly aligned with The Board places a high importance on colleagues a voice.
A full survey will thevalue of corporate culture within ITV Ambassadors were instrumental in be undertaken in 2019 enabling us to andthe role it provides in the development providing support to those affected more formally assess and measure our and retention of fully engaged colleagues by the organisational redesign as part culture and the impact of our More than as well as for ITVs external reputation.
of the strategy refresh process and TV strategy.
When we talk about culture we mean values, ofce moves.
behaviours and environments that shape We believe that an inclusive, effective a colleagues experience.
We want ITV to Our Senior Independent Director, Edward and well embedded corporate culture be a great place to work and a fundamental Bonham Carter, has been appointed as helps create asuccessful business.
part of this is fostering an inclusive culture our workforce engagement director acting We will continue to focus on building that attracts, develops and retains the best as a conduit between our Ambassador a strong corporate culture and will keep talent possible, where everyone is valued network and the Board, and will attend this underconsideration as part of our and empowered.
As part of the More than Ambassador meetings on a regular basis More than TV strategy.
TV strategy we have undertaken a review to discuss current issues and listen to of thebehaviours expected from our concerns.
Carolyn McCall also regularly leaders, managers and colleagues to attends Ambassador meetings as well execute the strategy as well as working as delivering regular Vod and Podcasts with them to define and shape culture.
to update colleagues on developments and encouraging direct contact through We also aim for our senior executives and her AskCarolyn email address.
Board members to be as visible as possible by using open-plan ofce space across ITV has four colleague networks ITV Pride the Group to encourage openness and for LGBT employees, The Womens collaboration.
Our London property Network, ITV Balance to discuss work-life strategy is a big step to achieve a more balance and ITV Embrace for BAME coherent and joined-up business.
These networks are open to all colleagues and run a number of Openness and communication are key inspirational talks, events, development and as such it is imperative that the Board workshops and also support ITV programme is visible and approachable throughout makers to ensure we reach the wider the organisation.
Only by representing our in site visits to our different locations and audiences within our workforce will we is in regular communication with senior be able to authentically reflect and appeal executives and other colleagues.
to the breadth of viewers that characterise modern society.
Not only do we want to The Board recognises that this helps attract the most talented people to work ensurethey have a greater insight and for us, but we want to enable our colleagues understanding of the business to to achieve their best and to develop their enhance decision-making and debate, career at ITV.
Making sure our culture and and to enable consideration of the longerworking environment is inclusive and term impact of its decisions on our accessible is key.
All colleagues are required to complete mandatory training aligned with the Code of Conduct.
Systems are in place to enable employees to identify and raise issues, including suspected wrongdoing, fraud or malpractice in the workplace.
This helps us ensure that the highest standards ofsafety are maintained and good ethicsand judgement are applied when makingdecisions.
77 Governance Corporate Governance continued Stakeholder engagement The Board has a responsibility to create value for all its stakeholders and we believe it is vital toengage and listen to their views.
ITVhas a wide range of stakeholders.
More on how we engage with some of these different groups isdetailed below.
Material issues Engagement Shareholders Strategy refresh: long-term The Board attaches a high priority to effective communication with investors financial performance: capital andhas regular open dialogue with them.
During the year meetings were routinely allocation: succession planning: held with institutional investors to keep them updated and the Board is kept Board composition: policy informed of any feedback from these meetings.
In September the management and regulation: Brexit: team held a Capital Markets Day to bring investors up-to-date onthe More than Directors remuneration: TV strategy process.
Our investor calendar for 2018 can be found on page 79. share price: challenges of Our AGM provides a forum for private shareholders toraise questions with the the digital media landscape.
Board directly should they wish.
They have ample opportunity to ask questions during the meeting and before and after the event.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are always available to all shareholders.
Customers Viewers: access to a varied, ITV reaches a vast audience across the UK and the Board recognises the high-quality programming important role it plays for viewers.
Viewers are able to tell us their thoughts schedule that reflects a directly via email or telephone with contact details provided on our website.
modern society: ability They are also able to use our regulator Ofcom, to raise any concerns they may to view on a variety of have.
The Integrated Broadcast Board receive a monthly compliance report channels: on-screen diversity.
detailing viewer or regulator concerns.
Our dedicated Viewer Services team is on hand to resolve anytechnical issues or other questions our viewers may have.
We also provide bespoke support for all of our live daytime shows, ITV Box Ofce events, and the ITV Hub to enhance our viewer experience.
Advertisers, broadcasters We work closely with both media agencies and advertisers to develop and and platform owners: nurture bespoke, integrated commercial and brand partnerships that extend deliver unrivalled commercial beyond pure spot advertising and programme sponsorship.
Working with audiences, scale and reach them we create innovate ways to engage consumers around brand across key demographics on marketing strategies.
ourmain channel: targeted audiences on the ITV Family Using the full breadth of our global production network we are able to work andITV Hub.
directly with broadcasters and content platform providers to deliver quality original programming.
We develop key relationships with them to licence Global Entertainments extensive programme catalogue.
Citizens Harness the power of our See our Corporate Responsibility Strategy on page 16 and our programmes to have a positive Corporate Responsibility website impact on communities andcauses: minimise the www.
com responsibility environmental impact of ouroperations.
Legislators and Maintain the highest standards We actively engage with politicians, policymakers and regulators on Regulators of governance: ensure a continual basis to ensure we deliver on our legal and regulatory obligations regulatory requirements are and help inform new regulatory and legislative initiatives.
This ensures our met at the highest level and regulatory framework remains t for purpose.
Colleagues Engagement and culture: For information on Culture see page 77. investment in training and development: diversity and For more information on other issues see the Directors Report on page 109. inclusion: remuneration.
Further information on our stakeholders can be found in the Chairmans Statement on page 6.
78 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Corporate Governance Our 2018 investor calendar February March May July September November Full year results Q1 Trading Update Interim results Interim results Q3 Trading Update published and published published and roadshow in London published roadshow in London AGM roadshow in London Capital Markets Day Morgan Stanley Citi Annual Media inLondon TMTconference conference in London inBarcelona US roadshow April June August October Full year results Barclays conference Interim results Capital Markets Day roadshow in London inUS roadshow inLondon follow up meetings Investor profile Investor profile The types of holder by percentage is as follows: The percentage of issued capital by type of holder is as follows: Institutional shareholders 0.16% Institutional shareholders 97.27% Private shareholders 92.64% Private shareholders 2.55% Other 7.20% Other 0.18% 79
