Governance Audit and Risk Committee Report Margaret Ewing Chair, Audit and Risk Committee In this report The purpose of this report is to highlight areas that the Committee has reviewed during the year.
Wereport to shareholders on the significant financial reporting issues and judgements made in connection with the preparation of the Companys financial statements.
Also highlighted is how the Committee has assisted the Board inreviewing the Companys internal control and risk environment.
Weexplain what the Committee has done to review the effectiveness of our internal andexternal auditors.
Dear Shareholder to working with him and with Chris Kennedy, our new Group CFO, during 2019.
On the following pages we set out the Auditand Risk Committees Report for This is my first report and I would like to The Committee 2018, which provides an overview of the assure shareholders that the Committee continues to provide role of the Committee and the matters isworking really well, which I hope this report considered during the year.
The Committee continues to independent and provide independent and robust challenge John Ormerod, your previous Audit and Risk to management and our auditors to ensure robust challenge Committee Chairman, retired from the Board there are effective and high-quality controls to management and in May 2018.
I was delighted to take over the in place and appropriate judgements taken.
Chairmanship from John, who was a valuable ourauditors to ensure member of the Board and an exceptional We have the right mix of skills and experience Audit and Risk Committee Chairman.
on the Committee to provide constructive there are effective He ensured my transition to the role was challenge and support to management.
andhigh-quality seamless and I am hugely indebted to him.
TheCommittee continues toplay a key role Andy Haste also stepped down from the inensuring implementation of and compliance controls inplace Board and the Committee in May 2018. with new accounting standards and associated At the end of December 2018 Ian Grifths guidance.
We consider relevant corporate andappropriate stepped down from the Board.
As CFO and governance requirements and give COO he worked tirelessly over the past ten considerable focus to the Groups evolving risk judgements taken.
years for ITV and, with John, helped to management framework andprocesses.
transform the Committee into the robust and challenging committee that it is today.
During 2019, we will be considering the On behalf of the Board and the Committee requirements of the 2018 UK Corporate Iwould like to thank them all for the Governance Code and the impact of various enormous contribution they have made toITV.
regulatory reviews Kingman, CMA and Brydon into the audit sector.
We seek In order to strengthen the Committee to respond to shareholders expectations membership we welcomed Edward inourreporting and, as always, welcome Bonham Carter as a member with effect anyfeedback from shareholders.
Edward brings significant financial acumen and the Margaret Ewing important investor perspective to the Chair, Audit and Risk Committee Committees deliberations.
I look forward 27 February 2019 80 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Audit and Risk Committee Report The Committee members have Who is on the The current members are: Margaret Ewing between them a wide range of Committee business and financial experience.
Chair from 10 May 2018 Full details of attendance at The Committee is Edward Bonham Carter TheCommittee considers that Committee meetings can be composed entirely from 1 January 2019 Margaret Ewing and Anna Manz found on the table on page 71. ofindependent Mary Harris have recent and relevant financial Non-executive Directors.
Anna Manz experience for the purposes of theCode.
John Ormerod and Andy Haste Detailed biographies can be stepped down from the Board and found on pages 66 and 67. the Committee on 10 May 2018.
Assist the Board to establish Monitor and review the Our role The main role of the Committee is to: and articulate overall risk effectiveness and independence Following each meeting, appetite and oversee and advise of the internal audit function.
Monitor the integrity of the Committee published financial information the Board on specic strategic Provide advice to the communicates its main risk exposures and mitigations.
Remuneration Committee and review significant discussion points and financial reporting issues Review the risk identication on financial reporting matters findings to the Board.
and assessment processes and related judgements as they and judgements.
The Committees terms of Provide advice to the Board and undertake deep dives affect executive remuneration reference can be accessed of high-risk business areas performance objectives.
on whether the Annual Report on our website.
and Accounts are fair, balanced or processes.
Review the quality and and understandable and the Review the effectiveness of effectiveness of the external appropriateness of the going the internal control and risk audit and the procedures and concern statement and the management processes.
controls designed to ensure www.
investors governance July Meetings in 2018 February Year end financial Half year report In addition to Committee At each meeting the KPMG review conclusions reporting issues, estimates members, the Chairman of Committee receives a report and judgements and findings the Board, Executive Directors, from the Head of Internal Fair, balanced and Director of Group Finance, Auditon the progress of the September understandable review of the Company Secretary, Head internal audit work plan, issues Emerging and business specic Annual Report and Accounts of Internal Audit, Director of and recommendations arising risk reviews Viability Statement and going Treasury, Director of Tax from the audit work and November concern statement verication and external audit partners managements progress on Year end planning KPMG audit conclusions regularly attend meetings.
implementation of internal Known full year financial andndings The Committee members audit findings.
In addition to reporting issues APMs and exceptional items meet regularly with the the September riskfocused and judgements New regulation and guidelines external audit partners and meeting, the Committee also Distributable reserves planning compliance checklist Head of Internal Audit considers specic risk topics at KPMG interim controls Draft Annual Report without executives present.
reviewndings andAccounts Effectiveness of internal Audit opinion audit and the following years Internal Audit independence internal audit plan Bonus and share plan outcomes Annual tax and treasury review May For other matters see page 82.
Known half year financial reporting issues For external audit quality and and judgements effectiveness see page 91.
External audit strategy Annual review For 2018, in addition to feedback reference and will continue to framework, processes and from members of the Committee, develop its role.
The Committee will also An annual review of input was sought from the 2019 include completing the amend, where necessary, its terms the performance of the Executive Directors, Director assessment of the appropriate of reference to reflect the 2018 Committee is conducted of Group Finance, other senior model for internal audit: UK Corporate Governance Code and each year.
executives, members of the undertaking a tender process seek to improve its engagement external and internal audit teams for the appointment of external with relevant stakeholders.
and the Chairman of the Board.
and internal auditors effective The Committee will continue to Overall, the review concluded for the year commencing review its membership to ensure that the Committee is responding 1 January 2021, and supporting the skills and experience align with appropriately to its terms of the enhancement of the risk the business as it develops.
81 Governance Audit and Risk Committee Report continued Our focus in 2018 In planning its own agenda, and reviewing the audit plans of the internal and external auditors, the Committee takes account of significant issues and risks, both operational and financial, that may have an impact on the Companys financial statements and or the Companys execution and delivery of its strategy.
The Committee also addresses specic queries referred to it by the Board or Remuneration Committee.
During 2018, after robust challenge and debate, there were no topics where there was significant disagreement between management, the external auditor and the Committee, or unresolved issues that needed to be referred to the Board.
Set out in the tables below is information on the key matters considered during the year.
Regular reviews and recurring transactions The following table summarises the regular reviews and activities undertaken by the Committee.
Some of these areas may require the application of judgement by management or have underlying complexity.
Financial Financial results announcements Goodwill impairment note 3.3, page 155 disclosure Annual Report and Accounts Tax note 2.3, page 143 and judgements Accounting judgements and estimates Deal debt see page 83 Developments in financial reporting: Pension accounting note 3.7, page 163 revenue recognition IFRS 15 page 133 deficit nancing seepage 83 lease accounting IFRS16 page 133 Acquisition earnout liabilities see page 83 Fair, balanced and understandable Appropriateness of Alternative assessment Performance Measures Viability Statement underlying Litigation provisions assumptions page 62 Property page 84 Going concern page 131 External Auditor performance, quality Auditor progress and review reports audit and effectiveness Key areas of judgement Plan for and scope of audit resource applied Auditor management reports Auditor engagement and fees Audit report Auditor independence and objectivity Auditor Independence policy including non-audit fees Internal control Internal Audit independence Material litigation and effectiveness Insurance programme Internal Audit plan Fraud controls Internal Audit findings and outcomes Anti-bribery and corruption controls Effectiveness of internal controls Technology controls Monitoring acquisition earnouts Tax policy and controls and related accounting Treasury policy and reports Whistleblowing process Tax and Treasury Committee review Risk Principal risks and uncertainties Regulatory and programme compliance and risk mitigations Litigation Effectiveness of the risk Progress, risks and governance of the management process airtime sales project page 86 Cyber security page 86 World Cup risk mitigation plans page 88 Business resilience Information security and GDPR page 86 Further information on our risk Technology modernisation page 86 management framework can be found Health and safety on pages 54 and 55.
82 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Audit and Risk Committee Report Most of the topics mentioned on page 82 are relevant to all businesses.
However, matters specic to ITV include: Deal debt: management estimates the over and under delivery of advertising value to agencies.
The Committee reviews managements approach and method of determining the provisions required for net under delivery of advertising value.
deficit nancing: as part of our strategy to expand our content portfolio, significant investment in high-end drama is made.
The Committee reviews the accounting implications, including revenue recognition and recoverability of the amounts invested.
Thestructure of content deals is becoming increasingly complex and the accounting implications increasingly material.
Acquisition earnout liabilities: management estimates the future expected payout for acquisition related liabilities.
Judgement on complex discrete transactions The Group completed certain significant transactions during the period that were in line with the More than TV strategy, as set out below.
The Committee carefully reviewed these transactions to ensure that the judgements applied by management were reasonable and any complex accounting guidance followed correctly.
Revenue and cost recognition Financial reporting and judgement Action taken by management Action taken by the Committee and outcome ITV signed a multi-year agreement for the Management undertook an exercise to The Committee assessed managements digital distribution of key scripted titles consider the appropriate accounting for actions and agreed with the proposed including Snowpiercer and Bodyguard.
revenue and cost recognition under IFRS.
As the agreement covered multiple titles Management focused on the fullment KPMG also presented their view on and was across current and future years, of performance obligations under IFRS 15 the matter to the Committee, noting the financial reporting and judgement and the allocation of costs under IAS 38R.
consistent conclusions on the appropriate focused on revenue and cost recognition.
As delivery of the scripted series and the accounting treatment and disclosure.
performance obligations are to be fullled Also see note 2.1 on page 135. over the term of the licence, it was concluded that revenue should be recognised over time.
With regards to cost recognition, management proposed that costs should be recognised in line with our accounting policy for high-value drama.
83 Governance Audit and Risk Committee Report continued Revenue recognition Financial reporting and judgement Action taken by management Action taken by the Committee and outcome Talpa Media, a wholly owned subsidiary At the time of approving the interim The Committee accepted managements of ITV, signed a multi-year licence deal for financial statements and trading view that the revenue from this contract The Voice of Spain and other current and announcement, conrmation of the should not be recognised at 30 June 2018. future unscripted Talpa Media formats in availability of the rights for exploitation Subsequent conrmation of the rights June 2018. had not been received.
allowed revenue recognition during the second half of 2018.
While this is a typical deal structure for Subsequently, management received the Talpa Media, the financial reporting and in-house legal teams review of the rights KPMG also presented their view on judgement involved: position: this was also supported by the matter to the Committee, noting external counsel.
No significant issues were consistent conclusions on the appropriate Ensuring the availability of the rights identied and management concluded that accounting treatment and disclosure.
the rights were available for exploitation.
Ensuring that separate components The Committee asked management of the licence contract were accounted The intellectual property and production to ensure that going forward there for correctly.
know-how for The Voice already exists was better clarity on the availability with no further obligations.
It was of rights where programmes moved Also see note 2.1 on page 135. concluded that, in line with IFRS 15, between broadcasters.
because the performance considerations were met, the multi-year The Voice of Spain component of the contract be fully recognised in 2018.
The future related components, such as new formats or intellectual property rights of the contract, will be recognised over time.
London properties Financial reporting and judgement Action taken by management Action taken by the Committee and outcome In 2017, the Group announced its intention Management reviewed the prior The Committee noted and agreed with the to redevelop its South Bank site and build treatment, as outlined in the 2017 revised accounting treatment and impact.
As a result, Audit and Risk Committee Report, management proposed that incremental and concluded that: costs incurred across the project over All lease costs relating to our current the medium term in respect of temporary London ofces should, following the leases and related costs, both capital move date, be treated as business as and income statement related, should usual costs: be removed from the underlying results The short-term temporary dual running in the future.
costs as a result of the vacant South However, in 2018, the Board reversed its Bank property should be treated as prior decision and agreed not to redevelop exceptional: and the Groups HQ at the London Television The costs associated with the physical Centre, South Bank, and the site is now move, closure and disposal costs should for sale.
continue to be treated as exceptional.
Consequently there were no longer any temporary leases, and the accounting treatment was reviewed.
84 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Audit and Risk Committee Report Pensions Financial reporting and judgement Action taken by management Action taken by the Committee and outcome In November 2018, the Trustee entered in to Management undertook an exercise to The Committee was provided with a bulk annuity insurance contract a Buy In consider the appropriate accounting a brieng on the terms of the Buy In in respect of the benets of two sections for this Buy In under IAS 19. transaction from the Director of Reward of the ITV Pension Scheme.
and Pensions and considered the various As the acquisition of an insurance contract accounting complexities and considered A Buy In is where the Trustee purchases is an investment decision this has been managements approach to be correct.
an insurance policy which is effectively accounted for through the Statement a scheme asset that pays the members of Other Comprehensive Income.
The ultimate obligation to pay For IAS 19 purposes, the fair value of this the members benets still remains with insurance contract is set equal to the the scheme.
valuation of the insured member benets using the IAS 19 assumptions.
As these two sections of the ITV Pension Scheme were in a surplus position under IAS 19, this has resulted in a loss within the Groups Statement of Other Comprehensive Income.
There are elements of the Buy In transaction which have been accounted for through the Groups Statement of profit or Losses.
Managements view is that these items are not in relation to the underlying business and have been highlighted in our alternative performance measures.
85 Governance Audit and Risk Committee Report continued Other matters In addition the following topics were reviewed: Cyber security, privacy and GDPR Issue Action taken by the Committee Outcome Cyber security is an increasing risk as The Committee reviewed progress against The Committee acknowledged the our business develops new revenue agreed plans for cyber security and data continued good progress that had streams and direct to consumer privacy.
This included: been achieved in implementation of propositions.
Cyber security is a dynamic the cyber security strategy and the Results from cyber incident area due to converging threats and positive comments of BAE Systems.
Risk ratings were approved and the Continued programmes to Committee requested an update on Data privacy and GDPR are high prole educate employees: the revised cyber security strategy and areas of business risk for all companies.
Actions taken to further embed risk appetite during 2019.
IT controls: and Improving our detection and response The GDPR readiness programme will capability with assistance from third transition to business as usual during party specialists.
2019 and this will be kept under review.
The Committee requested and received The Committee recommended a frank view of the threats and mitigations appropriate budget and focus across from BAE Systems independent cyber the Group be given to further mitigations and wider technology security advisers for both cyber security and GDPR.
These topics continue to feature on The Committee also reviewed the status Internal Audits programme of work.
of the GDPR readiness programme, which has also laid the foundations for ongoing business process change.
Technology modernisation Issue Action taken by the Committee Outcome The programme of work to modernise The Committee reviewed and challenged The Committee acknowledged the ourlegacy business systems to reduce the programme of work, including: significant progress in modernising the a number of key business risks continues.
Groups applications and supported the Migration of the majority of our plans for the legacy applications migration.
The work undertaken to date is delivering modernised applications to the cloud, significant business benets and and a programme of work focusing The Committee considered contingencies reducedrisks.
on the remaining legacy applications and actions in the event of delay in to migrate to cloud technology by 2022: implementing the airtime sales project Development of our end to end content to ensure adequate resource.
supply chain process, from the significant progress has been made and management of the processing completed and planned mitigations of content from commissioning or were reviewed and assessed.
acquisition through to distribution: The Committee will continue to keep this Development and migration to under review.
a bespoke artiste payment system in the UK: and Internal Audits programme of work Progress in the replacement of our seeks to incorporate key business airtime sales system.
86 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Audit and Risk Committee Report Broadcast transmission resilience Issue Action taken by the Committee Outcome Our broadcast transmission chain is growing The Committee reviewed the governance The Committee was impressed with the ever more complex as viewers access processes in place, the risks and mitigations and planning in place to avoid content in many different ways.
mitigations and disaster recovery major risks but recognised risks will arrangements around our broadcasting remain.
The Committee recommended It relies on the management of the key transmission processes.
that adequate budget be provided partners who provide the components to allow certain additional mitigations of that chain.
The Committee will continue to keep this under review.
Tax employment status Issue Action taken by the Committee Outcome Employment status for tax purposes Behind camera: the Committee continued Behind camera: the Committee noted continues to be a focus area for businesses to receive regular updates to ensure that improved processes were now whose operating models rely on engaging ITV continues to follow best practice.
fully embedded in the business.
This model Management will update the Committee Front of camera: ITV are engaged with is particularly prevalent in television on the status of proposed new HMRC other producers and broadcasters to production where freelancers are used guidance during 2019. develop best practice in this area, and both behind and in front of camera.
the Company continues to discuss these Front of camera: the Committee will issues with HMRC.
The Committee keep the position under review.
received updates from management on developments within ITV and the wider media sector.
Tax IR35 Issue Action taken by Committee Outcome From April 2020 the responsibility for The Committee considered updates from The Committee will continue to keep this undertaking IR35 employment status management on the implications for ITV.
under review as the Company prepares assessments, and where necessary for the introduction of the new rules.
withholding PAYE and paying NICs, will Internal Audit will attend the pass to the engager, rather than remain programme board.
with individuals and their personal service companies.
Speak up Through strong leadership we successfully manage risk and aim to create a culture where everyone can feel they are able to speak up.
During 2018, we launched a new At the heart of our approach reporting tool to employees and freelancers of ITV Studios, which will be rolled out to risk management is across the rest of the business around the world during 2019. ensuring that everyone This can be used for reporting incidents as well as sharing observations, ideas and has a voice.
examples of best practice across the business.
We hope that this will help to break down barriers and start conversations, leading to better risk management across the business.
87 Governance Audit and Risk Committee Report continued Anti-bribery and corruption Issue Action taken by the Committee Outcome Following an internal audit review on the The Committee continued to review The Committee will continue to keep implementation of our anti-bribery and managements progress against agreed this under review in 2019 with further corruption policies in 2017, actions to Internal Audit recommendations.
They work needed to fully embed the strengthen implementation of the noted that an external legal review had processes in the business, particularly Group programme were recommended confirmed sufficient processes were our overseas businesses.
Internal Audit will look at the awareness of the overseas businesses during any overseas reviews.
Whistleblowing Issue Action taken by the Committee Outcome Work was undertaken with Protect to The Committee considered the outcomes Protect will undertake a further review benchmark our policy and processes.
at the end of 2019 and Internal Audit will include awareness of the Protect Protect formerly Public Concern at Work helpline in the internal audit process provide ITV with independent advice on for international businesses and our Whistleblowing process and smaller acquisitions.
condential helplines for our colleagues across the Group.
Football World Cup Issue Action taken by the Committee Outcome ITV broadcast the Football World Cup in The Committee reviewed the consolidated The Committee acknowledged that there Russia in July 2018. risk register for the World Cup, which had been significant effort in identifying included risks and mitigations relating and mitigating the many risks associated to broadcast transmission, cyber risk, with the broadcast of this tournament.
anti-bribery and corruption, health and The Committee was impressed with safety and business resilience.
the comprehensive assessment of all potential key risks and the cooperation Internal Audit also undertook a review across the Group and with other of the risks identied and the mitigation broadcasters to mitigate the risks plans developed by management.
Brexit Issue Action taken by the Committee Outcome The implications for ITV on accounting, The Committee reviewed managements The overall risks of the Group in respect tax and treasury matters of the UK view of the impacts on accounting, tax of the potential impact and risks of Brexit leaving the EU.
and treasury matters as part of regular have been reviewed in detail by the Board updates to the Committee.
and the Committee has focused on the accounting, tax and treasury risks only.
88 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Audit and Risk Committee Report Risk management and internal controls Risk management The Committee continued to consider the process for managing risk within the business and assisted the Board in relation to compliance with the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Further information on our risk management processes and details of our principal risks are set out on pages 56 to 61.
We continue to develop our cultural people-driven approach to risk management, which we believe encourages a focus on prevention rather than reaction to failure.
In 2018, the Committee reviewed a number of risk topics.
The Groups key risks reflect those inherent within the annual budget and five year plan.
Internal controls The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups framework for internal control and for regularly reviewing the effectiveness of the framework.
The Committee assists the Board in reviewing the framework for internal control.
The primary responsibility for the operation of the framework is delegated to management.
The framework can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Key control procedures are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk.
The Committee reviews the internal controls framework and managements approach to reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
During 2018, the Committee reviewed the findings and conclusions and noted critical improvements in relation to risk management and completion of risk actions.
The Committee also reviewed the governance for key projects, simplication of approval levels, use of the core international controls framework and assessment of effectiveness through the Group Finance Assurance Plan.
The Committee noted the continuing improvement of the underlying processes, procedures and controls at the Business Service Centre, including the forthcoming implementation of a new consolidation system in 2019.
The Committee also reviewed the Fraud Prevention Framework and interaction with external and internal audit.
The Committee satisfies itself that internal controls are operating throughout the year principally based on a programme of internal audit reviews, reviews of the effectiveness of internal controls, including fraud and anti-bribery, reviews of balance sheet checklists certied by local management, deep dive sessions with relevant management on the management of certain key risks and controls and through a suite of automated analytics that monitor financial transactions in our systems.
In addition to the internal audit programme, there are a number of exception reports that cover transaction processing.
For those subsidiaries not covered by exception reporting software, a monthly self-assessment takes place, which is subject to independent internal review.
As part of our internal control process an annual strategy review and a rolling five year financial planning exercise is undertaken, which are reviewed and approved by the Board.
The five year plan feeds into the annual budget cycle.
The Executive Directors review formal forecasts, detailed budgets, strategies and action plans and the Board approves the overall Group budget as part of its normal responsibilities.
The results of operating units are reported monthly to the Board, along with an update of the Groups performance against strategic KPIs and cash targets.
Actual results are compared with budget and forecasts, and key trends and variances are explained and analysed and actions taken to address performance variances or emerging issues agreed.
During the year, the Committee Chair met with internal and external litigation advisers on key litigation matters for the Group, such as Boxclever, Gurney and the Voice of China.
The Tax and Treasury Committee is in place to consider and approve tax and treasury related matters in respect of corporate transactions or other activities and monitors compliance with tax and treasury related policies.
This committee is an important part of the governance framework of ITV, minutes of meetings are shared with the Committee and its operation is reviewed annually by the Committee.
During the year the Committee Chair attended one of the committee meetings.
89 Governance Audit and Risk Committee Report continued Our auditors Internal auditor The Groups internal audit activity is outsourced to Deloitte, who report directly to the Committee.
The Committee continues to believe that outsourcing offers access to the wide range of skills and resources in the various geographies required.
However, during 2019 it will again consider if this model for internal audit remains optimum for the Groups strategy.
The Committee keeps under review the internal audit relationship with Deloitte and the procedures to ensure that appropriate independence of the internal audit function is maintained.
The effectiveness of internal audit is assessed over the year using a number of measures that include but are not limited to : An evaluation of each audit assignment completed using feedback from the part of the business that has been audited: and A high level annual review that is completed by obtaining feedback from senior management in each division.
Prior to the start of the year, the Committee considered and approved the internal audit plan, which included audits across the Group as well as assurance over live projects, including the airtime sales project, World Cup resilience and finance consolidation systems implementation.
During the year, the Committee reviewed findings from the internal audit reports, the actions taken to implement the recommendations made in the reports and the status of progress against previously agreed actions.
All internal audit reports are available to the Committee.
During the year, Internal Audit visited a number of our international subsidiaries as well as reviewing our controls in a number of areas including ITV Hub, Treasury and non-employee contracting.
External auditor The Groups external auditor is KPMG.
The table below summarises the process followed to manage the relationship and audit process.
Engagement Audit tendering Independence and Reappointment androtation objectivity The Committee considers KPMG were appointed as The Committee seeks to During the year, the Committee carefully the scope of planned auditor of ITV plc in December ensure the objectivity and considered the performance work and the assessment of 2003 prior to the Company independence of our and audit fees of our auditor, risk and materiality on which becoming the parent company auditor through: and the level of non-audit it is based.
The Committees of the ITV Group on 2 February work undertaken, and Focus on the assignment aim is to support a robust 2004.
In 2012 we undertook recommended to the Board and rotation of key personnel and effective audit with a competitive tender applying that a resolution for the The adequacy of audit resource strong reporting lines to the BIS guidance on the EU reappointment of KPMG for Policies in relation to the Committee.
The Committee afurther year as the Companys non-audit work intends to undertake a tender auditor be proposed to The Committee discusses the process during 2019 for the shareholders at the AGM in As a result of these strict senior resource employed in appointment of external guidelines the Committee May 2018.
The resolution the audit and the background, auditors effective from was passed and KPMG was believes that non-audit relevant sector and other 1January 2021. services do not have a direct or reappointed.
experience of new members material effect on the audited of the team and considers The Committee continues to The Committee has financial statements.
A copy implications for the audit of monitor audit quality to ensure recommended the of our Auditor Independence new reporting, accounting a robust and effective audit.
reappointment of KPMG policy is available on our and governance guidelines at the AGM on 8 May 2019.
We comply with the provisions website at www.
of the Statutory Audit Services We monitor relationships with The Committee agrees the for Large Companies Market other audit rms to ensure we terms of engagement, audit Investigation Mandatory have sufficient choice for any and non-audit fees and Use of Competitive Tender future appointment.
reviews progress and results and Audit Processes and Audit throughout the year.
and Risk Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
The Committee requested that KPMG visit our US subsidiaries prior to developing the audit strategy to assess the audit approach required in the US.
90 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Audit and Risk Committee Report External audit effectiveness and quality The Committee follows the review programme below to satisfy itself of external audit effectiveness and quality.
February May July November Audit scope and materiality Audit plan and strategy Fees Auditor Independence policy Conrmation of work Engagement FRC Audit Quality Review reviewed every two years performed and identication Independence and objectivity focus areas Audit fees final approval of other significant risks Independence and objectivity Independence and objectivity Reappointment Independence and objectivity Audit quality is reviewed throughout the year and the Committee continues to use the Financial Reporting Councils FRC Audit Quality Practice Aid to structure its review of audit quality.
When making its assessment of audit quality, the factors the Committee focused on included: External audit The audit strategy for the year addressed thematic concerns that the FRC had highlighted.
quality reports Auditor interaction Reviewing the auditors understanding of business progress against the strategy and emerging with management industry themes, as well as the auditors discussion with and challenge of management on key corporate transactions, key judgements and estimates and accounting treatments and disclosures with clear indications of scepticism being applied when appropriate.
Auditors own view Enquired with regards to: ofeffectiveness Audit methodology and its effective application to ITV: Robustness of challenges and findings on areas that require management judgement: Whether there had been an internal peer review of the ITV audit and what the findings were: and The experience of the senior members of the audit team.
In its assessment of audit quality, the Committee also took into account: The detailed audit scope and strategy for the year, including the coverage of emerging risks and recent acquisitions and partnerships in all geographies: Group materiality and component materiality: How the auditor communicated any key accounting judgements and conclusions, and Feedback from management of the performance of the auditor.
There were no significant findings from the evaluation this year and the Committee considers the external audit to have been robust and effective.
