CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Good governance starts with a strong Board providing entrepreneurial leadership and setting the values and culture of the Group.
Board composition DEAR SHAREHOLDER In December we were pleased to announce the addition of This section is concerned with good governance and the Eric Hageman to our Board as Chief Financial Officer with effect approach that your Board takes in order to promote an effective from 1 January 2019.
Eric replaced Dominik fide Daniel who and robust governance structure within the Group.
It is the stepped down from the Board on 12 September 2018. responsibility of your Board to ensure and be responsible for the long-term success of the Company through facilitating Elmar Heggen will be stepping down from the Board with effect effective entrepreneurial and prudent management.
from the annual general meeting on 14 May 2019.
Laurie Harris will join the Board as Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Through the detail provided in the reports contained in this Audit Committee on the same date.
section, I hope we can provide you with an insight into how we continually strive to achieve effective governance.
We maintain a Board based on merit which we believe encompasses the broad range of skills, backgrounds and Our approach to governance experience necessary to properly serve our shareholders.
The We firmly believe that good governance starts with a strong mix of Board members brings together many backgrounds and Board providing entrepreneurial leadership and setting the nationalities covering diverse executive responsibilities and, values and culture of the Group against a backdrop of prudent additionally, each member brings with them distinct yet and appropriate safeguards, checks and balances which are complementary personal experiences and approaches to regularly reviewed, and which ensure that the right matters which include the evaluation of opportunities and considerations underpin every decision we make.
We continue to see the rewards and benefits of having such strength and diversity on the Board.
As your Board, it is our responsibility, through a culture of openness and debate, to determine the conduct of the Groups Nomination Committee business with particular focus on the following areas: The Nomination Committee report is set out on pages 57 and 58. performance and progress: Remuneration Committee major risks and their mitigation: The Directors Remuneration report is set out on pages 63 to 77 strategy: including the Remuneration Policy on pages 65 to 70. ethics, behaviours and values: people and how we can create a high-performing team: Audit Committee and auditors future development and succession: The Audit Committee has continued to play a substantial role in ensuring appropriate governance and challenge around our risk customers: and and assurance processes.
This is covered in further detail on accountability to shareholders.
Full details of the work of the Audit Committee I trust that you will find our reports to be fair, balanced and are in the Audit Committee report on pages 59 to 62. understandable: this is a reflection of how we do business and Board evaluation how the Board serves its stakeholders.
An external Board evaluation was performed in respect of 2018 Independent Committee and the process and results are summarised on page 55.
At the start of the year an Independent Committee comprised of Employee engagement and corporate responsibility the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors considered the unsolicited approaches made by funds managed by affiliates of Nina Henderson has taken over Board oversight for the Groups Brookfield Asset Management, Inc. and Onex Corporation.
The corporate responsibility activities and will also take on the new discussions ended on 1 February 2018.
Board role with responsibility for engagement with employees.
The Independent Committee reformed in May 2018 to consider DOUGLAS SUTHERLAND separate approaches from Lone Star Europe Acquisitions CHAIRMAN Limited, Starwood Capital European Operations Limited, TDR Capital LLP, Prime Opportunities Investment Group LLC and Terra Firma Investments Limited.
All discussions ended by 6 August 2018.
Your Board is confident that IWG has an exciting future as an independent public company and we are exploring a range of potential strategic opportunities to deliver increased value and returns to shareholders.
52 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 52 IWG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Board meetings In this section In 2018 the Board met ten times.
Details of Board membership 52 Corporate governance throughout the year and attendance at meetings are set 57 Nomination Committee report out below: Attendance 59 Audit Committee report out of possible maximum 63 Directors Remuneration report Members number of meetings : 78 Directors report Douglas Sutherland, Chairman 10 10 80 Directors statements Mark Dixon 10 10 1 Dominik fide Daniel 6 7 UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The UK Corporate Governance Code, as published by the Franois Pauly 10 10 Financial Reporting Council in April 2016 and available on Elmar Heggen 10 10 www.
uk the Code, sets out a series of principles and Florence Pierre 10 10 provisions documenting good practice in governance.
Our Nina Henderson 10 10 Corporate Governance Report is structured to report against the main principles of the Code, which relate to: leadership, 1.
Dominik fide Daniel left the Board on 12 September 2018 effectiveness, accountability, remuneration and relations with The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its shareholders.
Together with the Audit Committee report, the decision and which cannot be delegated.
These include: Nomination Committee report and the Directors Remuneration report, this Corporate Governance Report shows how we have approval of long-term objectives and commercial strategy: applied the principles of the Code during 2018 when we approval of the annual budget: complied with all the provisions of the Code except in relation approval of regulatory announcements including the interim to Senior Independent Director contact with major and annual financial statements: shareholders.
Further information on this is provided in our approval of terms of reference and membership of the Board Compliance Statement on page 56. and its Committees: The UK Corporate Governance Code was updated in July 2018 approval of risk management strategy: with changes that will be applicable for accounting years changes to the Groups capital structure: beginning after 1 January 2019.
We have taken the appropriate changes to the Groups management and control structure: steps to address these changes and will report in compliance capital expenditure in excess of 5m: and with these new rules in our Annual Report for 2019. material contracts with an annual value in excess of 5m.
LEADERSHIP Minutes are taken of all Board discussions and decisions.
In the Role of the Board event that a Director has a concern about the running of the The role of your Board is to facilitate effective, entrepreneurial Company or a proposed action, and such concern remains and prudent management and through that to be collectively unresolved, Directors ensure that any such concerns are responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
The recorded in the Board minutes.
Board sets: Board Committees the strategy for the Group and ensures that the necessary There are three Committees which support the Board: resources, measures and controls are in place to implement the Audit Committee: the agreed strategy and to monitor performance: and the Remuneration Committee: and the values and standards which form the basis of the corporate culture of the Company.
the Nomination Committee the Committees.
Role of the Chairman The Chairman: The Committees have been delegated certain powers by the Board, further details of which, together with the work of the is responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring its Committees, can be found on pages 57 to 77.
The terms of effectiveness on all aspects of its role: reference of each Committee can be found on the Companys sets the Board meeting schedule and agenda: and website: www.
ensures that each meeting covers an appropriate range of The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to all the Committees topics including operations, strategy, business development, and minutes of meetings are circulated to all Board members.
special projects and administrative matters.
Insurance The Groups insurance programme is reviewed annually and appropriate insurance cover is obtained to protect the Directors and senior management in the event of a claim being brought against any of them in their capacity as Directors and Officers of the Company.
5 3 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The composition of the Board and Committees are both EFFECTIVENESS regularly reviewed and the Board considers the correct balance Board composition of expertise, skills and dedication in order to discharge its The Board currently comprises the Chairman, two Executive duties effectively has been maintained.
Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
The Board considers all Non-Executive Directors to be independent and they each Board appointments and succession bring their own senior-level experience and objectivity to the The Nomination Committee continues to be responsible for Board.
Our aim is to appoint a Board with varied backgrounds leading the process for Board appointments, which it does on and gender to reflect the society in which we operate.
the basis of the evaluation of the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge, and succession planning.
Further The names of our current Directors and their biographical details of the Nomination Committees work and responsibilities details are set out on pages 50 and 51.
All Directors served are contained on pages 57 and 58. throughout the year under review, except for Eric Hageman who was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 January 2019.
Re-election of the Board Dominik fide Daniel stepped down from the Board on 12 All Directors unless they are retiring submit themselves for reSeptember 2018. election by shareholders annually.
Directors appointed during Elmar Heggen has resigned from the Board with effect from the the period since the last annual general meeting are required to annual general meeting on 14 May 2019.
Laurie Harris will join seek election at the next annual general meeting under the the Board as Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit Companys articles of association.
Eric Hageman, who was Committee on the same date.
appointed after the last general meeting, will seek election at the 2019 annual general meeting.
ROLE OF BOARD MEMBERS FRANOIS PAULY There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Company between the running of the Board and the running The Senior Independent Director acts as a sounding board of the Companys business.
No one individual Director has and confidant for the Chairman, as an intermediary for other unfettered powers of decision-making and all Directors are Directors as required, and leads the appraisal of the required to act in the best interests of the Company.
He is also available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved through DOUGLAS SUTHERLAND normal channels.
CHAIRMAN Responsible for leadership of the Board, setting its agenda NINA HENDERSON and monitoring its effectiveness.
He ensures that adequate NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR WITH OVERSIGHT FOR CORPORATE time is available for discussion of all agenda items, in RESPONSIBILITY AND EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT particular strategic issues.
Additionally, he ensures effective Responsible for overseeing the corporate responsibility communication with shareholders and that the Board is activities of the Group, including community and aware of the views of major shareholders.
He facilitates both environmental projects and engagement with the workforce the contribution of the Non-Executive Directors and as foreseen by the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code.
constructive relations between the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors, and regularly meets with the NonNon-Executive Directors Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being The independent counsel, character and judgement of the present.
Non-Executive Directors enhance the development of strategy and the overall decision-making of the Board.
The MARK DIXON Non-Executive Directors scrutinise the performance of CHIEF EXECUTIVE management and monitor the reporting of performance, Responsible for formulating strategy and for its delivery satisfying themselves on the integrity of financial once agreed by the Board.
He creates a framework of information and that financial controls and systems of strategy, values, organisation and objectives to ensure the risk management are robust and defensible.
They are also successful delivery of key targets, and allocates decisionresponsible for determining appropriate levels of executive making and responsibilities accordingly.
Non-Executive Directors are subject to the reERIC HAGEMAN election requirements and serve the Company under letters CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER of appointment, which have an initial three-year term.
Responsible for leading the finance and accounting TIMOTHY REGAN functions of the Group.
He is also responsible for business COMPANY SECRETARY ethics, good governance, assisting with strategy The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, and compliance.
through the Chairman, on all governance matters and ensuring that appropriate minutes are taken of all Board meetings and discussions.
54 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 54 IWG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Time commitment ACCOUNTABILITY In accordance with the terms of their appointment agreements, Financial and business reporting the Chairman and all Non-Executive Directors are expected to In accordance with its responsibilities the Board considers this allocate such time as is necessary for the proper performance of Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, their duties as Directors of the Company and are required to balanced and understandable in addition to providing the advise the Board if there is a change in circumstances which will information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys impact on the time they are able to dedicate to the Company.
position and performance, business model and strategy.
Copies of all Directors appointment agreements are available A statement by the Companys auditor about their for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal responsibilities in relation to the Annual Report and Accounts is business hours and at the annual general meeting.
Details of included on pages 81 to 83. other commitments held by the Directors are disclosed on The Board conducts regular reviews of the Groups strategic pages 50 to 51. direction.
Country and regional strategic objectives, plans and Development, information and support performance targets are set by the Executive Directors and are All Directors have: regularly reviewed by the Board in the context of the Groups overall objectives.
Further details of the basis on which the the opportunity to meet with major shareholders and have Company generates and preserves value over the longer term access to the Companys operations and employees: and the strategy for delivering the objectives of the Company access to training which is provided and reviewed on an are contained in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 49. ongoing basis to meet particular needs with the emphasis on governance and accounting developments.
During the year Going concern the Company Secretary provided updates to the Board on The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a relevant governance matters, whilst the Audit Committee reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have regularly considers new accounting developments through adequate resources to continue in operational existence for a presentations from management, internal business assurance period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the and the external auditors: and financial statements.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, going concern basis in preparing the accounts on pages 85 to 130. who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures, In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the financial corporate governance and regulatory compliance are statements, the Directors have considered the further followed and complied with.
Appointment and removal of the information included in the business activities commentary as Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
set out on pages 22 to 29, as well as the Groups principal risks The Board programme includes the receipt of monthly Board and uncertainties as set out on pages 34 to 41. reports and presentations given at Board meetings from Further details on the going concern basis of preparation can be management with strategic responsibilities.
These, together found in note 23 of the notes to the accounts on page 110. with site visits, increase the Non-Executive Directors understanding of the business and sector.
Longer-term viability The Directors have also assessed the viability of the Group and Should a Director request independent professional advice to Company over a three-year period.
Based on this assessment, carry out his duties, such advice is available to him or her at the the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and Companys expense.
Company will be able to continue in operation and meet all Board performance their liabilities as they fall due over the period up to 31 The Senior Independent Director annually leads the NonDecember 2021.
Full details of the viability statement are Executive Directors performance evaluation of the Chairman, reported on page 41. taking the views of the Executive Directors into account.
Principal risks An annual external evaluation of Board performance was The Board is responsible for assessing the nature and extent of conducted for 2018 by Condign Board Consulting, with the principal risks it is willing to take to achieve its strategic experience in conducting such reviews.
The evaluation included objectives and also those risks that threaten its business model, a series of one-to-one discussions between the reviewer and future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The key risks to the each Board member and a review of Board materials.
The Group and the steps taken to manage and mitigate them which evaluation results were reviewed by the Board and suggestions were reviewed and approved by the Board are detailed on are being incorporated in our ongoing efforts to continuously pages 34 to 41. improve the processes and effectiveness of the Board.
There The Board has delegated authority for overseeing and reviewing were no reportable matters identified and we continue to have the process of identifying, managing and reviewing risks to the full confidence in the Boards members and processes.
Audit Committee, which reports regularly to the Board.
5 5 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer Internal control systems maintain a close dialogue with institutional investors on the The Board has delegated its responsibility for the Companys Companys performance, governance, plans and objectives.
system of internal control and risk management and for These meetings also serve to develop an ongoing ensuring the effectiveness of this system to the Audit understanding of the views and any concerns of the Companys Committee.
Details of the system and the Committees review of major shareholders.
its effectiveness are reported on pages 59 to 62.
Non-Executive Directors are given regular updates as to the Audit Committee and auditors views of institutional shareholders.
The Chairman attends the The Board has established an Audit Committee consisting main presentations of the half-year and full-year results and is entirely of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Audit also available to meet with shareholders on request.
Committee has responsibility for ensuring the integrity of The principal communication with private shareholders is financial information and the effectiveness of financial controls through the Annual Report, the half-year results and the annual and the internal control and risk management system.
details of the Audit Committees work and responsibilities are contained on pages 59 to 62.
The Company continues to engage the services of Brunswick as its investor relations advisor.
All members of the Audit Committee are considered by the Board to be competent in accounting and or auditing.
Annual general meeting Furthermore, and in compliance with the Code, the Board The annual general meeting each year is held in May in Switzerland regards Elmar Heggen as the Committee member possessing and will be attended, other than in exceptional circumstances, by recent and relevant financial experience.
The new Audit all members of the Board.
In addition to the formal business of the Committee Chair, Laurie Harris, who will be appointed to the meeting, there is normally a trading update and shareholders are Board in place of Elmar Heggen, will also be the Committee invited to ask questions and are also given the opportunity to meet member deemed to possess the necessary recent and relevant the Directors informally afterwards.
Details of the process for the appointment of Laurie Harris are set out on page 58.
Notice of the annual general meeting together with any related documents is required to be mailed to shareholders at least 20 The Board proposes that KPMG be re-appointed as the auditor working days before the meeting and separate resolutions are for the financial year ending 31 December 2019. proposed on each issue.
REMUNERATION The voting in respect of all resolutions to be put to the annual Remuneration Committee general meeting is conducted by means of a poll vote.
The Board has established a Remuneration Committee with The level of proxy votes cast and the balance for and against responsibility for overseeing and providing independent each resolution, together with the level of abstentions, if any, judgement on all elements of the remuneration of the are announced following voting on a poll.
Where the Board Executive Directors, the first layer of management below Board considers that a significant proportion of votes have been cast level, the Company Secretary and the Chairman of the Board, against a resolution, the actions which the Board intends to take including pension rights, compensation payments and exit to understand the reasons behind the vote result will also be payments.
In determining policy the Remuneration Committee explained.
will take into account all factors which it deems necessary, Financial and other information is made available on the including the views of shareholders and other stakeholders, the Companys website: www.
risk appetite of the Company and alignment with the Companys purpose, values and long-term strategic goals.
The objective of Compliance statement the policy will be to promote the long-term sustainable success The Company has complied with the provisions of the Code of the Company and ensure that members of the executive throughout the year ended 31 December 2018, with the management of the Company are provided with appropriate exception of the following: incentives to encourage enhanced performance and are, in a Provision E. 1.1 the Senior Independent Non-Executive fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their individual Director, Franois Pauly, does not have regular meetings with contributions to the success of the Company.
Further details major external shareholders.
of the Remuneration Committees work are contained on pages 63 to 77.
The Board considers it appropriate for the Chairman to be the main conduit to investors, rather than the Senior Independent At our annual general meeting approval will be sought for the Non-Executive Director.
The Chairman participates in investor renewal of our Directors Remuneration Policy and an advisory meetings and makes himself available for questions, in person, vote will be sought for our Annual Report on Remuneration.
at the time of major announcements as well as upon request.
The Chairman regularly updates the Board and particularly the RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Senior Independent Non-Executive Director on the results of his Dialogue with shareholders meetings and the opinions of investors.
On this basis, the Board The Company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, with considers that the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director the half-year results typically announced in August and the final is able to gain full awareness of the issues and concerns of results in March.
There are programmes for the Chief Executive major shareholders.
Notwithstanding this policy, all Directors Officer and the Chief Financial Officer to give presentations of have a standing invitation to participate in meetings these results to the Companys institutional investors, analysts with investors.
and media in London and other key locations.
56 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 56 IWG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
