STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Particular focus is given to critical accounting policies and practices and changes thereto.
Membership and meetings Members of the Committee Five Committee meetings were held during 2018.
At the request Committee membership during the year and attendance of the Committee Chairman, the external auditors, the Executive at the meetings are set out below.
Directors, the Company Secretary acting as secretary to the Committee and the Business Assurance Director may attend Attendance out of possible maximum each meeting.
The Committee also, when required, and at least Members number of meetings annually, meets independently, without the presence of management, with the Companys external auditors and with Elmar Heggen, the Business Assurance Director to discuss matters of interest.
Chairman 5 5 Nina Henderson 5 5 Responsibilities Below is a summary of the terms of reference of the Committee Franois Pauly 5 5 the full text of which is available on the Companys website: Florence Pierre 5 5 www.
com : All members of the Committee are independent.
Financial reporting to provide support to the Board by monitoring the integrity of financial reporting and ensuring Length of tenure of Non-Executive Directors that the published financial statements of the Group and any within the Committee formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance comply fully with the relevant statutes and accounting standards.
Internal control and risk systems to review the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk 0-3 years management systems.
3-6 years Internal audit to monitor and review the annual internal 6 years audit programme ensuring that the internal audit function is adequately resourced and free from management restrictions, and to review and monitor responses to the findings and recommendations of the internal auditor.
DEAR SHAREHOLDER External audit to advise the Board on the appointment, As Chairman of the Audit Committee the Committee, I am reappointment, remuneration and removal of the pleased to present to you this years Committee report which external auditor.
shows how the Committee applied the principles of the UK Employee concerns to review the Companys arrangements Corporate Governance Code during 2018.
This will be my last under which employees may in confidence raise any concerns report as Committee Chairman as after almost nine years I will regarding possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other be stepping down from the Board with effect from the matters.
The Audit Committee ensures that these upcoming annual general meeting.
arrangements allow proportionate and independent Key objective investigation and appropriate follow-up action.
Acting on behalf of the Board, the Committees key objective is The Chairman of the Audit Committee routinely reports to the to provide effective governance over the Companys financial Board on how the Committee has discharged its responsibilities, reporting: this is achieved by monitoring, reviewing and making as well as highlighting any concerns that have been raised as recommendations to the Board in respect of: and when they arise.
the integrity of the Companys external financial reporting: the Companys system of internal control and compliance: and the Companys external auditors.
5 9 59 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Following its in-depth review of this Annual Report, the Activities of the Audit Committee during the year Committee has advised the Board that it considers the The following sections summarise the main areas of focus Annual Report, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and of the Committee and the results of the work undertaken in 2018. understandable, providing the information necessary for Financial reporting shareholders to assess the Companys position and The main focus of the Audit Committee was the review of the performance, business model and strategy.
As such, the half-year results and this Annual Report together with the Committee recommended the Annual Report to the Board.
Before recommending Risk management these to the Board we ensure that the actions and judgements On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee oversees and made by management are appropriate.
Particular focus is reviews an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and given to: managing the risks faced by the Group.
Major business risks and critical accounting policies and practices and changes thereto: their financial implications are appraised by the responsible changes in the control environment: executives as a part of the planning process and are endorsed control observations identified by the auditor: by regional management.
Key risks are reported to the Audit Committee, which in turn ensures that the Board is made aware decisions delegated to and requiring judgements by of them.
The appropriateness of controls is considered by the management: executives, having regard to cost, benefit, materiality and the adjustments resulting from the audit: likelihood of risks crystallising.
Key risks and actions to mitigate clarity of the disclosures made and compliance with those risks were considered by both the Audit Committee and accounting standards and relevant financial and governance the Board in the year under review, and were formally reviewed reporting requirements: and and approved by the Board.
The Company has put systems in the process surrounding compilation of the Annual Report place to enable compliance with the requirements of the EU and Accounts to ensure they are fair, balanced and Market Abuse Regulation since it came into effect in July 2016. reasonable.
Principal risks The Committee formally considers and minutes its There are a number of risks and uncertainties which could have consideration of the key audit matters before recommending an impact on the Groups long-term performance.
the financial statements to the Board.
The Group has a risk management structure in place designed to The Committee discussed and reviewed the following identify, manage and mitigate business risks.
Risk assessment significant issues with KPMG and management in relation to the and evaluation are an integral part of the annual planning financial statements for 2018: process, as well as the Groups monthly review cycle.
Taxation: The Committee considered the taxation risks arising The Groups principal risks, together with an explanation of how from the Groups operations when assessing the accounting the Group manages these risks, are presented on pages 34 to for taxation related balances and applied sensitivity analysis 41 of this Annual Report.
to determine the appropriateness of key judgements.
Also assessed was the recoverability of deferred tax assets and whether the recognition of additional deferred tax assets would be appropriate.
The presentation and disclosure in accordance with IAS 1 and IAS 12 in respect of taxation CONTROL ENVIRONMENT related balances were considered as was whether the Groups High standards of behaviour are demanded from staff at disclosures reflected the risks inherent in the accounting for all levels within the Group.
The following procedures are the taxation balances.
The Committee is satisfied that in place to support this: appropriate judgements have been made.
a clearly defined organisation structure with Valuation of intangibles and goodwill: The Committee has established responsibilities: considered the impairment testing undertaken and disclosures an induction process to educate new team members made in relation to the value of the Companys goodwill and on the standards required from them in their role, intangibles and has challenged the key assumptions made by including business ethics and compliance, regulations management in their valuation methodology.
The Committee and internal policies: considers that an appropriately cautious approach has been provision to all team members of a copy of the Team used by management and is satisfied that no additional Member Handbook which contains detailed guidance impairment of intangibles and goodwill is required.
See notes on employee policies and the standards of behaviour 11 and 12 for further information.
required of staff: IFRS 16 Leases 2019 implementation: The Committee has policies and procedure manuals and guidelines that are had regular updates on all aspects of the Groups IFRS 16 readily accessible through the Groups intranet site: implementation project including the Groups approach to operational audit and self-certification tools which transition, the key assumptions and judgements made and require individual centre managers to confirm their the expected impact of IFRS 16.
Particular consideration has adherence to Group policies and procedures: and been given to the discount rate methodology used by to underpin the effectiveness of controls, it is the management and other areas of judgement such as the Groups policy to recruit and develop appropriately expected duration of a lease.
The Committee is satisfied that skilled management and staff of high calibre and management have adopted an appropriate approach to the integrity and with appropriate disciplines.
implementation of IFRS 16 in 2019 and made appropriate disclosures in the 2018 financial statements.
60 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 60 IWG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the documentation of key policies and control procedures Internal control including finance, operations, and health and safety having The Committee has a delegated responsibility from the Board Group-wide application.
These are available to all staff via the for the Companys system of internal control and risk Groups intranet system: management and for reviewing the effectiveness of this system.
formal procedures for the review and approval of all Such a system is designed to identify, evaluate and control the investment and acquisition projects.
The Group Investment significant risks associated with the Groups achievement of its Committee reviews and approves all investments.
business objectives with a view to safeguarding shareholders Additionally, the form and content of routine investment investments and the Groups assets.
Due to the limitations that proposals are standardised to facilitate the review process: are inherent in any system of internal control, this system is designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks the delegation of authority limits with regard to the approval to which it is exposed and is designed to manage rather than of transactions: eliminate risk.
Accordingly, such a system can provide the generation of targeted, action-oriented reports from the reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material Groups sales and operating systems on a daily, weekly and misstatement or loss.
monthly basis, which provide management at all levels with performance data for their area of responsibility, and which In accordance with the FRC Revised Guidance, the Committee help them to focus on key issues and manage them more confirms there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating effectively: and managing significant risks faced by the Group.
the delivery of a centrally co-ordinated assurance During the year under review, the Committee continued to programme by the business assurance department that revisit its risk identification and assessment processes, inviting includes key business risk areas.
The findings and Board members and senior management to convene and recommendations of each review are reported to both discuss the Groups key risks and mitigating controls.
management and the Committee: and A risk-based approach has been adopted in establishing the the maintenance of high standards of behaviour which are Groups system of internal control and in reviewing its demanded from staff at all levels in the Group.
To identify and manage key risks: procedures are in place to support this: a clearly defined organisation structure with established a number of Group-wide procedures, policies and standards responsibilities: have been established: an induction process to educate new team members on the a framework for reporting and escalating matters of standards required from them in their role, including significance has been maintained: business ethics and compliance, regulation and internal reviews of the effectiveness of management actions in policies: addressing key Group risks identified by the Board have been the availability of the Team Member Handbook, via the undertaken: and Groups intranet, which contains the Companys Code of a system of regular reports from management setting out key Business Conduct, detailed guidance on employee policies performance and risk indicators has been developed.
and the standards of behaviour required of staff: The above process is designed to provide assurance by way of policies, procedure manuals and guidelines are readily cumulative assessment and is embedded in operational accessible through the Groups intranet site: management and governance processes.
operational audit and self-certification tools which require Key elements of the Groups system of internal control which individual managers to confirm their adherence to Group have operated throughout the year under review are as follows: policies and procedures: and the risk assessments of all significant business decisions at a Group-wide policy to recruit and develop appropriately skilled management and staff of high calibre and integrity the individual transaction level, and as part of the annual and with appropriate disciplines.
A Group-wide risk register is maintained and updated at least annually whereby all The Committee and the Board regard responsible corporate Company-inherent risks are identified and assessed, and behaviour as an integral part of the overall governance appropriate action plans developed to manage the risk per framework and believe that it should be fully integrated into the Companys risk appetite.
The Board reviews the Groups management structures and systems.
Therefore, the risk principal risks register at least annually and management management policies, procedures and monitoring methods periodically reports on the progress against agreed actions to described above apply equally to the identification, evaluation keep a close watch on how key risks are managed: and control of the Companys safety, ethical and environmental the annual strategic planning process, which is designed to risks and opportunities.
This approach ensures that the ensure consistency with the Companys strategic objectives.
Company has the necessary and adequate information to The final budget is reviewed and approved by the Board.
identify and assess risks and opportunities affecting the Performance is reviewed against objectives at each Companys long-term value arising from its handling of Board meeting: corporate responsibility and corporate governance matters.
comprehensive monthly business review processes under The Committee has completed its annual review of the which business performance is reviewed at business centre, effectiveness of the system of internal control for the year to 31 area, country, regional and functional levels.
Actual results December 2018 and is satisfied that it is in accordance with the are reviewed against targets, explanations are received for FRC Revised Guidance and the Code.
The assessment included all material movements, and recovery plans are agreed consideration of the effectiveness of the Boards ongoing where appropriate: process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks facing the Group.
6 1 61 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED KPMG are required to adhere to a rotation policy requiring Whistle-blowing policy rotation of the lead audit partner at least every five years.
The The Company has an externally hosted whistle-blowing channel, current lead audit partner has been responsible since the EthicsPoint, which is available to all employees via email, and audit of the 2016 financial statements.
The breakdown of the fees paid to the external auditor during The aim of the policy is to encourage all employees, regardless the year to 31 December 2018 can be found in note 5 of the of seniority, to bring matters that cause them concern to the notes to the financial statements on page 98. attention of the Audit Committee.
In assessing the effectiveness of the external audit process for The Business Assurance Director, where appropriate and in 2018 the Committee has considered: consultation with the senior management team, decides on the appropriate method and level of investigation.
The Audit the audit process as a whole and its suitability for the Committee is notified of all material discourses made and challenges facing the Group: receives reports on the results of investigations and actions the strength and independence of the external audit team: taken on a regular basis.
The Audit Committee has the power to the audit teams understanding of the control environment: request further information, conduct its own inquiries or order the culture of the external auditor in seeking continuous additional action as it sees fit.
improvement and increased quality: External audit the quality and timeliness of communications and reports KPMG Ireland KPMG were appointed in 2016 as the auditors received: and of IWG plc.
Whilst IWG plc is a Jersey company, after the quality of interaction with management.
consultation with KPMG, the Committee determined that There was a tender process conducted for the external audit appointing a Jersey registered KPMG Dublin audit partner would during 2018 which resulted in proposals from several firms.
best serve the needs of the Group.
The Audit Committee is Amongst other criteria, the tender process addressed an responsible for oversight of the external auditor, including an effective audit approach relative to the Group's operations annual assessment of their independence and objectivity and and organisation, use of technology and relevant expertise, the measures in place to safeguard this.
geographic coverage and location of key team members, the During the year, KPMG audited the consolidated financial ability to provide best practice insights and a competitive level statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018 of fees.
Following the Committees assessment of the results and completed a review of the half-year results of the Group for of the tender process, the effectiveness of the external audit the period to 30 June 2018. process for 2018 and of KPMGs continuing independence, and in view of changes in the Audit Committee Chair and Chief The value of non-audit services provided by KPMG in 2018 Financial Officer, the Committee has recommended to the Board amounted to 39,000 2017: 53,157.
Non-audit services that a resolution to reappoint KPMG as the Companys auditor in related to assurance services in relation to reports provided respect of the financial year ending 31 December 2019 be to landlords in the UK, tax services in relation to statutory tax proposed at the annual general meeting.
certifications in South Africa and IT services in the Philippines.
The services provided are considered by the Committee to be ELMAR HEGGEN necessary in the interests of the business and, by their nature, CHAIRMAN, AUDIT COMMITTEE these services could not easily be provided by another professional auditing firm.
During the year there were no circumstances where KPMG were engaged to provide services which might have led to a conflict of interests.
Measures in place to safeguard KPMGs independence were: the Companys policy to use the external auditor for nonaudit-related services only where the use of the external auditor will deliver a demonstrable benefit to the Company as compared to the use of other potential providers of the services and where it will not impair their independence or objectivity: all proposals for permitted defined non-audit services to use the external auditor must be submitted to, and authorised by, the Chief Financial Officer: permitted non-audit services include advice on financial accounting and regulatory reporting matters, reviews of internal accounting and risk management controls, non-statutory audits e. g. regarding acquisitions and disposal of assets and interests in companies and tax compliance and advisory services: prohibited non-audit services include book-keeping and other accounting services, actuarial valuation services, recruitment services in relation to key management positions and transaction acquisitions, mergers and dispositions work that includes investment banking services, preparation of forecasts or investment proposals and deal execution services: and 62 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 62 IWG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
