STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT A Board whose breadth and scope in terms of expertise, gender and nationality reflect the size and geographical reach of the business.
Our Board composition Members of the Committee As at the date of this report, the Board comprises seven Committee membership during the year and attendance members, being: at the meetings are set out below.
the Chairman Douglas Sutherland : Attendance two Executive Directors: and out of possible maximum four Non-Executive Directors.
Members number of meetings IWG maintains a Board whose breadth and scope in terms of Franois Pauly, expertise, gender and nationality reflect the size and Chairman 4 4 geographical reach of the business.
We believe the Board is the Elmar Heggen 4 4 right size to meet the requirements of the business and any Nina Henderson 4 4 changes to the Boards composition and to its Committees can Florence Pierre 4 4 be managed without undue disruption.
Douglas Sutherland 4 4 Board appointments All members of the Committee are independent.
The Committee leads the process for the appointment of all new Directors and, in identifying and recommending candidates Length of tenure of Non-Executive Directors to the Board, the Committee considers candidates on merit within the Committee against objective criteria and with due regard to the benefits of diversity on the Board.
Nominations are based on the existing balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, on the merits and capabilities of the nominee and on the time they are able to give to the role in order to promote the success of 0-3 years the Company.
3-6 years Our regular internal Board review process monitors 6 years effectiveness, performance, balance, independence, leadership and succession planning, enabling us to identify the capabilities and roles required for a particular Board appointment.
In view of the future development of the Group and our DEAR SHAREHOLDER objective to continue to place strong emphasis on the diversity I am pleased to present to you my report on the work of the of the Board, the Nomination Committee maintains an ongoing Nomination Committee the Committee during 2018. programme of engagement with highly qualified female and male Non-Executive Director candidates of varied education, 2018 was an important year for us and key activities included: backgrounds and business experience.
identifying and recommending the appointment of Eric Hageman as Chief Financial Officer.
Eric was appointed Succession planning interim Chief Financial Officer in September 2018 and was We ensure that succession plans are in place for the orderly appointed as Chief Financial Officer and Director, effective succession for appointments to the Board and senior 1 January 2019, and he offers himself for election at the management positions, so that there is an appropriate balance Companys 2019 annual general meeting.
The process of skills and experience within the Company and on the Board.
followed in his appointment is detailed on page 58: Succession planning discussions continue to be an integral leading the process to identify and recommend a new Audit priority of the Groups business planning and review process, as Committee Chairman to replace Elmar Heggen who will step is the continued development of both management capacity down as Non-Executive director and Audit Committee Chairman and capabilities within the business.
at the annual general meeting on 14 May 2019.
Laurie Harris will The Committee notes the provisions relative to the succession of be appointed as Non-Executive Director and Audit Committee the Board Chair in the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code.
The process followed in respect of her current Chairman was first appointed on 10 May 2010, having been appointment is detailed on page 58: a Non-Executive of the Group since 28 August 2008.
After reviewing our succession policy for Executive Director and senior management roles: and evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and using this to set a profile and initiate our search for new Non-Executive Directors.
5 7 57 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED reviewing the Chairmans performance and input from the 2018 for appointment and reappointment to the Board for the independent Board review and in consideration of the Groups purpose of ensuring a balanced and diverse Board in respect current challenges and opportunities, the Committee determined of skills, knowledge and experience.
that it was in the interest of the Group for the Chairman to continue Board Committees to make recommendations to the Board in that role with a successor to be selected in the course of 2020 in relation to the suitability of candidates for membership of for appointment by the annual general meeting on 11 May 2021. the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The appointment and removal of Directors are matters reserved for the full Diversity Board.
We maintain a policy of diversity, as is reflected in our current Board effectiveness to review annually and make Board of two women and five men, representing five nationalities appropriate recommendations to the Board.
and six countries of residence.
Along with their international Board performance to assist the Chairman with the annual operational experience, they also bring in-depth working performance evaluation to assess the performance and knowledge of multiple industries, business and organisational effectiveness of the overall Board and individual Directors.
models, corporate cultures, functional areas and business issues.
Leadership to remain fully informed about strategic issues We continue to monitor the broader discussion on diversity which and commercial matters affecting the Company and to keep we take into consideration whilst maintaining a merit-based under review the leadership needs of the organisation to approach to recommendations for Board appointments.
enable it to compete effectively.
Terms of reference Complete details of the above are available on the Companys Below is a summary of the terms of reference of the Committee: website: www.
Board appointment and composition to regularly review the structure, size and composition of the Board and make FRANOIS PAULY recommendations on the role and nomination of Directors CHAIRMAN, NOMINATION COMMITTEE Gender split of Board Gender split of all employees Gender split of senior leadership Male 5 Male 35% Male 64% Female 2 Female 65% Female 36% Appointment of Eric Hageman Appointment of Laurie Harris Following a review of the balance of existing skills, Following a review of the balance of existing skills, knowledge knowledge and experience both on the Board and within the and experience on the Board and specifically the requirements Senior Leadership Team and having considered the strategic for the Audit Committee Chairman to possess recent and plans for the Group, the Committee commenced a search for relevant financial experience, and considering the strategic a Chief Financial Officer.
The Committee used Russell plans for the Group, the Committee commenced a search for Reynolds Associates, who provided external executive search an Audit Committee Chairman to succeed Elmar Heggen who consultancy but had no other connections to the Company, will be stepping down at the Companys 2019 annual general as well as the Committees industry connections, networks meeting.
The Committee used its industry connections, and advisors, to identify internal and external candidates professional advisors and networks to identify candidates from diverse backgrounds.
Candidates were considered on from diverse backgrounds.
Candidates were considered on merit against the criteria set by the Committee giving due merit against the criteria set by the Committee giving due regard to diversity.
The shortlisted candidates met with all regard to diversity.
The shortlisted candidates met with members of the Committee, the Chief Executive and other members of the Committee, the Chief Executive and the members of the Senior Leadership Team.
The Committee Chief Financial Officer as well as advisors to the Company.
The extensively discussed the merits of all the candidates and Committee extensively discussed the merits of the candidates recommended the appointment of Eric Hageman who had and recommend Laurie Harris be appointed as Non-Executive performed strongly as interim Chief Financial Officer and Director and Audit Committee Chair.
brought highly relevant experience to the role from his The Board accepted the recommendation of the Committee previous positions.
and Laurie Harris will be appointed to the Board on 14 May The Board accepted the recommendation of the Committee 2019, subject to her election at the Companys 2019 annual and Eric Hageman was appointed to the Board as Chief general meeting.
Financial Officer with effect from 1 January 2019.
58 IWG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 58 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018
