Governance Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 54 The Committee is confident in the calibre of our Board and management team and is satisfied that the internal pipeline has further improved over the Nomination last year as a result of both external recruitment and internal promotions.
We take the opportunity when the Board reviews the Group strategy in October to have a comprehensive update, from Angie Risley, our Group Committee HR Director, and Mike Coupe, on talent and succession planning.
With the new structure of three Management Boards of Food, Sainsburys Argos and Sainsburys Bank, each reporting to the Operating Board, there are further clear opportunities for the senior executive team to develop.
Report The Committee recognises the benefits of diversity in its widest sense both on the Board and in the workplace as a whole and takes into account the report of the Hampton-Alexander Review on gender diversity.
I co-chaired the Parker Review Committee which published a report in 2017 into the ethnic diversity of UK boards and the Board is committed to increasing ethnic Dear Shareholder diversity throughout our business.
The Nomination Committee continues to We benefit from a broad range of views, backgrounds and experience on the Board but recognise that at the Operating Board level there is less diversity at ensure that the composition of the Board present than we have had in recent years.
In light of this, the Committee has discussed opportunities to address this in both the shorter and longer term.
and its Committees is regularly reviewed and We were pleased to see progress on our broader talent and diversity strategy remains well balanced in terms of structure, over the last 12 months.
skill, experience, background and knowledge.
In line with its terms of reference, the Committees effectiveness was considered Succession planning forms the key part of our as part of the Board evaluation process, further detail of which can be found on page 51.
I am pleased to report that the Board as a whole considers that the agenda and we have focused increasingly on Committee continues to be effective in its role of supporting the Board.
our progress in becoming more diverse and In the coming year, we will continue to monitor our succession plans for the inclusive throughout all areas of our business.
Board, including my own succession, and senior management, review our progress on becoming a more diverse and inclusive business, and we will oversee the Companys approach to resourcing the needs of the business, developing our colleagues and recruiting new talent.
David Tyler Chair, Nomination Committee Principal role and responsibilities The key responsibilities of the Nomination Committee include reviewing the balance of skills, knowledge, experience, independence and diversity of the Board and its Committees and making recommendations to the Board for any changes.
It is responsible for formulating plans for succession at Board and senior management levels, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company, and the skills and expertise needed to ensure the long-term success of the Group.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website www.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements G Go ov ver ern na an nc ce e R Rep epor ort t J S J Sa ai in ns sb bu ur ry p y pl lc c A Ann nnua ual l R Re ep por ort t 2 20 01 18 8 5555 of the Hampton-Alexander review and the Parker review to improve Committee membership and attendance gender and ethnicity balance respectively in the leadership of FTSE The Committee consists of independent Non-Executive Directors and all of companies.
Where possible, we use search firms who have signed up to the current Non-Executive Directors are members of the Committee.
The the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms which includes Chairman of the Board is also the Chair of the Committee and the Company recommendations on gender diversity on appointments to boards and Secretary acts as the Secretary of the Committee.
Mike Coupe is invited to best practice for search processes.
Angie Risley, Group HR Director, also attends by invitation.
Currently, female representation on our Board equates to 30 per cent of The Committee held three scheduled meetings in the year together with the Board.
While female representation on the Operating Board is currently a number of ad hoc meetings.
The attendance of members at the meetings 11 per cent, the percentage of women amongst our divisional directors and is set out in the table on page 49. senior management is 29 per cent.
Board composition and succession planning At the Operating Board level there was less diversity than our targeted level, Last year, as part of its succession planning, the Committee started a search both in terms of gender and ethnicity.
In the light of this, the Committee process for a new Non-Executive Director appointment as Mary Harris would discussed approaches to address this in both the shorter and longer term.
step down at the 2017 AGM when she reached her ninth anniversary on the Board.
This process was concluded in the year with the appointment of Jo Harlow in September 2017.
Jo was recruited following a robust selection Board tenure Non-Executive Directors and Chairman process which was facilitated by Egon Zehnder, an independent executive 0-3 years search consultant which has no connection to the Company other than in 4-6 years 2 assisting and facilitating in the search for senior management.
A specification 7-9 years for the role was agreed by the Committee, setting out the skills, experience and attributes required.
The appointment process is set out below: 3 Identify Using the agreed brief, the Chairman appraised a diverse list of potential candidates which was prepared against the key competencies and experience required for the role, from which a shortlist was produced.
2 Interview The shortlisted candidates were interviewed by the Chairman and Mike Coupe.
The preferred candidate met with members of the Committee following which Board gender diversity the Committee met to discuss feedback.
Men Select Women The Committee recommended the appointment of Jo Harlow as a Non- 3 Executive Director of the Company to the Board.
It was also agreed that she be appointed to the Remuneration Committee.
Appoint Jo Harlows appointment took effect on 11 September 2017.
7 On Jo Harlows appointment, Board Committee membership was reviewed in order to promote new opportunities and to refresh the Committees.
Following the Committees recommendation, and with the Boards approval, Jean Tomlin stepped down from the Remuneration Committee and joined the Audit Committee.
Matt Brittin stepped down from the Audit Committee Board ethnic diversity and joined the Remuneration Committee.
1 Non BAME BAME Diversity and inclusivity BAME Individuals of Black, Our aspiration is to be the most inclusive retailer and, as a Board, we are East Asian, Latin American, highly supportive of the initiatives we have in place to promote diversity and Middle Eastern or South inclusivity beyond our board room and throughout our business.
We will Asian ethno-cultural achieve this aspiration by recruiting, retaining and developing diverse and backgrounds talented people and creating an inclusive environment where everyone can be the best they can be.
The Board receives regular inclusion updates and both the CR&S Committee 9 and the Nomination Committee receive detailed presentations on our inclusion priorities and the progress we are making throughout the year.
More about these initiatives and the progress being made can be found on page 26.
Skills matrix We recognise that diverse teams perform better and acknowledge that 6 Current or recent having a diverse Board is important.
The Company is a member of the 9 CEO plc experience 30 per cent Club, a group which campaigns for greater representation of Consumer Customer women on the boards of FTSE 100 companies with a target of a minimum of Services E-commerce Technology 30 per cent.
We believe that diversity on the Board goes beyond gender and Finance Accounting includes a variation in skills, experience and background.
The Committee 6 Financial Services believes we have a good balance of diversity amongst our Non-Executive Directors, with several having extensive experience of retail and consumerfacing businesses and other highly relevant skills derived from serving in 9 a range of major executive and non-executive positions throughout their 6 careers.
We will continue to appoint on merit whilst working hard to broaden the diversity of our talent pool, taking on board the recommendations
