Governance Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 56 As part of my role as Chair of the Committee I regularly visit Company operations around the Group, including stores, depots and store support Audit centres.
I also met with Directors of Sainsburys Bank, including the Chairmen of their Audit and Risk Committees.
This year has been another active year for the Group and the Committee Committee has focused on, amongst other matters, data governance and information security including the introduction of the General Data Protection Regulation, GDPR, the integration of Argos within the wider Sainsburys Group and Argos Financial Services within Sainsburys Bank.
The Committee Report has also given due time and attention to recognise the risks associated with the increased scale and complexity of the business.
The Committees effectiveness was considered as part of the Board evaluation process, further detail of which can be found on page 51.
I am pleased to report that the Board as a whole considers that the Committee continues Dear Shareholder to be effective in its role of supporting the Board.
This is my third year of presenting the Audit During the year, Matt Brittin stepped down from the Committee and Jean Tomlin was appointed in his stead.
I thank Matt for his valued contributions Committee the Committee report, which and insight during his time on the Committee and I welcome Jean, who I am sure will prove to be a worthy successor.
I would also like to welcome Helen summarises the work we have undertaken Charnley, who replaces Susannah Parden as our Director of Internal Audit.
during the year and how we have fulfilled Susannah provided a strong Internal Audit presence and we look forward to Helen continuing that tradition.
In the year ahead, the Committee will continue to focus on key risks, operations and accounting matters.
These will include data and information security, compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation, the further integration and development of Argos, Sainsburys Bank and maintaining the Groups strong finance facilities.
I would like to thank all members of the Committee for their time and valuable contributions during this busy year.
David Keens Chair, Audit Committee Principal role and responsibilities The Audit Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities by reviewing and monitoring the integrity of the financial information provided to shareholders, the Companys systems of internal control and risk management, the internal and external audit process, auditors and the process for compliance with relevant laws and regulations.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website www.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Governance Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 57 Accountability Regular attendees at Committee meetings include the Chairman of the Committee membership and attendance Board, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Director of Internal The members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors Audit, Director of Group Finance, Company Secretary and Corporate Services who, as a whole, have competence relevant to the retail sector.
They also Director, representatives of Sainsburys Bank and the external auditor.
bring extensive general business and management experience.
The Committee held four meetings in the year.
The attendance of members at the meetings is set out in the table on page 49.
Committee activities The Committee has undertaken the following key activities during the year in fulfilling its responsibilities.
Area of focus Activity Financial Reporting The Committee reviewed the Annual Report and the Preliminary and The integrity of the financial statements and any other formal Interim results and was provided with supporting information to assist announcement relating to financial performance.
Items excluded from underlying results.
Significant financial reporting issues and judgements contained in the financial statements.
Review and implementation of new accounting standards.
See Significant financial and reporting matters on page 61.
Acquisition of Home Retail Group plc.
Companys funding and liquidity position and its impact on the The Committee has assessed whether three years continues to be an Companys financial and operational capabilities.
appropriate timeframe over which to make the viability statement.
It was concluded that the current three-year assessment period remains Assumptions and qualifications in support of the viability statement appropriate.
This was reviewed and adopted by the Board.
and going concern including stress testing against risk materialisation.
The processes underpinning the assessment of the Groups longer-term prospects were reviewed.
The viability statement and the Committees approach to assessing long-term viability can be found on page 35.
Assessment of whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced The Board is required to confirm that the Annual Report and Financial and understandable.
Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable see page 88.
To enable the Board to make this declaration, there is a year-end review process to ensure the Committee, and the Board as a whole, has access to all relevant information and, in particular, managements papers on significant issues faced by the business.
The Committee received a summary of key factors considered in determining whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committee, and all other Board members, also received drafts of the Annual Report and Financial Statements in sufficient time to facilitate their review and enable them to challenge the disclosures if necessary.
In addition, EY reviewed the consistency between the reporting narrative of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements.
Risk Management and Internal Controls See pages 62 to 63.
Risk management updates including reviews of principal risks and uncertainties.
Reports from the Audit and Risk Committees of Sainsburys Bank.
Sainsburys Bank is a subsidiary of the Company, which has an independent board responsible for setting the Banks strategy, risk appetite and annual business plan as well as the day-to-day management of the business.
The Chairs of the Banks Audit Committee, Risk Committee and the Banks Chief Financial Officer attend meetings of the Committee.
The Board of the Bank has an independent Chairman and a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
There is alignment between the Sainsburys Internal Audit function and their colleagues within Sainsburys Bank equivalent team.
For further information see Significant financial and reporting matters on page 61.
Governance Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 58 Audit Committee continued Area of focus Activity External Audit The Committee reviewed EYs overall work plan, and approved their Scope of the external audit plan and fee proposal.
remuneration and terms of engagement.
The majority of the non-audit work undertaken by EY during 2017 18 was audit related assurance services.
The audit fees for the year in respect of the Group and subsidiaries were 2.2 million.
For a breakdown of the fees please refer to note 5 of the notes to the financial statements.
Independence and objectivity of EY.
The independence and objectivity of the external audit function is a fundamental safeguard to the interests of the Companys shareholders.
In order to ensure audit independence, the Committee has overseen the Companys policy which restricts the engagement of EY in relation to non-audit services.
The policy is designed to ensure that the provision of such services does not have an impact on the external auditors independence and objectivity.
It identifies certain types of engagement that the external auditor shall not undertake, including internal audit and actuarial services relating to the preparation of accounting estimates for the financial statements.
It also requires that individual engagements above a certain fee level may only be undertaken with pre-approval from the Committee or, if urgent, from the Committee Chair and ratified by the subsequent meeting of the Committee.
The policy also recognises that there are some types of work where a detailed understanding of the Companys business is advantageous.
The policy is designed to ensure that the auditor is only appointed to provide a non-audit service where it is considered to be the most suitable supplier of the service.
The Committee received a report on the non-audit services being provided and the cumulative total of non-audit fees.
The cumulative non-audit fees are capped at 70 per cent of the average of the audit fees for the Group for the preceding three-year period.
Following an effectiveness review, the Committee concluded that EY remained objective and independent in their role as external auditor and that they continue to challenge management effectively.
The Committee has confirmed compliance with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services Order 2014.
Quality and effectiveness of EY.
The Committee reviewed EYs effectiveness during the year focusing on the audit partner and audit team, their approach to the audit, communications with the Committee, how EY supported the work of the Committee, and their independence and objectivity.
The Committee review was supported by feedback from management which was compiled from questionnaires completed by Directors and managers in the business who were directly involved with the audit.
The questionnaire covered the audit team, audit planning and audit communication and execution.
The benefits of early engagement with Group Finance were noted.
In addition, there were opportunities to further enhance processes which Group Finance and EY would take forward.
The Committee concluded that EY provided audit services efficiently and effectively and to a high quality.
Recommendation of the reappointment of EY as auditor.
The Committee has made a recommendation to the Board to reappoint EY as the Companys auditor for the 2018 19 financial year.
Accordingly, a resolution proposing their re-appointment will be tabled at the 2018 AGM.
EY were appointed in July 2015 as the Companys external auditor following a tender which completed in January 2015.
We do not currently plan to undertake another formal tender process until we are required to for the year ending March 2025.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Governance Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 59 Area of focus Activity Internal Audit The Director of Internal Audit reports to the Committee Chair and has Director of Internal Audit.
direct access to all members of the Committee and the Chair.
The purpose, authority and responsibility of Internal Audit are defined in the Internal Audit Charter, which the Committee reviews annually.
Managements responsiveness to Internal Audits findings The Committee was provided with updates on Internal Audits findings and and recommendations.
agreed actions at each meeting.
Scope of the Internal Audit Plan.
The scope of the Internal Audit Plan and subsequent amendments to the plan were reviewed and approved by the Committee.
Effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
In line with the requirements of the Institute of Internal Auditors, an independent review of the function was completed by the newly appointed Director of Internal Audit.
External challenge and support was provided by a suitably qualified external party.
The review found that function to be performing well, balancing independence and the delivery of assurance with strong stakeholder relationships.
The recommendations focused on ensuring the function continues to have access to the right skills and technology to support the business as it continues to evolve.
The Committee is monitoring progress in implementing key actions.
The Committee reviewed the Internal Audit departments resources, budget, work programme, results and managements implementation of required actions and its recommendations.
The Committee has set key performance indicators KPIs, which are used to assist it in reviewing the effectiveness of Internal Audit.
The Director of Internal Audit reported against these KPIs during the year, highlighting any failure to achieve target scores and explaining the reason thereof.
The Committee concluded that Internal Audit continued to be effective.
Other The review of the Committees effectiveness formed part of the Board review.
More details can be found on page 51.
Significant issues raised through the whistleblowing process.
The Committee received updates at each meeting on significant whistleblowing incidents.
No issues arose that required the Committee to be updated ahead of a scheduled meeting.
All issues were escalated to the relevant manager for investigation.
The migration of Argos to the Group whistleblowing provider and the review of the Argos policy were completed during the year.
Updates on data governance and information security.
Updates on the Data Governance Programme were provided during the year covering the progress on process improvements and on the progress against the implementation of the GDPR plan.
The Committee also received updates from the Chief Information Security Officers of Sainsburys and Sainsburys Argos on their respective programmes.
These covered the third party assurance programmes, cyber security risks and mitigation initiatives.
Governance Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 60 Audit Committee continued Area of focus Activity Companys compliance with the Groceries Supply Code of Practice.
In February 2010, the Groceries Supply Code of Practice GSCOP was implemented following the recommendation of the Competition Commission.
Each grocery retailer to which it applies had to appoint a Code Compliance Officer whose duties include hearing disputes between suppliers and the relevant retailer.
Sainsburys has appointed the Director of Internal Audit as its Code Compliance Officer.
GSCOP requires that each grocery retailer to which it applies delivers an annual compliance report to the Groceries Code Adjudicator GCA, which has been approved by the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Furthermore, a summary of the compliance report must be included in the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Summary Annual Compliance Report Sainsburys has invested significant time and resource in refreshing the comprehensive training for all relevant colleagues and some third parties as required under GSCOP.
This is reinforced by online knowledge testing.
Sainsburys has dedicated internal resource to provide all relevant colleagues with day-to-day advice and guidance.
The Trading Division, in consultation with the Legal Services Division and the Code Compliance Officer, continues to assess the adequacy of policies and procedures in place to support GSCOP awareness and compliance.
Compliance results are reported to the Food Commercial Leadership Team quarterly.
Additional assurance is provided, as required, by Internal Audit.
A small number of alleged breaches of GSCOP have been received in the reporting period, which were resolved within the Trading Division using our standard internal escalation procedure.
The Code Compliance Officer facilitated the resolution of four alleged breaches during the reporting period.
The Code Compliance Officer and the GCA meet on a quarterly basis.
Sainsburys continues to work collaboratively with the GCA to proactively identify and address any areas for improvement in terms of GSCOP compliance.
Areas of focus this year included forecasting, promotions and the continued roll-out of Good Faith Receiving in depots.
The Committee was updated at each meeting on all material litigation.
A number of desk top exercises were run during the year and lessons learnt were used to enhance the process.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Governance Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 61 Significant financial and reporting matters The Committee considered the following significant financial and reporting issues during the year.
Impairment of financial and non-financial assets Acquisition of Home Retail Group The impairment of financial and non-financial assets is considered In September 2016, the Group acquired 100 per cent of the issued share by the Audit Committee on a regular basis.
A review for impairment capital of HRG, a listed company based in the United Kingdom.
IFRS 3 triggers is performed at each reporting date by questioning if changes Business Combinations permits a one-year measurement period to update in circumstances suggest the recoverable value of certain assets may the valuation of acquired assets and liabilities for new information obtained be less than their carrying value.
Reference note 2 of the financial about facts and circumstances that were in existence at the acquisition date.
The Committee reviewed managements assessment The acquisition balance sheet was finalised during the year, and the of recoverable value and relevant judgements made.
No impairment Committee reviewed the assumptions made in relation to valuing the triggers were identified in the year.
The Group has reported a material increase Pensions accounting in goodwill to 119 million 11 March 2017: 58 million.
Reference note 31 The Committee reviewed a summary of the key assumptions used in of the financial statements.
arriving at the valuation of the defined benefit pension scheme for both Acquisition of Nectar UK scheme half-year and year-end reporting.
On 31 January 2018, Sainsburys purchased the shares of Aimia Incs UK The Committee reviewed the key assumptions underlying the movement business, acquiring all assets, colleagues, systems and licences required in the retirement benefit funded obligations including inflation, discount for the full and independent operation of the Nectar loyalty programme and mortality rates.
Benchmarking is undertaken to verify that the in the UK.
Four entities were acquired, including the remaining 50 per cent assumptions are appropriate.
share of our joint venture Insight 2 Communications I2C, for a total consideration of 39 million.
Significant work was undertaken to prepare The year-end reported discount rate was 2.8 per cent, giving a consolidated for the integration of Nectar, with the following areas in particular being IAS 19 pension deficit of 261 million.
The Committee is satisfied that the considered by the Committee: Group has a sufficient level of distributable reserves.
Alignment of accounting policies between the acquired entities and Sainsburys.
Items excluded from underlying results Accounting and financial reporting for the acquisition.
This included Items excluded from underlying results are reviewed by the Committee reviewing the assumptions made in relation to valuing the assets and the Committee is satisfied that the Groups presentation of these and liabilities, which resulted in net liabilities acquired of 108 million items is clear and that further disclosure is included where appropriate.
Reference note 31 of the financial The Group continues to disclose additional information on all Alternative statements.
Performance Measures APMs used by the Group.
Reference APM note Managements estimates of redemption rates with a deferred of the financial statements.
revenue balance of 265 million being recognised on acquisition in relation to Nectar points issued but not redeemed.
Sainsburys Bank reporting The Committee receives updates on the key agenda items discussed Updates to accounting standards at the Banks Audit Committee including accounting judgements and Management have been preparing for the implementation of three new estimates and on all important operating and regulatory matters such accounting standards: as its liquidity, cash flows, capital adequacy and risk management IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective for the year commencing processes.
The Chairs of the Banks Audit Committee and Risk Committee 11 March 2018 and the Banks Chief Financial Officer attend meetings of the Committee.
IFRS 15 Revenue effective for the year commencing 11 March 2018 During the year the accounting judgements and estimates reviewed by IFRS 16 Leases effective for the year commencing 10 March 2019 the Committee have included impairment assessments of the loans and advances due to Sainsburys Bank customers and progress on the Bank The Committee reviewed impact assessments prepared by management transition, tax judgements and provisions and on the implementation of on the transition to each of these accounting standards and the assumptions IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
Additional disclosures in relation to each of these are included in note 1 of the financial statements.
Supplier arrangements Supplier arrangements are considered by the Committee, and whilst the Revenue recognition majority are calculated through a formulaic process, the Committee is The majority of the Groups revenue transactions are non-complex, satisfied with the controls in place to manage any areas of judgement nonetheless, the Committee has performed a review of manual adjustments and estimation.
that are applied to revenue.
This review has focused on papers prepared by management that detail the nature of the adjustments and the controls in The Committee ensures that the Group provides income statement and place.
The Committee is satisfied that adequate controls are in operation and balance sheet disclosures in its Financial Statements.
Reference note 2 that all manual adjustments are appropriately recognised.
Governance Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 62 Audit Committee continued The annual risk management process concludes with the Boards Internal controls framework robust assessment of the Companys Principal Risks and Uncertainties The system of internal control encompasses all controls, including those relating to financial reporting processes, preparation of consolidated Group Disclosure, including those that would threaten its business model, accounts, operational and compliance controls, risk management processes future performance, solvency or liquidity, and the completion of an and controls over Sainsburys interests in joint ventures.
The Committee assesses the effectiveness of the internal controls systems on an ongoing basis, enabling a cumulative assessment to be made.
The Management Boards 1 processes used during the year to support this assessment are as follows: Quarterly risk discussions discussion and approval by the Board of the Companys strategy, plans and objectives, and the risks to achieving them: reviews and approvals by the Board of budgets and forecasts, for both revenue and capital expenditure: reviews by management of the risks to achieving objectives and Annual internal controls mitigating controls and actions: Operating Board certification by divisional Bi-annual risk updates reviews by management and the Committee of the scope and management.
results of the work of Internal Audit across the Company and of the implementation of their recommendations: reviews by the Committee of the scope and results of the work of the external auditor and of any significant issues arising: reviews by the Committee of accounting policies and levels of Plc Board delegated authority: and Audit Committee Review of risk process, Management Boards and reviews by the Board and the Committee of material fraudulent activity corporate risks and sign off of corporate risk updates and any significant whistleblowing by colleagues, suppliers or other principal risks & uncertainties parties and actions being taken to remedy any control weaknesses.
Risk management and internal controls 1 2 017 18 was a year of change as Group and Management Boards were formed.
The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and the Quarterly discussions will be scheduled in 2018 19. system of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Certain responsibilities have been delegated to the Audit Committee as outlined Corporate risk management process below.
The risk management process is designed to manage rather than Accepting that risk is an inherent part of doing business, the risk eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Companys business objectives management process is designed to identify key risks and to provide and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against assurance that these risks are fully understood and managed in line material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the risk management process at least annually.
The risk management process and the system of internal controls have been in place for the whole year, up to the date of approval of the Annual The Operating Board maintains an overall corporate risk map, which is Report and Financial Statements, and accord with the UK Financial Reporting reviewed twice a year by the Audit Committee and formally discussed Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related with the Board.
The risk map captures the most significant risks faced by Financial and Business Reporting and the Governance Code.
the business and identifies the potential impact and likelihood at both a The Board received updates on risk management and internal controls from gross level before consideration of mitigating controls and net level after the Chair of the Audit Committee.
All Committee papers and minutes were consideration of mitigating controls.
The Operating Board discusses and made available to the whole Board.
agrees the level of risk that the business is prepared to accept for each key corporate risk.
The target risk position is captured to reflect managements The Board also received reports on matters relating to safety, other relevant risk appetite where this differs to the current net position.
The Operating risks, controls and governance.
Any specific matters which could have affected Board reviews the risk map bi-annually and there is a quarterly standard the Companys reputation were reported to the Board as they occurred.
This enables the Operating Board to agree and monitor appropriate actions as required.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls and has ensured that any required remedial action on any The risk management process is embedded at the Operating Board level identified weaknesses has been or is being taken.
Sainsburys governance and supported by bottom-up risk processes and discussions within forums and organisational model changed this year to reflect the formation operating companies, Group functions and governance forums.
Operating of two operating companies Sainsburys Food and Sainsburys Argos.
Board members certify annually that they are responsible for managing Group functions have been, and are continuing to be, formed where there their business objectives and internal controls to provide reasonable, but is value in consolidating ways of working across the operating companies.
not absolute, assurance that the risks in their areas of responsibility are Management Boards have been established in the two operating companies.
These, together with the Group functions, report to the Operating Board.
appropriately identified, evaluated and managed.
In 2017 Internal Audit reviewed the risk management framework excluding Internal Audit provides the Audit Committee with a risk management Sainsburys Bank to assess and recommend if and how it should flex to update twice a year which provides detail of the key risk activities undertaken ensure it continues to support the Board in managing and monitoring risk to at Management Board, Group functions, governance forums and divisional ensure compliance with the Governance Code and the Companies Act 2006. and corporate levels.
This review has been completed and the diagram on the right provides an overview of the key risk management activities undertaken by the Operating Board, Audit Committee and the Sainsburys Management Boards that allow the Board to fulfil its obligations under the Governance Code.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Governance Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 63 The specific risk activities undertaken in the financial year to 10 March 2018 Management Boards, Group functions, governance forums and divisional were as follows: management teams regularly review key risks and the effectiveness and robustness of the mitigating controls as part of their normal business Internal Audit facilitated risk workshops with the Management Boards, activities.
Independent assurance over the controls is also provided Group functions, governance forums and with each divisional leadership through the delivery of the Internal Audit risk based plan.
team to identify the key risks which may prevent the achievement of Board objectives.
Each Management Board, Group function, governance The Operating Board reviewed and challenged the output of the bottomforum and divisional management team has produced and maintained up risk processes including new risks, risk movements and key risk a divisional risk map and supporting risk register.
The corporate risk map was updated as appropriate.
and impact of each key risk was evaluated at a gross level before Internal Audit provided independent assurance to management consideration of mitigating controls and net level after consideration and the Committee as to the existence and effectiveness of the risk of mitigating controls.
Managements risk appetite was reviewed and management process.
further actions to mitigate the risk were identified as required.
The Board reviewed the risk management process and corporate risks The implementation of divisional risk actions as tracked by Internal at the year-end and approved the Companys Principal Risks and Audit and reported to divisional leadership teams periodically.
Uncertainties Disclosure as set out on pages 30 to 34.
The risk management process is illustrated below: Management Group Operating Audit PLC Board Internal Boards functions Board Committee Audit September Divisional risk Group functions workshops risk workshops bottom-up risk assess key risks Quarterly risk review identification to their business objectives November Management Board risk workshops assess key risks to their business objectives January Operating Board risk workshops assessment of key corporate risks & risk appetite discussion Update Principal Risks & Uncertainties February Audit Committee Internal Audit review of risk process risk based & sign off Principal half-year plan Risks & Uncertainties April Management annual certification PLC Board that risks in review of risk process, Quarterly risk their areas of corporate risks and review responsibility are sign off of Principal identified, evaluated Risks & Uncertainties & managed May July Horizon Scanning & Game-Changer Quarterly risk Risk Workshops review focus on external & unknown risks September Audit Committee Internal Audit risk management risk based update half-year plan
