Governance Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 46 Strategic focus We reviewed the strategies of each of our businesses on a regular basis Corporate throughout the year and have taken every opportunity to meet each of the management teams to discuss progress and agree the key priorities for the short and medium term.
The Board is pleased with the progress we are making as a multi-channel, multi-product retailer with a market leading Governance digital offer and nationwide Fast Track delivery capabilities, complemented by Sainsburys Bank and Argos Financial Services.
We have also focused on the increasingly important role that digital technology now plays in our customers lives and how we put the responsible use of data at the heart of delivering great customer service.
The Board Dear Shareholder was very closely engaged in the acquisition of the Nectar business which supports our strategy of knowing our customers better than anyone else.
The Boards particular focus this year We regularly monitor our progress in developing our technology and digital offers and during the year, we had an in-depth review of our current strategy has been on driving maximum possible and explored the potential offered to each part of our business from future shareholder value while maintaining our technology developments.
In This has been a year of significant change in Sainsburys as we adapt and evolve to meet the changing needs of our customers, finding ways to simplify particular, over an extended period, the what we do and reducing cost within the business so that we can reinvest Board has been considering the benefits in the things that matter most to our customers and colleagues.
The Board has been closely engaged in the planned changes to our retail management for all our stakeholders of combining the structures and colleague roles in our food business and the new pay deal with revised terms and conditions for all our store colleagues.
We recognise the Company and Asda Group Limited to create significant change these proposed arrangements entail for our colleagues a dynamic new UK retail business.
We have and we thank them for their support and the outstanding service they provide to our customers regardless of the level of change.
been completely engaged in all key aspects of the transaction agreed with Walmart Inc. Culture and stakeholder engagement As a Board, we take governance very seriously and we regularly discuss which is fully described on pages 10 to 11. our ways of working and our effectiveness.
In this years Board evaluation The following describes how we ensure that exercise, one of the points we particularly focused on was the oversight of Sainsburys culture.
We believe that Sainsburys unique values play a key we focus on the key aspects of our strategy, role in our success and it is important that the Board leads by example on the behaviours and culture which Sainsburys aims to drive throughout the financial management, risk management organisation.
We have found it extremely valuable to discuss aspects of the and succession planning at a time of culture and its impact on colleagues, customers, suppliers and shareholders at various Board and Committee meetings.
In the future, we will also take significant change in the retail sector.
the opportunity to pull each of these aspects together so that we receive one, comprehensive view of the culture throughout the organisation.
During the year, as part of the Boards engagement with a range of stakeholders, the first meeting was held between Non-Executive Directors and members of our Great Place to Work Council which represents the views of colleagues across the business.
The Board believes that it is very important to hear the views of colleagues, particularly in times of significant change for retail, and we will continue with these meetings in the new financial year, supplementing the regular updates that the Board and its Committees receive on broader colleague insights.
Additional information on how we have engaged with our stakeholders can be found on page 53.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Governance Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 47 Board changes Following Mary Harris departure from the Board at the 2017 AGM, we were pleased to announce the appointment of Jo Harlow to the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
Jo brings a range of experience in consumer-facing businesses and in the telecoms and technology industries, both in the UK and internationally, having held senior sales and marketing positions at P&G and Reebok and a variety of senior management roles with Nokia and Microsoft.
She is an experienced Non-Executive Director and has already made a strong contribution to the Board since she joined us in September 2017.
The Board is also pleased to welcome the new Directors who have joined the Operating Board in the year, and believes that there is a wealth of experience and talent in our senior management to drive the Group forward.
Simon Roberts joined the business last July as Sainsburys Retail & Operations Director, having previously held senior positions at Boots and Marks & Spencer.
More recently, Phil Jordan has taken the new role of Group Chief Information Officer.
He has very deep and relevant experience from his previous senior roles at Telefonica and Vodafone UK and Ireland.
The Board had regular opportunities to meet Operating Board Directors and the wider management teams of each of the businesses throughout the year.
The Board and Nomination Committee focus on succession planning as a key priority and are pleased that outstanding leaders such as Simon, Phil and Jo have joined the business.
Now that I have been Chairman for more than eight years, as part of our succession planning, a search process to find my successor has begun, led by Dame Susan Rice.
Diversity We continue to have a mix of men, women and ethnic backgrounds on our Board.
This diversity is in line with good governance and appropriate for both the Group and our customer base.
We continue to focus on increasing our diversity and inclusion at all levels of the business and I draw your attention to the review on pages 26 and 55.
David Tyler Chairman Statement of Compliance The Board considers that the Company has complied in full with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Governance Code for the financial year ended 10 March 2018.
The Governance Code canbe found at www.
The way the Company has applied the principles of the Governance Code is set out in the following Governance Report.
Governance Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 48 Corporate Governance continued Leadership and effectiveness How we are governed Operating Board Operating Board Committees The Board is the principal decision making body in the Company.
To assist with carrying Matters not specifically reserved to the Board Food Management Board out its responsibilities, the Board has formally have been delegated to the Operating Board The Food Management Board is responsible delegated certain governance responsibilities which is chaired by Mike Coupe.
During the for managing the business of Sainsburys year, the Operating Board reviewed its structure to Board Committees.
These Board Committees Food and in developing and delivering the and governance in light of the acquisition and Food strategy.
comprise independent Non-Executive Directors integration of the Argos business.
The Operating and, in the case of the Nomination Committee, Board held nine scheduled meetings during the the Chairman.
Each Committee has agreed year and the responsibilities of each Director are set out on pages 44 to 45. terms of reference approved by the Board, which are available on our website.
To support its work, the Operating Board has delegated certain powers to the Operating Board Committees, each of which has Sainsburys Argos approved terms of reference setting out its Management Board areas of responsibility.
The Sainsburys Argos Management Board has primary responsibility for Sainsburys general merchandise and clothing and the day-to-day management of the Argos and Habitat operations including the development and Sainsburys Bank implementation of strategy.
Management Board The Sainsburys Bank Management Board is governed by the Sainsburys Bank plc Board, membership of which includes an independent Chairman and Non-Executive Directors.
Peter Griffiths, the Banks Chief Executive, is a member of the Operating Board to bring the Banks priorities and perspective Investment Board into the Groups overview.
The Investment Board has delegated authority to approve Group capital investment within agreed financial limits.
This includes, but is not limited to, store, supply chain, property, new business activity, and digital Role of the Board Committees and technology investments.
The Board is collectively responsible for the Audit Committee long-term success of the Company and we The Audit Committee reviews the integrity achieve this through the creation and delivery of financial information prior to publication, of sustainable shareholder value.
In addition oversees the systems of internal control and to setting the Companys strategy and risk management and approves the internal overseeing managements implementation and external audit process.
Group Data Governance Committee of the strategy, we provide leadership to the The Group Data Governance Committee has business including on culture, values and More details on page 56 oversight of the programmes that deliver ethics, monitoring the Companys overall compliance with Data Protection, Data financial performance and ensuring effective Security and Payment Card Industry data corporate governance and succession security standards across the Group.
We are also responsible for ensuring Committee monitors and aligns the work Remuneration Committee that effective internal control and risk across the programmes to ensure consistency management systems are in place.
The Remuneration Committee recommends of approach and understanding of risk.
It and reviews the Remuneration Policy, ensuring The Matters Reserved for the Board can be oversees effective information security it is aligned to the long-term success of the found on our website at throughout the Group.
It also approves the remuneration www.
co. uk and benefits of Executive and Operating Board Directors and broader remuneration principles throughout the business.
More details on page 66 Group Safety Committee The Group Safety Committee is responsible for implementing food safety, health & Nomination Committee safety and fire safety management systems The Nomination Committee reviews the and oversees Group standards for the balance of skills, knowledge, experience, management and monitoring of colleague independence and diversity of the Board and customer safety.
and succession planning at Board and senior management levels.
More details on page 54 Corporate Responsibility and Group Diversity and Sustainability Committee Inclusivity Steering Group The CR&S Committee reviews the broad The Group Diversity and Inclusivity Steering CR&S strategy and the Companys progress Group is made up of four Operating Board on the key corporate responsibility initiatives Sponsors, each of whom champions a strand including diversity, values and colleague and of diversity, and is chaired by our Group HR customer insights.
The Group met six times in the year to govern progress and drive our More details on page 64 inclusion strategy.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Governance Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 49 Division of responsibilities How the Board operates Our Board currently comprises the Chairman, three Executive Directors and The Board and its Committees have a scheduled forward programme of six independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board operates a clear division meetings.
This ensures that we allocate sufficient time to each key area and of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
the Boards time together is used effectively.
There is sufficient flexibility in the programme for specific items to be added to the agenda which enables Division of responsibilities us to focus on key matters relating to the business at the appropriate time.
Chairman David is responsible for leadership of During the year, we held eight scheduled meetings including a two-day David Tyler the Board, ensuring its effectiveness Strategy Conference held in October.
We also met to discuss important in all aspects of its role and for setting ad hoc emerging issues that require consideration between scheduled the Board agenda.
He ensures effective Board meetings.
communication with shareholders and that In addition to the above, we held a number of informal meetings during the Board is aware of the views of major the year.
These included meetings of the Board the day before most Board shareholders.
He facilitates the contribution meetings, and meetings with individual members of the Operating Board of the Non-Executive Directors through a to receive updates on their specific areas of responsibility.
culture of openness and debate, and ensures constructive relations between Executive The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors meet from time to time without and Non-Executive Directors.
the Executive Directors being present.
The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Chief Executive Officer Mike is responsible for the day-to-day Senior Independent Director, also met without the Executive Directors or the Mike Coupe management of the Group and executing Chairman being present including to evaluate the Chairmans performance.
the strategy, once agreed by the Board.
All Directors were made aware of the key discussions and decisions of each He creates a framework of strategy, values, of the four principal Committees by the chair of each Committee providing organisation and objectives to ensure the a detailed summary at the Board meeting following the relevant Committee successful delivery of results, and allocates meeting.
Minutes of Board and Committee meetings were circulated to all decision making and responsibilities Directors shortly after those meetings took place.
He is responsible for managing the risk profile in line with the risk appetite On the rare occasions that a Director is unavoidably unable to attend a identified and accepted by the Board.
He meeting, they receive a briefing from the Chairman before the meeting so takes a leading role, with the Chairman, that their comments and input can be taken into account at the meeting, in promoting Sainsburys and in the and the Chairman provides an update to them after the meeting.
relationship with all external agencies.
The following table shows the attendance of Directors at scheduled Board Executive Directors Kevin and John support Mike Coupe in and Committee meetings.
Kevin OByrne and implementing the Groups strategy and in John Rogers the operational performance of the business.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination CR&S Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors bring wide and 1 Matt Brittin 7 8 2 2 2 2 3 3 Matt Brittin varied commercial experience to the Board Mike Coupe 8 8 2 2 Brian Cassin and its Committees.
They are independent Brian Cassin 8 8 4 4 3 3 Jo Harlow of management and are considered by the 2 Jo Harlow 4 4 1 2 2 2 1 1 David Keens Board to be free from any business or other 3 Mary Harris 3 3 1 1 1 1 Jean Tomlin relationships that could compromise their independence.
Their role is to effectively David Keens 8 8 4 4 3 3 support and constructively challenge Kevin OByrne 8 8 management, along with monitoring Susan Rice 8 8 4 4 3 3 managements success in delivering the John Rogers 8 8 agreed strategy within the risk appetite 4 Jean Tomlin 8 8 2 2 2 2 3 3 2 2 and control framework agreed by the Board.
David Tyler 8 8 3 3 They are also responsible for determining appropriate levels of remuneration for the Notes: The maximum number of meetings held during the year that each Director could attend Executive Directors.
1 M att Brittin was unable to attend a Board meeting due to a prior engagement.
He stepped down from the Audit Committee and joined the Remuneration Committee on 11 September 2017.
Senior Independent Susan acts as a sounding board for the 2 J o Harlow joined the Board on 11 September 2017.
She also joined the Remuneration Committee, Director Chairman and as a trusted intermediary Nomination Committee and Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee on 11 September Dame Susan Rice for the other Directors.
Jo was unable to attend a Remuneration Committee meeting due to an engagement set before she was appointed.
other Non-Executive Directors in the absence 3 M ary Harris stepped down from the Board, the Remuneration Committee, Nomination Committee of the Chairman at least once a year in order and Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee on 5 July 2017. to undertake a review of the Chairmans 4 J ean Tomlin joined the Audit Committee and stepped down from the Remuneration Committee on 11 September 2017. performance.
As Senior Independent Director, she is available to discuss with shareholders their views and any concerns that cannot be resolved through the normal channels of communication with the Chairman or the Executive Directors.
Governance Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 50 Corporate Governance continued Key areas of focus for the Board The principal activities of the Board during the financial year included the following items, some of which were considered at each meeting, and others were reviewed periodically throughout the year: Area of focus Activities Strategy Reviewed the implementation of the agreed strategic plan, focusing particularly on the progress made with the Argos integration, the core supermarket strategy and Sainsburys Bank.
Considered potential strategic initiatives, including mergers and acquisitions, especially the proposed combination of the Company and Asda Group Limited.
Reviewed and approved the corporate plan for FY18 19.
Reviewed strategy and material key developments in the customer offer.
Approved the acquisition of Nectar UK from Aimia Inc.
Reviewed the digital business and data analytics strategy.
Financial and Operational Reviewed and approved the annual budget and five-year corporate plan.
Performance Reviewed and discussed the business progress through the CEOs Reports including market and trading updates.
Reviewed and discussed reports on customer insights and service standards.
Reviewed the performance of Sainsburys Food, Sainsburys Argos and Sainsburys Bank against key targets.
Reviewed and approved the Companys Preliminary and Interim results, Trading Statements and Annual Report.
Reviewed and implemented updated KPIs.
Reviewed and approved the Dividend policy and recommendations.
Reviewed and approved the Treasury and Tax policies.
Received an update on the strategic review of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes and related governance.
Approved the financing strategy and arrangements.
Risk and Governance Reviewed and discussed reports from the Board Committees Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and CR&S.
Implemented actions agreed from the 2017 Board effectiveness review.
Undertook an evaluation of its effectiveness and the effectiveness of each Board Committee and individual Directors for the 2018 financial year.
Received regular updates on corporate governance developments.
Reviewed the Groups risk framework and internal controls and approved the Groups principal risks and uncertainties.
Reviewed and considered reports on safety Health & Safety and Food.
Received updates on current litigation matters.
Cyber Security and Data Discussed the Companys approach to information security and data governance with detailed review of related Governance Audit Committee updates.
Discussed plans applied to identify and consider the value and threats to the Companys key information assets.
Corporate Responsibility Discussed and approved the Groups sustainability standards and the approach adopted to enable long-term and Sustainability sustainable investment support within supply chains.
Investor Relations and other Received reports at each meeting on investor relations activities and discussed analyst consensus and feedback Stakeholder Engagement from major shareholders and investor roadshows.
Colleagues, Values and Culture Discussed the Boards oversight of the Companys culture.
Reviewed the significant change initiatives to pay, conditions and structures in Sainsburys stores.
Received updates and reports on customer and colleague insights.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Governance Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 51 Following the presentation, the Senior Independent Director reviewed the Board evaluation Chairmans performance with the other Directors and met him to provide We conduct a Board effectiveness review on an annual basis to evaluate feedback.
The Chairman provided feedback to each Director on their our performance as a Board.
The evaluation includes an assessment of individual contributions to the Board and, with each of them, considered the effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and an evaluation of the their development priorities.
Findings of the 2017 18 review For the 2016 17 review, an external evaluation was carried out by Manchester The Board concluded that it performs effectively and is well placed to lead Square Partners MSP and in response to the findings, the following actions the Company at a time of considerable change in the sector.
The following have been taken: were seen as particular strengths of the Board: Key areas identified Action taken and Support and challenge in 2016 17 progress made Skills, knowledge and diversity Culture of openness and debate Review the Board programme In this years review, the Board agreed to continue to find sufficient that its focus on the strategic debate and Chairmans leadership of the Board time for strategy and deep engagement in the key issues affecting Key decision taking dives on big topics, with the sector and the business had been Pace and change integration of individual appropriate and that sufficient time topics if possible.
had been spent at Board meetings to CEO leadership discuss the key issues.
In addition to the Strategic discussions and engagement Strategy Conference, the Board had deep NED Operating Board succession planning and appointments dive meetings with Sainsburys Bank and Executive response to questions challenge Sainsburys Argos as well as the Digital Data Day described below.
There was strong alignment amongst the Directors on the key strategic issues facing Sainsburys over the next three to five years.
Develop more informative A new set of KPIs has been developed KPIs around digital activities during the year which the Board agreed and the competitive allowed more focused debate on the key The Board identified the following actions: environment.
Culture Begin the succession process Jo Harlow was appointed during the As set out above, there are a number of ways in which the Board and for an additional Nonyear and the Board agreed that the Committees are made aware of aspects of the strong Sainsburys culture.
Executive Director following process leading to her appointment The Board felt that it would further benefit from an in-depth session at the planned departure of was highly effective.
a Board meeting to pull all these aspects together in one presentation, Mary Harris.
with particular emphasis on colleague feedback and metrics.
Extend the timings of Board It was agreed that each of the external Stakeholder engagement visits to the other business Board meetings and visits during the Following on from the previous action, the Board decided that it locations or suppliers in order year was effective.
would continue to strengthen its engagement with colleagues by to allow more time meeting with the Great Place to Work Council twice a year in order for interaction.
to share some of the Boards priorities, and to hear the key points on colleagues minds.
Non-Executive Directors would also be invited to Find additional opportunities The Board met Divisional Directors at the Talking Shop sessions that Operating Board Directors hold on a to meet the broader each of the external meetings described periodic basis with colleague groups.
Other stakeholder engagement management teams.
above, and had other contact with other would continue to be reported to the Board on a regular basis.
Operating Board Directors during the year.
Business performance The Board agreed that the 2017 18 review should be carried out by Tim In order to ensure the Board continues to provide appropriate oversight Fallowfield, Company Secretary and Corporate Services Director.
of the performance of each of the Group businesses, it would continue to focus on the KPIs, review a full range of relevant analyst reports and It was agreed that this years review would continue to explore the themes take a broad perspective on the future of the sector.
This would enable that were raised in the MSP review, covering strategy, operational priorities, the Board to ensure that the KPIs reflect the key drivers of business the Boards role, its structure and balance, succession, risk management performance in the sector moving forward.
These themes had been developed into a full set of questions by MSP in 2017, and the same questionnaire was used this It is anticipated that the 2018 19 Board evaluation exercise will be year in order to ensure continuity, with some revisions to reflect more carried out internally.
The review was conducted from December 2017 to February 2018.
Board members first completed the questionnaire and individual meetings were then held with all Directors and the Group HR Director, who was asked to provide a view from the executive management perspective as she has regular access to the Board and Remuneration Committee.
Tim Fallowfield discussed the conclusions with the Chairman and then presented them to the Board at a meeting convened for that purpose.
The Board discussed the key points and agreed certain actions.
Governance Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 52 Corporate Governance continued Sainsburys Bank Induction A scheduled Board meeting took place at Sainsburys Bank in Edinburgh We have a comprehensive and tailored induction programme in place for and this provided the Board with the opportunity to meet with the Banks Directors to gain an understanding of all aspects of the Group, including our wider management team and discuss strategy in depth.
strategy, culture and values, sustainability, governance and the opportunities and challenges facing the business.
Where a Director is joining a Committee, Sainsburys Argos the programme includes an induction to that Committee.
The January Board meeting was held at the Milton Keynes offices of Sainsburys Argos and this provided the Board with the opportunity to On joining the Board in September 2017, Jo Harlow had one to one meetings discuss the progress made on the integration and the implementation with members of the Board and the Operating Board and also with senior of the Sainsburys Argos strategic plans with the Management Board management from key areas of the business including the Director of and the senior management team.
Sainsburys Brand and the Commercial Director for Sainsburys Argos.
This gave her insight into their areas of responsibility.
The Company Secretary Director independence briefed Jo on core Group policies and on Board and Committee procedures.
The Chairman satisfied the independence criteria of the Governance Code Jo visited two business locations, Sainsburys Bank in Edinburgh and on his appointment to the Board and all the Non-Executive Directors are Sainsburys Argos in Milton Keynes.
She also visited the Groups Online considered to be independent.
The independence of the Non-Executive Fulfilment Centre in Bromley-by-Bow as well as some stores and depots.
Directors was considered by the Board and reviewed as part of the Board She also attended the November Audit Committee meeting as an observer.
To supplement her induction, Jo received induction materials including recent Board and Committee papers and minutes, strategy papers, investor Conflicts of interest presentations, matters reserved to the Board and Board Committee terms of Each of the Directors has a duty to avoid a situation where he she has, or reference.
Jean Tomlin and Matt Brittin had tailored inductions on joining the can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, Audit and Remuneration Committees respectively.
In addition to a one to with the Companys interests.
We have established procedures for the one meeting with the Chairman of the Audit Committee, Jean also met with disclosure by Directors of any such conflicts, and also for the consideration the external and internal auditors and the Director of Group Finance.
As part and authorisation of these conflicts by the Board.
All additional external of his induction on joining the Remuneration Committee, Matt met with the responsibilities taken on by Directors of the Board during the year were Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and had briefing sessions with the considered by the Board for any potential conflicts that may arise.
The Board Companys remuneration advisers and Angie Risley, Group HR Director.
has specifically considered the executive or non-executive roles that some of the Non-Executive Directors have with companies that may be suppliers Professional development and training to Sainsburys.
The Board is satisfied that the independence of the Directors To ensure we continually update and refresh our skills and knowledge, who have executive or non-executive roles with other companies is not we have a programme for supporting Directors training and development compromised.
The Board programme includes regular presentations from management and informal meetings to build our understanding of the Time commitment business and sector.
Prior to appointment, each Non-Executive Director confirms that they will have sufficient time available to be able to discharge their responsibilities In addition to the below, the Board was provided with updates on relevant effectively.
During the year, the Board reviewed, in advance, disclosures governance matters.
Both the Audit and Remuneration Committees received by Non-Executive Directors seeking to undertake additional commitments.
updates on relevant accounting and remuneration developments, trends and The Board remains confident that individual members continue to devote changing disclosure requirements from external advisers and management.
sufficient time to undertake their responsibilities effectively.
The Directors also had access to the advice of the Company Secretary and independent professional advice at the Companys expense, as required, in Information provided to the Board fulfilling their duties and responsibilities.
The Chairman, in collaboration with the Company Secretary and management, ensures that all Directors are properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings Digital business and data analytics and that they have sufficient, reliable and timely access to relevant information.
A deep dive session on digital business and the developments in the wider The Company Secretary supports the Chairman in setting the Board agenda, e-commerce markets took place in June 2017.
The session highlighted our and Board papers are distributed to all Directors in advance of Board meetings digital strategy and opportunities and latest developments in online market via a board portal.
The Company Secretary ensures appropriate and timely trends and data analytics.
A further detailed briefing and discussion on our information flows within and to the Board and its Committees, enabling the digital and data strategy took place at a Board meeting in April 2018 which Board and its Committees to exercise their judgement and make fully informed was welcomed by Board members.
decisions when discharging their duties.
We also build up our knowledge of the Company by visiting stores, depots and store support centres across the country on an individual basis.
In addition, this year we held two Board meetings at the following locations: Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Governance Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 53 AGM Relations with The AGM provides the Board with the opportunity to communicate with private and institutional investors and we encourage their participation at stakeholders the meeting.
The Chairman aims to ensure that all the Directors, including the Chairs of the Board Committees, are available at the AGM to answer We are committed to maintaining good communications with our stakeholders.
We send the Annual Report and the Notice of AGM to shareholders, or make them available on the Groups website, at least 20 working days Institutional shareholders before the date of the meeting.
The Notice of AGM sets out a clear explanation The Company maintains regular dialogue with its investors.
of each resolution to be proposed at the meeting.
Shareholders have the opportunity to ask questions and, if they are unable to attend, can submit Normal shareholder contact is the responsibility of Mike Coupe, written queries in advance of the meeting.
At the meeting, we make available Kevin OByrne and James Collins, Head of Investor Relations.
to shareholders full details of the proxy votes received on each resolution, and The Chairman met with institutional shareholders and other large we publish these on the Companys website on the same day.
investors: the Senior Independent Director is also available to attend meetings as required.
Our last AGM in 2017 was attended by all the Directors and a number of The Company met regularly with its large investors and institutional the senior management team.
Shareholders had the opportunity to meet shareholders who, along with sell-side research analysts, were invited and question the Directors at the meeting.
There was a display of various to presentations by the Company immediately after the announcement aspects of the Companys activities and there was a business presentation of the Companys interim and full-year results.
All resolutions proposed at the meeting were taken on a poll vote and were passed.
They are also invited to participate in conference calls following the announcement of the Companys trading statements.
The content of This year, the AGM will be held on 11 July 2018 and the Notice of this meeting these presentations and conference calls are webcast and are posted is available on our website.
on the Companys website www.
co. uk investor-centre so as to be available to all investors.
Colleagues The Company met, through regular post-results roadshows, ad hoc During the year, Mary Harris met with colleagues from the National Great meetings, conference attendances and site visits in the UK, US and Europe, Place to Work Group for a listening session to hear colleagues views on a total of 261 shareholders and potential investors in 205 meetings over matters which are at the top of their agenda.
Mary also shared some of the the course of the year.
items on the Boards agenda.
Views were shared on, amongst other things, The management team hosted a visit for institutional investors and the Groups strategic principles and values, remuneration at Board level and analysts at the recently opened store in Redhill, Surrey.
The feedback from this session was overwhelmingly positive from both Mary Harris and colleagues.
To further promote the link Feedback from institutional shareholders and engagement between the Board and colleagues, and to discuss more The Board received regular updates on the views of major investors and broadly what is on colleagues minds and get their views heard by the the Investor Relations programme at each Board meeting.
Board, a colleague engagement strategy has been approved by the Board.
Makinson Cowell provided investor relations consultancy services to the As described above, the Board receives regular updates on matters Company and external analysis to the Board on the views of institutional affecting colleagues, including the major change programmes relating investors and sell-side analysts.
to pay, terms and conditions and structures in Sainsburys.
Colleague Makinson Cowell additionally carried out an extensive Investor engagement is regularly discussed largely through presentations on Study, covering share price performance, the share register, investor colleagues insight to the CR&S Committee and related Board updates.
views and the Investor Relations programme.
Key conclusions and Other matters on colleagues minds are referenced in the CEO Reports recommendations arising from this survey were presented to the Board.
More information on this can be found on page 26.
Non-Executive Directors also received regular market reports and broker updates from the Companys IR department.
Customers Mike Coupe and John Rogers regularly update the Board on consumer trends Private shareholders and the Board also reviews customer insight analysis which particularly We encourage our private shareholders to access the Companys Interim and reflects views on the Sainsburys brand, trust and the areas that customers Annual Reports and presentations on our website.
Other useful information such focus on as regards sustainability.
This is also considered in depth at the as announcements, historic dividend records and shareholder communications CR&S Committee.
is also available on the website www.
Suppliers The Board receives regular updates on the trading strategy and supplier relationship management.
The Companys compliance with the Groceries Supply Code of Practice is monitored by the Audit Committee page 60 and David Keens met the Groceries Code Adjudicator in his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Supplier relationship management was also discussed by the CR&S Committee.
