J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Nominations Committee report The principal duties of the Nominations Committee, which I Marine Support Division, and four independent Non-Executive now chair, are to make recommendations to the Board on the Directors.
The names and biographical details of the members of structure, size, composition and balance of the Board and on the the Board are set out on pages 36 and 37. appointment, re-appointment and retirement of any Director.
The Board functions effectively and ef ciently and is considered In January 2018, Charles Rice announced his intention to retire to be of an appropriate size in view of the scale of the Group and as a Director of James Fisher at the AGM.
At that time it was the the diversity of its businesses.
The Board carried out an internal recommendation of the Nominations Committee that I should and external Board evaluation during the year and you can read succeed him as Chairman of the Group.
In line with our policy I more about this on page s 42 and 43.
The Board considers that took no part in this succession process.
At the same time, it was each Director demonstrates the knowledge, ability and experience also announced that Justin Atkinson would be joining the Board required to perform the functions of a director of the listed as an independent Non-Executive Director.
company and is of the calibre necessary to support and develop the Companys long-term strategy and success.
The Board In March 2018, Fergus Graham, who joined James Fisher in further considers that no individual or small group of individuals January 2017, was promoted to the role of Executive Director of dominates the Boards decision-making.
the Group with special responsibility for James Fishers Marine Support Division.
Membership Since Following the 2018 AGM in May 2018 I became Chairman.
Malcolm Paul following Charles Rices departure in 2011 David Moorhouse was appointed as Senior Independent May 2018 Chair of the Nominations Committee Director, Aedamar Comiskey was appointed as Chairman of the Justin Atkinson 2018 Remuneration Committee and Justin Atkinson was appointed Aedamar Comiskey 2015 Chairman of the Audit Committee in my place.
David Moorhouse 2013 In December 2018, Nick Henry announced his intention to retire Michael Salter 2013 as Chief Executive Of cer of the Group by the end of 2019.
The Nominations Committee is leading a search for Nicks successor Key objectives with the help of an external adviser and an announcement in this Reviewing the composition of the Board and succession planning.
regard will be made in due course.
In February 2019, the Group announced the impending Key responsibilities retirement of David Moorhouse and the intended appointment on to regularly review the structure, size and composition of 1 March 2019 of Dr Inken Braunschmidt as a new independent the Board including skills, knowledge, independence and Non-Executive Director.
experience and recommend changes: The Nominations Committee unanimously recommends the succession planning for Directors and senior executives of election or re-election of each of the Directors at the 2019 AGM.
both the Company and the operating businesses: and David Moorhouse is not seeking re-election.
In making this identifying and nominating for approval to the Board, recommendation we have evaluated each Director in terms of candidates for Board positions.
their performance, commitment to the role and their capacity to discharge their responsibilities in an effective manner given their The terms of reference are available on the Groups website and other time commitments and responsibilities.
Our objective is to ensure that the Board is balanced with Meets three times a year.
the Directors having a broad range of knowledge, skills and The importance of diversity, including gender, in the Boards background to ensure they work together effectively as a team for composition is recognised and during 2018 the Board agreed the bene t of the Company as a whole.
and published on the Group website its own Board diversity We always appoint people we consider the best for the role, policy setting out its aims to ensure an appropriate diversity however we recognise that diversity adds a broader perspective of skills, experience and knowledge, as well as gender and to Board discussions.
The appointment of Inken will increase the ethnic diversity, re ecting the Hampton-Alexander and the number of women on the Board to two.
Please see page 43 for more detail about how the Board has approached diversity in Board composition and diversity its own composition.
The Committee acknowledges that diversity There were eight Directors on the Board as at 31 December 2018, is not solely in relation to gender: ethnicity, age, educational and comprising the Non-Executive Chairman who was considered professional backgrounds are also important and diversity in independent on appointment, the Chief Executive Of cer, the senior management and across the entire workforce is supported Group Finance Director, an Executive Director responsible for the and encouraged.
50 J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Alongside the Board diversity policy, the Group has its own Appointments to the Board and succession established diversity policy with the purpose of ensuring that planning the Group bene ts from a diverse workforce and has a working The Committee leads the process for Board appointments and environment where all employees are encouraged to realise their makes recommendations to the Board.
Appointments are made full potential and where there is an open atmosphere of trust, on merit, against objective criteria, with due regard to the bene ts honesty and respect.
The diversity policy is available on the of diversity on the Board, including gender.
The Committee Group website as part of the Group policies document.
adopts a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the During 2018, two Group companies not the Company were appointment of new Directors to the Board, working with Korn required by regulation to publish their gender pay gap.
At the Ferry, an independent executive search consultant which has no same time, the Company voluntarily published a Group-wide connection to the Company other than in assisting and facilitating gender pay gap report, which is available on the Group website in the search for senior management.
A speci cation for the roles and gives information on the Groups gender pay gap, along with was agreed by the Committee, setting out the skills, experience descriptions of the initiatives being undertaken to narrow the gap.
The appointment process is set out More information about our employees, the Groups employment below, using Justin Atkinsons appointment as an example.
policies, the Groups gender pay gap report, and the Groups Identify Using the agreed brief, the Chairman appraised commitment to equal opportunities and diversity can be found a diverse list of potential candidates which was prepared in the Sustainability report on page 29 and the Corporate against the key competencies and experience required for the responsibility governance report on page 34. role, from which a shortlist was produced.
Interview The shortlisted candidates were interviewed by Malcolm Paul the Chairman and CEO.
The preferred candidate met with Chairman of the Nominations Committee members of the Committee following which the Committee 25 February 2019 met to discuss feedback.
Select The Committee recommended the appointment of Justin Atkinson as a Non-Executive Director of the Company to the Board.
It was also agreed that he be appointed as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Appoint Justin Atkinsons appointment took effect in February 2018.
The Committee continues to evaluate the balance of skills and experience on the Board and is satis ed that plans are in place for orderly succession for appointments to the Board to maintain that balance whilst ensuring progressive renewal of the Board.
Board diversity Board tenure Board skills matrix Operations Female 6-9 years Marine Engineering Legal Governance 0-3 years Male 3-6 years Finance 51 GOVERNANCE
