J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Corporate responsibility governance We have given information in the Sustainability report on pages 27 to 3 3 about how we engage with our stakeholders.
Below is more information about how we engage with our stakeholders from a corporate governance perspective.
Employees Customers and suppliers: How we engage: How we engage: Helping employees meet their potential: Customer focus: The Chief Executive Of cer is responsible for employee matters, See page 32 summarising our focus on delivering products and assisted by the Group Head of Human Resources.
services aimed at delivering solutions to customer needs.
James Fisher is an equal opportunities employer and is rmly Respect for human rights: committed to both the principle and realisation of equality.
The Group is committed to supporting and respecting human The Group is committed to complying with all applicable laws rights in the workplace and in the communities in which it operates governing employment practices and to the prevention of across its international business.
We have implemented work discrimination on the basis of any unlawful criteria.
In addition practices and policies throughout the Group which are designed to complying with legislative requirements, the Group strives to to ensure that respect for human rights is integrated into the ensure that disabled employees are treated fairly and that their systems and culture of our businesses.
We do not tolerate the use training, career development and promotion needs are met.
of child or forced labour within our business and take all steps The Board considered and re-approved the Groups existing possible to ensure that our suppliers and customers also uphold health safety and environment policy in January 2019 as a internationally recognised human rights.
The Modern Slavery declaration of our intent and commitment.
statement, which is available on the Groups website, outlines steps Our strong focus on employee training, regulatory compliance taken by the Group to ensure that there is transparency in the and accident reduction provides the support to allow Group and throughout our supply chains.
The Group encourages accountability to remain with local management who are bestany concerns relating to modern slavery to be raised using the placed to ensure that their businesses comply with local laws and procedure set out in the whistleblowing policy.
regulations and speci c needs on a day-to-day basis.
The review of health and safety performance is high on the agenda at each Business ethics, anti-bribery and corruption matters: Board and business board meetings, and remains a top priority As a Group we aim to act responsibly and ethically in all of our for the Group.
Through our Code of Ethics we aim to instil the We recognise that the success of our business depends on highest standards of business behaviour across the Group and we our talented workforce.
Employees throughout the Group focus on embedding a culture of ethical compliance so that all of are encouraged to participate in training and development our people understand the standards of ethical business practice programmes and to obtain professional quali cations relevant to that are expected of them.
The Group has an established anti-bribery and corruption policy and has introduced a compliance programme which has the 2018 2017 support of the Board and senior management within the Group.
Gender diversity Male Female Male Female The programme includes communication of the statement and policy, training, risk assessment, monitoring and review processes.
Main Board Directors 71 61 Employees assessed to be at risk are required to complete the training and to self-certify that they understand and agree to be Senior Managers 64 11 61 11 bound by its provisions.
Employees 2,218 565 2,081 564 The Group does not permit bribery, nor illegal or corrupt business practices.
On-going compliance is monitored by local compliance Dr Inken Braunschmidt was appointed on 1 March 2019, when the Boards of cers who are required to report to their local boards and gender diversity ratio will change to 75% male, 25% female.
to the Group Compliance Of cer on at least a biannual basis.
The compliance of cers are responsible for ensuring that risk assessments, training and awareness are carried out where appropriate and are kept up-to-date.
They are also required to monitor, record and report agency arrangements with third parties to ensure that all our business dealings are appropriate and within our ethical framework.
34 J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Shareholders: Environment: How we engage: How we engage: Regular messaging: See the Sustainability report on page 31 for more information about how the Group works to minimise its environmental The Company maintains and values regular communication with impact.
The Group has a governance structure in place to shareholders.
The Annual Report and Accounts and the Group consider carbon emissions, energy usage to minimise the impacts website highlight the Groups main achievements.
Formal preliminary of its operations on the environment.
announcements and interim management statements are provided throughout the year.
Investor days are held when a presentation is Nearly all of our principal operating companies are ISO 14001 provided to investors and analysts.
In addition, the Company invites compliant.
This internationally recognised environmental regular direct communication with its shareholders as part of the management system enables a systematic approach to handling Companys investor relations programme.
James Fisher acknowledges the global threat posed by climate Annual General Meeting AGM : change and recognises the need to reduce GHG emissions.
We In May 2018, we welcomed shareholders to our AGM, which accept our responsibility to comply with emerging climate change represents an annual opportunity for the Board to meet and legislation and regulation, and to reduce our GHG emissions as communicate with both private and institutional shareholders, far as is reasonably practicable through appropriate initiatives.
and engage with their questions and involvement.
At the AGM, Part of the Sustainability Committees remit includes keeping this the Chairman provides a presentation on the performance of issue under review and we will report in more detail on this in our the business, and holds a Q&A session, inviting challenging 2019 Annual Report.
questions and feedback from shareholders.
Following the AGM all attendees are invited to a seated lunch, and members of the Board are encouraged to sit with shareholders over lunch to discuss the business and answer questions.
Community: How we engage: Local business activities: The Groups businesses are spread out all over the UK and internationally.
Product and service procurement is site-speci c which means many of our businesses are able to procure products and services locally to support the local supply chain, and sustain local jobs.
Each business encourages and supports its employees to engage with local community projects that they care about and to make a positive impact on their local communities.
Sir John Fisher Foundation: The Sir John Fisher Foundation the Foundation is a charitable trust founded in 1980 by Sir John Fisher former Chairman of the Company, and grandson of the founder and Lady Maria Fisher with the objective of distributing income, including from the signi cant shareholding in the Company retained by the Foundations trustees, to charitable causes throughout the UK, but with special regard to those based in and working for the bene t of people living in Barrow-in-Furness and the Furness Peninsula, where the Company is registered and maintains its headquarters.
35 SS TRA TRA TEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPOR T T
