J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Corporate governance report companies to publish an annual gender pay gap report are clear Chairmans introduction to Corporate governance indicators of the importance of this topic.
The Board and I remain Good governance is at the heart of what we do both as a Board very supportive of the initiatives in this area, and are committed and as a Group.
As Chairman I am responsible for establishing to improving diversity throughout the Group.
I rmly believe that and embedding the culture of the Board.
By setting the tone from this should not just be in relation to gender and ethnicity, but the top your Board aims to ensure that values and behaviours are also in the wider sense, including diversity of thought, tenure, consistent across the Group, both in the way we behave with each age, experience, skills, geographical expertise, and educational other and in the way we interact with our customers, suppliers, background.
This should not be a one and done approach but is shareholders, employees and communities around us.
This year something the Board will continue to keep under review.
In 2018, we have set out in more detail in the Sustainability report on and up to the date of this report, the Board has: page 27 how we have engaged with our key stakeholders.
Our Reviewed and updated the Groups diversity policy see strategy as a Group is founded on meeting those high standards.
Creating the right ethical culture at James Fisher is vital to the Groups success.
Created and published the Boards own diversity policy, setting out its commitment, including in its own composition.
UK Corporate Governance code Approved the publication of the Groups gender pay gap Of course the governance landscape is constantly changing.
Failures by both business and their advisors have led to a closer On the date of this report, the Board announced that look at how companies govern themselves.
During 2018 various an additional female Non-Executive Director Dr Inken new regulations were published that the Board has taken into Braunschmidt would join the Board with effect from 1 March account and has acted on, where appropriate.
The UK Corporate 2019, resulting in 25% female representation on the Board.
Governance Code 2016 the Code is the version of the Code which applied to the Company for 2018.
During the year ended Board composition 31 December 2018 the Company has complied with all the One of my responsibilities is to keep the composition of the Board relevant provisions of the 2016 Code.
and its range of skills under review, and there have been some The UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 has applied to important changes throughout the year.
You will have already noted the Company since 1 January 2019.
We will report fully on the changes earlier in the year described in more detail on page 50. our application of the 2018 Code in our 2019 Annual Report and Accounts.
For information on our recent and planned External evaluation of Board effectiveness enhancement to employee engagement mechanisms, please see In September 2018, I commissioned an externally facilitated page s 29 and 34. review of the Board to provide external input into how the Board and its Committees function, and to provide recommendations Culture and values for ways to improve their overall effectiveness.
Details of the The Groups Code of Ethics captures the long-held standards process, outcomes and actions are described on page 42. that each member of the James Fisher workforce is expected to adhere to in their day-to-day work.
We are committed to AGM ensuring the highest ethical standards in our activities and in how I would encourage all shareholders to attend the AGM, to be these impact on our relationships with our stakeholders.
This is held at 11.00am on Thursday 2 May 2019 at the Abbey House the foundation for the Groups values of honesty, integrity and Hotel, Abbey Road, Barrow-in-Furness, Cumbria, LA13 0PA, as it fairness.
These values complement and augment the Groups provides an excellent opportunity to meet the Executive and Noncorporate purpose and strategy.
Our customers attach great Executive Directors.
importance to working with a Group which is able to demonstrate Malcolm Paul those values wherever they do business.
Chairman 25 February 2019 Diversity This year has seen on-going focus for businesses on diversity.
The publication of the update to the Hampton-Alexander review and the McGregorSmith review, and the requirement for 38 JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Our governance structure The Board Chaired by Malcolm Paul Meets regularly, with six scheduled meetings during the year.
The Board is responsible for providing effective leadership to the Group.
The Board is responsible for steering the Groups purpose, culture and values, for setting the Groups strategic priorities and overseeing their delivery in a way that enables sustainable long-term growth, while maintaining a balanced approach to risk within a framework of effective controls.
It has a schedule of key matters which are reserved for its own decision-making, which is reviewed annually and approved by the Board.
Chairman Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Directors Chief Executive Leads the Board, sets the agenda Provides a sounding board to Contribute to developing our Responsible for management of and promotes a culture of open the Chair and appraises his strategy.
debate between Executive and performance.
Delivers strategic objectives Scrutinise and constructively Non-Executive Directors.
Meets with Directors to review within the Boards stated risk challenge the performance of Regularly meets with the Chief the Chairmans performance.
management in the execution of Executive, the other Executive This review is then shared with our strategy.
Directors and other senior the Chairman.
Acts as intermediary for other Ensures effective communication Directors, if needed.
Available to respond to shareholder concerns when contact through the normal channels is inappropriate.
Nominations Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Chaired by Malcolm Paul Chaired by Justin Atkinson Chaired by Aedamar Comiskey Meets a minimum of three times a year.
Meets a minimum of three times a year.
Reviews the structure, size and composition of Assists the Board in its oversight and monitoring Agrees the remuneration policy for Executive the Board including skills, knowledge, diversity of financial reporting, reviews the Groups Directors and other senior executives: reviews and experience and recommends changes, internal financial controls and systems for risk the appropriateness and relevance of the Groups succession planning for Directors and senior management and internal controls, monitors the remuneration policy: and ensures that the executives.
Companys whistleblowing policies and assesses provisions of the Code relating to remuneration independence and objectivity of external auditor.
Identi es and nominates candidates for approval to the Board, to ll vacancies when they arise.
The Audit Committee report on pages 45 to 49 The Directors remuneration report on pages 52 describes in detail the Committees role and to 66 describes in detail the Committees role The Nominations Committee report on pages 50 activities.
to 51 describes in detail the Committees role and activities.
Executive Committee Disclosure Committee Consisting of the Executive Directors Consisting of the Chairman, the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary Meets according to business requirements.
Empowered, under written terms of reference, to take actions relating to the affairs of the Company in the normal course of business and of a routine Oversees the Companys compliance with its disclosure obligations.
nature, subject to such limits as the Board in its discretion determines.
Group Health and Safety Committee Group Sustainability Committee Group Risk Committee Chaired by Nick Henry Chaired by Malcolm Paul Chaired by Nick Henry Meets on a quarterly basis.
Discusses all health and safety issues including Identi es, monitors and coordinates the Groups Identi es and monitors operational risks incidents, mitigating actions and training sustainability commitments, working with throughout the Group, supports the internal requirements and reports recordable safety sustainability champions from each trading control and risk management strategy and policy.
Operating Divisions Corporate Functions Day-to-day business delivery.
Executive Directors meet on at least a quarterly basis with managing Executive Directors and heads of corporate functions meet at the Risk directors of principal businesses.
