J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Audit Committee report during the year under review.
More information on IFRS 15 and 16 Introduction is set out on pages 46 and 47 in the Audit Committee report.
The I am pleased to introduce the report of the Audit Committee for Group has also implemented IFRS 9 Financial Instruments in 2018 the year ended 31 December 2018.
This is my first report as and this has had no material impact on comparatives.
chair of the Committee and I would like to thank Malcolm Paul, who chaired the Committee before, for his hard work.
Membership Since The Committee and the work it performs is of fundamental Justin Atkinson, Chairman of the Audit Committee 2018 importance to the Board in discharging its responsibility for since May 2018 previously chaired by oversight and monitoring of financial reporting, risk management Malcolm Paul and internal control.
I have been chairman of the Committee Aedamar Comiskey 2014 since May 2018 and it is my responsibility to ensure that the David Moorhouse 2013 Committee ful ls its responsibilities in a rigorous and effective Michael Salter 2013 manner.
The Committees agenda is designed, in conjunction with Key objectives the Boards, to ensure that all signi cant areas of risk are covered and to enable it to provide timely input to Board deliberations.
To monitor the integrity of the Groups reporting process and financial management and to ensure that risks are carefully In line with the Code, this report seeks to focus on speci c identi ed and assessed and that sound systems of risk aspects considered by the Committee during the year and aims management and internal control are in place.
to provide assurance to you, our shareholders, that the control environment of the Group is being properly supervised and Key responsibilities: monitored.
The accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in I am satis ed that the Committee is properly constituted with the Groups accounts.
written terms of reference, which include all matters referred to in External financial reporting and associated announcements.
the Code and is provided with good quality information to allow Managing the appointment, independence, effectiveness and proper consideration to be given to topics under review.
I am also remuneration of the Groups external auditor, including the satis ed that meetings are scheduled to allow suf cient time for policy on the award of non-audit services.
discussion and to ensure that all matters are considered fully.
Initiating and supervising a competitive tender process for the The Committees terms of reference, which are available on our external audit when next required.
website, were updated in January 2019 in accordance with the The resourcing, plans and effectiveness of Internal Audit.
FRC Guidance on Audit Committees.
The adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control Of particular importance is the requirement to ensure that the environment.
Groups financial reporting is fair, balanced and understandable.
We therefore review all the Groups financial reports before The Groups risk management processes and performance.
publication, including where necessary alternative performance The establishment and oversight of fraud prevention measures, with this responsibility at the forefront of our arrangements and reports under the Groups whistleblowing minds, and we are satis ed that they provide a fair, balanced policy.
and understandable assessment of the Groups position and The Groups compliance with the 2016 and 2018 UK Corporate performance.
This year the Committee has continued to focus on reviewing The provision of advice to the Board on whether the Annual the Groups systems of risk management and internal controls, Report and Accounts, when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced as well as ensuring the integrity of the Groups public financial and understandable and provides all the necessary information reporting.
Whilst we do not believe that the UKs future departure for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, from the EU will have a material impact on the Group we keep this business model and strategy.
matter under constant review, and you can nd more information Meets three times a year.
In addition, we have reviewed and endorsed the Groups approach to tax transparency in all the regions of the Audit Committee composition world in which the Group operates, and have updated our Group tax policy statement accordingly.
The Board is satis ed that Justin Atkinson and formerly Malcolm Paul who chaired the Committee until May 2018 has signi cant During the year, changes in the Groups revenue recognition, and relevant financial experience.
Both are chartered accountants particularly in respect of accounting for long-term contracts have who formerly served as finance directors of FTSE 250 companies.
been implemented in accordance with IFRS 15.
With IFRS 16 Justin Atkinson is a member of the audit committees of three having taken effect from 1 January 2019, preparations were made other UK listed companies, and is audit chairman of two of 45 GOVERNANCE J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Audit committee report continued those committees.
The members of the Committee collectively control and audit issues arising to enable the Committee to have broad financial, commercial, professional and technical review the Interim Statement and recommend it to the Board.
The experience and as a whole are considered to have competence November meeting reviewed the planning memorandum for the relevant to the sectors in which the Group operates.
Committee annual audit, including proposed scope and key risks, together attendance is shown on page 42. with an indication of the proposed audit fee, which was subject to subsequent agreement.
In addition, the meeting considered a The Committee had three scheduled meetings during the year detailed report from internal audit on their work for the year and in February, August and October, on dates to coincide with the approved the internal audit programme for 2019. financial reporting cycle.
The Group Chairman, Chief Executive Of cer, Group Finance Director, the Group General Counsel and Fair, balanced and understandable Company Secretary, the internal auditor and senior members of the finance team attend each meeting by invitation together with In making its assessment the Board has taken into account its own knowledge of the Group, the markets in which the Group operates, representatives of the auditor, including the reporting partner.
its strategy and performance in the year, a review of content of the At each scheduled meeting the Committee provides the Annual Report and Accounts and other periodic financial statements opportunity to discuss matters privately with the auditor and and announcements, together with the recommendation of the the internal auditor.
In addition, the chairman of the Committee Audit Committee.
Key considerations include ensuring that there holds regular meetings with the KPMG audit reporting was consistency between the accounts and the narrative provided partner to discuss matters related to the Group.
Details of the in the front half of the Annual Report and Accounts, and that there Committees speci c responsibilities and how it exercises those was an appropriate balance between the reporting weaknesses, responsibilities are set out in the remainder of this report.
The dif culties and challenges in particular with reference to the Board and the members of the Committee separately review the Groups principal risks and uncertainties, as set out on page 22, as performance of the Audit Committee each year and are satis ed well as successes, in an open and honest manner.
that the Committee discharges its duties and responsibilities in accordance with its terms of reference.
Signi cant issues and accounting judgements Financial reporting The Committee has a primary responsibility to review the integrity of the Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Statement of The Committees primary responsibility in relation to the the Company, which includes the review and discussion of papers Groups financial reporting is to review and challenge where prepared by management and takes account of the views of the necessary, with both senior management and the auditor, the auditor.
The key areas reviewed in the 2018 financial year are as appropriateness of the Groups Interim Statement and Annual follows: Report and Accounts, with particular focus on: whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted and IFRS 15 Revenue Recognition Revenue from Contracts with properly applied: Customers the clarity of disclosures and compliance with financial The introduction of IFRS 15 Revenue Recognition Revenue from reporting standards and relevant financial and governance Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 with effect from 1 January reporting requirements: 2018 has changed the basis of revenue recognition on long-term whether management has made appropriate estimates contracts from a stage of completion to delivery against identi ed performance obligations.
Prior to its application, the Group and judgements in material areas or where there has been discussion with or issues raised by the auditor: and accounted for long-term contracts by estimating the percentage stage of completion based on costs incurred to date compared to whether the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole the estimated total contract costs.
Revenue is now recognised when is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the control over the goods or services passes to the customer and for information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups long-term contracts on completion of performance obligations.
position and performance, business model and strategy.
In adopting IFRS 15, the results for 2017 have been restated and To facilitate its financial reporting responsibility, the Committee full details are set out in note 33.
For the majority of the Groups received reports from the Companys auditor, KPMG, at each revenue such as the delivery of services, products and equipment of the scheduled Committee meetings.
The first meeting in rental, the implementation of IFRS 15 has had no material impact February 2018 considered the accounting, financial control as revenue continues to be recognised at the point in time when and audit issues reported by the auditors that owed from their the performance obligation is met.
Long-term contracts, which audit work and reviewed the financial statements and speci c often span a year end and primarily relate to Specialist Technical disclosures, including the viability and going concern statements, and Marine Support, are recognised on completion of performance for recommendation to the Board.
In addition to standard agenda obligations identi ed from the contract.
items, the February meeting also received evaluations of the The Committee reviewed the recognition of revenue and pro t on external and internal audit process and reviewed the procedures signi cant long-term contracts to ensure revenue was recognised and outputs for the identi cation, assessment and reporting in the correct accounting period and that judgements made of risk.
The August meeting received a review by the auditor of by management were reasonable and in accordance with the the Half Year results and considered the accounting, financial requirements of IFRS 15.
Where appropriate, matters arising were 46 J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 discussed with senior management and KPMG in their capacity senior management in relation to the Groups internal budgets, as auditors, and the Committee concluded that the financial forecasts of future performance, available nancing facilities statements recognised revenue and pro ts in accordance with the and facility headroom.
Taking account of possible changes that Groups accounting policy.
may impact trading performance and other factors that might affect availability, we expect the Group to maintain the necessary IFRS 16 Leases headroom under its borrowing facilities for the forthcoming year.
IFRS 16, which became effective on 1 January 2019, brings We are satis ed that the going concern basis of preparation operating leases onto the balance sheet as a right of use asset continues to be appropriate in preparing the financial statements.
which is amortised, and a corresponding liability established for the total lease obligation.
In accounting periods prior to Viability statement 1January2019, operating lease costs were charged to the The Committee reviewed the Companys viability statement set income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the out on page 23 and in particular took care to understand the lease.
In future years, this charge will be replaced by amortisation analysis which was prepared by management, and supports of right of use assets and an imputed interest cost based on the Boards view that the Company will be able to continue the operating lease obligation.
As at 31 December 2018 the in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the Group had 38.2m 2017: 36.8m of future obligations under period assessed.
The analysis included a review of the Groups operating leases.
three-year plan which overlays a number of assumptions and sensitivities, including the need for and availability of additional Goodwill valuation bank facilities, an assessment of the likely downside sensitivities The Committee considered the Groups carrying value of goodwill aligned to the Groups principal risks, and the potential impact and impairment reviews based on underlying assumptions, of those sensitivities on its business model, future performance, together with the achievability of long-term forecasts and the solvency and liquidity over the period, and taking into account discount rates applied to forecast cash ows.
Senior management the potential mitigating actions, and the effectiveness of the provided detailed analysis to determine the sensitivity of the Groups risk management and control systems, as well as current outcome to changes in key assumptions and we are satis ed that risk appetite.
Sensitivities considered included the potential the judgements made are both reasonable and appropriate.
consequence of global economic uncertainty and adverse foreign exchange movements, on-going bolt-on acquisitions, as well as Acquisition accounting the diverse nature of the markets and geographies in which the The level of judgement involved in determining acquisition Groups businesses operate, and their ability to react quickly to fair values and the valuation of acquired intangible assets change.
is a potential risk to the Group.
The Committee considered the fair value and accounting policy adjustments made to Risk management and internal controls each acquisition and assessments in respect of contingent The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups risk consideration provisions.
These were discussed separately with management and internal control systems.
The Audit Committee the Group Finance Director and the Companys auditor, and the is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness Committee concluded that acquisitions had been accounted for in of these systems and the Groups internal audit function.
We accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
received regular reports throughout the year from the Group Risk Operations in overseas jurisdictions with uncertain legislation Committee and we have reviewed the Groups systems of risk management and internal controls, including financial, operational Due to the diverse nature of the territories in which the and compliance controls, and have concluded that the systems Group operates often with local partners, there is an inherent are sound and effective.
Reports on material internal control commercial and financial risk arising from operating in these failings are referred to the Committee for review and oversight locations.
This is particularly prominent in the Groups operations to ensure that appropriate and timely actions are identi ed and in emerging markets, due to a potentially more uncertain completed.
During the year there were no material instances of legislative, political and regulatory environment.
The Committee internal control failure brought to the attention of the Committee.
received regular updates on the operational and financial performance of the Groups business operations in these Anti-bribery and corruption territories together with the assessment of areas where speci c judgements have been necessary.
We have an established anti-bribery and corruption policy aimed at ensuring adherence to the associated legal and regulatory The Committee considered the matters set out above and how requirements.
The policy includes sections in relation to: they were tested and reviewed, including the judgements and disclosures and representations made.
the Groups zero tolerance approach to payment of bribes.
the reasonableness and proportionality of offering or receipt Going concern of gifts or hospitality.
The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of the going the appointment and management of third parties who are concern assumption on page 67 in preparing the financial engaged to assist with our sales and marketing activities, statements.
This included a review of papers prepared by including approval via procedures which include appropriate 47 GOVERNANCE J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Audit committee report continued internal and external due diligence and authorisation.
The At Group level: A how the audit work was scoped: the Group tracks its agent relationships and reports them back to instructions issued to individuals performing audit work the Board on a regular basis.
on financial information relating to Group subsidiaries component auditors : the extent of KPMGs involvement in the Groups condemnation of facilitation payments.
component auditors work: KPMGs evaluation of component The Group has anti-bribery and corruption training in place which auditors work: and how issues reported by component is provided on induction, and each business maintains a training auditors were followed up and resolved: B how KPMG log for its people which is reported back to the Committee via dealt with certain aspects of ethics, independence, quality internal audit twice annually.
control and completion relevant to the audit: C the quality of communications with the Audit Committee: and D the Whistleblowing following speci c areas: i recoverability of Group intangible The Group maintains a whistleblowing policy which encourages assets: and ii Group operations in overseas jurisdictions and allows our people to report any activities which may with uncertain legislation.
constitute a crime including bribery corruption, a failure to meet At subsidiary level: revenue recognition within certain Group legal regulatory obligations, a fraud, an endangerment to anyones businesses.
health and safety, damage to the environment, or a breach of the The conclusion of the FRC s AQR teams review was discussed Code of Ethics.
Reports can be made anonymously.
None of its findings were considered to be of are carried out by the Group Finance Director and Group suf cient signi cance to be included in its final report.
General Counsel and Company Secretary, with reference to the Chairman.
Reports on whistleblowing complaints are referred to In compliance with the Statutory Audit Services for Large the Committee for review to ensure that appropriate and timely Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive actions have been identi ed and completed.
During the year two Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities matters were raised under the whistleblowing process, both of Order 2014 and other regulations, the Company undertook a which were investigated and recommendations agreed with the competitive tender for audit services in 2016 following which Audit Committee were adopted.
The responsibilities and processes for risk management are Audit Committee evaluation described in more detail on page 22.
Every year the Group conducts an internal evaluation of the Board External audit performance and its Committees and this year an external evaluation was also undertaken.
The Audit Committee was considered to work well The Committee continually assesses the performance of the with thorough debate, and good coverage of the key issues, and auditor, KPMG, from the initial planning stage when they receive to be well chaired and managed, with good coverage of its remit and discuss the audit plan and proposed strategy, approach, and good interface between meetings with the Executive and objectives, signi cant risk areas and other areas of focus, drawing finance function.
Details of the evaluations and the results are set on input from the Groups senior management, until conclusion of out in more detail on p age 42. the audit.
The Committee conducts annually a formal assessment of the auditors performance based on its own experience and Internal audit that of the Groups senior management.
This process includes the use of questionnaires which focus on the quality and ability of the The Committee is responsible for reviewing the work carried audit teams, the robustness of the audit process and the quality out by the internal audit department which considers, reviews of communication and governance, including the independence and reports on key commercial, financial and control risks of the audit rm.
The results of the review are considered by the across the Group.
The internal audit function undertake their Committee and discussed with the auditor who provides input work in accordance with an annual programme approved by the on the preparedness of the Groups own finance teams and the Committee.
During 2018 we continued to engage the services of conclusions are reported to and discussed by the Board.
 to support our internal audit resources, particular at overseas of ces.
The scope of each internal audit For the 2018 audit, the Committee considered that the review is agreed by the Committee in consultation with the performance of the auditor, including their interaction with the internal auditor to ensure that key areas for each business are Company, senior management and the Committee, was good.
Committee was also satis ed that KPMG provided an effective audit and remain independent and objective.
In 2018, 19 internal audits were undertaken, of which 11 were in the UK and 8 overseas 2017: 25.
The internal audit reports During the year, the Committee considered the FRCs Audit were presented to the Committee for review and shared with Quality Review AQR teams review of the Groups audit by KPMG senior managers for action, as well as being provided to the for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The Review took into auditor for information.
The Internal Auditor is responsible to the account areas considered to be higher risk by KPMG and the Committee for ensuring that all required actions are followed up Audit Committee, the FRCs own knowledge and experience of and completed in a timely manner.
audits of similar entities, and the signi cance of an area in the context of the financial statements.
The review included, but was not limited to, the following: 48 STRATEGIC REPORT J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 The effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function is continually reviewed and a formal review is undertaken annually by the Board and the Committee.
Following the final 2018 review, the Committee recommended and the Board concluded that the Groups internal audit process was appropriate and effective.
Non-audit services The Committee accepts that certain non-prohibited work is best undertaken by the auditor and to safeguard the auditors objectivity and independence the Committee has a long-standing policy on engagement of the auditor for non-audit services, which includes a requirement for Audit Committee approval if the permitted services exceed a threshold of 50,000.
The Committee reviews the policy annually and recommends it to the Board for approval.
In accordance with EU Audit Regulations and standards published by the FRC in June 2016, the Committee has not engaged the auditor on matters restricted by those Regulations and standards, and fees from permitted work including the Half Year report have been pre-approved by the Committee.
KPMG were not instructed to carry out any prohibited non-audit services during 2018.
Conclusion The Committee operates in an open manner, has clear and concise channels of communication with the Board and, should it be necessary, I would be available to meet with investors.
I will also be available to answer any questions at the AGM.
Justin Atkinson Chairman of the Audit Committee 25 February 2019 49 GOVERNANCE
