Governance Audit Committee Report Audit Committee Report Principal Duties The principal duties of the Audit Committee the Committee are to review draft annual and interim financial statements prior to being submitted to the Board, reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, risk management and the performance and cost effectiveness of the external auditor.
Main Activities of the Audit Committee During the Year The Committees activities included: Reviewing the Groups draft financial statements and interim results statement prior to Board approval and reviewing the external auditors detailed reports thereon including internal controls.
Reviewing regularly the potential impact on the Groups financial statements of certain matters such as impairments of fixed asset values and proposed International Accounting Standards.
Reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the Groups financial statements, key risks of misstatement in the financial statements, confirmations of auditor independence, audit fee and terms of engagement of the auditor.
Reviewing the independence and effectiveness of the Groups external auditor and the appropriateness and timing of any tender process in respect of the Groups external auditor.
Reviewing the whistleblowing arrangements in place for employees to be able to raise matters of possible impropriety in confidence to ensure they remain appropriate.
Reviewing the Companys risk register and internal controls.
Consideration of whether an internal audit function should be established.
Financial Statements and Significant Accounting Matters The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups draft financial statements and interim results statement prior to Board approval.
As part of such review, the Committee considers whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted and whether appropriate judgements have been made by management.
The Committee also reviews reports by the external auditor on the full year and half year results.
The following are material areas in which significant judgements have been applied and have been considered by the Committee during the year: Recoverability of Goodwill and Fascia Names The Committee considered the assumptions underlying the calculation of the value in use of the cash generating units being tested for impairment, primarily the achievement of the short term business plan, the assumptions on discount rates and long term growth rates.
The Committee reviewed the budgets and business plans that support the impairment reviews and challenged the key assumptions used and are comfortable that they represent managements best estimate at the time.
The external auditor provides to the Committee detailed explanations of the results of their review of the estimate of the value in use, including their challenge of managements underlying cash flow projections, the key growth assumptions and discount rates.
The Committee has also reviewed the disclosures in the financial statements.
Valuation of Inventories The Audit Committee considered the risk that inventory may need to be impaired and tested the principles and integrity of the obsolescence provision calculation used across the Group.
This risk review is particularly important to the Group given the extremely seasonal nature of its retail businesses and the changing desirability of branded products over time.
The Audit Committee also reviewed the assessment carried out by the auditors of the overall consistency of the assumptions used by comparing to those used in prior periods.
The Committee reviews the provision models and challenges management on the key judgements made over aged stock and the level of proceeds for aged stock.
The external auditor reports to the Committee on the work they have completed and how their audit work is concentrated on this area.
90 Governance Audit Committee Report Valuation of Intangible Assets Recognised as Part of the Acquisition of Sport Zone The Committee has reviewed the acquisition accounting in relation to the purchase of Sport Zone and has considered the assumptions used in the intangibles valuation models: primarily the budgets and forecasts, discount rates and royalty rates used.
The external auditor provides to the Committee detailed explanations of the results of their review of the acquisition accounting, including their challenge of managements key assumptions and discount rates.
External Auditor A breakdown of the audit and non-audit related fees are set out in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 126.
During the financial year, the Committee has reviewed in detail the FRC rules on auditor independence and the provision of non-audit services by the auditor and in particular its revised policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
The new policys objective being to ensure auditor independence and appropriate levels of approval for non-audit work being undertaken by the external auditor.
Under the policy, any non-audit services to be undertaken by the auditor which are not prohibited or potentially prohibited under the audit reforms require advance authorisation in accordance with the following: For individual pieces of work below 20,000 Chief Financial Officer approval required.
Work in excess of 20,000 Committee approval required.
If it is proposed that any potentially prohibited non-audit work is carried out by the auditor, this will require Committee approval.
KPMG have acted as auditor to the Company since its flotation in 1996 and no tender exercise has been conducted to date.
The lead partner is subject to rotation every five years to safeguard independence, with a new lead partner having been appointed to lead the audit during the 2014 2015 financial year.
The Audit Committee recommends that KPMG be reappointed as the Companys statutory auditor for the 2018 2019 financial year.
The Audit Committee, after careful consideration including of the auditors performance during their period in office, is satisfied with the level of independence and impartiality of the external auditor and is happy with the audit process and the way it operates remains effective.
Whilst the Audit Committees current recommendation is to re-appoint KPMG as auditor for the forthcoming financial year, the Audit Committee regularly considers whether such a tender programme would be in the best interests of the Companys shareholders and, accordingly, this process will be completed at the appropriate time and in any event, in advance of the deadline for completing a mandatory competitive tender process in order that a new auditor is appointed for the financial year commencing February 2024.
The Audit Committee confirms that the Company otherwise complied throughout the financial year under review with The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
Internal Audit Whilst the Company does not have an internal audit function, the Audit Committee regularly considers and analyses the benefits of an internal audit function and the nature of the same.
In particular, the Audit Committee reviews the advantages of an internal auditor being recruited as an employee of the business and also of an outsourced internal audit function, tasked with focusing on key projects.
During the financial year, the Audit Committee determined that such an appointment is not immediately necessary, and, due to the fact that the Groups operations are still largely centralised within its head office, many of the Groups existing departments perform activities which would otherwise be carried out by a specific internal audit function, such as its experienced Profit Protection team who are focused on limiting shrinkage, theft and fraud as well as carrying out stock and cash audits.
The Profit Protection Director reports to the Board on a quarterly basis and the Audit Committee considers that this function plays an effective role currently.
The potential benefits of a dedicated internal audit function remains a key topic of consideration for the Audit Committee during the forthcoming financial year.
Martin Davies Chairman of the Audit Committee 16 April 2018 91
