Governance Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report It is the role of the Board to ensure that the Group is Chairman of Pentland Brands and a Director of Pentland managed for the long term benefit of the shareholders, Group Plc and is, therefore, not considered by the Board whilst also ensuring the interests of other key stakeholders to be an independent Non-Executive Director.
The Board including employees and suppliers are protected.
The believes that the Non-Executive Directors have provided Board promotes the principles set out in the UK Corporate ample guidance to the Board and perform an effective role Governance Code 2016 as issued by the Financial in challenging and encouraging the effective leadership Reporting Council FRC in April 2016 the Code.
This of the Executive Directors, when and in a manner which report sets out how the Company has applied the main is appropriate.
principles set out in the Code and the extent to which the Company has complied with the provisions of the Code.
From time to time, the Executive Chairman meets with This report includes relevant provisions of the Code, the Non-Executive Directors without the other Director where appropriate.
The full Code can be found on the FRC present to discuss Board performance and other matters website www.
The Board considers that all the Directors are able to devote The Board sufficient time to their duties as Directors of the Company.
The brief biographical detail on page 79 includes details of the Chairmans other directorships of listed companies.
Board Composition and Succession The Board is satisfied that these appointments do not conflict with the Chairmans ability to carry out his role The Board comprises six Directors: the Executive effectively for the Group.
Chairman, the Chief Financial Officer and four NonExecutive Directors.
Martin Davies performs the role of A summary of the rules that the Company has in place senior independent Non-Executive Director.
The name, about the appointment and replacement of Directors is position and a brief profile of each Director is set out on set out on page 81.
Notwithstanding the provisions of the page 79.
Companys Articles regarding the retirement of Directors, the Board determined that all Directors will retire at The membership and composition of the Board is under the 2018 AGM and offer themselves for re-election in continual review and, whilst there were no changes to accordance with the best practice recommendation of the the composition of the Board during the financial year to UK Corporate Governance Code.
3 February 2018, any changes would be recommended as may be deemed appropriate in the best interests of the Group.
The Board is focused on ensuring that succession Board Composition and Diversity planning is a key theme of its review of Board composition on an ongoing basis.
This focus is also applied to the Boards The Board welcomes Board diversity reviews such as review of the composition of the Groups senior team.
the Davies Review, the Hampton-Alexander Reviews of November 2016 and 2017, the McGregor-Smith Review It is noted that Andrew Leslie, Non-Executive Director and the Parker Review.
and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, will have been in office for nine years in 2019 and, therefore, his The Board holds the view that better diversity creates a position on the Board will be reviewed by the Nominations more inclusive and accountable corporate culture.
The Committee during the financial period currently underway.
Boards overriding and principal aim is to ensure that Board In accordance with Code provision B.
Andrew Leslie membership is based on merit given that the relevant skills, will be subject to re-election at the AGM this year, as will experience and judgement is fundamental to ensuring that all other Directors as explained further on page 81. the Board retains entrepreneurial leadership and effective, strategic management.
The Board is dedicated to ensuring that it maintains entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of effective Any new appointments to the Board are measured against control and risk management.
It is also considered that purely objective criteria and are based on the merit of the Boards mix of Executive and Non-Executive Directors each candidate.
The Board is encouraged by the gender provides an appropriate combination of judgement, skills balance within the Companys senior management team.
and experience to satisfy the Groups need for overall effective and agile leadership.
Whilst the Board remains committed to ensuring appointments at all levels of the business, including the The independence of the Non-Executive Directors is Board, are made on the basis of merit, it recognises the considered by the Board on an annual basis.
All Nonessential need to ensure the use of a wide talent pool, Executive Directors, save for Andy Rubin, are considered to targeting a broad range of candidates from various be independent by the Board.
Andrew Leslie was formerly backgrounds, sectors and cultures.
an Executive Director of Pentland Brands Plc, a subsidiary of Pentland Group Plc Pentland, the Companys largest The Board is committed to ensuring that all recruitment is shareholder.
Andrew Leslie does not represent the interests conducted on this basis going forward and to continually of Pentland on the Board and retired from Pentland Brands monitor this.
Plc in 2008, and therefore is in excess of the 3 year period referred to in provision B1.1 of the Code.
Andy Rubin is the 85 Governance Corporate Governance Report Board Operation and Responsibilities The Board is responsible for the direction, management and performance of the Company.
The Directors act together in the best interests of the Group via the Board and its Committees.
The Board held nine scheduled Board meetings during the year under review and ad hoc meetings were held between scheduled meetings, where required.
Directors attendance at scheduled Board and Committee meetings is set out below.
Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings Year to Board Remuneration Audit Nomination 3 February 2018 Meetings Committee Committee Committee P Cowgill 9 9 2 2 1 4 4 1 - - B Small 9 9 2 - 4 4 1 - - 9 2 - A Leslie 9 2 4 4 - M Davies 9 9 2 2 4 4 - - H Jackson 9 9 2 2 4 4 - - A Rubin 9 8 2 - 4 - - - Total Number of Meetings Total Number of Meetings Attended Notes: 1.
P C owgill and B Small attended the meetings as annotated in the table above at the invitation of the members of those Committees in order to provide additional detail on day to day matters arising at such meetings and to assist the Committee members with the matters delegated to the Committee as deemed appropriate by such Committee members.
Board Evaluation Having carried out internal evaluations of the performance and effectiveness of the Board in recent years, the Board deemed it appropriate to carry out an externally facilitated Board evaluation this year.
The Board was keen to obtain the expert advice, perspective and judgement of an external specialist in this area and, as such, selected Independent Audit to carry out an evaluation exercise.
The Group has no prior relationship or connection with Independent Audit.
Specifically, the Board, led by the Senior Independent Director and facilitated by the Company Secretary, engaged Independent Audits online governance assessment service, Thinking Board.
The purpose of the review was to direct the Boards attention to areas where there might be opportunities to improve its performance.
The Board and the Company Secretary completed an online self-assessment on an anonymous basis in order to encourage and promote an open and honest exchange of perspectives from Board members and the Company Secretary.
The key themes of the evaluation were: Making a Difference, Strategy, Information & Communication, Managing Strategic Risks, How the Board Works and Operation & Effectiveness of the Committees.
Following the completion of such assessment, Independent Audit produced a report, which was then delivered to the Executive Chairman and Company Secretary in the first instance.
The Company Secretary then circulated the report to the Board for further discussion and decision on the most appropriate actions to be implemented and monitored throughout the forthcoming financial year.
Matters Reserved for the Board The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved specifically to it for decisions which include: strategy setting and major strategic matters: approval of the Groups financial statements: corporate acquisitions and disposals: and significant capital projects.
The matters reserved for the Board are kept under continual review to ensure they remain appropriate in light of the size of the Group and the nature of its activities.
86 Governance Corporate Governance Report Main Activities of the Board During the Year Approved a number of key strategic corporate acquisitions see Note 11 of the financial statements : Approved and participated in an externally facilitated Board evaluation process as referred to on the opposite page Considered and approved key health & safety objectives for the forthcoming financial year: Considered and approved a significant investment into the expansion of the Groups warehouse at Kingsway see Executive Chairmans Statement for further details of the expansion : and Reviewed the Groups plans and objectives for improving the level of compliance with relevant data protection legislation in light of key legislative changes in the upcoming financial year.
In order to assist the Board in its effective review and decision making regarding the Groups activities, Board papers are circulated to Directors prior to Board meetings which include up-to-date financial information, reports from the Executive Directors and papers on major issues for consideration by the Board.
The Board has a formal procedure for Directors to obtain independent professional advice.
All Board members have full access to the Company Secretary who is a fully admitted solicitor and attends all Board and Committee meetings.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on Corporate Governance and legal matters.
All newly appointed Directors receive an appropriate induction when they join the Board.
Relevant training is arranged throughout the year as deemed appropriate including the attendance at Board meetings by external legal specialists and or the circulation of advice notes.
In particular, the Board members were provided with a comprehensive written corporate governance update by the Groups external legal advisers to ensure that the Board maintains a good level of understanding of key corporate governance changes and updates in the financial year.
Insurance Agreements The Company, through its majority shareholder Pentland Group Plc, maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance, which is reviewed at appropriate intervals to ensure it remains fit for purpose.
Conflicts of Interest The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a Director has an interest that conflicts, or possibly could conflict, with the interests of the Company.
The Board considers that the procedures it has in place for reporting and considering conflicts of interest are effective.
Board Committees The Board delegates certain powers to Board Committees.
There are three principal Board Committees to which the Board has delegated certain of its responsibilities.
The terms of reference for all three Committees are reviewed by each Committee regularly and are available for inspection on request and are available on the Companys corporate website www.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee currently comprises three independent Non-Executive Directors: Martin Davies, Andrew Leslie and Heather Jackson.
Martin Davies chairs the Audit Committee.
The Board notes that the DTRs now require and the Code now recommends that the Audit Committee as a whole shall have competence relevant to the sector in which the company operates.
While the Board consider that the composition of the Audit Committee provides the requisite skills and experience, the Board and the Audit Committee considers it is prudent to conduct an additional review in the financial year currently underway to satisfy itself as to its sectoral competence.
The Audit Committee met four times in the year with the external auditor attending part of each meeting.
Details of attendance at Audit Committee meetings are set out in the table on the opposite page.
