John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT This year the Committee has focused on succession planning and ensuring readiness for the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
David Rough CHAIR OF NOMINATION COMMITTEE Introduction MEMBERS AND ATTENDANCE In readiness for the increased remit of the Nomination Committee under the 2018 Code, Will Samuel stepped down Nomination as Chair of the Nomination Committee and David Rough was Director Committee appointed as Chair in October 2018.
The Committee remains 4 David Rough Chair 6 6 focused on ensuring that the Board comprises individuals with 1 Will Samuel 6 6 the necessary skills, experience and diversity to ensure that the 2 Phil Nolan 2 2 Board is effective in discharging its responsibilities.
Olivier Brousse 6 6 Role of the Committee 3 Andrea Abt 3 4 The key duties of the Committee are to: Jeremy Beeton 5 6 Toby Hiscock 6 6 Review the size, structure and composition of the Board: and Anne Wade 6 6 Identify and make recommendations to the Board on appointments to the Board and senior management, 1.
Appointed Chairman on 10 May 2018. including orderly succession for such roles.
The Terms of Reference set out the principal duties of the 3.
Committee, including its authority to carry out these duties.
Meetings The Nomination Committee met on six occasions during the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018.
The attendance of each Committee member is shown on page 62 of the Corporate Governance Report.
68 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Main activities during the year: Diversity The Board recognises the importance of Board diversity and has Appointment of Andrea Abt developed a Board diversity policy to facilitate this.
The overall A formal process was undertaken by the Committee to find an composition of the Board is fundamental to its effectiveness and additional Non-executive Director to strengthen the experience all members of the Board are expected to demonstrate the and skills on the Board and its Committees.
The Committee skills, experience and knowledge required to contribute to this drew up a detailed job specification and appointed Korn Ferry effectiveness.
We believe that the right mix of gender, age, to assist with the search.
This process was led by David Rough.
ethnicity and cultural diversity can enhance our perspective Korn Ferry does not have any other connection with the Company.
Following a thorough and rigorous process, Andrea Abt was During the year, the Company signed up to the 30% Club in appointed as a Non-executive Director to the Board with effect support of the latters goal to have 30% female representation from 10 May 2018.
Andrea brings a wealth of experience from on FTSE 350 Boards by 2020.
As at 31 December 2018, the a variety of leadership roles, including Head of Supply Chain Companys female Board representation was 25%.
When and Chief Procurement Officer for Infrastructure and Cities Luciana Germinario joins the Board, this will increase to 37.5%.
Andreas appointment is part of our on-going The Board remains committed to its target for female commitment to build and maintain an effective board which representation and it remains mindful of the target set out in the is high-quality in terms of its expertise, diversity and Hampton-Alexander Review for 33% female representation by international background.
The Committee will continue to make recommendations for new appointments to the Board based on merit, with candidates Appointment of Luciana Germinario measured against objective criteria and with regard to the skills In order to ensure an orderly succession plan in anticipation of and experience they would bring to the Board.
Patrick OD Bourkes retirement, a formal process was undertaken by the Committee to find a suitable candidate for the position of The Board has also put in place the following measures to Chief Financial Officer.
The Committee drew up a detailed job improve diversity: specification and appointed Russell Reynolds to undertake the Where feasible the Committee uses search firms who are search.
Russell Reynolds does not have any other connection with signatories to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive the Company.
A long list of candidates was initially identified and Search Firms which seeks to address gender diversity on reviewed by Toby Hiscock and Olivier Brousse and this was reduced boards and best practice for the related search process: and to a short list of candidates which was presented to the Committee.
The short-listed candidates undertook a panel Long lists of potential candidates for Executive and interview with a number of Committee members and the Non-executive Directors must include female candidates.
Chairman as well as individual interviews with the Chief Executive Further information on Board diversity can be found on page 56 Officer and the Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee.
and gender diversity in the Group as a whole on page 48.
It was announced on 23 January 2019 that Patrick OD Bourke would retire and step down from the Board following the AGM on Review of Performance 9 May 2019 and that Luciana Germinario would be appointed The Committees performance was reviewed as part of the Chief Financial Officer Designate on 25 April 2019 and internal Board effectiveness review carried out during the year.
Luciana was the Chief Financial The Committee is regarded as effectively performing its duties, Officer for Eight Roads, the principal investment division of as being effectively chaired and as having clarity as to its role vis Fidelity International Limited which oversees proprietary capital a vis the Board as a whole and other committees.
Given the investments into real estate, venture capital and growth broadened remit of the Committee, the number of scheduled businesses.
Prior to this, Luciana held a number of finance roles meetings has been increased for 2019. within General Electric.
Review of Terms of Reference Succession Planning The Committee undertook a review of its Terms of Reference The Committee regularly reviewed succession plans for the Board in readiness for the 2018 Code and these can be found on the as a whole and for the Executive Committee.
The Board continues Companys website at www.
The new Terms of to be satisfied that plans are in place for orderly succession to the Reference reflect the increased focus of the Nomination Board to ensure that the right balance and skills are appropriately Committee on succession planning, diversity, training and represented.
In addition, the Committee discussed the succession shareholder engagement through the Committee Chair in plans for the Executive Committee and other Senior Management respect of significant matters related to areas of the over the short, medium and long-term.
David Rough CHAIR OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE 4 MARCH 2019 69 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
