John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Good corporate governance is key to how John Laing conducts its business and to the success of the Group.
WILL SAMUEL CHAIRMAN IN THIS SECTION Introduction Good corporate governance is key to how John Laing conducts The 2016 Code provides guidance on its business and to the success of the Group.
This year the Board five key areas: Leadership.
Effectiveness, continued to focus on providing effective leadership and oversight Accountability, Remuneration and of the Company as it sought to achieve its strategic priorities and Relations with Shareholders.
This report create value for our stakeholders.
We have in place a strong and together with the committee reports, effective governance framework to ensure that high standards of provides insights into how, through its governance, values and behaviours are applied across the Group.
actions, the Board and its Committees During the year, the Board reviewed the Companys purpose to have fulfilled their governance ensure that it appropriately reflects the Companys strategy and responsibilities throughout 2018. that it is supported by our business model.
A review of our values is on-going.
We have sought to engage all our employees in this review as our values define the behaviour expected of all of them in their dealings with our stakeholders.
The Board has also assessed the application of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code the 2018 Code which became effective on 1 January 2019.
Consideration has been given to the method of workforce engagement as required by the 2018 Code and we are developing our workforce engagement programme accordingly.
We will report on this in the 2019 Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board evaluation process was conducted internally in 2018 and the findings and actions from this process were discussed with the Board.
Further detail is included on page 60 of this report.
Compliance with the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code The Board confirms that during the year ended 31 December 2018, the Company fully complied with the provisions of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the 2016 Code.
A copy of the 2016 Code is available on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report, together with the other statutory disclosures and reports from the Audit & Risk, Nomination and Remuneration Committees, provides details of how the Company has applied the principles of good governance set out in the 2016 Code during the period under review.
The business model and strategy for delivering the objectives of the Company, the viability and going concern statements and principal risks and risk management statements each form part of the Strategic Report which can be found on pages 6 to 55, and the Statement of Directors responsibilities can be found on page 92.
58 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Induction LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS Upon appointment to the Board, all Directors undertake a Board Membership, Balance and Independence comprehensive induction process to familiarise themselves with the Groups activities, policies and key issues.
The programme is Biographies of the current Directors, including details of their tailored based on experience and background and requirements Committee memberships, are shown on page 57.
changes during the year to the Chairmans external commitments.
Since joining the Board in December 2017, Will Samuel has The Board comprises the Chairman, two Executive Directors and undertaken a thorough induction programme.
He has met with five Non-executive Directors.
The Chairman is committed to the senior managers of the Group, key external advisers ensuring the Board comprises a majority of independent including the Groups brokers, legal adviser and External Auditor.
Non-executive Directors who objectively challenge management, In addition, following his appointment as Chair of the Board in balanced against the need to ensure continuity on the Board.
May 2018, Will met with a number of shareholders to discuss key Having reviewed the position of each Director individually, the issues pertinent to the Group.
Will has visited the US and Board considers all the Non-executive Directors to be Australia to meet with the regional teams and other external independent in both character and judgement.
In addition, the stakeholders, including partners and lenders.
He also undertook Board considers the Chairman to be independent.
Collectively, a number of site visits including a visit to the Sydney Light Rail the Non-executive Directors contribute to an effective Board with project in Australia and the Auckland South Corrections Facility a strong mix of skills and business experience, including recent in New Zealand.
financial, strategic, investment and infrastructure experience gained in a variety of geographic areas.
As each occupies or has Upon joining the Board in May 2018, Andrea Abt undertook a occupied senior positions, each contributes significant weight to tailored induction programme and met with the senior managers Board decisions.
The Board believes it has an appropriate of the Group and key external advisers including the Groups balance of skills and experience.
legal adviser and External Auditor.
Andrea also visited the Netherlands office and met with a number of the regional team.
On 7 December 2017, it was announced that Phil Nolan would She also made a site visit to the A16 project.
be stepping down from the Board following the 2018 AGM and that his replacement would be Will Samuel who was initially A comprehensive induction programme has been developed for appointed as Chairman designate.
Will Samuel succeeded Phil Luciana Germinario to enable a smooth handover from Patrick Nolan as Chairman on 10 May 2018.
Phil Nolan was not involved OD Bourke.
This has commenced with a number of introductory in the selection or appointment of Will Samuel.
meetings with senior management and key external advisers prior to her formally joining the Company in April 2019.
Andrea Abt was appointed as a Non-executive Director on 10 May 2018.
Further details on the appointment process can be Training found in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 68 to 69.
The Chairman is responsible for the ongoing development of all On 23 January 2019, it was announced that Luciana Germinario Directors and agrees any individual training and development would join the Company as Chief Financial Officer designate needs with each Director.
To strengthen the Directors with effect from 25 April 2019.
This follows the decision of knowledge and understanding of the Company, Board meetings Patrick OD Bourke to retire after the AGM in May 2019. regularly include updates and briefings on specific aspects of the Companys activities.
During the year, the Board and its All Directors will stand for re-election at the 2019 AGM, except Committees received a number of briefings in relation to the for Patrick OD Bourke who is retiring, and Andrea Abt and 2018 Code and its implications for the Company.
The External Luciana Germinario who will stand for election.
Auditor provided updates on accounting and auditing The Non-executive Directors are initially appointed for a three-year developments relevant to the Group and Aon plc the term with an expectation that they will continue for a further Remuneration Adviser provided the Remuneration Committee three-year term.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the with training in respect of the remuneration implications of the Non-executive Directors, which set out the time commitment 2018 Code.
All Directors have access to membership of an expected of them, and the service contracts for the Executive external academy, a training and guidance resource for boards Directors and the letter of appointment for the Chairman, are and directors.
Additionally, Directors may take independent available for inspection by shareholders at our registered office professional advice on any matter at the Companys expense in during normal business hours and at our AGM.
the furtherance of their duties.
Conflicts The Company maintains a register of Directors conflicts.
At the end of each year, all Directors make a declaration concerning any conflicts they or their connected persons may have.
In addition, at the start of each Board meeting, as a routine item, Directors are asked to declare any interests that might conflict with the agenda items under discussion.
Directors may also notify the Company, via the Group Company Secretary, at any time, of any potential or future direct or indirect conflicts that may arise, or that may possibly conflict with the interests of the Company.
Any such notifications are reviewed at the next Board meeting and, if considered appropriate, authorised.
Directors do not participate in any discussion or vote regarding their own conflicts.
If authorised, any conflicts are entered in the register of Directors conflicts.
59 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES Board Evaluation The 2016 Code recommends that an evaluation of the Will Samuel effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is conducted annually and that this process is facilitated externally at least Chairman every third year.
This year the evaluation process was carried out Overall operation and governance of the Board: internally for the second year.
The last external review was undertaken in 2016 by Colin Mayer, who continues to have no Providing leadership of the Board to ensure that the connection to the Board.
Board satisfies its duties and responsibilities: The evaluation in 2018 was internally facilitated by the Group Setting the agenda for the Board: Company Secretary.
Board members were required to complete Ensuring that the Board receives clear, timely and a structured questionnaire devised by the Group Company accurate information: Secretary and agreed with the Chairman.
The evaluation was based on a number of key areas, including: Facilitating the contribution of the Directors: and The Companys strategic agenda: Ensuring that the Company maintains effective communication with shareholders and other Board composition and processes: stakeholders shared responsibility with the Senior Board leadership and effectiveness: Independent Director.
Accountability: Relations with stakeholders: and Olivier Brousse The effectiveness and performance of the Board Committees.
Chief Executive Officer The Group Company Secretary, the members of the Executive Developing the strategy for recommendation to the Committee, the Head of Internal Audit, the External Auditor and Board: and Remuneration Adviser were also invited to complete the relevant Leadership of the business and managing it within elements of the questionnaire.
All participants were offered the the authorities delegated by the Board.
opportunity to discuss any matters with the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director or the Group Company Secretary.
The individual responses to the questionnaire were reviewed and David Rough analysed by the Group Company Secretary and a confidential, non-attributable report was compiled with recommended Senior Independent Director actions for discussion by the Board.
Overall, it was considered Meeting shareholders on request and acting as the that the governance of the Board was effective and appropriate.
designated point of contact for shareholders to raise The Board discussed the findings of the evaluation and agreed any concerns where contact through the normal a number of actions including: channels of the Chairman and the Executive Directors is inappropriate: Dedicated sessions on key topics including the climate for greenfield investment for each region to be added to the Bringing to the attention of the Board any matters strategic agenda: raised by major shareholders: and Further focus on succession planning to be covered as part Ensuring the Company maintains effective of the Nomination Committees increased remit: and communication with shareholders and other stakeholders responsibility shared with Specific training to be provided to the Board in respect of the Chairman.
An evaluation of each Board Committee was also discussed.
Actions were identified as appropriate.
It was agreed that all the Clare Underwood Board Committees had continued to operate effectively and that progress against the action plans would be monitored by each of Group Company Secretary the Committees.
Ensuring that good quality corporate governance is embedded and followed within the Company, The 2019 Board evaluation will be externally facilitated.
along with the implementation of efficient Chairmans Performance company administration: As part of the evaluation, David Rough as Senior Independent Acting as a confidential sounding board to the Director led a review of the Chairmans performance.
All Board Chairman and other Directors: and members including the Executive Directors were asked to Ensuring compliance with developments in complete a questionnaire regarding the Chairmans performance.
The Group Company Secretary prepared a non-attributable summary of the feedback.
This was discussed at a private meeting of the Non-executive Directors.
It was concluded that the Chairman had established himself successfully in the role with an effective leadership style.
David Rough discussed the feedback with the Chairman.
60 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Role of the Board Board membership and other appointments The Board is responsible for the Groups corporate governance With advice from the Nomination Committee, changes to the system and is committed to maintaining high governance structure, size and composition of the Board, appointment standards.
In order to progress the objectives of the Group, the of the Chairs and members of the Board Committees, Board meets on a regular basis and is responsible for organising determining the independence of Non-executive Directors, and directing the Company and the Group in a manner that ensuring adequate succession planning, appointment of the promotes the success of the Company and is consistent with Senior Independent Director and the appointment or removal good corporate governance practice.
To enable the Board to of the Group Company Secretary.
function effectively, full and timely access to all relevant Remuneration information is given to the Board.
Oversee the Remuneration Committee which is responsible The key policies and practices of the Company and the Group for determining the remuneration policy for Executive are set out in this report as well as in the reports of the Audit & Directors, and setting the remuneration of the Chair of the Risk Committee on pages 64 to 67, the Nomination Committee Board, the Executive Directors, the Group Company on pages 68 to 69 and the Remuneration Committee on pages Secretary and other senior management, and the 70 to 87. introduction of new share incentive plans or major changes Formal minutes recording the decisions of all Board and to existing plans to be put to shareholders for approval.
Committee meetings are prepared and circulated to each Delegation of authority Director, as appropriate.
If a Director objects to a particular proposal, this is recorded in the minutes of the relevant meeting.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and During the period under review there were no such objections.
the Chief Executive Officer and receiving reports from Board Committees on their activities.
The Board has implemented a system of delegated authorities.
This enables the effective day-to-day operation of the business Contracts expenditure and ensures that significant matters are brought to the attention Approval of all significant contracts and expenditure, certain of senior management and the Board as appropriate.
It is investments and all disposals of shares in which the Group through this system that the Board is able to provide oversight holds an interest.
and direction to the Executive Directors, the Executive Committee and the wider business.
Other specific responsibilities are delegated to the Audit & Risk, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Each There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board Committee reviews its Terms of Reference annually to which includes: ensure that they remain appropriate and effective.
Strategy and management Full details of the Matters Reserved for the Board and the Approval of long-term objectives and strategy, extension of Terms of Reference of its Committees can be found on our the Groups activities into new business or geographic areas, website at www.
any decision to cease to operate any material part of the Groups business, and review of the Groups performance and annual budget.
Corporate governance Annual formal reviews of its own effectiveness, a review of Group corporate governance arrangements, ensuring an effective engagement strategy with, and encouraging participation from, shareholders, the workforce and other key stakeholders.
Financial reporting Approval of announcements of the half year and full year results, Annual Report, the dividend policy and proposed dividends.
Audit, risk and internal controls Establish procedures to manage risk, oversee the internal control framework, and establish formal and transparent procedures to ensure the independence and effectiveness of the Groups internal and external audit functions.
61 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Board Meetings The Board held six scheduled meetings during the year, and individual attendance is set out below.
Sufficient time is provided at each meeting as necessary for the Chairman to meet privately with the Senior Independent Director and the Non-executive Directors to discuss any matters as necessary.
In addition to the scheduled meetings, four further unscheduled Board meetings were convened.
These additional meetings were all quorate, and all Directors received the relevant papers and provided the required approval.
In addition, the Non-executive Directors also attended a number of other Company meetings to increase their understanding of the principal risks in the business and the strength and depth of the management teams.
Members of the Executive Committee attend and report at each scheduled meeting and other members of the Senior Management Team and advisers attend Board meetings by invitation as appropriate throughout the year.
At each Board meeting, the Chief Executive Officer delivers a high level update on the business, the Group Finance Director provides an update on financial performance and other related matters and the Board considers specific reports, reviews business and financial performance, as well as strategy, key initiatives, risks and governance.
The Board also held two strategy days during 2018.
The Chairman met with the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors present and, as part of the internal board effectiveness review, the Senior Independent Director met with the other Non-executive Directors to discuss the Chairmans performance.
Board Audit & Risk Remuneration Nomination 4 5 Independence scheduled Committee Committee Committee 1 Will Samuel On appointment 6 6 6 6 2 Phil Nolan On appointment 2 2 2 2 Olivier Brousse No 6 6 6 6 Patrick OD Bourke No 6 6 3 Andrea Abt Independent 4 4 2 3 3 3 3 4 4 Jeremy Beeton Independent 6 6 5 5 4 4 5 6 Toby Hiscock Independent 6 6 5 5 4 4 6 6 David Rough Senior Independent Director 6 6 5 5 4 4 6 6 Anne Wade Independent 6 6 4 4 6 6 1.
Appointed 10 May 2018: Andrea Abt was unable to attend one Audit & Risk Committee meeting due to a previous commitment in place prior to joining the Board and was also unable to attend one Nomination Committee meeting due to a previous commitment.
Jeremy Beeton was unable to attend one Nomination Committee meeting due to a previous commitment.
In addition, there were four unscheduled Board meetings related to investments and Board appointments, and three Sub-Committee meetings covering the approval of the Rights Issue and financial results.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee held one unscheduled meeting during the year.
Board Committees The Boards principal Committees are the Audit & Risk Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee the Committees.
The Committees have been constituted to consider and make recommendations to the Board regarding matters including external and internal audit, internal control and risk management processes, the selection of appropriate accounting policies, the presentation of the half year and full year accounts, investment performance, acquisitions and disposals, the appointment of Directors, succession planning and Directors remuneration.
On pages 64 to 87, the Chairs of each Committee report on how the Committee which they chair discharged its responsibilities in the year ended 31 December 2018 and the material matters that were considered.
Following each meeting of a Committee, the Chair of that Committee reports to the Board.
Membership is determined by the Board.
Whilst not entitled to attend, other Directors, professional advisers and members of the Executive Committee and Senior Management Team attend when invited to do so.
The External Auditor and Head of Internal Audit attend Audit & Risk Committee meetings by invitation.
No persons are present at Nomination Committee meetings or Remuneration Committee meetings during discussions pertinent to them.
The Group Company Secretary acts as secretary to each Committee.
Each Committee has its Terms of Reference approved and regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Terms of Reference for the Committees are available at www.
62 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Management Committees Engagement with shareholders The Board is committed to providing shareholders with timely Executive Committee announcements of significant events or transactions affecting The Executive Committee comprises the Executive Directors, the the Company, including its financial performance and any Chief Risk Officer, the Regional Managing Directors, the Group changes to strategy as well as material investment HR Director and the Group MD Strategy & Partnerships.
As part of this, the Companys Executive Committee deals with the day-to-day business of the brokers provide regular market feedback to the Board and Group and also considers Group-wide initiatives and priorities.
In addition, the Chairman and Senior It reviews the implementation of strategy, discusses the Independent Director are available to shareholders to discuss development of new investments and progress on existing governance, strategy or any concern they may have.
It also reviews the disposal of investments and other proposals before they are presented to the Board and The Chief Executive Officer and the Group Finance Director are monitors progress against the annual budget.
responsible for the Companys interaction with existing shareholders, potential new shareholders and analysts.
To Investment Committee ensure its financial and operational performance and strategic The purpose of the Investment Committee is to make objectives are properly communicated, the Company operates a recommendations to the Board, or to approve proposals within dedicated investor relations programme.
This includes formal its delegated authority, in relation to the Groups potential events along with other meetings outside the financial reporting investments in infrastructure projects.
In November 2018, the Chief Executive Officer, reviews the Groups portfolio valuation and monitors the balance together with other members of the Senior Management Team, of risk across the portfolio.
The activities, recommendations and hosted the Companys third investor day since its IPO: the approvals of the Committee are reported to the Board.
The presentations covered the strategy for growth, our pipeline and Committees delegated authorities are reviewed annually by an update on our investment commitments.
We also provided an the Board.
update on the North American market: the active management of investments in the Groups international portfolio and the Members of the Committee are appointed by the Board and impact of macroeconomic factors on the Group balance sheet.
comprise the Executive Directors, the Chief Risk Officer, the Group Head of Legal or the Senior Legal Adviser as alternate, Stakeholder Engagement and up to five other persons as the Chief Executive Officer shall The Group is committed to maintaining good communications nominate from time to time.
The Committee is chaired by the with all its stakeholders.
To that end, there is regular dialogue Chief Executive Officer and usually meets fortnightly.
with shareholders, lenders, partners, public sector bodies, and Divestment Committee as discussed in the People section on page 50, with employees.
The Divestment Committee provides oversight and recommendations on all proposed disposals.
The Committee generally meets once per month, with other meetings scheduled Will Samuel as necessary.
The Committee comprises the Executive Directors, CHAIRMAN 4 MARCH 2019 the Chief Risk Officer and other senior managers.
The Committee is chaired by the Group Finance Director.
Management Risk Committee The Management Risk Committees role is to assist the Audit & Risk Committee and Board in monitoring financial, legal and regulatory risks, by reviewing the internal control and risk management systems of the Group.
Members of the Committee are appointed by the Board and currently comprise the Chief Risk Officer, Group Finance Director, Group Head of Legal, and a senior manager from each of the three regional teams.
The Committee is currently chaired by the Chief Risk Officer and meets six times a year.
63 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
