John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT The Audit & Risk Committee maintained its focus on the integrity of the Groups financial reporting, the effectiveness of its internal control and risk management systems, as well as the fair value of its investment portfolio and retirement benefit obligations.
Toby Hiscock CHAIR OF THE AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE Introduction MEMBERS AND ATTENDANCE I am pleased to present the Audit & Risk Committee the Committee report for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Our Audit & Risk scope of work remained unchanged throughout the year and Director Committee included our customary scrutiny of financial systems and results Toby Hiscock Chair 5 5 and operational risk management.
1 Andrea Abt 2 3 Meetings Jeremy Beeton 5 5 David Rough 5 5 The Committee met on five occasions during the year ended 31 December 2018.
The attendance of each Committee member is shown on page 62 in the Corporate Governance Report.
The Group Finance Director and his team, the Chief Risk Officer, and other management representatives attend Committee meetings together with the Head of Internal Audit and the External Auditor.
There is also a standing invitation to all Non-executive Directors and the Company Chair has attended all meetings since his appointment during 2018.
In addition, both the Head of Internal Audit and the External Auditor met privately with the Committee in the year, without management present.
Representatives of the Groups independent valuer attend meetings when the Committee considers the portfolio valuation.
The Committee Chair is deemed to have up-to-date relevant financial experience and competence in accounting matters.
The Committee as a whole has extensive experience in the sector in which the Company operates, investing in international infrastructure.
Further details of the qualifications and experience of Committee members are given on page 57 of this Annual Report.
The Committee Chair attends the Companys AGM and is prepared to answer any questions from shareholders on matters falling within the Committees responsibilities.
64 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Role of the Committee Significant Matters Considered by the Committee in the 2018 Group and Company Financial Statements The Committees key responsibilities have not changed since last years report.
Investment portfolio valuation - The valuation of the Groups investment portfolio is at the core of its financial 1.
Ensure the integrity of the Group and Company accounting reporting and the Committee has a particular duty to ensure policies, financial statements, preliminary announcements, it is comprehensively reported in a fair, balanced and trading updates and other statements on financial understandable way.
performance and prospects, prior to their publication: A full valuation of the Groups investments is prepared every 2. Review the content of the annual and interim report and six months, at 30 June and 31 December each year, with a accounts and advise the Board on whether, as a whole, review at 31 March and 30 September each year, using a they are fair, balanced and understandable, and provide discounted cash flow methodology.
The valuation is carried the information necessary for shareholders to assess the out on a fair value basis assuming that forecast cash flows Groups and Companys financial affairs, business model from investments are received until maturity.
Changes in the and strategy: fair value of investments are recognised in the Group Income Statement in net gains on investments at fair value through 3.
Monitor the efficacy of the Groups internal financial and profit or loss.
operational controls, including compliance with FCA requirements, insurance cover, data protection and cyber In preparing the valuation, the key assumptions made by security, business continuity and disaster recovery plans: management include: 4.
Monitor and assess the work and matters arising from the i Forecast cash flows accruing to each investment: Internal Audit function: ii Macroeconomic factors affecting forecast cash flows, 5.
Consider and recommend to the Board the appointment, including estimates of long-term inflation, interest, currency reappointment, resignation or removal of the Groups and taxation rates, energy yield and future power prices: and External Auditor, subject to approval of the Companys shareholders at the AGM: iii Discount factors applied to each investment to reflect market and operational risks.
Negotiate and agree on behalf of the Board the External Auditors remuneration, including fees for any audit-related The valuation of investments is sensitive to changes in these and non-audit services performed: assumptions and, in order to aid shareholders, the key sensitivities are illustrated in the Portfolio Valuation section 7.
Assess the External Auditors independence and objectivity, on pages 29 of this Annual Report and in note 18 to the the overall effectiveness of the external audit process and Group financial statements.
the quality of work delivered, including scrutiny and approval of any audit-related and non-audit services: During the year the Committee reviewed and challenged the valuations and disclosures prepared by management as well 8.
Advise the Board on the Groups overall risk appetite and as the work performed by the Groups independent valuer, a tolerance and monitor the confluence of risks affecting the professionally qualified third party, and the procedures Groups markets and investments: carried out by the External Auditor.
There was a particular focus on the valuation of the Groups investment in IEP 9. Review the results of regular stress testing of the Groups Phase 2, the largest investment in the portfolio, following major financial exposures: the disposal of the shareholding in IEP Phase 1 in May 10.
Advise the Board on any proposed strategic transactions, 2018.
We also scrutinised certain investments facing ongoing such as acquisitions and disposals of recourse business commissioning issues eg Sydney Light Rail or operational entities: and challenges eg New Royal Adelaide Hospital.
Furthermore, the Committee reviewed the discount rate ranges between 11.
Advise the Remuneration Committee on any risk weightings primary and secondary assets by inspection of market applied to the performance objectives of Executive Directors, evidence and cross-examination of subject-matter experts, wider management and employees.
including the Groups independent valuer, to ensure trends The Committee meetings are minuted and copies of the minutes were properly reflected in the Groups portfolio valuation.
It are provided to the Directors and the External Auditor.
examined the downward movement in power price forecasts produced by independent third parties and challenged the The Committee reports to the Board, through the Chair of valuation of the Groups renewable energy assets for this the Committee.
variable together with energy yield assessments.
It also The Terms of Reference set out the principal duties of the observed the weakening of certain key currencies relative Committee in full, including its authority to carry out these to Sterling towards the end of the reporting period.
We are satisfied that the Groups investment portfolio as a whole is reflected in the 2018 accounts at its prevailing fair value.
65 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED 2.
Retirement benefit obligations The net deficit in the During the year the Committee again scrutinised the efficacy of Groups two defined benefit and post-retirement medical the Internal Audit function including its: schemes is reflected in the Group Balance Sheet as at i Terms of reference, budget and resourcing covering both 31 December 2018 in accordance with IAS 19.
The net deficit internal and co-sourced arrangements: includes an estimate of the increase in liabilities following the Lloyds Bank Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP ii Risk-based programme of work: and equalisation court ruling in October 2018 and is sensitive to iii Reports and the adequacy of responses from management movements in future price inflation, discount rates, life to them.
expectancy and investment markets and can, therefore, be volatile.
To assist shareholders, the key sensitivities have As in previous years, Internal Audit achieved its coverage plan been included in note 20 of the Group financial statements.
for 2018 and the majority of audits completed were rated as good or satisfactory.
The IAS 19 deficit calculation is prepared by the Company with input from the Groups actuarial adviser.
Following a Key focus areas during 2018 were as follows: detailed review and challenge of the underlying assumptions, 17 project company audits, including the Sommette and in addition to assessing the procedures performed by the St. Martin wind farms in France, the Rocksprings, Sterling External Auditor, the Committee is satisfied that the net and Buckthorn wind farms in the US, and the Clarence deficit shown as at 31 December 2018 is properly disclosed Correctional Centre in Australia: and fairly reflects the Groups retirement benefit obligations at that date as prescribed by IAS 19.
Furthermore, the Eight Group audits, including JLCM FCA Compliance, project Committee is satisfied that, based on legal advice, there is bidding, business continuity and IT Infrastructure & Service no minimum funding requirement and consequently no Delivery: and additional pension liability arising under IFRIC 14.
Three theme audits on the subjects of Valuation, Contractor 3.
Principal risks and uncertainties These are disclosed Performance and Data Security & Record Keeping.
on pages 41 to 46 of this Annual Report.
The Committee In 2017, Internal Audit headcount was increased from two to received various presentations and reports from three full-time heads, to match the Groups expansion into management on them during the year including bidding international markets and growth in assets under management.
activities, portfolio management, treasury policy and major This level of resource has been maintained throughout 2018 financial exposures, related provisions and taxation risks.
which the Committee felt was appropriate for the scale and We looked at: markets, business growth, organisational spread of the Groups operations.
risks, the aggregated exposures to contractors that the Group partners with, and topics raised by subject matter External Audit experts, for example on taxation developments.
During the period an update of the Groups taxation strategy was The Committee is satisfied with the effectiveness of the External recommended by the Committee to the Board for approval Auditors audit and independence in respect of 2018, after and published on the Companys website in accordance with scrutiny of: the Finance Act 2016.
Deloittes planned approach to the interim and annual report The Group risk register was regularly updated by and accounts: management and reviewed by the Committee during the year.
Deloittes execution of the above approach, such as inter alia Whilst we cannot give absolute assurance that the Groups its physical inspection and valuation of the Groups internal control system is operating effectively, we are investment portfolio, together with any adjustments or satisfied that overall the control and compliance culture of qualifications to the accounts of which there were none : the Group is strong and its risk base is well diversified, which 3.
Deloittes arrangements to ensure there were no conflicts helps to provide reasonable assurance that these financial of interest arising from its work: statements are free from material error and or misstatement.
Deloittes safeguards over its audit independence 4.
Financial Reporting Council FRC review of the 2016 and objectivity: Annual Report and Accounts Following the FRCs limited review of the Groups 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, noted 5.
The extent and quality of any audit-related and non-audit on page 56 of the 2017 Annual Report, the FRC wrote to the services provided by Deloitte during the year: and Company in June 2018 to advise its review had been closed.
The day-to-day management of the audit relationship by the Group Finance Director and his team.
Internal Audit The Internal Audit function provides independent assurance In particular, the External Auditor stepped up its review during the year of the Groups physical assets located overseas which to the Board, through the Committee, that internal control processes, including those relating to risk management, are the Committee considered appropriate given the international expansion of the Group in recent years.
relevant, effective and have operated across the business throughout the year.
The Committee received a presentation from the External The Head of Internal Audit continues to report directly to the Auditor on reform of the FRC and the UK audit market, including the findings of the recent Kingman review, the Competitions and Committee and to have access to the Company and Committee Chairs at any time.
Markets Authority study into statutory audit services, and the aims of the upcoming Brydon review.
We will follow these developments closely.
66 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Group has complied with the provisions of the Statutory The principal area of work of the reporting accountant was a Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation working capital review for the benefit of the Rights Issues Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit sponsors, Barclays and HSBC.
This was to provide comfort to Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
The external audit is them on the working capital statement made by the Directors in subject to an open market tender no more than every ten years the Rights Issue prospectus.
The other main areas of work were: and was last tendered in 2016 when Deloitte was reappointed.
A review of a proforma net asset statement: The Company has published on its website a Charter of External A review of any material changes since 31 December 2017: Auditor Independence which summarises the arrangements that ensure the External Auditor remains independent throughout its Confirmation of financial numbers extracted from the term.
In particular the External Auditor is required to rotate its audited accounts: and engagement partner at least every five years Claire Faulkner Comments on drafting of the Right Issue prospectus and was appointed as engagement partner in 2016.
In addition, no responding to the UK Listing Authoritys review thereof.
work by the External Auditor is permitted in a range of areas including: tax services: secondments to management: The total fees for non-audit work performed by Deloitte during bookkeeping services: systems design and implementation 2018 amounted to 346,075 2017 - 61,000.
Although material work: valuation and actuarial services: human resources and in the context of the Groups average statutory audit fee over the Internal Audit support: and any other activities that could create last three years, these fees are not in breach of the cap on an actual or perceived conflict of interest.
The Committees non-audit services recently set out in EU Audit Legislation as specific approval is required for non-audit services performed such legislation does not come into effect until the Groups by the External Auditor which would result in a cumulative fee financial year end in 2020.
The Committee expects non-audit fees of more than 20,000 per annum.
to fall below the cap in 2019 and beyond no more than 70% of the Groups average statutory audit fee over the last three years.
The Committee reviewed and approved on behalf of the Board the External Auditors terms of engagement and remuneration.
A recommendation to reappoint Deloitte as External Auditor Fees for audit services to the Company and recourse subsidiaries is supported unanimously by the Board and will be put to during the year amounted to 277,134 2017 - 224,257.
Fees shareholders for their approval at the Companys forthcoming AGM.
for audit services to non-recourse subsidiaries during the year amounted to 61,186 2017 - 59,403.
The increase in fees for Other Matters audit services to the Company and recourse subsidiaries was As part of the Boards 2018 review of its effectiveness, the due to additional work on the valuation of the Groups performance of the Committee was assessed by the Directors.
The comments were positive although we will look to enhance structured training and development of Committee members, Any potential non-audit work by the External Auditor is for example through further presentations on topics by subject considered case by case by the Committee in accordance with experts, during the course of 2019. the Committees Terms of Reference and the Companys Charter of External Auditor Independence, and is generally awarded on a Other matters considered by the Committee during 2018 competitive basis.
included: Audit-related assurance services performed by Deloitte in i The lookout period and forecast assumptions for the Groups 2018 comprised, as in the prior year, reviews in accordance viability statement: with accounting and regulatory standards of the Group interim ii The adoption of the going concern basis in these financial financial statements and the annual review of the Groups FCA statements: regulated subsidiary with fees amounting to 55,075 2017 - 61,000.
Fees were also paid in 2018 for other assurance iii The Groups compliance with market abuse regulation, services of 15,000 2017 - nil.
including ABC, AML and whistleblowing arrangements: In addition, as previously reported, the Committee approved iv The Groups policies and procedures for preventing and the appointment of Deloitte as reporting accountant for the detecting fraud: and Companys Rights Issue in March 2018 a non-assurance related service.
The rationale for Deloittes appointment was as follows: v A review of the Committees Terms of Reference and the Charter of External Auditor Independence in readiness for It was represented by an independent partner: the 2018 Code.
Its work was limited to a small number of reporting After detailed consideration and enquiry, including testing of workstreams with no management role: evidence provided by management, each of these matters was deemed satisfactory by the Committee.
It was familiar with the Groups cash forecasting methodology, having carried out a working capital review for the Companys IPO in 2015: Toby Hiscock It could draw on the knowledge of the external audit team: CHAIR OF THE AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE and 4 MARCH 2019 Its fee proposal was considered competitive relative to market benchmarks.
67 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
