Audit Committee Report The committee delivered its key priorities for the year, including a successful tender of the external audit.
Alan Ferguson Chairman of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present our report for the year ended 31st March 2018 We have also looked at the risk management processes across the which outlines the committees activities during the year.
Of particular group and at risk assurance mapping.
Throughout the year we have note this year was the work carried out in respect of the external audit discussed and challenged risk and control matters and worked closely tender.
We spent a significant amount of time planning this to ensure it with the Group Assurance and Risk Director to ensure delivery of a was conducted effectively and efficiently in order to secure the best result well targeted and robust internal audit plan.
Further details are set out on pages 108 and 109.
Our principal risks Continuing to monitor and review the effectiveness of the groups internal controls and risk management systems has been particularly Page 76: Risk management systems important as we aligned our group structure to four sectors and the risk landscape continued to evolve.
Each year, we look at the control Looking ahead, we will monitor and support the successful environment of selected sectors and this year we focused on Clean Air transition to the new external auditor, ensuring audit quality is not put and Health.
at risk during this period.
The board has agreed that the Role Composition committee has experience relevant to the Our principal role is to assist the board in Our committee currently comprises five sectors in which we operate and that I have carrying out its oversight responsibilities in members: myself as Chairman and all of recent and relevant financial experience, relation to financial reporting, internal our independent Non-Executive Directors.
including competence in accounting, as controls and risk management and in We welcomed John OHiggins to the required by the provisions of the UK Corporate maintaining an appropriate relationship with committee in November 2017.
This is my Governance Code 2016. our external auditor.
More details on our role seventh year as Chairman of the committee.
The secretary to the committee is Simon and responsibilities can be found in our terms I am a Chartered Accountant with many Farrant, Company Secretary.
of reference which were updated during the years experience working in finance, having year and are available on our website.
been, over a 12 year period, the Group Finance Director at Inchcape plc, The BOC Group plc and Lonmin Plc.
com corporate-governance audit committees of two other companies.
As a committee, we have a broad range of knowledge, skills and experience gained from a variety of backgrounds, as detailed on pages 84 and 85.
This is essential to the effective discharging of our duties.
103 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Committee meetings during the year We met six times during the year.
Attendance at these meetings was as follows: Number of Date of meetings Number of appointment eligible meetings % to committee to attend attended attended 1 Alan Ferguson 13th January 2011 66 100% Odile Desforges 1st July 2013 6 6 100% 2 Jane Griffiths 1st January 2017 6 5 83% 3 Colin Matthews 4th October 2012 3 3 100% Chris Mottershead 27th January 2015 6 6 100% John OHiggins 16th November 2017 3 3 100% 1 Alan Ferguson was appointed Chairman of the committee on 19th July 2011.
2 Jane Griffiths was unable to attend one meeting due to prior commitments with Johnson & Johnson.
She reviewed all papers and shared her thoughts, comments and questions with Alan Ferguson, who raised these at the meeting.
3 Colin Matthews resigned from the board and the committee on 15th November 2017.
Since the end of the year, the committee In addition, our meetings were attended On a more frequent basis, I meet with has met twice and all members attended.
by the KPMG lead audit partner and other the Chief Financial Officer, the Group The committees meetings coincide with key representatives from KPMG.
Their attendance Assurance and Risk Director, other senior events in the companys financial calendar.
is important as it gives us the opportunity to management and with KPMG.
This means Following each meeting, I report on the main seek their independent and objective views any issues or concerns can be raised at an discussion points and findings to the board.
on matters which they encounter during their early stage, allowing me to ensure that In order for us to properly discharge our audit.
At least once a year, we meet separately sufficient time is devoted to them at the role, it is critical that we have the opportunity with the lead audit partner and with the subsequent committee meeting.
to openly discuss with management any Group Assurance and Risk Director, who Communication between the committee, matter which falls within our remit and probe manages the internal audit function, to discuss management and the internal and external and challenge where necessary.
The Chief matters without executive management auditors is open and constructive.
Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and the being present.
Group Assurance and Risk Director attend all of our meetings and other senior managers attend to support the committees activities and provide technical or business information as necessary.
Overview of how we discharged our responsibilities during the year Our principal activities during the year, and up to the date of approval of this annual report, were as follows: Role Activity Published financial information To monitor the integrity of the Reviewed the groups full year results and half-yearly results and considered the reported financial information and significant accounting policies, principal estimates and accounting judgements used to review significant financial issues in their preparation.
and judgements Reviewed the matters in support of preparing the accounts on a going concern basis and assessing the long term viability of the group.
Assessed the process which management put in place to support the board when giving its assurance that the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
Received an update on new or forthcoming accounting standards that could materially impact the group, including IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 16 Leases.
Responded to questions from the Financial Reporting Council FRC as part of their thematic review of significant accounting judgements and sources of estimation uncertainty.
Reviewed and approved the 2018 Audit Committee Report.
104 Role Activity Risk management and internal control To review the groups internal financial Received reports at every meeting from the Group Assurance and Risk Director on the controls and its risk management corporate assurance and risk reviews and risk management processes.
systems and to monitor the effectiveness Monitored progress against the 2017 18 corporate assurance and risk plan and agreed of the groups internal audit function the 2018 19 plan.
Monitored the effectiveness of the Corporate Assurance and Risk function.
Reviewed the key control framework and finance policies, including treasury policies.
Received reports from the Clean Air and Health Sector Finance Directors.
Received a report from the Precious Metals Finance Director on the outcome of a review of the precious metal governance framework including an enhanced set of controls.
Reviewed reports from the General Counsel on litigation and on the speak up whistleblowing procedures and outcomes.
Reviewed reports on credit controls and credit risks.
External auditor To ensure an appropriate relationship Approved, after due challenge and discussion, KPMGs proposed terms of engagement, with the external auditor, to monitor its audit plan and fees for 2017 18. independence and objectivity, negotiate Considered reports from KPMG on its audit.
and approve its fees, recommend its reappointment or not and to ensure it Conducted a comprehensive external audit tender process and recommended two firms delivers, based on a sound plan, a high to the board, with a stated preference that  LLP PwC be quality effective audit appointed as the external auditor for 2018 19.
For further information, please see pages 108 and 109.
These activities are covered in more detail on the following pages.
Published financial information significant issues considered by the committee in relation to the groups and companys accounts Ensuring the integrity of the accounts is fundamental to our remit.
In preparing the accounts, there are a number of areas requiring management to exercise a particular judgement or a high degree of estimation.
Our role is to assess whether the judgements and estimates made by management are reasonable and appropriate.
significant issues considered by the committee in relation to the accounts Work undertaken by the committee in forming an opinion Refining process and stock takes When setting process loss provisions In order to satisfy ourselves on the robustness of the stock take results and the adequacy of and agreeing commercial terms with process loss provisions, we reviewed the results from the refinery stock takes together with customers, key judgements are made in explanatory commentary from management which included whether these results were estimating the amount of precious metal in line with expectations and historic trends.
We also reviewed the results as a percentage that may be lost during the refining and of throughput.
In addition, refining The refining process and stock takes were also an area of focus for KPMG who reported its stock takes involves key judgements in findings to us.
estimating volumes of precious metal We considered whether the accounting treatment for refining stock take gains and losses was bearing material in the refining system in accordance with agreed methodology and concurred with managements opinion that it was.
and the subsequent sampling and assaying to assess the precious metal content During the year, the committee agreed that a full refinery stock take in the UK refineries would accounting policies section on page 148. be delayed.
This was due to strong customer demand and concern over a possible shortage of palladium if our refinery had to be shut down for the stock take.
In the absence of the full stock take, the committee reviewed additional controls and procedures to be performed by both management and KPMG, and were satisfied that they were appropriate.
105 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance significant issue considered by the committee in relation to the accounts Work undertaken by the committee in forming an opinion Impairment of goodwill, other intangibles and other assets Key judgements are made in relation to the As part of the annual impairment review of goodwill and other intangible assets not yet being assumptions used in calculating discounted amortised, we reviewed a report from management.
This explained the methodology used cash flow projections to value the cash and the rationale for the assumptions made including explanations for any significant changes generating units CGUs containing from those used in prior years.
For these annual impairment tests, there was significant goodwill, to value other intangible assets headroom over the carrying value of the relevant CGUs net assets apart from the water business.
not yet being amortised and to value other In looking at the sensitivities of average growth expectations of the markets for water services, assets when there are indications that they management concluded that an impairment of 11 million was appropriate.
In addition, may be impaired.
The key assumptions are following the annual impairment review, a number of other asset impairments were identified managements estimates of budgets and as a result of restructuring activities during the year.
Asset write offs totalling 55 million plans for how the relevant businesses will included in major impairment and restructuring charges comprise impairments of tangible develop or how the relevant assets will be fixed assets 40 million and goodwill, inventory and intangible assets 15 million.
used in the future, as well as discount rates There were no other significant impairments of other assets in the year.
and long term average growth rates for each CGU accounting policies section on The impairment reviews were also an area of focus for KPMG who reported its findings to us.
page 147 and notes 18, 19 and 20 on We concluded that managements key assumptions were reasonable.
Taxation Key judgements are made in arriving at We reviewed explanatory papers from management which included a review of the managements best estimate of the tax appropriateness of the tax provisions, relevant disclosures and the impact of the recent charge included in the accounts, where the US tax changes.
precise impact of tax laws and regulations KPMG also reported its findings in this area to us and we reviewed these.
is unclear accounting policies section We concluded that the judgements, estimates and disclosures were reasonable and appropriate.
Post-employment benefits Key judgements are made in relation We reviewed the report from management summarising actuarial valuations and key to the assumptions used when valuing assumptions for the main post-employment benefit plans.
We compared these assumptions post-employment benefit obligations with those made by other companies and those used last year.
accounting policies section on page 147 We also considered the opinions expressed by KPMG in this area.
We concluded that the assumptions used are appropriate for the groups post-employment benefit plans.
Claims and uncertainties The business is exposed to potential claims We reviewed information provided by management in relation to legal claims and and uncertainties and how to deal with uncertainties in accordance with relevant accounting standards.
After challenge, we concurred these often involves significant judgement with their conclusions around provisioning and the contingent liability.
accounting policies section on pages 146 and note 32 on pages 181 to 182.
In addition to the above, the committee paid particular attention to the non-underlying charges this year as they were of a different magnitude to previous years.
This involved understanding the rationale for the charge as well as how it was disclosed in the Consolidated Income Statement and accompanying notes to the accounts.
This process included senior managers Fair, balanced and understandable Going concern and viability statement undertaking a detailed review of the sections We reviewed and assessed the process which We reviewed the matters, assumptions and of the Annual Report and Accounts that fall management has put in place to support the sensitivities in support of preparing the within their area of responsibility and board when giving its assurance that the accounts on a going concern basis and confirming it is fair, balanced and 2018 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as assessed the long term viability of the group.
A separate independent a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable This included assessing the risks which would review is also undertaken and key sections and provided the information necessary for threaten our business model, the current are reviewed by our external advisers.
shareholders to assess the companys position funding position and different stress scenarios.
Following our review, we confirmed to the and performance, business model and strategy.
We concluded that the group would be able to board that we had reviewed the process continue in operation, comply with facility put in place by management and that it covenants and meet its liabilities as they fall was satisfactory.
due over a period of at least three years and that the accounts should be prepared on a going concern basis.
Further information can be found on pages 74 and 75.
106 We pay close attention to the resourcing Corporate assurance and risk Risk management and of the Corporate Assurance and Risk function, internal control The committee receives regular reports on knowing that the calibre, knowledge and the number and type of internal audit and The committee assists the board in its overall experience of individual auditors are critical security reviews undertaken during the period responsibility for the groups internal controls to achieving an effective audit and this is and how this compares to the plan, the key by reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness supplemented with external support to findings of those audits and reviews, the of controls and risk management systems.
provide specialist skills as required.
At each number and nature of actions to address the The Corporate Assurance and Risk Director meeting the Group Assurance and Risk findings and progress made by management has a direct reporting line to me and is Director is present and we have the in implementing the actions.
During the year responsible for providing independent opportunity to ask detailed questions and we paid particular attention to the level of assurance that our risk management and challenge her.
We receive regular reports engagement of all our managers, whether at internal control processes are operating from her and we seek the views of managers local, sector or executive level, in effectively.
She provides regular oversight and also of KPMG, all of whom have frequent implementing corrective actions and in of risk matters that affect our business and contact with the function.
We pay attention strengthening the control framework across monitors compliance to ensure that any to whether the function has adequate all our sites, irrespective of location, size and mitigation actions are properly managed standing across the group and is free from activity.
At each meeting we tracked progress and completed.
She takes comfort from a management or other restrictions.
We review in completing open actions and challenged number of other sources of internal assurance the performance of the function annually.
management to ensure that actions were when reviewing the effectiveness of the being dealt with in a timely manner.
groups systems of internal control.
We spend a significant amount of time Internal control reviewing the corporate assurance and risk The key control questionnaire process is an Sector and functional control reviews annual plan to ensure it is comprehensive, important part of our assurance programme.
During the year the committee reviewed the well targeted and provides the appropriate It is a bottom up process that requires sectors control environment in Clean Air and Health.
In reviewing the 2018 19 and management to certify the existence This gave us an opportunity to learn more plan, we considered the maturity of existing and effectiveness of key controls within their about key financial risks and provide internal controls and the work planned by areas of responsibility.
We assessed the independent challenge as to how these were sector management, particularly the finance effectiveness of the process and we evaluated being managed, what control enhancements teams, to review and check the controls across the nature and quality of responses, the level were being carried out and understand the different areas of their businesses.
As part of of challenge to the responses, significant bench strength of the sector finance teams.
the detailed planning process, information findings, areas for improvement and how In particular, we heard from the Sector Finance from a variety of sources was analysed to management intended to address findings.
Directors about the main themes arising from assess levels of risk.
This included output from the key control assessment process, which the key control assessment process, speak up Risk management enabled us to better understand the control concerns, previous internal audit findings, Working with the board, the risk assurance environment in the sectors.
We also received including EHS audits, as well as input from our processes were reviewed and refined.
We an update from the new Group Financial strategy team in relation to future revenue concentrate primarily on reviewing the Controller on his first impressions of the growth.
We also looked at what is not covered mitigating controls and the levels of group and the finance function.
by the plan, either by way of business activity assurance over these.
The board may ask The committee receives updates from or geographic coverage.
Where there is no for additional assurance to be provided and individuals responsible for maintaining coverage at certain sites or businesses, we this can be carried out by the Corporate controls over financial risk areas across the discuss what other mechanisms are in place Assurance and Risk function who report group, so that we can be sure these are to check the adequacy of controls.
We were back on this to the committee.
The Group Financial pleased to see that the plan included Controller presented an overview of the assurance work undertaken by the functional control framework and the finance policies teams, including Finance, as well as sector Speak up issues which were being revised to clarify management.
In addition, there were also The committee receives regular updates on accountabilities and the committee sought proposals to enhance the second line of speak up whistleblowing issues.
We review assurance on the actions being taken.
The defence controls further, with the sectors key matters raised via speak up reports and committee also reviewed the treasury strategy reviewing each other.
The plan was mapped ensure the procedures allow proportionate and policies during the year, including the against the principal risks which allowed us and independent investigation of such changes to the net investment hedging to see how much coverage there would be matters, as well as appropriate follow up policy.
These policies were recommended to on each risk.
We believe the 2018 19 plan action.
Due to the importance of this process the board for approval in accordance with addresses Johnson Mattheys key risks and to Johnson Matthey, the board delegates our corporate governance framework.
The its coverage is appropriate for the size and some responsibility to the committee and to committee also reviewed the precious metal nature of the group.
On the basis of our the groups Ethics Panel.
governance framework and controls review, we approved the plan.
associated with the balances of precious metal held in the businesses.
Our principal risks Pages 76 to 81 107 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance On a continuous basis throughout the During the year the committee reviewed External auditor year, we look at the quality of KPMGs reports compliance against the policy and the External audit plan and the performance of Stephen Oxley both provision of non-audit services and details The external audit plan for 2017 18 began in and outside committee meetings.
We pay of the non-audit services provided by KPMG with a review of significant risks and an particular attention to the way Stephen and and associated fees.
Non-audit fees in the assessment of how those risks impacted on the team interact with and challenge year were 0.8 million compared to audit the audit approach which then formed the management as well as the effectiveness of fees of 2.2 million.
The non-audit fees basis of the plan.
In deriving the key audit the relationship between the internal and predominantly comprised expenditure on risks, KPMG considered the internal and external audit teams.
We also obtain the provision of independent programme external factors impacting the group and the feedback from the Chief Executive, the Chief assurance a continuing spend from prior groups own risk assessment.
These were then Financial Officer and the Group Financial year.
More information on fees incurred by discussed with sector and group management Controller, all of whom have extensive KPMG for non-audit services, as well as the and translated into audit risks which shaped interactions with KPMG.
As noted earlier, split between KPMGs audit and non-audit the audit approach.
Key audit risks were I have regular one to one update meetings fees, can be found in note 10 on the identified at the initial planning stage and with Stephen to discuss agenda items and accounts, page 154. were reviewed and refined during the course other matters which either Stephen or I feel An additional interim policy on the of the year.
The final four risks are referred to are important.
engagement of those audit firms tendering in the Independent auditors report on pages for the external audit was applied during the 192 to 197.
Materiality and the scope were year to ensure they were not precluded from Provision of non-audit services agreed, as set out on page 192.
In assessing participating in the tender process and to Last year, in light of EU legislation and adequacy of coverage, we also looked at local avoid any independence issue arising in the the FRCs Revised Ethical Standard, the materiality levels, whether local statutory run up to the appointment of a new auditor.
committee adopted a new policy on the accounts were to be signed off and the provision of non-audit services which was number of site visits to be carried out by the Objectivity and independence effective from 1st April 2017.
The policy group audit team.
identifies certain types of engagement that The committee is responsible for monitoring We also discussed the background and the external auditor shall not undertake, and reviewing the objectivity and experience of the audit partners responsible including tax services, the preparation of independence of the external auditor to for the largest local teams, independence and accounting records and risk management ensure this is safeguarded.
Given the work KPMGs audit quality framework.
It also sets out the circumstances outlined above, the committee concluded discussion, we concluded that the proposed in which a former employee of KPMG can that the audit was both independent plan was sufficiently comprehensive for the be employed by Johnson Matthey and the and effective.
purpose of the audit of the groups accounts procedure for obtaining approval for and approved the proposed fee after such employment.
External audit tender The policy also includes key controls to KPMG and its predecessor entities has been ensure that the provision of non-prohibited How we reviewed KPMGs performance our external auditor since 1986, following a services does not create a threat to KPMGs full tendering process in 1985.
We have The committee is committed to ensuring a auditor independence and objectivity.
The undertaken a review of KPMGs performance high quality audit and this is particularly auditor can be invited to provide non-audit every year since then.
Stephen Oxley, our important ahead of the audit transition from services which, in its position as auditor, current lead audit partner, was appointed in KPMG to PwC.
it must or is best placed to undertake and 2013 14 and each year since then he has Towards the end of the 2016 17 external which do not impact auditor objectivity or taken steps to refresh KPMGs approach to audit, a feedback questionnaire was circulated independence.
The policy sets out how certain aspects of its audit.
to the Executive Directors and senior approval should be obtained prior to KPMG As disclosed in last years annual report, management.
They were asked to rate how being engaged.
Services likely to cost 25,000 it was always our intention to put the audit satisfied they were with KPMG, including its or less should be approved by the Chief out to tender when Stephens term expired, level of planning, ability to meet objectives, Financial Officer: services likely to cost more after completion of the 2017 18 audit.
This industry and specialist knowledge, organisation, than 25,000 but 100,000 or less must approach is in line with EU legislation on ability to challenge management, be approved by myself as Chairman of the audit firm rotation requirements, which came independence, level and quality of committee and services likely to cost over into force on 17th June 2016.
Under the EU communication and value for money.
The 100,000 must be approved by the audit reform transitional arrangements results showed an overall level of satisfaction committee.
During the year, I approved the KPMGs last possible audit would be for the with KPMG.
Stephen Oxley, the lead audit engagement of KPMG to provide assurance year ended 31st March 2020. partner, presented an action plan for the over cyber risk management.
The committee The committee was fully responsible 2017 18 audit to address the areas for further approved the provision of additional for the operation of the audit tender improvement, including at a sector level.
accounting advice on the implementation process and for recommending two firms We also reviewed the FRCs report of IFRS 15 and the reappointment of KPMG of auditors to the board, together with the highlighting the principal findings they found to provide further independent programme committees preference.
KPMG was not when reviewing a selection of KPMGs audits assurance in relation to the implementation invited to participate.
Set out on the following in 2016 17, including Johnson Mattheys.
of new business information systems.
page is a summary of the detailed process This gave us some insight into how the FRC carried out.
sees the quality of KPMGs work and is relevant to the consideration of audit quality.
108 Activity relating to the external audit tender March 2017 The Audit Committee Chairman, Chief Financial Officer and senior management considered who should be invited to tender for the appointment.
The appointment was discussed with various firms.
June 2017 The Audit Committee Chairman and Chief Financial Officer met with the audit firms who had confirmed their participation in the tender.
We provided an outline of the tender process and discussed the key attributes we would expect to see in the senior members of the group audit team, including the lead audit partner, and the likely structure of that team.
The objective of this was to ensure each firm put forward the highest quality team to lead the tender that fits best with our requirements.
Each firm was also requested to confirm that it had not carried out any services for us which would cause an issue with audit independence and that they had processes in place to ensure their independence throughout the tender process.
September 2017 The Audit Committee Chairman and Chief Financial Officer met with a number of prospective lead audit partners from each participating firm and decided who would lead the tender from each firm.
November 2017 The committee finalised the selection criteria for the tendering process.
These included: Quality of audit.
Continuous improvement and innovation in the audit approach, including through data analytics.
The team and cultural fit with a particular focus on the lead partner.
Understanding the business and industry.
Ability to challenge management and display rigour in approach.
The committee signed off the tender request.
December 2017 The tender request was issued and a data room opened.
January 2018 Meetings were held with key management, the Chairman and the Chairman of the Audit Committee to allow the tendering firms to gain an insight to the business, the culture and our requirements.
Feedback was gathered to provide input into the subsequent decision making process.
February 2018 Written tenders were submitted.
Three shortlisted firms gave presentations to a panel comprising all Audit Committee members, the Chairman, Chief Financial Officer and Group Financial Controller.
A formal decision was made by the committee, having given full consideration to the panels recommendation.
The committee recommended two firms to the board for approval, with a stated preference for PwC.
The committee believe that PwC has a strong team with the skills and experience to provide rigour and challenge in the audit.
Proposed appointment of Audit transition Statement of compliance  LLP PwC The committee will closely monitor the audit The committee confirms that, during the After considering the committees transition from KPMG to PwC and the Chief financial year ended 31st March 2018, the recommendation, and as announced in Financial Officer and I will meet regularly company complied with the applicable March 2018, the board selected PwC as the with both lead partners from the firms to provisions of the Competition and Markets groups auditor for the financial year discuss progress.
Authoritys Statutory Audit Services for commencing 1st April 2018 subject to the I look forward to reporting on PwCs Large Companies Market Investigation approval of shareholders at the 2018 Annual first audit in the 2019 Annual Report and Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender General Meeting AGM.
Processes and Audit Committee partner is Mark Gill.
A resolution proposing PwCs appointment is included in the notice of the AGM.
109 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Committee effectiveness The committees annual performance and effectiveness evaluation was externally facilitated by Manchester Square Partners LLP, who held meetings with all committee members, the Executive Directors and KPMG to seek their views on matters such as committee composition, its responsibilities and the dynamic and culture of meetings.
The report was positive and confirmed that the committee operates effectively and manages its remit well.
Our priorities In last years annual report we set out our priorities, over and above our business as usual work, for 2017 18.
Below we report on the status of these and set out our priorities for 2018 19.
2017 18 Comments Continue to monitor progress of the investment in business Due to the size of this project, the need to have significant management input and the value to be delivered on completion, information systems.
it was decided that the board would maintain close oversight of the investment and implementation of business information systems.
The board received three presentations on the topic, two of which were attended by KPMG, which provided independent programme assurance on the implementation.
The Chief Financial Officer has also kept me regularly informed on the achievement of key milestones.
Pages 108 and 109 Plan and conduct the tender of the external audit.
2018 19 Monitor and support the external audit transition.
Given the significant impact of precious metal both customer and owned metal held by the company on working capital, the committee will receive further presentations on how management will oversee this, including a teach-in for the Non-Executive Directors.
As the groups new business information systems are deployed, the committee will pay particular attention to the associated control processes.
Given the substantial increase in planned capital expenditure, the committee will review the control framework around the significant areas of spend.
The Audit Committee Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 30th May 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Alan Ferguson Chairman of the Audit Committee 110
