Corporate Governance Report Introduction UK Corporate Governance Code Our Board of Directors is responsible to our The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code contains broad principles and specific shareholders for ensuring the sound running provisions which set out standards of good practice in relation to leadership, effectiveness, of the company.
This can only be achieved remuneration, accountability and relations with shareholders.
This Corporate if the board is supported by appropriate Governance Report is structured to report against the Code by reference to each of these and well managed governance processes key areas.
Together with the Nomination Committee Report, the Audit Committee Report to support our strategy, ensure a positive and the Remuneration Report, it describes how we have complied with the relevant culture across the group and manage risks provisions of the Code and applied its main principles during the year.
The key elements of these are described in this Corporate Governance Report.
Getting to know the business In order for our directors, particularly our While the majority of our board meetings knowledge and understanding, meeting Non-Executive Directors, to effectively are held at our City office in London, the with management and other employees.
discharge their responsibilities, it is critical board holds two board meetings each year During the year our Non-Executive Directors that they understand our businesses.
The board always tours visited our Efficient Natural Resources Throughout the year we review the the site and management present to them manufacturing facilities at Emmerich and delivery against strategy of our sectors.
These on the business, its challenges and successes.
sessions are attended by the relevant Sector These visits enable the board to see our Tim Stevenson and some of our Chief Executive and, where appropriate, operations on the ground and to meet the Non-Executive Directors also attended for other sectoral senior management.
They give teams that are making them successful.
part of the 2017 leadership conference, the board an excellent opportunity to hear They are a useful opportunity for the board to which gave them an opportunity to get a about, discuss and challenge the strategic hear about customers, business issues, risks feel for the groups culture, hear more about direction of our business.
This was and strategy as well as environment, health the groups priorities in action and meet particularly important during the year as we and safety developments and the business employees from across all our sectors refreshed our strategy and moved to a group sustainability and manufacturing efforts.
structure aligned to our global priorities.
During 2017 18, board meetings were All of the above activities enable the The board also reviews our key held at Sonning, UK April 2017 and in Non-Executive Directors to continue to functional areas.
These reviews are attended Redwitz, Germany October 2017.
At develop and refresh their knowledge and by the relevant functional head and enable Sonning, the board visited Johnson Mattheys understanding of our businesses, the markets the board to assess the strength of these Technology Centre to learn more about in which we operate and our key stakeholders.
functions in their ability to support delivery research and development projects.
At They provide an opportunity to meet with of the groups strategic objectives.
Redwitz, the board toured our Clean Air and hear the views of employees.
Through The board regards it as vital to make manufacturing site.
these, the board develops a sound and space in the timetable to learn more about Our Non-Executive Directors also balanced insight into the group which supports our businesses through site visits, undertake visits to our sites independent of it in its role to provide entrepreneurial presentations or other proposals brought to the Executive Directors, either individually leadership and set strategy.
During the course of the year the or collectively, to further enhance their board engaged in significant discussion on growth within our businesses, to ensure the market opportunities were fully understood Board and Capital Markets committee meetings Day feedback as investments to build capacity were considered.
Periodically, we hold business teach-ins for our board.
These are separate from board meetings and are attended by a range of managers from the relevant business.
They are designed to give the board a more Sector and Facility in depth insight into our businesses and their Getting to know functional reviews tours customers than is possible during board the business meetings.
This deeper understanding enhances the Non-Executive Directors ability to challenge, debate and contribute to sectoral strategy at board meetings.
During the year a number of board members also Sector Meeting teach-ins our people attended a training session on process safety, Leadership led by the Group EHS Director.
conference 87 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Leadership Governance framework The groups principal decision making body is the board.
It has responsibility for setting the groups strategic direction and for ensuring that the group manages risk effectively.
The board is accountable to shareholders for the groups financial and operational performance.
It is supported by three principal committees: the Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Our governance framework at 31st March 2018 Chairman Independent Non-Executive Directors Tim Stevenson Odile Desforges Jane Griths Chris Mottershead Alan Ferguson John OHiggins Key responsibilities Leads the board.
Key responsibilities Ensures an eective board, Constructively challenge the Executive Directors in all areas.
including contribution and challenge Scrutinise managements performance.
Help develop proposals on strategy.
Ensures that Johnson Matthey Satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information and on the eectiveness of maintains eective communications financial controls and risk management systems.
Determine appropriate level of remuneration for Executive Directors.
Senior Independent Director Board Alan Ferguson Membership Nine directors Chairman, three Executive Directors and five independent Non-Executive Key responsibilities Directors.
Provides a sounding board for the Chairman.
Role Acts, if necessary, as a focal point and Provides entrepreneurial leadership of the company and direction for management.
intermediary for the other directors.
Has collective responsibility and accountability to shareholders for the long term success Ensures that any key issues not of the group.
addressed by the Chairman or the Reviews the performance of management and the operating and financial performance executive management are taken up.
Available to shareholders should they Sets strategy.
Leads the annual appraisal of the Ensures that appropriate risk management and internal control systems are in place.
Sets the companys values and standards.
Ensures an orderly succession process for succession to the chairmanship of Ensures good governance and promotes good behaviour.
Chief Executive Company Secretary Executive Directors Robert MacLeod Simon Farrant Robert MacLeod Anna Manz Key responsibilities Key responsibilities John Walker Has day to day responsibility for Acts as secretary to the board and running the groups operations.
Key responsibilities Recommends to the board and Together with the Chairman, keeps Have specic executive responsibilities.
the ecacy of the companys and Discharge duties in respect of the the boards governance processes Applies group policies.
Promotes the companys culture Has responsibility for compliance with and standards.
Provides advice on corporate governance issues.
88 Responsibility for implementing operational decisions and the day to day management of the business is delegated to the Chief Executive who is supported by the Group Management Committee GMC as outlined on page 13.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the running of the board and the executive responsibility for running the business.
The board has identified certain matters which only it can approve.
These are set out in a schedule of matters reserved for the board.
The Chairmans and Chief Executives roles are separate and this division of responsibilities is clearly established in a written statement within the corporate governance framework, which is available on our website.
The GMC is responsible for managing business performance, delivery of strategy and mitigating risks.
It meets six times a year and most weeks for informal discussions on day to day matters.
The GMC is supported by four sub-committees the Environment, Health and Safety Leadership Committee, the OneJM Policy Committee, the Finance and Administration Committee, and the Legal Risk Committee.
com corporate-governance Audit Committee Disclosure Committee Membership Membership Five independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Ocer and the Company Secretary.
Role Role Assists the board in carrying out its oversight responsibilities in relation to financial reporting, internal controls and risk management and in maintaining an appropriate relationship with To identify and control inside information our external auditor, including recommending reappointment or a requirement to tender.
or information which could become inside information, and to determine how or when that information is disclosed in accordance with applicable Nomination Committee legal and regulatory requirements.
Membership Five independent Non-Executive Directors and the group Chairman.
Role Ethics Panel Considers structure, size, composition and succession needs of the board.
Membership Oversees succession planning for senior executives.
The Company Secretary and three executive heads of functions.
Remuneration Committee Role Membership To oversee the concerns raised pursuant to the Speak up Policy, including the Five independent Non-Executive Directors and the group Chairman.
effective review and investigation of Chaired by Chris Mottershead.
Role Sets remuneration policy for Executive Directors and the Chairman and determines the application of that policy.
Reviews and monitors the level and structure of remuneration for senior executives.
Group Management Committee Membership Chief Executive, Chief Financial Ocer, Sector Chief Executives, Chief HR Ocer, Chief Technology Ocer, Chief Strategy and Corporate Development Ocer and General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Role Has responsibility for the executive management of the groups businesses.
Recommends strategic and operating plans to the board.
Environment, Health and OneJM Policy Committee Finance and Legal Risk Safety EHS Leadership Administration Committee Committee Committee Chaired by Simon Farrant.
Role Role Role Role Has responsibility for setting Has responsibility for assisting Has responsibility for certain Reviews contract and litigation a policy framework for the the company in discharging of the groups finance and risk for the group.
group, oversight and approval its EHS responsibilities and in corporate restructuring matters.
of Johnson Matthey group creating a positive EHS culture policies.
89 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Principal board activities During the year and up to the date of approval of this annual report, the board focused on a number of specific areas which are outlined in the following table.
Science Customers Role of the board Outcome Role of the board Outcome Strategy Efficiency To set the Reviewed and approved Efficient To ensure that Reviewed and approved proposals on companys strategic Natural Resources strategy.
the needs of our our commercial excellence programme aims and to take customers are to capture a fair share of the value we Reviewed and approved Health strategy.
responsibility for integral to our create for customers.
success of the Financial company.
To ensure the Reviewed and approved group budget To approve major Reviewed and approved Clean Air long term success and three year plan.
strategy including investments in of the company.
Clean Air plants in Poland and China to expand capacity.
To maintain Approved full year results, half-yearly Reviewed and approved Battery Materials oversight of the results and the annual report.
strategy including investing in groups financial manufacturing capacity, for ultra-high performance.
To establish Approved the groups going concern transparent and viability statements.
arrangements to R&D Reviewed the groups tax strategy, apply corporate including the implications of the To ensure the Reviewed innovation and endorsed reporting, risk US tax reform.
long term success the approach taken to grow and management and of the company.
develop the research and Reviewed the groups treasury strategy, internal controls.
To maintain Approved the appointment of an appropriate  LLP as relationship with external auditor for the financial year the auditors commencing 1st April 2018 subject to shareholder approval at the 2018 Annual General Meeting AGM.
Reviewed proposals on our brand refresh and our programme of delivery to support Johnson Mattheys th 200 anniversary.
90 Operations People Role of the board Outcome Role of the board Outcome Operational Culture To supervise the Reviewed progress on the development To establish the Reviewed and agreed the articulation management of and implementation of groupwide culture, values and of our company values and behaviours.
ethics of the Received a legal, ethics and compliance company.
Reviewed our cyber security and intellectual property risk update.
Reviewed EHS performance at each Reviewed and approved proposals meeting and considered significant on our procurement excellence incidents, including management programme, including a saving target responses and actions and the of 60 million over three years.
Agreed to close our Health manufacturing plant at Riverside, US.
Risk Leadership To determine the Reviewed the boards responsibilities To ensure the Considered board succession and nature and extent in relation to risk assessment and board is effective approved the appointments of of the principal risks monitoring of risk management with an appropriate John OHiggins and Patrick Thomas.
and the groups and internal control systems.
balance of skills, Reviewed directors conflicts of risk appetite.
experience, Reviewed principal risks and agreed interest and Non-Executive Directors independence mitigating actions, key assurance independence.
Governance To undertake a Reviewed key findings of the board rigorous annual and committee performance To facilitate Reviewed the key features of the performance evaluation and agreed key actions.
effective, proposed amendments to the UK evaluation.
entrepreneurial Corporate Governance Code and and prudent established a working group to management consider further proposals.
To ensure Reviewed objectives for the of the business.
remuneration Executive Directors and GMC Reviewed the schedule of matters promotes the members for 2018 19. reserved for the board and committee long term success terms of reference and approved a of the company.
Our principal risks Pages 16 and 17: Our strategy Pages 76 to 81 91 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Board meetings and attendance Each year the board agrees an annual agenda plan.
The board seeks to ensure there is sufficient time to discuss strategy so that the Non-Executive Directors have the opportunity to challenge and help develop strategy proposals.
During the year, our board met seven times.
The attendance of members at board meetings during the year was as follows: Number of Date of meetings Number of appointment eligible to meetings % Role to board attend attended attended 2 Tim Stevenson Chairman 29th March 20117 6 86% Odile Desforges Non-Executive Director 1st July 2013 7 7 100% Alan Ferguson Non-Executive Director 13th January 2011 7 7 100% Jane Griffiths Non-Executive Director 1st January 2017 7 7 100% 3 Robert MacLeod Chief Executive 22nd June 2009 7 7 100% Anna Manz Chief Financial Officer 17th October 2016 7 7 100% 4 Colin Matthews Non-Executive Director 4th October 2012 5 5 100% Chris Mottershead Non-Executive Director 27th January 2015 7 7 100% John OHiggins Non-Executive Director 16th November 2017 2 2 100% John Walker Executive Director 9th October 2013 7 7 100% 1 Tim Stevenson was appointed Chairman on 19th July 2011.
2 Tim Stevenson was unable to attend one meeting due to illness.
In his absence, Alan Ferguson, Senior Independent Director, chaired the board meeting.
Tim Stevenson reviewed all meeting papers and shared his thoughts, comments and questions with Alan Ferguson, who raised these at the meeting.
3 Robert MacLeod was appointed Chief Executive on 5th June 2014.
4 Colin Matthews retired from the board on 15th November 2017.
Since the end of the year, the board has met twice and all board members attended both meetings.
The attendance of members at committee meetings in the year is set out in the Nomination Committee Report, the Audit Committee Report and the Remuneration Report in respect of the Remuneration Committee on pages 99, 104 and 122 respectively.
Individuals attendance at board and board committee meetings is considered, as necessary, as part of the formal annual review of their performance.
During the year, board members also participated in three scheduled conference calls to give the Executive Directors the opportunity to update the Non-Executive Directors on key matters between board meetings.
Each of our Non-Executive Directors is Board succession Effectiveness determined by the board to be independent The board recognises the need to recruit in character and judgement.
Our boards composition Non-Executive Directors with the right Information on the companys technical skills and knowledge for its As at 31st March 2018, our board comprised procedures for authorising potential conflicts committees and who have the potential the Chairman, three Executive Directors and of interest is set out under Directors conflicts to chair them.
During the year the board, five independent Non-Executive Directors.
of interest on page 94. through the Nomination Committee, Our board believes that both it and its recruited John OHiggins who was appointed committees have the appropriate range and Succession planning as a Non-Executive Director in November balance of skills, experience, knowledge and 2017.
The succession planning for my role independence to enable them to carry out Effective succession planning is a as Chairman and subsequent appointment their duties and responsibilities effectively.
The fundamental component of board of Patrick Thomas was led by Alan Ferguson, size and composition of the board is regularly effectiveness and integral to the delivery of our Senior Independent Director.
Further reviewed by the Nomination Committee.
It ensures details are included in the Nomination The board, through the Nomination a consistent level of quality in management, Committee report on pages 101 and 102.
Committee, follows a formal, rigorous and in avoiding instability by helping mitigate the transparent procedure to select and appoint risks which may be associated with any new board directors.
unforeseen events such as the departure of Executive succession planning a key individual, and in promoting diversity.
In addition to recruiting externally, it is The board, through the Nomination Independence of the important to develop internal talent for Committee, is actively engaged in succession Non-Executive Directors board appointments, and Johnson Matthey planning to ensure plans are in place for the has a wide range of management The board reviews Non-Executive Director orderly and progressive refreshing of its development programmes for all employee independence annually, most recently at its membership and to identify and develop levels, as described on page 52. meeting in May 2018.
The board considers senior management with potential for board all relevant relationships and circumstances, and GMC positions through a pipeline of including those defined in the Code that talented and capable individuals from within could affect, or appear to affect, their Johnson Matthey.
92 Terms of appointment of the My induction Non-Executive Directors I joined the board in November 2017 and Our Non-Executive Directors are appointed received a tailored induction programme.
for specified terms subject to annual election I met with the Chairman, Chief Executive and to the provisions of the Companies Act and Chief Financial Officer on a one to one 2006 the 2006 Act relating to the removal basis to discuss current priorities, strategy, of a director.
During the year and following future plans and review specific aspects of a rigorous review, the board approved the the business.
I also met with the General extension of Tim Stevensons term of Counsel and Company Secretary who appointment until 31st December 2018. provided an overview of the group, the Chris Mottershead, one of our Non-Executive organisational structure and the corporate Directors who will be proposed for re-election governance framework.
at the 2018 AGM, has served on our board I met with the Sector Chief Executives for three years.
His term of appointment was at Royston, Billingham and Sonning, UK, also reviewed and extended during the year and with the US-based Health sector management team.
This gave me the opportunity until 26th January 2021. to tour the sites and meet the teams so as to understand more about Johnson Mattheys people, products and processes.
Boardroom diversity Our board believes that diversity is important John OHiggins for board effectiveness.
As set out in our Non-Executive Director Diversity Policy, all appointments to the board are made on merit while taking into account suitability for the role, board balance Each of our sectors and corporate Directors induction and and composition, the required mix of skills, functions prepare and maintain succession development background and experience.
This includes plans, assisted by Human Resources.
In adopting our Johnson Matthey provides full tailored aim is to ensure that we have the right mix Diversity Policy, we have chosen not to induction programmes for all its new board of talent capability to support our business set express diversity quotas.
These are intended to give a broad strategies whilst also encouraging broad Non-Executive Director selection processes introduction to the groups businesses and its experiences through movement of talent the board encourages applications from areas of significant risk.
Key elements include across our sectors and corporate functions.
diverse candidates subject to the objective meeting the Executive Directors and The GMC reviews these plans each year and selection criteria being met and to the management, and visiting the groups major the identification and development of high appointment of the best qualified candidate.
sites in order to gain an understanding of potential individuals is also considered.
The The board only engages executive search group strategy and of individual businesses.
GMCs review of succession plans generally consultants who have signed up to the Our intention is that all directors are leads to further refinement and changes, Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive familiar with, and gain an appropriate resulting in the final plans which are Search Firms to address gender diversity on knowledge of, Johnson Matthey through visits submitted to the Nomination Committee.
to our operations and meeting with Each year the Nomination Committee, with The policy requires the board to satisfy employees.
The board ensures that the input from the Chief HR Officer, reviews the itself that plans are in place for orderly company provides the necessary resources to management development and succession succession for appointments to the board so allow this to happen.
We take various steps to planning processes for the directors and as to maintain balance and ensure progressive ensure that all of our directors continually senior executives, approves succession plans refreshing of the board.
As set out on page 92, refresh their knowledge and skills so that they for the board and considers succession plans the board, through the Nomination can effectively fulfil their roles and so that their for senior executives.
Committee, annually reviews and approves contributions remain informed and relevant.
Succession planning at board and senior the management development and The board has processes in place to management level for Johnson Matthey succession plans for the directors and senior ensure that it receives the right information in includes potential succession to all senior executives and makes recommendations to the the right form and at the right time to enable roles, including that of the Chief Executive, board on its structure, size and composition.
it to effectively discharge its duties.
The and considers the identification, Since the launch of the board policy Chairman, through the Company Secretary development and readiness of potential in 2013, the board has made progress in and with the support of the Executive internal successors.
The board through the broadening the diversity of the board and Directors and management, ensures that this Nomination Committee continues to focus senior management.
As at the date of information is of a high quality.
Directors are on the key issues of active talent approval of this annual report we had three able to seek clarification or amplification from management, mobility across the group and women on our board, which represented management where necessary.
33% of our total board membership.
have access to independent external During the year the board has continued to professional advice at the companys expense promote diversity and inclusion at all levels where they judge this necessary.
of the organisation and in the boardroom.
93 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance This includes developing policies and Periodic reviews are of particular importance The board confirms that Johnson processes that prevent bias in relation to as the board recognises that the Matthey complies with its procedures to recruitment and promotion, such as actively commitments required from Non-Executive authorise conflict situations and is satisfied discussing diversity in succession planning Directors can differ and evolve.
Where that its powers to authorise conflict and talent management, promoting Non-Executive Directors hold more than situations are being exercised properly industrial and scientific careers to women one other external commitment, the board and effectively and in accordance with its and flexible employment policies.
There carefully reviews the position to ensure that Articles of Association.
remain challenges to overcome, particularly sufficient time will continue to be dedicated in respect of gender diversity given the sector to Johnson Matthey.
Evaluation of the board, board in which Johnson Matthey operates, but we Details of the directors other significant committees and directors are making good progress.
The information commitments can be found on pages 84 Having undertaken an internal review from our first UK gender pay gap report as and 85. process in each of the prior two years, explained more fully on page 54 helps us to an external review was undertaken by focus on any underlying causes of any gender Indemnification of directors independent consultants, Manchester Square pay gap and take action accordingly.
and insurance Partners LLP MSP.
MSP have no other Under the Code, evaluation of the board Under Deed Polls dated 31st January 2017, connection with the company.
should consider board diversity including Johnson Matthey has granted indemnities in The Chairman provided a comprehensive gender, how the board works together as favour of each director of the company and brief to MSP in December 2017.
During a unit and other factors relevant to its of its subsidiaries in respect of any liability January and February 2018, MSP held effectiveness.
Our board followed this principle that he or she may incur to a third party in individual discussions with each member of in its board and committee evaluation process relation to the affairs of the company or any the board, the Company Secretary, the Chief in 2017 18.
Further information is set out to group member.
These were in force during HR Officer and the KPMG lead audit partner the right under Evaluation of the board, board the year for the benefit of all persons who regarding the board and its committees.
were directors of the company or of its conversations were open, confidential and subsidiaries at any time during the year.
Areas discussed included the Pages 53 and 54: Diversity and inclusion remain in force as at the date of approval of board role, composition and dynamics, the this annual report.
The company has agendas and board papers, strategy, culture matthey.
com corporate-governance appropriate directors and officers liability and values, leadership, risk and governance.
insurance cover in place in respect of legal MSP also observed our January board action against, amongst others, its Executive and committee meetings.
Access to board Time commitment of the and Non-Executive Directors.
Neither the and committee papers was provided Chairman and the Non-Executive company nor any subsidiary has indemnified electronically prior to the meetings via a Directors any director of the company or a subsidiary secure electronic portal.
in respect of any liability that he or she may A report was prepared by MSP based The board recognises that it is vital that all incur to a third party in relation to a relevant on the feedback received and their own directors should be able to dedicate sufficient occupational pension scheme.
Following time to Johnson Matthey to effectively discussion with the Chairman, this was discharge their responsibilities.
The time presented to the board in April 2018. commitment required by Johnson Matthey Directors conflicts of interest The board discussed the report and agreed is considered by the board and by individual We have established procedures in place in a number of actions.
The letters of accordance with our Articles of Association to On the following page we provide an appointment of the Chairman and of each ensure we comply with the directors conflicts update on the actions undertaken from the Non-Executive Director set out the expected of interest duties under the 2006 Act and for 2016 17 internal review, led by the Chairman, minimum time commitment for their roles.
dealing with situations in which a director the feedback and insight from the 2017 18 Each undertake that they will have sufficient may have a direct or indirect interest that external review and the actions to be taken time to meet what is expected of them for conflicts with, or may conflict with, the in 2018 19. the proper performance of their duties and interests of the company.
Johnson Matthey The boards intention remains to acknowledge that there may, on occasion, be a has complied with these procedures during undertake an externally facilitated evaluation need to devote additional time.
process at least every three years.
In the time commitment considered by the board In April 2018, the board undertook an intervening years, the review will be led by to be necessary for a Non-Executive Director, annual review of potential conflict matters the Chairman supported by the committee who does not chair a committee, is two days including in respect of directors external chairs and the Company Secretary.
per calendar month following induction.
In each case, the review was The other significant commitments of undertaken by directors who were genuinely the Chairman and of each Non-Executive independent of the matter.
The board Director are disclosed to the board before concluded that there were no matters which appointment, with an indication of the time constituted a conflict.
These are periodically reviewed, continue to be reviewed by the board on an including as subsequent changes arise.
94 Board evaluation 2016 17 2017 18 2018 19 Action Insight and update Action In the 2016 17 review, the board felt During the year the board spent Whilst not losing focus on strategic Strategy that there could be more discussion considerable time developing direction, there will now be an evolution in of the shape and strategy for the and refining strategy, resulting the boards role more towards refining and group overall and its business model in good alignment on and monitoring execution of agreed strategies.
in order for the board to address the understanding of the groups In 2018 19 it will be necessary to ensure medium to long term options for strategic priorities.
that sufficient time is allowed for iterative continued growth.
The Non-Executive Directors discussions, including investment valued the increased time spent decisions, whilst maintaining time for on these matters.
discussing customers, suppliers, talent development, culture and compliance.
Risk The 2016 17 review found that the Risk management and reporting This will need to be continuously proposals for board risk reviews were considered to be thorough monitored as the business evolves management had been well executed but further but continued focus would be to ensure early identification and work was required to embed an required to ensure full embedding mitigation of emerging risks.
appropriately robust process of ownership at all levels of throughout the group.
Board The 2016 17 review confirmed that, The review confirmed that In considering succession planning, the taking into account some change there was a good mix of board will consider the need for further composition in composition, the group of complementary, relevant skills international experience on the board, Non-Executive Directors still had and diverse experiences on as well as having regard to other elements good diversity of experience, the board.
background and gender and knowledge about the groups major markets.
The 2016 17 review found The board was stated to be As we deliver our strategy, we need to Board dynamics opportunities to work together, friendly, collaborative, open and ensure the Non-Executive Directors not only within the board but supportive and the Non-Executive continue to further their challenge, support importantly when visiting businesses Directors appropriately engaged.
and contribution to the Executives.
In this and meeting senior colleagues, were Discussions were described as context the board is considering whether valuable, particularly in enabling the open and collaborative.
more time together and with management cementing of board relationships.
The continued use There was still scope for greater of teach-ins on major business areas, contribution and input from the explicitly separated from consideration Non-Executive Directors, particularly of strategy, will also support this.
on key strategy issues and on areas where they could identify what good looks like.
In the 2016 17 review, the People matters, including talent Site visits are an important part of People Non-Executive Directors valued development, succession and employee engagement and potential continuing to receive regular employee engagement, were felt further opportunities for these will updates on key people moves to be high on the agenda and the be found.
from the Chief Executive and Non-Executive Directors welcomed the opportunity to express views their exposure to management on issues that arise.
All Non-Executive Directors were appropriately involved in the Chairmans succession.
95 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Our five Non-Executive Directors and Each of the four sectors: Clean Air, Review of the Chairmans Chairman Designate are each determined by Efficient Natural Resources, Health and performance the board to be independent directors in New Markets, was managed by executive The Non-Executive Directors recognise that accordance with the criteria set out in the management teams reporting to the GMC.
the Chairmans effectiveness is vital to that of Code.
The board considers that their skills, The GMC reviewed bi-monthly summaries of the board.
Led by Alan Ferguson, the Senior experience, independence and knowledge financial results from each sector through a Independent Director, the Non-Executive of the company enable them to discharge standardised reporting process.
The group Directors are responsible for performance their respective duties and responsibilities has a comprehensive integrated strategic evaluation of the Chairman and for providing effectively.
Biographies of each of the planning and annual budgeting process a fair and balanced assessment to directors standing for election or re-election including three-year and ten-year plans.
Budgets are approved by the board and In April 2018, the Non-Executive Our 2018 AGM circular details why the variances are closely monitored.
Directors, led by Alan, met without board believes each director should be Tim Stevenson being present to discuss elected or re-elected based on continued Pages 5 and 62 to 69: Our four sectors Tims performance.
Key considerations were satisfactory performance in the role.
In the his overall leadership of the board, the setting circular, the Chairman confirms to of tone, the planning of appropriate agendas shareholders that, following formal Risk management and and the effectiveness of structuring and performance evaluation, the performance internal control facilitating discussions.
The views of Executive of each Non-Executive Director continues Directors were also taken into account.
Alan The board is ultimately responsible for to be effective and that they demonstrate subsequently reported the outcome to the maintaining sound risk management and commitment to the role including board that Tims leadership of the board internal control systems including financial commitment of time for board and board continued to be effective and engendered controls, controls in respect of the financial committee meetings.
reporting process and controls of an operational and compliance nature.
Remuneration The companys internal control systems Review of the Executive Directors are on a groupwide basis and the review of performance The board has established a Remuneration their effectiveness including of the Committee.
The composition and role of the The Chairman met with the Non-Executive application of the Guidance on Risk Remuneration Committee is set out in the Directors without the Executive Directors Management, Internal Control and Related Annual Report on Remuneration.
being present in November 2017 in order to Financial and Business Reporting issued by review the Executive Directors performance.
the Financial Reporting Council in September Pages 122 to 130 Each of the directors was considered to be 2014 FRC Guidance is implemented and effective in discharging their responsibilities.
reported from a groupwide perspective, covering the company and its subsidiaries.
Accountability Annual election of directors There are no material joint ventures or associates which have not been dealt with In accordance with the Code, all directors Financial and business reporting as part of the group for the purposes of retire at each AGM and offer themselves for applying the FRC Guidance.
In its reporting to shareholders, the board election or re-election by shareholders.
Our risk management systems and recognises its responsibility to present a fair, John OHiggins joined the board as a internal control systems are designed to meet balanced and understandable assessment of Non-Executive Director on 16th November the groups needs and to manage the risks to the groups position and prospects.
Patrick Thomas joined the board as which it is exposed, including the risks of responsibility covers the annual report and a Non-Executive Director and Chairman failure to achieve business objectives and of accounts and extends to half year and other Designate on 1st June 2018.
As required by material misstatement or loss.
However, such price sensitive public reports and reports to our Articles of Association, John and Patrick risks cannot be eliminated.
Our systems can regulators, as well as to information required will retire at the 2018 AGM and offer only provide reasonable, but not absolute, by statutory requirements.
They can never completely protect The directors are responsible for will be offering themselves for re-election.
against such factors as unforeseeable events, preparing this annual report and consider it, human fallibility or fraud.
taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and The board confirms that there is an understandable and provides the information ongoing process in place established in necessary for shareholders to assess the accordance with the FRC Guidance for companys position and performance, identifying, evaluating and managing the business model and strategy.
principal risks faced by the group.
This process is regularly reviewed by the GMC, the board and the Audit Committee as appropriate and has been in place during the year and up to the date of approval of this annual report.
96 The board is responsible for determining The board, in part through the Audit on pages 54 and 59.
The board receives the nature and extent of the principal risks it Committee, has conducted an overarching regular reports on speak up matters which is willing to take in achieving its strategic review of the effectiveness of the companys provide further insight into the culture objectives.
The boards view of Johnson risk management and internal control across the group.
Mattheys key strategic and operating risks systems, covering all material controls, and how the company seeks to manage those including financial, operational and Customers risks is set out in this report.
compliance controls, and financial reporting Understanding our customers needs helps The directors confirm that they have processes, for the year.
The review process us to deliver the best solutions for them and carried out a robust assessment of the accords with the FRC Guidance.
the board considers this as part of its strategy principal risks facing the company, including and approving capital investments.
those that would threaten its business model, The Audit Committee future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The composition of the Audit Committee Pages 32 to 37: Customers is set out in the Audit Committee Report Our principal risks pages 103 to 110, which describes the Suppliers work of the Audit Committee in discharging Pages 78 to 81 Working well with our suppliers is essential its responsibilities.
It ensures a responsible The board is satisfied that at least one approach to our supply chain and mitigates member of the Audit Committee, Alan Risk management and internal risks.
During the year the board approved Ferguson, has recent and relevant financial control systems Johnson Mattheys Modern Slavery and experience, including competence in The groups risk management and internal Human Trafficking Statement which sets out accounting and that the Audit Committee control systems comprise group policies, the steps taken to prevent modern slavery in as a whole has competence relevant to the procedures and practices covering a range of our business and supply chains.
sectors in which the company operates.
areas including the appropriate authorisation and approval of transactions, the application Pages 20 and 21: Our stakeholders Stakeholders of financial reporting standards and the review of financial performance and Our approach to our stakeholders is central Pages 40 to 42: Responsible sourcing significant judgements.
We keep in close contact with our shareholders, workforce, matthey.
com modern-slavery customers and suppliers, to ensure we are Review of effectiveness of the groups aware of each others priorities and consider risk management and internal control their views appropriately in decision making.
systems Relations with shareholders The board has important responsibilities in Pages 20 and 21: Our stakeholders Dialogue with our shareholders respect of the groups risk management and internal control systems including financial Our board welcomes the opportunity to openly Shareholders controls, controls in respect of the financial engage with shareholders as it recognises the reporting process and controls of an Information on how we manage relations importance of a continuing effective dialogue, operational and compliance nature.
The with our shareholders is set out to the right whether with major institutional investors, board monitors these carefully throughout and on the following page.
private shareholders or employee shareholders.
the year and carries out an annual review of The board takes responsibility for ensuring that their adequacy and effectiveness.
The board such dialogue takes place.
Workforce has delegated part of this responsibility to the The board welcomes the opportunity to Audit Committee.
The role and work of the Reporting of results and engage with the workforce.
Site visits provide Audit Committee in this regard and the role Capital Markets Day the chance to meet with local management, of the groups Corporate Assurance and both formally and informally, to obtain their We report formally to our shareholders when Risk function are described in the Audit views on the opportunities and risks and we publish our full year results in May and our Committee Report on page 107. gauge the culture.
In receiving presentations half-yearly results in November.
When we The board, through setting its own on strategy, we ensure that the Sector publish the results, our Executive Directors give annual agenda plan, defines the review Chief Executive or key functional head, presentations in meetings with institutional process to be undertaken, including the and where relevant, their teams, attend the investors, analysts and the media in London.
scope and frequency of assurance reports board meeting so their views can be heard Live webcasts and transcripts of these received throughout the year.
presentations are available on our website.
agenda plan, together with that of the Audit We have a variety of management In addition, we hold a Capital Markets Committee, are designed to ensure that all committees across the group, at both a Day for our institutional investors and significant areas of risk and the related risk sector level and country level, which provide analysts.
The last of these was held in management and internal control systems a forum to understand issues across the September 2017.
A live webcast of the are reported on and considered during the group.
There are also plans in place to presentation to investors, a transcript of the course of the year.
In addition to determining undertake our next employee engagement event and a downloadable copy of the slides risk appetite, the board specifically reviews, survey in September 2018. are made available on our website.
amongst other things, risks relating to EHS, We have processes in place for the innovation, legal and compliance and workforce to be able to raise concerns in intellectual capital.
Further details on our speak up arrangements are set out 97 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance The board reviewed the arrangements The circular sent to shareholders with the Contact with our shareholders for communicating with shareholders during notice aims to set out a balanced and clear Our Chairman takes overall responsibility for the year and concluded that they remain a explanation of each proposed resolution.
ensuring that the views of our shareholders practical and efficient way for all our All directors who are able to attend our AGMs are communicated to the board and that our directors to keep in touch with shareholders do so.
In 2017, the entire board attended.
directors are made aware of major opinions and views and to reach a balanced At the AGM, we propose separate shareholders issues and concerns.
However, understanding of major shareholders resolutions on each substantially separate contact with major shareholders is principally objectives, issues and concerns.
For each resolution, shareholders may maintained by the Chief Executive and the While the board recognises that the direct their proxy to vote either for or against Chief Financial Officer.
They have a regular company is primarily accountable to its or to withhold their vote.
The proxy form and dialogue with institutional shareholders on shareholders, it also recognises the the announcement of the results make it performance, plans and objectives through a contribution made by other providers clear that a vote withheld is not legally a programme of one to one and group of capital and confirms its interest vote and is not counted in the calculation of meetings and ensure that shareholders views in listening to their views, including the proportion of the votes cast.
All valid are communicated to the board.
Our Investor where relevant, on the companys overall proxy appointments received are recorded Relations department acts as a focal point for approach to governance.
contact with investors throughout the year.
All resolutions at the AGM are decided During the year the Chairman and on a poll carried out by electronic means.
Annual General Meetings Senior Independent Director met with The results are announced as soon as possible institutional investors to hear their views and The AGM is an important part of effective and posted on our website.
This shows votes discuss governance and strategy matters.
Our AGM for and against as well as votes withheld.
Chairman, Senior Independent Director and takes place in London.
Notice is sent to the other Non-Executive Directors continue shareholders at least 20 working days to be available to discuss matters of concern beforehand and is published on our website.
Overall, the board believes that appropriate steps have been taken during the 2018 AGM year to ensure that the members of the board, and in particular the Non-Executive Our 2018 AGM will be held on 26th July 2018.
The notice, together with an explanation Directors, develop an understanding of the of the resolutions to be considered, is set out in a circular to shareholders.
Our board views of major shareholders.
These have welcomes the opportunity for face to face communication with our shareholders.
included, for example, analysts and brokers Shareholders are encouraged to participate and all directors are available to answer briefings, consideration by the board of questions, formally through the Chairman during the meeting and informally afterwards.
six monthly brokers reports and feedback from shareholder meetings on a six-monthly matthey.
Major shareholders views are canvassed for the board in a detailed investor survey which is usually conducted every two years by external consultants.
The purpose of Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code these surveys is to obtain the views and opinions of a broad range of shareholders Code provision E. 1.1 states that the Senior Independent Director should attend sufficient and non-shareholders.
A survey was meetings with a range of major shareholders to listen to their views in order to help develop undertaken in early 2018 and the results a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
Whilst the discussed by the board in April 2018.
Senior Independent Director did meet with some major shareholders, the board does not The Remuneration Committee undertakes consider this to be sufficient to have fully complied with this provision throughout the year.
detailed consultation exercises with a The board has concluded, however, that there are appropriate mechanisms in place to selection of major institutional shareholders listen to the views of shareholders and communicate them to the board without it being and institutional investor bodies as part of its necessary for the Senior Independent Director to attend meetings with major shareholders.
comprehensive review of Executive Director However, he is available to attend any such meetings if requested by shareholders.
The and senior management remuneration board believes that this approach is consistent with the relevant main principle of the Code arrangements within the group.
on dialogue with shareholders and is consistent with good governance and the promotion of delivery of the companys objectives.
This approach will continue throughout the current year but the board will keep the matter under review.
