Nomination Committee Report This year we focused heavily on succession planning to ensure Johnson Matthey continues to have a board with the right skills to effectively develop the companys strategy and a strong executive team to implement and support it.
Tim Stevenson Chairman of the Nomination Committee The year under review saw changes to our board composition.
I am pleased to announce that Patrick Thomas was appointed to the board as Non-Executive Director and Chairman Designate with effect from 1st June 2018 and will be taking on my role as Chairman after our Annual General Meeting AGM on 26th July 2018.
Led by Alan Ferguson, our Senior Independent Director, the committee spent significant time during the year on the recruitment for my role and is confident that Patrick will successfully steer the company in delivering its strategy.
We also refreshed our board in November 2017 when John OHiggins joined as Non-Executive Director, following Colin Matthews decision to step down.
During the year, we also continued our focus on succession planning and talent management for the senior management, recognising the importance these roles play in supporting the groups strategic aspirations.
Role Composition Committee meetings during the year The principal role of our Nomination Our committee has six members, myself Committee is to keep under review the as Chairman and all the independent Our committee usually meets immediately structure, size and composition of the board Non-Executive Directors.
Only members prior to or following board meetings and on and to make appropriate recommendations of the committee have the right to attend other occasions as needed.
to the board with respect to any necessary meetings.
The Chief Executive and the We met seven times during the year.
We also consider the adequacy and Chief HR Officer, as well as external advisers I also kept committee members up to date effectiveness of senior management and others, attend for all or part of our between meetings.
Several members of the development and succession planning meetings by invitation when appropriate.
committee also met as a working group processes for board members and senior Simon Farrant, our Company Secretary, during the year to progress Non-Executive executives and ensure the adequacy and is secretary to the committee.
Director recruitment and recruitment for the effectiveness of the groups processes for position of Chairman.
The attendance of identifying and developing the future senior members at meetings during the year is set management pipeline.
Further details on our role and responsibilities can be found in our corporate governance framework.
com corporate-governance Number of Date of meetings Number of appointment eligible meetings % to committee to attend attended attended 1 2 Tim Stevenson 29th March 2011 7 6 86% Odile Desforges 1st July 2013 7 7 100% Alan Ferguson 13th January 2011 7 7 100% 3 Jane Griffiths 1st January 2017 7 6 86% 4 Colin Matthews 4th October 2012 4 4 100% Chris Mottershead 27th January 2015 7 7 100% John OHiggins 16th November 2017 3 3 100% 1 Tim Stevenson was appointed Chairman of the board and the committee on 19th July 2011.
2 Tim Stevenson was unable to attend one meeting due to illness.
In his absence, Alan Ferguson, Senior Independent Director, chaired the committee meeting.
Tim Stevenson reviewed all meeting papers and shared his thoughts, comments and questions with Alan Ferguson, who raised these at the meeting.
3 Jane Griffiths was unable to attend one meeting due to prior commitments with Johnson & Johnson.
She reviewed all papers and shared her thoughts, comments and questions with Alan Ferguson, who raised these at the meeting.
4 Colin Matthews retired from the board and the committee on 15th November 2017.
99 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Committee activities during the year Our principal activities during the year, and up to the date of approval of this annual report, were as follows: Chairman succession My term of appointment was due to expire at the end of the companys 2017 AGM.
After considering my performance and ability to contribute to the board, an extension to the term of my appointment until 31st December 2018 was recommended to the board.
Led by the Senior Independent Director, the committee conducted a search process for a new chairman.
Non-Executive Director succession Having conducted a search process for a new Non-Executive Director with assistance from The Zygos Partnership, recommended to the board the appointment of John OHiggins as a new Non-Executive Director.
Recommended to the board that on the retirement of Colin Matthews in November 2017, Chris Mottershead should chair the Remuneration Committee.
Renewal of appointment terms Having considered his performance, ability to continue to contribute to the board and time Chris Mottershead commitment, as well as his independence and the need for progressive refreshing of the board, recommended to the board that the term of appointment of Chris Mottershead as Non-Executive Director be renewed for a further three year term to 26th January 2021.
Talent management framework Received a presentation from the Chief HR Officer and the Group Talent and Learning Director on the groups integrated talent management process, addressing the talent requirements for delivery of our strategic aspirations and noting that the next engagement survey would take place in 2018.
Succession planning and senior Reviewed the 2018 succession and development plans in respect of the Group Management Committee management changes GMC including the Chief Executive, and other senior executives in each sector and function.
Discussed GMC membership, responsibility changes and senior non-GMC moves.
Considered the process for, and progress in, recruiting a Chief Strategy and Corporate Development Officer and a Chief Executive for the Health Sector.
Review of performance and With the assistance of external consultants, Manchester Square Partners LLP, reviewed our effectiveness during 2017 18 committees performance and effectiveness.
Review of committee terms Undertook a thorough review of the committees terms of reference to ensure that they reflected legal of reference and governance requirements and continued to be fit for purpose.
The terms of reference were subsequently expanded to clearly cover both periodical assessment of the knowledge, skills and experience of individual members of the board, and the board collectively, and review and recommendation of the Diversity Policy to the board for approval.
Nomination Reviewed and approved the draft Nomination Committee Report for 2017 18.
Committee Report In appointing Non-Executive Directors Board appointments Succession planning we seek individuals who can make positive In considering board composition, we assess A key role of the Nomination Committee contributions to the board and its the range and balance of skills, experience, is to ensure that plans are in place for the committees and who have the capability to knowledge and independence on the board, orderly and progressive refreshing of the challenge on strategic and other matters.
identify any gaps or issues and consider any board and to identify and develop individuals This is balanced with the need to maintain need to refresh the board.
If, after this with potential for board and GMC positions.
evaluation, we feel that it is necessary to As announced in April 2017, we made We use external search consultancies to appoint a new director we then prepare a several changes in the leadership of our help with the appointment process and description of the role, the capabilities and group and the Nomination Committee played appointments are ultimately made on merit characteristics required for the appointment a key role in supporting the Chief Executive against the agreed objective selection and set objective selection criteria in making these changes.
During the year criteria, having due regard, amongst other accordingly.
The benefits of diversity, in its we discussed the recruitment of two key things, to the benefits of diversity.
broadest sense, on the board are carefully positions: the Chief Strategy and Corporate While the board has not set express considered.
We consider any proposed Development Officer and the Sector Chief gender or other related diversity quotas or recruitment in the context of the companys Executive, Health.
Matthew Harwood and measurable objectives, the board seeks to strategic priorities, plans and objectives, as Jason Apter joined Johnson Matthey in encourage applications from diverse well as the prevailing business environment.
candidates, subject to the selection criteria We also take into account relevant You can read more about their experience being met.
succession plans already in place.
The Nomination Committee has continued to focus on active talent management, mobility across the group and diversity within the year.
100 We considered a presentation from our Leading the search for a new Chairman Chief HR Officer in respect of Johnson Mattheys leadership pipeline in the context As Senior Independent Director, of the groups talent strategy.
This covered I led the search for a new Chairman both assessment and development of for Johnson Matthey.
internal talent as well as external The Committee decided to appoint recruitment.
We also considered a The Zygos Partnership to support the presentation on the companys integrated recruitment process, given their knowledge talent strategy and talent focus for 2018. of the board and the company following the This included discussion of further successful recruitment of John OHiggins.
strengthening of performance management As the announcement of Tims retirement across the group.
was made to the market and interested parties were able to contact me directly, Non-Executive Director succession it was not considered necessary to publicly During the year, we decided it was desirable advertise the role.
to seek a further Non-Executive Director Following detailed discussions, the committee agreed the key skills, experience and following Colin Matthews decision to step characteristics required for the role which were shared with The Zygos Partnership.
It was down from the board.
The preference felt that the new Chairman should have a successful and accomplished track record as a expressed to the headhunters was for a global industry leader, preferably in the areas of science and technology, be strong current serving Chief Executive with strong strategically and have demonstrated an ability to bring leadership to a board.
Candidates international experience to further support would also likely be low ego, down to earth, challenging and yet supportive, indeed a and challenge our strategy.
We engaged The natural mentor, with strong people and communication skills.
Zygos Partnership in a search process which As you can see from the timeline for the recruitment page 102, the committee led to the appointment of John OHiggins in invested significant time and effort to ensure that the right candidate was appointed.
The Zygos Partnership is a Zygos Partnership put forward an extensive range of candidates for the committee to initially signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct consider.
Following detailed discussion, this was narrowed down to a shortlist for interview for Executive Search Firms and has no by myself and the Chief Executive.
This shortlist developed and evolved over the period.
connection with the company, other than In order to canvas views, a small selection of candidates met with some of my fellow Non-Executive Director recruitment.
The directors and, in time, the preferred candidate met with the rest of the board, the Committee felt that John OHiggins executive Company Secretary and the Chief HR Officer.
experience in successfully driving growth as Tim Stevenson, as outgoing Chairman, did not take part in the selection process.
well as improving operational efficiencies However, I did consult him for his views and considerations on the role.
and his independence in character and Following full consideration, the Nomination Committee unanimously recommended judgement would be beneficial to the board to the board to appoint Patrick Thomas as an independent Non-Executive Director and as a whole.
Chairman Designate with effect from 1st June 2018.
Patricks succession as Chairman will take place after the 2018 AGM.
The committee believes Patrick is very well placed to lead the board and support the management team in delivering its strategy.
Chairman succession The term of my appointment as Chairman was reviewed in May 2017.
After full review, Alan Ferguson this was extended to 31st December 2018.
Senior Independent Director Given my intention to step down as Chairman by this date, Alan Ferguson, our Senior Independent Director led a process on behalf of the committee to search for my successor.
101 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Timeline of succession planning Date Action June 2017 It was announced that Tim Stevenson had confirmed to the board his intention to step down as Chairman of the company by 31st December 2018.
July 2017 Following multiple discussions and working with The Zygos Partnership, the Nomination Committee identified the key skills, experience and characteristics required for the role of the Chairman.
October 2017 Alan Ferguson and Robert MacLeod interviewed the shortlisted candidates with the list evolving over this period.
February 2018 A small selection of candidates met with other board members.
February All board members, the Company Secretary and Chief HR Officer met with the preferred candidate.
March 2018 April 2018 Following recommendation from the Nomination Committee, the board approved the appointment of Patrick Thomas as Non-Executive Director and Chairman Designate with effect from 1st June 2018.
July 2018 Subject to shareholder approval, Patrick Thomas will be Chairman with effect from the close of the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
The Chief Executive and the Company The Nomination Committee Report was Committee effectiveness Secretary have commenced a detailed approved by the Board of Directors on The committees annual performance review induction process for Patrick.
Further details 30th May 2018 and signed on its behalf by: was externally facilitated by Manchester on this will be reported in the 2019 Annual Square Partners LLP MSP who held Report and Accounts.
meetings with all committee members to seek their individual views on the committees composition, its responsibilities and the culture of meetings.
The report from Tim Stevenson MSP, which was reviewed by the committee Chairman of the Nomination Committee at its meeting in April 2018, contained positive feedback, including that the committee operated well and had strong processes in place for key appointments.
The committee noted the importance of giving continued appropriate attention to the impact of new hires to the companys culture, and that of succession planning including the importance of diversity.
