Governance Corporate governance Role of the Board and Committees Board The Board focuses its time and energy on strategy, significant acquisitions, the annual budget and performance against it, monitoring the performance of the management team and risk management, specifically focusing on principal risks and the overall system of internal control.
The Board has delegated some of its responsibilities to the Executive Leadership Team ELT and the Board Committees the Safety, Assurance & Business Ethics Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Safety, Assurance & Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Business Ethics Committee Monitors and reviews Responsible for Committee the structure, size and compliance with financial Advises the Board on composition of the Board, reporting standards, executive remuneration Responsible for the makes recommendations consideration of the and sets the packages Groups safety strategy with regard to any changes internal financial and IT of each of the executive and performance and and ensures Board control environment and directors within the for ensuring compliance succession plans are in the relationship with the approved Remuneration with laws and regulations place.
Read more on page 54 Read more on page 55 Read more on page 56 Read more on page 62 Executive Leadership Team The ELT operates under the authority of the Chief Executive and comprises the Group CFO plus the CEOs of our four BUs and the leaders of our other key functional areas: HSSEA: People & Organisation: Strategy & Development.
They are responsible for delivering against the strategy approved by the Board.
Find out more about the ELT at: www.
com leaders Dave Stewart Andrew Stewart Ann Massey Bob MacDonald Sue MacDonald Nina Schofield Joe Sczurko CEO CEO CEO CEO Executive Executive Executive Asset Solutions Asset Solutions Environment & Specialist President President President EAAA Americas Infrastructure Technical People & HSSEA Strategy & Solutions Solutions Organisation Development Investigations Oversight Committee Previous ELT members: In addition to the Committees above, Steve Wayman, Executive President Integration the Board has established a separate, Having overseen the integration through to effective completion in October 2018, dedicated Investigations Oversight Steve Wayman retired on 31 December 2018.
Whilst the main changes to integrate Committee to oversee and report to the the business are complete, work on several projects will continue in 2019 and these Board on the investigations referred to in form our integration PLUS programme.
Sponsorship of the PLUS programme level note 33 to the financial statements.
The by Executive President People & Organisation and CEO Specialist Technical Solutions Committee is chaired by Thomas Botts ensures that the ELT retains oversight over the process.
and is attended by Roy Franklin and Linda Adamany.
50 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board composition Board independence Engagement with shareholders The Board comprised ten directors for After careful consideration, the Board Our investor relations activities are led the majority of the year.
Two directors considers all of its non-executive by the Chief Executive and Group CFO, resigned during the course of the year: directors to be independent in character supported by the investor relations IR Richard Howson in January and Ian and judgement and that there are no team and other members of senior McHoul in April.
Non-executive directors relationships or circumstances which are management as appropriate.
We comprised a majority of the Board likely to affect, or could appear to affect, provide the opportunity for significant excluding the Chair as recommended by their judgement.
shareholders to meet with the Chief the Governance Code.
Executive and Group CFO at least twice a year around the interim and Board re-election A clear separation of the roles of the final results announcements and with Linda Adamany has given notice of her Chair and the Chief Executive has been the Chair around the Annual General intention to resign as a director with agreed by the Board, in compliance Meeting.
In 2018 we gave presentations effect from 1 May 2019.
In addition, Jann with the Governance Code.
The Chair on two of our BUs, Environment & Brown and Ian Marchant have indicated is responsible for leadership of the Infrastructure Solutions and Asset their intention to step down within six Board and creating the conditions for Solutions Americas.
The purpose of these and twelve months respectively.
In order overall Board and individual director sessions was to provide investors and to ensure an orderly transition, they effectiveness.
He chairs the Board analysts with a deeper understanding both intend to remain in office until meetings, having set the agenda, and of the service offerings, capabilities, their respective successors have been ensures effective communication with competitive landscape and key projects identified and shall seek re-election at shareholders and other stakeholders and for the two BUs.
Therefore all directors, other ensures that the members of the Board than Linda Adamany, are expected to are made aware of the views of major Major shareholdings seek re-election at this years AGM.
The Company has been notified, in The Chief Executive is responsible for the accordance with DTR 5, of the following Conflicts of interest day to day management of the Group major shareholdings in the Company as The Board requires directors to declare and implementation of the Groups of 31 December 2018: any appointments or other situations strategy.
He develops proposals for which would amount to a possible Board approval, and ensures that the conflict of interest.
flow of information to the Chair and to Shareholders No of % of the Board is accurate, timely and clear.
shares shares The Board has procedures in place to Members of the Executive Leadership deal with and, if necessary, approve any BlackRock, Inc. 44,662,986 6.55% Team report directly to the Chief such conflicts.
Standard Life 41,038,067 6.02% Aberdeen Board development For brief biographies of the directors plc formerly see pages 48-49 Aberdeen Asset The training needs of directors are Management periodically discussed at Board meetings and briefings provided on issues relating FIL Limited 39,717,408 5.83% to corporate governance.
Arrangements Mondrian 34,380,848 5.04% are in place for newly appointed directors Investment to undertake an induction process Partners Limited designed to develop their knowledge Artisan Partners 33,601,505 4.93% and understanding of the Groups Limited business.
This includes briefing sessions Partnership during regular Board meetings, visits to operating sites and discussion of relevant Kiltearn Partners 23,028,390 3.37% business issues.
LLP APG Asset 21,000,000 3.08% Upon their appointment, directors are Management N. V advised of their legal and other duties and their obligations as directors of a listed company and under the Companies The following changes in the interests Act 2006. disclosed to the Company have been notified between 31 December 2018 and There is a procedure for any director to 18 March 2019: take independent professional advice at the Groups expense and all directors On 15 February 2019 Ameriprise have access to the services of the Financial disclosed that their Company Secretary, who is responsible percentage interest in the ordinary for ensuring that the Boards procedures share capital of the Company was are followed.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51 Governance | Corporate governance Board and Committee attendance 2018 Board programme & agenda The Charters of the Boards Committees are available on Woods website.
The Board typically schedules four face to Attendance by directors at the meetings of the Board and its Committees is face meetings and two calls on an annual summarised in the table below.
The dates of future Board meetings have now basis.
Within the face to face meetings, been agreed until the end of 2020. the following are covered as standing agenda items: Read the Charters of the Boards Committees at: Review of Governance and reports www.
com charters from the Safety, Assurance & Business Ethics, Audit, and Remuneration Committees, and the Chief Executive report Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 Operations updates and functional updates HSSEA, P&O, Strategy Safety, & Development and Finance & Assurance & Administration including Investor Business Ethics Nomination Audit Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Relations, IT, Legal, Tax & Treasury and Commercial Robin Watson 7 7 The Board also receives presentations David Kemp 7 7 from management and discusses other 3 Thomas Botts 7 7 3 4 2 2 matters arising which are set out in the 1 Jann Brown 6 7 2 2 5 5 3 3 table opposite.
Jacqui Ferguson 7 7 4 4 2 2 5 5 Ian Marchant 7 7 2 2 Mary Shafer-Malicki 7 7 2 2 3 3 Jeremy Wilson 7 7 2 2 5 5 3 3 2,3 Linda Adamany 6 7 3 4 2 2 5 5 Ian McHoul 1 1 1 1 Roy Franklin 7 7 4 4 2 2 5 5 Richard Howson Richard Howson resigned on 17 January 2018 and therefore did not attend any Board meetings.
Jann Brown was unable to attend a Board meeting in June arranged at short notice due to a conflicting engagement.
Linda Adamany was unable to attend the December Board meeting due to a long standing commitment that was set prior to her appointment to the Wood Board.
Linda Adamany and Thomas Botts were unable to attend the Safety, Assurance & Business Ethics Committee meetings in May and August respectively due to travel disruption.
52 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Topic Activity Outcome Progress Strategy Reviewed and discussed draft Wood strategy The Board received presentations on the proposed strategy presented by the Chief Executive and senior at its November board meeting management Integration effectively completed in October 2018.
Work Received updates on and provided input into the on several projects ongoing into 2019 which form the integration of AFW into the Group integration PLUS programme The Board held its March meeting at the offices of AS EAAA Capital Projects in Reading, UK, and its November meeting at the offices of E&IS in Atlanta in the US.
Both meetings provided the opportunity for meetings with local management Updates were received at each meeting on the Continued monitoring of the Gulf of Mexico regulatory Safety, activities of the Safety, Assurance & Business Ethics compliance plan and actions to ensure compliance with the Assurance Committee administrative agreement and prevent recurrence and Business Reports were received directly from the Chief Integration of ethics and compliance programmes of legacy Ethics Executive and senior management at each meeting organisations, resulting in issue of new code of conduct in on specific compliance related matters August 2018 Continued oversight of the legacy investigations Consolidation of existing safety initiatives into a new referred to in note 33 to the financial statements Safety Shield programme launched in January 2019 through receipt of reports from the dedicated Completed implementation of GDPR compliance Investigations Oversight Committee programme Received reports and challenged management on implementation of GDPR compliance programme Review of monthly management accounts, Reports reviewed, challenged and approved for release Review of preliminary results statement, annual report and financial Debt and cash performance challenged half year report results Review of debt and cash performance Risk Review of Groups risk management and internal Updated principal risks included in annual and half year control systems, including the Groups register, reports management principal risks and associated controls and and internal Adoption of Group-wide risk management standard and assurance provision risk appetite principles updated control Review and challenge of managements conclusions Appointment of Group Risk Director.
During 2018 the focus on the effectiveness of internal controls of this role was on risk management matters across the Review of governance and management of risks BUs and functions relating to integration related to commercial projects Internal controls agreed to have operated effectively during the year Governance Board received training from the Groups external Updated Chief Executive's Delegation of Authority and lawyers on its responsibilities under the UK Takeover Matters Reserved to the Board approved Code Updated Committee charters published Reviewed and approved updates to the Chief The Board is considering recommendations for Executive's Delegation of Authority and Matters improvement noted from the Board evaluation process Reserved to the Board In accordance with requirements related to the tenure The Board participated in an  of the Chair under the Governanace Code, the Chair has Board evaluation process and reviewed the output indicated his intention to resign within the next 12 months.
from that process at the March 2019 meeting He will remain as a director and Chair of the Board until a Reviewed impact of changes to Governance Code successor is appointed Reviewed succession plans in place for the ELT and The Board noted improvement in the succession planning People and other key positions in the Group process for senior executives, and key areas where succession succession plans require to be strengthened planning Conducted a review of culture, including a presentation on Group-wide employee engagement New cultural framework rolled out consisting of vision, survey values and behaviours Further employee engagement through implementation of a Listening Group Network Board The Board seeks to understand the views of We provide the opportunity for significant shareholders shareholders and take these into account where to meet with the Chief Executive and Group CFO at engagement appropriate least twice a year around the interim and final results with announcements shareholders Regular reports received from the Group CFO on IR activities, supplemented by analysis provided by our During the year the opportunity to meet with the Chair brokers was offered to significant shareholders.
The Chair and the Chair of the Remuneration Committee also consulted with The Chair, Senior Independent Director and the significant shareholders on proposals for the changes to Chair of the Remuneration Committee make executive remuneration themselves available to meet with key shareholders John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 53 Governance | Corporate governance Safety, Assurance & Business Ethics Committee The Safety, Assurance and Business Ethics Committee is responsible for overseeing the Groups management of Health, Safety, Security, Environmental HSSE and regulatory compliance & Business ethics matters, in line with the Groups policies and values commitment.
The primary focus of the committee is to ensure that risks associated with issues relating to HSSE and Business Ethics are understood and managed and oversight is provided to systems and assurance activities that are in place to minimise the occurrence of major events.
In 2018, the Committee was also focused on any additional HSSE or Business Ethics Risks associated with the integration of Wood.
This included having oversight of new policies or programmes such as the integrated Code of Conduct, the Thomas Botts Chair, Safety, Assurance & Business Ethics Committee Commercial Intermediaries project and the Safety Shield.
"During the year, the Committee was also joined by the CEOs from each of the four Business Units who provided ""The primary focus of the Committee is an overview on the key risks, mitigations and HSSEA to ensure that risks associated with HSSE improvement plans in their respective areas."
"and business ethics are understood and The Committee ensures a higher level of governance for managed. """
any matters concerning major regulatory investigations or significant breaches of a compliance nature.
In 2017, the company entered into an Administrative Agreement with Membership and responsibilities the U. S. Department of the Interior and U. S. Environmental Protection Agency, which resulted from regulatory In 2018 the Committee attendees comprised Thomas Botts, settlements in Wood Groups Gulf of Mexico business.
A Chair, Roy Franklin, Linda Adamany and Jacqui Ferguson.
The key focus of the Committee is assuring compliance with Chief Executive, Executive President of HSSEA and the Chief the requirements of the agreement through scrutiny of Ethics and Compliance Officer were also in attendance.
the arrangements and actions taken and oversight of the The Committee meets four times a year and has written terms associated performance dashboard and metrics.
In 2018, a of reference which are available on the Groups website key focus of the Committee was reviewing implementation setting out its responsibilities.
of the Agreement actions as they extended to the AFW businesses.
An independent Monitor has been appointed Read the Safety, Assurance & Business Ethics Committee charter at: to assess and report on compliance with the agreement.
com sabecommittee March 2018, the independent Monitor attended the SABE Committee as part of their compliance review process.
In addition to the normal routine SABE review of ongoing Main responsibilities: investigations an Investigation Oversight Committee was HSSE, Assurance and Business Ethics strategy and performance established in May 2017.
This was put in place to provide Effectiveness of the Groups policies and systems and additional governance on any matters that have the potential evidence of a prevalent safety and ethical culture to incur serious criminal sanctions or cause significant HSSE and Business Ethics leadership development and lasting reputational harm to Wood.
The Investigation throughout the Group, particularly in frontline operations Oversight Committee, chaired by Thomas Botts, in particular provides independent oversight of the risk analysis, mitigation Quality and integrity of the Groups internal and external reporting of HSSE and Business Ethics performance and issues and response of the business in connection with the ongoing investigations by the relevant authorities into the historical Preparedness for response to a major HSSE incident or use of agents.
ethics non compliance The process for and outcomes of investigations into major Internal controls over project execution were recognised as HSSE and Business Ethics incidents and the effectiveness with an area for improvement and 2018 saw the formation of an which recommendations are assimilated throughout the Group Operations Assurance function to review project and contract The expertise and appropriateness of the structure of the compliance with HSSE, Technical and Quality policies and HSSEA and Compliance function throughout the Group standards, as well as customer specific, legal and regulatory Oversight of any ongoing Regulatory investigations and the requirements.
The Committee provided oversight of the associated case management programme, the organisational learnings identified and the timely close out of remedial actions.
Committee meetings in 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 54 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee monitors and reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board, makes recommendations with regard to any changes and ensures Board succession plans are in place.
In 2018, the Committee focused on the effectiveness and independence of the Board.
The appointment of a number of former AFW directors on completion of the AFW transaction helped to ensure diversity in terms of background, experience and thought leadership as a well as maintaining a minimum of one third of our Board being female.
Two non-executive directors resigned during the year: Richard Howson in January 2018 and Ian McHoul in April 2018.
The Committee met in January 2018 to confirm the composition of various Board committees following the Ian Marchant Chair, Nomination Committee resignation of Richard Howson.
The Committee met in November 2018 to discuss Board succession and Board effectiveness.
The Committee also The Committee focused on the considered the reappointment of Mary Shafer-Malicki as a effectiveness and independence of the non-executive director, having completed her second term Board.
The appointment of a number of three years.
Given that this was Marys second term a rigorous review of her independence was carried out focusing of former AFW directors on completion on her contributions to Board discussions, challenges of of the AFW transaction helped to management, experience of the oil and gas industry and the ensure diversity in terms of background, overall mix of experience of the Board.
It was agreed that she continued to be independent.
It was unanimously agreed experience and thought leadership as well that her term be renewed for a further three years, subject as gender diversity.
to annual reappointment at the AGM.
In March 2019, it was announced that Jann Brown has indicated her intention to resign as a director and as Chair Membership and responsibilities of the Audit Committee.
Jann has been non-executive director and Chair of the Audit Committee since May 2014.
The Nomination Committee comprises the Chair and all She is resigning due to commitments to other executive of the independent non-executive directors.
The Board intends to appoint an additional stepped down from the Committee in April 2018 following his non-executive director to replace Jann as Chair of the resignation as non-executive director.
Audit Committee and has commenced a process to identify The Committee meets at least once a year.
It operates within a a suitable candidate.
Jann will remain as a director and written charter setting out its roles and responsibilities.
Chair of the Audit Committee until her successor has been appointed, which is expected to be within the next six Read the Nomination Committee charter at: months.
The Committee has discussed the key skills and www.
com nomcommittee experience required for the role and has appointed Korn Ferry as search consultants.
Korn Ferry is a global organisational consulting firm with whom we have worked in the past on recruitment for senior positions.
However, it provides no Main responsibilities: other services to Wood and we consider it independent.
It Reviewing Board structure, size and composition was also announced in March 2019, that Linda Adamany has given notice of her intention to resign, for personal Making recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes reasons, as a director with effect from 1 May 2019.
Linda was appointed as a director of Wood in October 2017, following Identifying and nominating candidates for the approval of the acquisition of Amec Foster Wheeler plc.
Prior to that, the Board she had been a director of Amec Foster Wheeler plc since Filling Board vacancies October 2012.
In line with its previously-stated intention Ensuring succession plans are in place to reduce the size of the Board following the Amec Foster Wheeler acquisition, Wood does not intend to appoint a replacement for Linda.
It was also announced that Ian Marchant has indicated his intention to resign as director and Chair within the next 12 months.
The Committee has also commenced a process to identify a suitable replacement for Ian and has again appointed Korn Ferry as search consultants.
Committee meetings in 2018 Diversity The Committee is cognisant of the Governance Codes requirement to pay due regard to the benefits of diversity, Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec including gender, when considering appointments to 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 the Board.
Wood is committed to remaining an equal opportunities employer.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 55 Governance | Corporate governance Audit Committee The Committee met five times in 2018, including an extra meeting in March 2018 to discuss the year end accounting issues and audit of the Group following the acquisition of AFW.
In addition to the members of the Committee, the Group Chair, the Group CFO, Group Financial Controller, Group Head of Internal Audit & Risk and the external auditors attended all Audit Committee meetings.
During the year other relevant people from the business presented to the Committee on the topics as noted below.
The Group Head of Internal Audit & Risk and the external auditors have the right of direct access to the Chair of the Committee at all times and to meet the Committee without management present.
The committee oversaw the transition from PwC to KPMG as Jann Brown Chair, Audit Committee Group Auditors during 2018.
PwCs last engagement was for the audit of the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017.
KPMGs services then commenced with the In 2018 significant progress has been performance of the half year review for the period ended 30 made on integration and standardisation June 2018 and the audit of the year ended 31 December 2018. of financial processes and controls and the During the year the following areas were discussed at the Committee meetings.
Committee has been focused on ensuring a high level of financial governance.
March two meetings Review of the 2017 Group financial statements including the acquisition accounting for AFW, key areas of accounting judgements, Going Concern, Fair, Balanced & Understandable Membership and responsibilities review and the Viability Statement Throughout 2018 the Audit Committee comprised Jann Review of PwCs 2017 external audit, including discussion of the Brown Chair, recent and relevant financial expertise, findings of the external audit and the key judgmental areas Jeremy Wilson and Jacqui Ferguson.
In January 2018 Linda Adamany and Roy Franklin joined the Audit Committee and Review and approval of the 2017 Audit Committee Corporate Thomas Botts stood down.
Governance Report Review of internal audit reports and status, in addition to the The Chair of the Committee reports to each Board meeting 2017 annual summary on the activity of the Committee.
Approval of the combined Wood Internal Audit plan for 2018 The Committee has a written charter of responsibilities Assessment of external audit effectiveness which is reviewed on an annual basis, setting out its roles and responsibilities.
May Update on the transition to KPMG as Group auditors including Read the Audit Committee Charter at: review of a preliminary audit plan for 2018 www.
com auditcommittee Effectiveness review of internal audit Presentation on the Groups IT security status and plans Review of internal audit reports and status Approval of the IT internal audit plan for 2018 Main responsibilities: Integration and synergy update Compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant financial reporting requirements August Consideration of the financial and IT internal control environment Review of the 2018 Group interim financial statements including Consideration of the internal audit programme and results Going Concern and IFRS 15 implementation Update on KPMGs 2017 interim financial statements external Review of the external audit relationship and provision of review and discussion of key judgmental areas and findings non-audit services Presentation by Group Tax & Treasury on strategy and risk management Review of internal audit reports and status Integration and synergy update November Review of upcoming year end accounting judgements and issues Committee meetings in 2018 Presentation by KPMG tax partner on key tax risks Review of final 2018 external audit plan and approval of audit fees Review and approval of 2019 Internal Audit Plan Review of output from Audit Committee evaluation process Review of internal audit reports and status Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 Integration and synergy update Reviewed proposed changes to reporting metrics for 2019 56 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Impairment reviews Review of provisions During the year the At both the half year and the year end, The Committee considers the Committee focused on appropriateness, adequacy and the Committee considered whether the following areas: consistency of approach to provisioning indicators of impairment existed and the at each meeting.
All material provisions, results of any related impairment reviews.
including those made against uninsured Annual reviews are carried out in relation Financial reporting and significant legal claims, asbestos litigation, pensions to goodwill and material joint ventures, accounting issues and doubtful debts, are discussed and with the Committees role being primarily The Committee focused on the challenged.
Given the continued uncertain to challenge the significant assumptions application of our accounting policies economic climate for the oil and gas and estimates made to ensure that they and on the areas of judgement and companies which form the core customer are appropriate.
estimation, as well as adoption of base of the Group, there was a continued IFRS 15 'Revenue from contracts with focus on the recoverability of receivables.
The Committee was satisfied with the customers'.
assumptions and the results of the The Committee concluded that the reviews.
positions taken by management were The Group adopted IFRS 15 from 1 appropriate.
As expected, the adoption Current and deferred tax balances did not have a material impact on The Group operates in a number of our reported results, although some Reporting measures different tax regimes and a range of additional disclosures have been added.
The Committee received a presentation judgements underpin the calculations for The processes for accounting under IFRS from management at the November both current and deferred tax, including 15, including fixed price contracts, have meeting with a proposal to simplify uncertain tax positions.
our principal reporting measures to align more fully with IFRS definitions In the Income Statement, these can have The Committee also reviewed and of revenue and profit.
The Committee an impact on both the tax charge and agreed with management's conclusion requested that feedback be sought from the operating profit.
The Committee that the impact of the adoption of IFRS key shareholders and analysts, and this receives a detailed written report on 9 'Financial Instruments' is immaterial.
As a result, taxation matters at each meeting, which for reporting periods ending on 30 June The Group will adopt IFRS 16 'Leases' included AFW tax matters from the 2019 onwards Wood's primary reporting from 1 January 2019 and the company date of acquisition onwards.
The impact measure will be operating profit.
We will has performed an initial assessment of of the changes in legislation on the also have two additional, non-statutory the impact as set out in the Accounting Groups uncertain tax provisions and the measures: Adjusted EBITDA including Policies section of the financial overall approach to tax planning were joint venture profit and Adjusted statements.
The Audit Committee specifically considered at the November Diluted EPS adjusted for amortisation will review the implementation of this 2018 meeting.
Where necessary, the Committee The primary areas of judgement considers advice received from Synergies and estimation considered by the professional advisory firms and Throughout the year the Audit Committee in relation to the 2018 concluded that the positions taken were Committee received regular reports on financial statements and how they were appropriate.
This was also recognised the status of the integration programme addressed are outlined below.
by KPMG as an area of higher audit risk and progress against our synergy and the Committee received updates on targets.
This included a presentation Finalisation of the accounting for the related work undertaken by them during from the F&A Integration Director at AFW acquisition the year.
the May meeting where the process The AFW acquisition completed in for tracking, collecting and reporting October 2017, and provisional fair values Review of significant contracts synergy numbers along with the key risks were assigned to the assets and liabilities As a result of the AFW acquisition, and to to delivery were discussed.
acquired and the value of the resulting a lesser extent in the legacy Wood Group goodwill.
Under IFRS 3 'Business business, the Group executes a number Combinations' these fair values may of contracts on a fixed price or lump be reassessed in the year following sum basis.
Such contracts inherently acquisition and any changes reflected in involve a greater degree of estimation the value of goodwill.
and judgement than is typically the Further information became available case in reimbursable contracts.
The during this period about certain legacy Committee reviewed and was satisfied AFW fixed price contracts, claims and with the accounting for significant lump litigation and onerous leases and the sum projects in progress at the year-end revised fair values have been reflected in and the material judgements taken by the acquisition balance sheet.
management in recognising profit or the quantification of known losses where The Committee was satisfied that these these are probable.
updates reflected circumstances that existed at the time of the acquisition, The external auditors assessed this as had been accounted for correctly and an area of focus and the Committee received reports on the audit work done received updates on related work by KPMG in this area.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 57 Governance | Corporate governance Internal audit KPMG shadowed PwC through the 2017 Internal financial control Monitoring the activity of the Group year end audit process, attended the The Board is ultimately responsible for Internal Audit function is an agenda audit committee and other close out the Groups system of internal control item at each Committee meeting.
meetings and had an opportunity to and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The The Group Head of Internal Audit & contribute to the discussions to help with Audit Committee has been given the Risk attended all meetings.
responsibility to review the effectiveness the Committee agrees the plan to of the financial and IT internal control In early 2018 KPMG prepared an audit be carried out and receives regular systems implemented by management.
plan identifying their assessment updates on progress against this plan, This work is informed by regular updates of key audit risks.
These risks were including a summary of the key findings from the Group Head of Internal Audit discussed during the year with input from each of its reviews, an update & Risk and the results of various selffrom management and the Group Head on the status of actions agreed with assessment processes undertaken of Internal Audit & Risk as necessary, management and a note of any themes across the Group.
External audit also providing the Committee with an or emerging risk areas to be considered provide feedback on areas of financial or opportunity to understand, challenge by the Committee.
IT control which they wish to bring to the and ultimately agree with the auditors Committees attention.
During 2018, the Committee received which areas should be covered.
This was regular updates on the integration of monitored and updated throughout the The Boards assessment of the Groups the Wood internal audit team.
internal financial and IT control involved bringing together the Wood environment, as informed by internal The Committee assessed the Group and AFW teams to be based in audit, is effective, with some areas effectiveness of the audit process a small number of strategic locations, where improvement is needed.
Particular through consideration of the reporting developing best of both processes and areas for focus are the controls around received from KPMG at the half year procedures and merging the internal the continued transition of processes and the year end, the robustness of audit methodology and plans.
The into shared service centres, the Groups the external auditors handling of key individual Wood Group and AFW plans maturity with respect to data protection judgmental areas and the quality of the were followed until the combined Wood regulations and the monitoring and external auditors interaction with, and internal audit plan was approved by the project controls over a small number of reporting to, the Committee.
Committee in the March 2018 meeting.
These areas are The Committee also reviews the being prioritised by the Group.
Work The Group Head of Internal Audit & Risk standing, experience and tenure was completed during the year to bring is also responsible for the corporate risk of the external audit lead partner, all areas of the business onto the same management process.
The Committee the arrangements for ensuring the platform for financial reporting, with does not consider this to give rise to independence and objectivity of the this project being covered by an internal any conflict of interest and are satisfied external auditors and the nature and audit.
The project to establish a shared with the safeguards in place.
level of non-audit services provided.
ERP and IT platform has made good The Chair of the Committee and other progress but there is still significant work In addition, an annual exercise to seek Committee members hold private to be done before this will complete.
feedback from around the Group on discussions with the Group Head of the effectiveness of the external audit Internal Audit & Risk as necessary IT security review process will be performed.
during the year outside the formal The responsibility for reviewing IT Committee process.
security is delegated to the Audit Appointment and independence Committee.
During 2018, the The Committee has overall responsibility External audit Committee received a presentation for ensuring that the external auditors from the Group Chief Information In compliance with the provisions of the independence and objectivity is not Officer and Chief Information Security UK Competition & Markets Authority compromised.
This brought together the results CMA Order the Audit Committee The Committee considers the of individual cyber security maturity decided to conduct a tender for the appointment of the external auditor each assessments that had been carried out audit during 2016. year and assesses their independence on by Wood Group and AFW.
An updated To allow a transition of non-audit an ongoing basis.
assessment was carried out at the end services currently performed by firms of 2018 for Wood by Internal Audit and In 2018, due to the transition of the tendering for the audit, and to coincide the maturity level had increased from external auditor, this included assessing with the planned lead partner rotation, 2017 against a landscape of increasing the independence of both PwC as the it was agreed that the appointment cyber risk.
principal Group auditor signing an would take effect for the audit of the opinion on the 2017 Annual Report and year ending 31 December 2018.
KPMG as the incoming Group auditor.
After a full audit tender process, the During the year the Committee received Committee decided that on balance confirmation from the external auditors KPMGs proposal demonstrated regarding their independence.
the greatest understanding of the Groups culture and strategy, industry knowledge and proposed an innovative and effective audit approach which would provide a high level of challenge to management.
58 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements In accordance with UK regulations and to Committee evaluation help ensure independence, the auditors The Committees activities formed part adhere to a rotation policy based on of the review of Board and Committee Auditing Practices Board standards that effectiveness performed in the year.
require the Group audit partner to rotate every five years.
As this is KPMGs first Overall the Committee was considered year as external auditor it is also the first to be operating effectively.
The year that Catherine Burnet of KPMG, Committee performed a review on the current lead audit partner, has been cyber security in 2018 which was one of involved in the audit of the Group.
the points raised in feedback in 2017.
It was agreed that some additional deep The Board approved the Committees dives into relevant areas should be recommendation that KPMG be scheduled for 2019 agenda.
Accordingly, a resolution proposing the appointment of KPMG as the Groups external auditor will be put to shareholders at the 2019 AGM.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Groups choice of external auditors.
The company confirms that it complied with the provisions of the CMA Order for the financial year under review.
Non-audit services One of the key risks to external auditor independence is the provision of nonaudit services by the external auditor.
The Groups policy in this area, which is set out in the Audit Committees terms of reference, is clear.
The Committee considers and approves fees in respect of non-audit services provided by the external auditors in accordance with policy and the cost of non-audit services provided in 2018 is reported in note 4 to the financial statements.
In the opinion of the Committee, the provision of these non-audit services did not impair KPMGs independence.
During the year our previous auditor PwCs 2017 year-end audit file was selected for a quality review by their external regulator, the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
The Committee received a summary of the results of the review from the FRC, and this was also shared with our current auditor, KPMG.
The points for improvement raised by the FRC were discussed with the lead PwC audit partner and the committee also used these to challenge KPMG and ensure that they had incorporated the points raised in their audit process this year.
The committee received assurances that the items identified in the review have been considered and addressed by KPMG in their first year audit.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 59 Governance Directors' Remuneration Report Boards Report Letter from the Chair Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ending 31 December 2018, on behalf of the Board and as Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
The purpose of this report is to set out the remuneration of executive directors and demonstrate alignment to creating shareholder value while delivering the short and long-term strategic business objectives of the company.
The report is fully compliant with all corporate governance requirements and aims to detail clearly remuneration outcomes for 2018 and the future application of the Remuneration Policy in 2019.
Jeremy Wilson Chair, Remuneration Committee 2018 overview The Directors Remuneration Report DRR In 2018 Wood delivered against a clear set of operational and financial objectives around the integration of AFW, growth and is the Boards report to shareholders on synergy delivery.
The Committee and I are proud of the business directors remuneration for the year ending transformation led by our executives and the wider leadership December 2018 and is in three main team during 2018.
The executive directors led key integration activities including, in the area of employees and remuneration: sections: Embedding the new Wood culture, values, vision and behaviours and carrying out an employee engagement survey, Contents with more than 55% of our global workforce participating The Board's Report 60 Implementation of an integrated IT platform Includes the Letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, reflecting on the activities of the Harmonisation of employee terms, conditions, benefits Committee for the year ending December 2018, and and policies in every country by the end of 2020: this will be future application of the Directors Remuneration Policy.
completed in Australia, Canada, UK and USA by the end of This section also provides details of the Remuneration Q1 2019 Committee and the statement of shareholder voting.
An enhanced employee share plan to over 39,000 employees Letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee 60 in 17 countries: for every two shares purchased, employees will Remuneration Committee 62 now receive one match share from the company previously Statement of shareholder voting 63 one match for every three shares purchased Part 1: Policy Report 64 One annual bonus and one long-term incentive plan for Wood Contains the Directors Remuneration Policy.
key leaders and a global annual salary review in April 2018 Part 2: Annual Statement on Remuneration 64 Sets out the remuneration details of the executive The Committee has continued to pay close attention to the and non-executive directors and includes a summary executive remuneration environment, including changes to the of the key considerations and decisions taken by the Corporate Governance Code, ensuring we consider the impact Committee on directors remuneration during the year for Wood, whilst continuing to make remuneration decisions ending December 2018. that reflect the needs of the business and which remain in line 2.1 Single figure of remuneration for each director 64 with our remuneration principles: 2.2 Pension and life assurance benefits 68 Alignment with strategy, culture and delivery of shareholder 2.3 Long Term Plan interests awarded during the year 69 value 2.4 Payments to past directors 69 Simplicity and balance 2.5 Payments for loss of office 69 Internally fair, externally competitive 2.6 Statement of directors' 70 Proactive shareholder engagement shareholding and share interests 2.7 TSR performance summary & Chief Executive 72 remuneration In 2018 the Committee has enhanced our engagement activities with leadership and the wider workforce to ensure our people 2.8 Percentage change in Chief Executive 73 policies, practices and processes are fair, support diversity and remuneration equality and our approach remains considered and proactive.
2.9 Relative importance of spend on pay 74 In November, members of the Board participated in the global 2.10 Statement of implementation of Remuneration 74 Listening Group Network calls for the first time, giving them Policy in the following financial year the opportunity to gather the views of our workforce and strengthen the employee voice in the boardroom.
We have Audited also been pleased to host some talent forums and provide Unless otherwise noted, the remaining sections of the Directors mentoring support to future leaders and middle managers.
Remuneration Report are not subject to audit.
60 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements We participated in the Workforce Disclosure Initiative for LTIP the first time, giving us the opportunity to build greater The Committee wants to support our high calibre executive understanding with our investors and improve policies and directors and other senior leaders and incentivise them to deliver practices on a range of workforce related topics: our focus in our business objectives safely: we remain focused on ensuring 2019 will be to further enhance our global reporting capability, the targets are stretching and deliver shareholder value.
increase public disclosure and demonstrate due diligence Performance measures for LTIP performance period 2016-2018 with our global people policies.
We will continue to enhance were based on relative Total Shareholder Return TSR and engagement during 2019 and beyond as referred to in our Adjusted Earnings Per Share AEPS weighted 50% for each People section.
The AEPS target was set at 80.0 cents at threshold We also carried out a full review of the remuneration policy and 100.0 cents at maximum: AEPS achievement of 57.4c and the Committees charter against the requirements of was up 7.7% on 2017, but did not meet threshold performance, the Corporate Governance Code.
As a result, we have made resulting in zero award for this measure.
The TSR performance th minor amendments to the charter to ensure we take into was below 50 percentile resulting in zero award for this account global remuneration trends across the workforce and measure.
This has resulted in no award being realised for the the alignment of incentives and rewards with our culture.
updates required to the policy will take place during 2019 for The fact that the LTIP did not pay out in 2018 is disappointing application in 2020 as part of the 2020 policy.
to the Committee, especially given all the hard work and We were pleased to receive overwhelming support from you for delivered success over the 3-year period.
The key challenge the remuneration resolutions, receiving 96.46% votes in favour is that when the targets were set back in 2015, especially at the annual general meeting in May 2018.
AEPS, we misjudged the length and depth of the downturn in the oil and gas cycle.
It is especially important during these challenging times that the management team feel Remuneration and performance outcomes for 2018 motivated and rewarded for their endeavours.
The Committee 2018 proved to be another challenging year due to market debated at length whether we should use discretion to conditions in the oil and gas sector, in addition to wider political alter the mathematical outcome of the LTIP measures but and economic uncertainty.
Against this backdrop, Wood ultimately, we understand the shareholder resistance to such returned to growth in 2018 and financial performance was in actions.
However, we will be extra vigilant going forward and line with expectations.
cognisant that it is in the best interests of the company and its shareholders to attract and retain top talent through a fair Annual bonus and balanced remuneration programme in whatever external As in previous years, bonus measures were split between environment the company finds itself.
financial, HSSE and non-financial measures with a balance of 60%, 10% and 30% respectively.
Proposed policy application for 2019 Financial measures for 2018 included a measure of profit The following section details the changes that we plan to make EBITA, cost synergies and cash generation, in line with the in implementing our policy in 2019.
We continue to incorporate remuneration policy.
The Group delivered EBITA of $630m, significant focus on delivery of our cost synergy targets, in line ahead of expectations, achieving 103% of target, resulting in with our business strategy.
Cash generation was significantly better than budget, achieving the maximum, driven by improved working Base salary capital performance and cost control.
Annualised cost synergies Last year we informed you of our decision to temper the of $85m were delivered, achieving the maximum score, with proposed salary increase for Robin Watson and David the 3-year target increased to $210m, as announced at the Kemp based on shareholder views that increases should be half-year results.
HSSE improvements were also targeted and paced with longer term delivery of the benefits of the AFW achieved.
We advised you of our intention to review salaries again in 2019 considering business and individual performance, Although two of the three HSSEA performance indicators, market analysis and remuneration decisions in the wider assurance actions and leadership engagement, achieved workforce.
We determined to increase salaries to the amounts maximum outcomes, as a result of the fatality in March we had considered for 2018, as previously communicated to 2018, the executive directors and members of the executive you last year, and to apply a further 2.4% which is the standard leadership team have determined to forgo the TRCF UK cost of living increase being given to our onshore officeimprovement element of the bonus, resulting in a bonus based UK workforce in 2019: this would have increased Robin contribution of 6.6% out of a total opportunity of 10%.
Watsons salary from 690,000 to 768,000 and David As a Committee, we focused on establishing stretching nonKemps from 450,000 to 486,400.
Both executive directors financial objectives, with tangible performance outcomes decided to defer the 2.4% increase, and as a result, we have focused on the delivery of short-term strategic plans.
Delivery increased salaries from 1 January 2019 to 750,000 for Robin against team and personal objectives achieved 95%: detailed Watson and 475,000 for David Kemp.
Any salary increases disclosure of the achievements can be found on page 65 within proposed for 2020 will be based on the 2019 base salary, section 2 of the report.
The Committee and Board have every confidence in their ability to continue to deliver and want In summary, annual bonuses of 88% of maximum are being to ensure their remuneration is commensurate with the size, awarded to the executive directors.
scope and complexity of their roles.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 61 Governance | Directors' Remuneration Report Details of the variable elements of remuneration are detailed Remuneration Committee below: The Remuneration Committee advises the Board on executive remuneration and sets the remuneration packages of Annual Bonus Plan we will continue to pay out 50% at target for financial measures.
Maximum bonus opportunity each of the executive directors within the approved policy.
for the Chief Executive will remain as 175% of salary and The Committee has a written charter, which is reviewed 150% for the CFO.
Full details of the personal objectives, annually and is publicly available on the company website.
which account for 30% of the annual bonus opportunity, are The Committee Charter has been updated for 2019 with contained in section 2.10.
The other performance measures minor updates to formally reflect the role of the Committee will be a measure of profit, accounting for 20% of the annual in executive leadership team ELT and company secretary bonus opportunity: cash generation, also accounting for remuneration arrangements, and to draw out the role of 20%: HSSEA at 10%: and delivery of cost synergies at 20%.
the Committee monitoring the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the Remuneration Policy and its application Long Term Plan after careful consideration, the Committee ensuring alignment of incentives and rewards with the wider has determined to increase the maximum opportunity for workforce and culture at Wood.
the Chief Executive from 200% to 250% of salary and for the CFO from 175% to 200%.
This will only apply for the Read the Remuneration Committee Charter at: performance period 2019-2021.
We have decided to apply www.
com remcommittee this exceptional participation level to the Chief Executive in recognition of the fact that we set targets in previous years During 2018, the Remuneration Committee comprised the which failed to accurately predict the length and depth of following independent non-executive directors: Jeremy the downturn in the oil and gas sector: this has resulted in Wilson Chair, Mary Shafer-Malicki and Jann Brown.
Where zero vesting for the 2016-2018 performance period, and appropriate, the Committee receives input from the Chair of is predicted to result in zero outcome again for the 2017- the Board, Chief Executive, CFO, Executive President of People 2019 performance period despite the positive strategic and & Organisation and the Head of Compensation & Benefits, who operational progress achieved to date.
The decision to apply also acts as Secretary to the Committee.
this one-off increase has not been taken lightly, but we want to continue to motivate our executive directors and The aim of the Committee is to establish an overall drive the right behaviours to deliver shareholder value.
As in remuneration structure which: previous years, no portion of these awards is released until Promotes the long-term success of the Group and delivers five years from grant in line with our focus on creating value the strategy for shareholders over the long term by linking a significant portion of executive directors remuneration to long term Reflects a balance of fixed and variable pay, with the intent performance.
of creating a competitive total remuneration package that supports the attraction and retention of executive directors For the performance period commencing 2019 the performance measures will be relative TSR at 50% Ensures appropriate alignment between incentivised weighting: gross margin improvement, at 25% weighting: performance and the interests of shareholders and overhead improvement, also at 25% weighting.
Full Takes into account global remuneration trends across the details of the threshold and maximum targets can be found workforce, ensuring alignment of incentives and rewards with on page 76.
The Committee considers these measures are culture and the broader setting of pay conditions elsewhere well aligned to our strategy and shareholders interest and within the company focused on delivering substantial value.
In 2019 we will undertake the review of our Remuneration In setting remuneration policy, the Committee considers the Policy, due for renewal in 2020, and will proactively engage relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, with key investors to ensure long term alignment with relevant regulations enacted under the Companies Act 2006 shareholders.
This review will also include our response to the and shareholder views through consultation.
updated UK Corporate Governance Code, including executive During the year, the Committee took advice from Deloitte pensions, post-employment shareholding requirements, and LLP, who was retained as external advisor to the Committee.
the use of discretion over incentive outcomes.
Deloitte adhere to the Remuneration Consultants Groups Code of Conduct.
Deloitte received 44,550 for the provision I trust that in the report for 2018 we have clearly of services to the Committee during the year.
These fees explained our application and intentions regarding future consisted of core services where the cost was agreed in implementation of the Directors Remuneration Policy, and I advance and additional services which were charged look forward to your support on the relevant resolution.
on a time and materials basis.
As well as advising the Signed on behalf of the Board and as Chair of the Remuneration Committee, Deloitte provided other services in Remuneration Committee.
2018, predominately related to tax compliance and advisory, integration activities related to the acquisition of AFW, systems consultancy and immigration advice.
The Committee has reviewed the remuneration advice provided by Deloitte during the year and is comfortable that it has been objective and independent.
The Committee has reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that there were appropriate safeguards against such conflicts.
Jeremy Wilson Chair, Remuneration Committee 62 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Committee meetings in 2018 Statement of shareholder voting The Committee encourages shareholder engagement.
Where there are a substantial number of votes against any resolution on directors remuneration, the Committee would seek to Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 understand the reasons for any such vote and will detail here any actions in response to it.
In line with the Corporate Governance Code, where there are 20% or more votes against remuneration During 2018, the Committee met three times to discuss resolutions, the Committee will support the Board in consultation remuneration issues and the operation of the Directors and actions to understand shareholder views.
There was full Committee attendance The following table sets out the 2018 AGM voting in respect of at each of these meetings.
The Committee has a regular our remuneration matters: schedule of agenda items in addition to other matters.
The following matters were considered during the year: Number of a b Item For Against Abstentions March Advisory vote on the 526,114,381 19,316,645 1,461,100 Target setting for ABP 2018 and LTIP performance period 2017 annual report 96.46% 3.54% 2018- 2020 on Remuneration 2018 AGM Agreed final outcomes for ABP 2017, 2018 arrangements and deferred payments from 2015 Notes to the Statement of shareholding voting a.
Discretionary votes have been added to For votes.
Agreed LTIP outcomes for 2015-2017 performance period, b.
A vote abstained is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation 2018-2020 arrangements and deferred awards from of the percentage of votes For or Against a resolution.
performance period 2013-2015 Approved 2017 Directors Remuneration Policy and Report Additional items: executive director remuneration review following AFW transaction: reviewed gender pay gap report: reviewed employee share plan report: approval of the Chair of the Boards expenses May Annual bonus Q1 performance update AGM preparation Additional items: considered UK Corporate Governance Code update November Considered proposed 2019 remuneration and policy application for executive directors Reviewed ABP projected outcomes for 2018 and agreed process for determining achievement against 2018 objectives Considered ABP arrangements for 2019 and process for determining executive directors objectives Reviewed estimated LTIP performance for 2016-2018 and considered arrangements for 2019-2021 performance period Completed Committee performance evaluation against 2018 objectives and agreed proposed 2019 objectives Agreed approach to DRR for 2018 FY Additional items: determined Woods approach to UK Corporate Governance Code changes: agreed minor changes to the Committees Charter John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 63 Governance | Directors' Remuneration Report Part 1: Policy Report This part of the Directors Remuneration Report contains the Directors Remuneration Policy.
This Policy was approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM and took effect from that date.
The objective of the Remuneration Policy is to set all components of remuneration, maximum awards and performance measurement, which provide a compensation package promoting the long-term success of the company and supports the strategy.
It does this through a balance of fixed and variable pay, with the intent of creating a competitive total remuneration package which attracts and retains executives while creating an appropriate alignment between incentivising executive performance and the interests of shareholders.
As detailed in the letter from the Chair, the Policy will be reviewed during 2019, including consideration of the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code, with an updated version put to shareholders no later than the 2020 AGM.
The Directors' Remuneration Policy with updated scenario charts can be found at: www.
com rempolicy Part 2: Annual Statement on Remuneration 2.1 Single figure of remuneration for each executive director The following table sets out the single figure of remuneration for each of the executive directors: Executive directors - UK based 000 Long term Pension related a b c d e f Year Salary Benefits Bonus incentives benefits Total Robin Watson 2018 690 14 1,068 0 103 1,875 Robin Watson 2017 600 14 623 93 90 1,420 David Kemp 2018 450 14 597 0 68 1,129 David Kemp 2017 390 14 324 58 59 844 Notes to the single figure of remuneration executive directors a.
Salary received during the year.
Taxable benefits received during the year.
These include car allowance, private medical, dental and contributory health and welfare cover as applicable.
c. Bonus awarded in relation to the year, inclusive of all amounts subject to further deferral.
d. The value of long-term incentives which vested in respect of performance periods ended 31 December 2018, inclusive of all amounts subject to further deferral.
The figures for 2017 have been calculated using the number of share options that vested multiplied by 6.50, the closing mid-market share price on 29 December 2017.
LTIP performance periods accrue dividends from the commencement of the performance period, which are paid as additional share options: 80% is paid following the end of the performance period and 20% deferred for two years.
The deferred element may continue to attract dividends which will be reported in the period in which they are received.
e. Pension figure reflects cash value of defined contribution pension contribution or cash alternative.
Further detail in relation to individual pension arrangements is provided in section 2.2. f. The single figure of remuneration, being the sum of columns a to e inclusive.
Single figure remuneration % of total 2018 Long term incentives Long term incentives 0% 0% Salary Salary 37% 40% Robin David Bonus Benefits Bonus Watson Kemp Benefits 57% 1% 53% 1% Pension Pension 5% 6% 64 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Single figure remuneration for Chair of the Board and Bonus non-executive directors For 2018, the maximum bonus opportunity for the executives was 175% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 150% for The following table sets out the single figure of remuneration the CFO.
Bonus measures were split between financial, HSSE for the Chair and each of the non-executive directors.
Further and non-financial measures with a balance of 60%, 10% and details on the non-executive director fee structure are set out 30% respectively.
Financial measures are further split into on page 76. three measures - a measure of profit: a cost synergy target and Chair & non-executive directors single figure of remuneration a measure of cash generation - equally weighted at 20% as 000 illustrated in the chart below: Year Total Fees Relative weighting % of bonus opportunity Ian Marchant 2018 275.0 2017 275.0 Profit Cost Cash HSSE Corporate a Linda Adamany 2018 72.6 synergies generation personal objectives 2017 17.2 20% 20% 20% 10% 30% Thomas Botts 2018 60.5 2017 60.5 financial measures non-financial measures Jann Brown 2018 60.5 60% 40% 2017 64.3 Jaqueline Ferguson 2018 55.5 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% 2017 55.5 b Roy Franklin 2018 60.5 2017 14.3 Financial measures and outcomes c Richard Howson 2018 2.6 Financial measures consisted of EBITA as a measure of profit, 2017 55.5 a 2018 cost synergy target and a cash generation measure.
Mary Shafer-Malicki 2018 55.5 For EBITA and cost synergy measures, threshold performance 2017 55.5 is 90% of the target set, and maximum bonus is achieved when d Ian McHoul 2018 14.6 results exceed 110% of target.
For the cash generation measure, threshold, target and maximum performance were adjusted 2017 13.1 from 90% at threshold and 110% at maximum to a more Jeremy Wilson 2018 60.5 challenging position based on the anticipated growth and the 2017 60.5 stretch to achieve a neutral working capital position.
Notes to the single figure of remuneration Chair & non-executive directors Threshold performance must be met before any of that a. Linda Adamany was appointed to the Board 6 October 2017: fees for element of the award is paid: if target performance is met, 2017 are pro rata.
Fees include an uplift as a non-UK based non-executive 50% of the potential bonus opportunity is paid: 100% is payable director, as part of the AFW transaction.
Performance between b. Roy Franklin was appointed to the Board on 6 October 2017: 2017 fees are pro rata.
threshold and target and between target and maximum will c. Richard Howson resigned 17 January 2018: 2018 fees are pro rata.
result in a proportionate award calculated on a straight-line d. Ian McHoul was appointed to the Board on 6 October 2017 and resigned basis as illustrated in the following graph: 5 April 2018: 2017 and 2018 fees are pro rata.
Financial performance and bonus achievement Bonus achievement 110% 100% 90% 80% 70% 60% 50% 40% 30% 20% 10% 0% 90% 100% 110% Performance John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 65 % pay out Governance | Directors' Remuneration Report For awards made in 2018, 75% of any award will be paid in cash in the March following the end of the performance year, with the remaining 25% deferred into nil cost share options for a further two years with continued employment a requirement to receive the deferred payment, other than for those classified as good leavers.
A summary of the financial targets for the bonus year ended 31 December 2018, and the extent to which they were achieved, are described and set out in the table below.
EBITA Earnings Before Interest, Taxes and Amortisation was the measure of profit: this achieved 103% to target, resulting in a pay out of 66.4% of maximum.
The cost synergy target was based on an annualised run rate, and for the purposes of ABP calculation was calculated with reference to the consolidated business unit budgeted cost savings for 2018: this target assumed the exclusion of any negative synergies, and as such the achieved number has been calculated on the same basis.
The target set for 2018 was $75.0m: $85.0m was achieved resulting in maximum pay out for this measure.
The cash generation target was based on pre-tax cash flows before exceptional items.
Threshold was selected as the achievement of the 2018 Group cash flow budget, with maximum performance set as the point at which the Group achieved a neutral working capital position.
The cash generation achieved 162% of target resulting in maximum pay out for this measure.
% pay out Measures Threshold Target Maximum Achieved on measure EBITA $549m $610m $671m $630m 66.4% Cost synergy $67.5 $75.0m $82.5m $85.0m 100.0% Cash generation $342m $378m $478m $612.6m 100.0% Non-financial performance measures and outcomes HSSE: HSSE measures total 10% of bonus opportunity and relate directly to three KPIs, equally weighted - HSSE improvement targets, measured using Total Recordable Case Frequency TRCF, close out of assurance actions and leadership engagement sessions.
Performance is tracked via the HSSEA global dashboard.
Performance achievement is considered and approved by the Safety, Assurance and Business Ethics Committee SABE.
Although all three KPIs were achieved across Wood, as a result of the fatality in March 2018, the executive directors and members of the ELT determined to forgo the TRCF improvement element of the HSSE measure.
Corporate and personal objectives and performance: Objectives relating to corporate and personal objectives are considered stretching objectives focused on the delivery of strategic plans.
Achievement of objectives is considered by the Chair of the Board and the Remuneration Committee as part of the annual review process.
Measurement against each of the objectives is based on tangible performance outcomes and demonstrable evidence of achievement during the year.
Overall achievement of corporate and personal objectives as agreed by the Committee for the bonus year ended 31 December 2018 is 95% and is summarised in the following tables: Corporate objectives Achievements ELT Integration programme delivery and Integration has been a significant success positioning Wood for future growth.
Key positives positioning for through-cycle growth include: Safety performance has not been adversely impacted Risks continue to be well managed Business continuity has been largely maintained All major financial targets have been achieved and costs have been contained Strong employee engagement and development of the Wood culture Develop and deliver deleveraging plan Deleveraging plan was developed with scenarios clearly identified and actions in place, with a focus on cash conversion, working capital and disposals.
Regular tracking of the plan and updates to the Board are provided.
ELT leadership effectiveness and mitigate ELT inter-relationships fully developed, with ongoing coaching in place for the team and the likelihood and effect of any down-side individuals.
The first Wood leadership conference took place in January bringing together the risk unexpected event top 200 leaders.
Risk overviews were completed in the first 100 days of acquisition, with new delegation of authority, commercial process, case management, compliance programme and additional quality assurance to prevent and mitigate inherited risk.
66 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Personal objectives Executive director Objectives Achievements Robin Watson Organisational transition: Fully Integration ahead of plan.
Delivered new organisation which has been simplified embed the new organisation and into four functions and four business units.
complete the integration in 2018 Customers & stakeholders: Customer engagement structure implemented through strategic, global and key Actively engage core stakeholder accounts.
Personal engagement with all strategic account relationships Shell, groups and key customers ExxonMobil, BP, Saudi Aramco and UK government.
Active engagement in all investor relations matters, including re-tendering of broker and PR relationships.
Corporate affairs: Positioning Selection, assessment and recruitment of a head of marketing and and engagement programme communications.
Active engagement with our corporate partners, including governments.
Enduring corporate affairs programme in place with active management.
Delivery of first sustainability report.
Mature our tactical decisions Implemented new functional blueprints and delivered: and delivery, from our strategy: enhanced customer relationships, growing and creating revenue synergies and Provide mechanisms for backlog delivering against the strategy organisational integration succession: cultural improvement: employee and demonstrate continued engagement: and terms, conditions, benefits and policies harmonisation tactical progress broadening of HSSEA functional remit: active case management: ethics & compliance and sustainability & performance improvement clear financial metrics and programme to deliver, with commercial risk management improvement and active case management Active safety and ethics SABE roles and responsibilities enhanced: improved performance in combined leadership: Provide a programme business delivered in a short time frame: enhanced risk programme and focus, with of active leadership and delivery Investigations Oversight Committee in place.
SFO case load management with in the safety and ethics arena clear priorities and risk mitigation.
David Kemp Deliver 2018 synergy budget for Finance & Administration 2018 synergy budget delivered, with effective tracking in Finance & Administration place throughout integration.
Develop and communicate long Deleveraging plan developed, communicated and approved by Board, with ongoing term deleveraging plan and reporting and tracking.
deliver 2018 element Cashflow performance significantly better than budgeted, driven by improved working capital performance and cost control.
Improved working capital driven by cash campaign and receivables financing.
Develop and deliver financing Plan agreed with the Board and initial opportunistic financing in December 2018 plan for Wood raised $140m.
Deliver and govern an active cash Successful cash campaign developed to bring focus across all of business.
management programme across Leadership calls, CFO meetings and broader engagement focused on the the company importance of cash and has delivered a better-than-budget outcome.
Deliver functional integration plan Function is aligned to the new structure and working towards our target operating delivering simpler and consistent model.
Simplification of policies, procedures and processes has enhanced operating model to Wood governance and mitigated risk.
ERP shared services implementation across AFW UK Capital Projects, Saudi Arabia, Malaysia, Clean Energy, Chennai, Manila, Elkhorn and Infinity.
Provide thorough governance Significant governance investment and improvement during 2018, with robust leadership, assessment of QRMs, risk reviews in place and progress reported regularly to the Board.
progress and reporting to Board Develop and deliver Wood Detailed programme delivered with investor roadshows in the UK and US.
In 2018 investor engagement presentations on our Environment & Infrastructure Services and Asset Solutions programme Americas businesses provided investors and analysts with a deeper understanding of the service offerings, capabilities, competitive landscape and key projects.
Bonus award achievement summary: The table below provides a summary of overall bonus achievement for each of the executive directors as described above: Financial award - 60% Non-financial award - 40% Total award as % of Total Total Corporate & HSE % max bonus bonus award as Executive director % achieved Payment Personal % achieved achieved Payment opportunity payment % of salary Robin Watson 88.8% 643,340 95.0% 6.6% 424,638 88.4% 1,067,978 154.8% David Kemp 88.8% 359,631 95.0% 6.6% 237,375 88.4% 597,006 132.7% John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 67 Governance | Directors' Remuneration Report Long term incentives Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The figures set out in the single figure of remuneration table are related to awards under LTIP 2016-2018, which vested at 31 December 2018.
Maximum awards and LTIP measures under the performance period were as per the table below: Participation Level Performance Measures split Name TSR AEPS Robin Watson 150% 50% 50% David Kemp 125% 50% 50% TSR is Total Shareholder Return and is a measure of the growth in John Wood Group PLC JWG share price plus dividends and other shareholder returns over the period: performance is measured relative to a peer group of comparative companies.
Each th company is ranked and JWG's position in this group is taken as a measure of success.
On reaching the threshold, or 50 percentile th for TSR, 25% of the relevant measure becomes payable: and on reaching the maximum, or 75 percentile for TSR, 100% of the relevant measure becomes payable.
For achievement between threshold and maximum, the allocation is on a straight-line basis.
The TSR peer group for 2016-2018 LTIP performance period comprised the following companies Aker Solutions, Amec Foster Wheeler, Cape, Chicago Bridge & Iron Company, Fluor, Hunting, Jacobs Engineering, KBR, McDermott, Petrofac, Saipem, SBM Offshore, Technip, The Weir Group, Worley Parsons and WS Atkins.
The TSR peer group was considered by the Committee as a result of acquisition activity within the peer group with the following rationale applied: if a company has been in for more than half the performance period then this company will be retained in the peer group, adjusting to the end of the period for the movement in the acquirors share price.
If a company has not been in for half of the performance period, then it will be removed and not replaced.
As a result, Amec Foster Wheeler and Chicago Bridge & Iron Company were retained and adjusted: Cape and WS Atkins were removed.
AEPS is defined as earnings before exceptional items and amortisation, net of tax, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
Earnings are stated post tax, interest and minority interests, and consistent with EBITA all amortisation is added back.
AEPS is determined using actual foreign exchange rates.
No adjustment is made to reflect changes in currency from the date the targets are set.
For all participants, 80% is paid following the end of the performance period and 20% of the share options awarded is deferred for a further two years.
All vestings were made as nil cost options.
For executive directors, 100% of all awards granted from 2017 will be subject to a further two-year deferral period following the end of the performance period.
The LTIP award accrues dividends from the commencement of the performance period, which are paid as additional share options.
The deferred element may continue to attract dividends which will be reported in the relevant period.
The targets for LTIP 2016-2018, and the extent to which they were achieved, are set out in the table below.
Financial measures Threshold Maximum Achieved Award % th th th TSR 50 percentile 75 percentile Below 50 percentile nil AEPS 80.0 cents 100.0 cents 57.4 cents nil Details relating to 2017 bonus and long term incentive awards can be found in the 2017 Annual Report: www.
com ar17 2.2 Pension related benefits In line with the Directors Remuneration Policy, the executive directors can choose to participate in the relevant local defined contribution pension arrangement or receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension, or a combination thereof.
Payment may be up to 15% of base salary, with Company contributions to the relevant local defined contribution pension arrangement being restricted to the limit for tax relief in place at the time.
This compares with 9% or 10% for onshore, office-based employees in the UK during 2018: from April 2019 the maximum employer pension contributions for onshore office-based employees will be 9%.
Normal retirement age specified in the pension scheme rules is 65 years.
There are no additional benefits that become receivable in the event of early retirement.
Life assurance cover is provided for the Chief Executive up to the greater of 2,500,000 or four times annual base salary: where cover of four times salary exceeds the maximum free cover limit, medical underwriting will be required, and cover will be subject to insurer acceptance.
All other executives are provided with life assurance cover of four times annual base salary, up to the maximum free cover limit as specified in the life assurance policy.
68 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2.3 Long Term Incentive Plan interests awarded during the year The following table sets out the awards made to each of the executive directors under the companys share based long term incentive arrangements for the performance period 2018-2020.
Performance measures are based on relative TSR and a strategic measure weighted equally at 50%.
Share incentive plan interests awarded during the year Salary Holding relevant to Face value Percentage period for Executive Type of Participation performance of the vesting at Performance 100% of a director award Level cycle award threshold period award Targets th Robin Conditional 200% 690,000 1,380,000 25% 1 Jan 2018 Two years TSR threshold is set at 50 Watson award of 31 Dec 2020 from percentile with maximum th at 75 percentile: the shares vesting strategic measure for awarded the performance period under the 2018-2020 is to achieve LTP the three-year cost synergy David 175% 450,000 787,500 target of $170m: threshold Kemp is set as $160m and maximum is set at $200m: 25% becomes payable on reaching threshold: 100% becomes payable on reaching maximum.
Notes to share incentive plan interests awarded during the year a.
The awards above were granted based on base salary multiplied by participation level, calculated using the 20 days trading average of 6.671 as at 1 January 2018 for the relevant performance period.
Performance is measured over a period of three financial years and for awards granted from 2017 onwards, 100% of any award is deferred for a period of two years following the end of the performance period.
Malus and clawback will apply as detailed in the remuneration policy.
This timeline is demonstrated below: LTIP timeline Share options Award Performance outcomes available granted award vest Three year performance period Two year deferral period Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 2.4 Payments to past directors For the year ending December 2018, there were no payments made to past directors which require disclosure and have not already been disclosed in previous Directors Remuneration Reports.
2.5 Payments for loss of office There were no payments made for loss of office to any director during 2018.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 69 Governance | Directors' Remuneration Report 2.6 Statement of directors shareholding and share interests Shareholding guidelines were reviewed during the 2016 Directors Remuneration Policy review and approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
The policy requires the Chief Executive to hold shares valued at 200% of base salary and the other executive directors to hold shares valued at 100% of base salary.
The holding will be built up from after tax share awards which are not subject to any further performance or other conditions, such as continued employment.
The holding does not include shares held by connected persons.
The interests of the directors in shares of the company are stated as at 31 December 2018.
Changes in the interest of directors between 31 December 2018 and 18 March 2019 is related to permitted purchases under the Wood Employee Share Plan.
Robin Watson and David Kemp acquired an additional 2,263 and 1,163 shares respectively.
The extent to which each director met the shareholding guidelines is shown in the table below: Shareholding at 31 December 2018 Value of shares held Shareholding guideline a Executive director not including connected persons as a % of salary met at 31 December 2018 Robin Watson 247,615 181.7% Accumulating David Kemp 40,802 45.9% Accumulating Notes to shareholding guidelines achievement a.
Calculated using the closing mid-market share price on 31 December 2018 of 5.062 and base salary levels at the same date.
A summary of directors share interests and incentive plan interests are provided in the following two tables.
The first table details directors interests in the ordinary shares of the company at 31 December 2018 with and without performance conditions: declaration includes shares held by connected persons as defined for the purposes of section 96B 2 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
The second table details directors interests in long term incentive plans at 31 December 2018.
Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the company at 31 December 2018.
Interests in share Interests in share incentive plans, incentive plans, awarded without awarded subject to Shares owned outright Shares owned outright performance conditions performance conditions Beneficial interest as at 1 January 2018 as at 31 December 2018 at 31 December 2018 at 31 December 2018 Executive directors Robin Watson 203,346 252,809 48,478 501,981 David Kemp 23,891 40,802 27,922 274,858 Non-executive directors Ian Marchant 22,777 22,777 Linda Adamany 2,325 2,325 Thomas Botts 8,500 8,500 Jann Brown 12,575 17,764 Jacqueline Ferguson 552 Roy Franklin 6,000 a Richard Howson Mary Shafer-Malicki 3,450 3,450 b Ian McHoul 389,225 Jeremy Wilson 10,000 10,000 Notes to share interests a. Richard Howson resigned from the board 17 January 2018 b. Ian McHoul was appointed to the board 6 October 2017 and resigned 5 April 2018.
His previous role was CFO of AFW and the number of shares owned outright relates to the treatment of AFW shares which vested at the point of change of control.
None of the executive directors had a material interest in any contract, other than a service contract, with the company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
Where applicable the December 2018 figures include interest in retained long term plan awards.
For performance periods commencing 2013 onwards, dividend accrues on 100% of award: 80% is paid in March following the end of the performance period and 20% is deferred for two years.
For performance periods commencing 2017, 100% of the award vests and is available to exercise after a two-year deferral period: dividend accrues on 100% of the final award.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 71 Governance | Directors' Remuneration Report 2.7 TSR performance summary & Chief Executive remuneration TSR performance summary In accordance with the reporting regulations the TSR performance summary will be built up until a 10 year period is disclosed, and will be maintained at a 10 year disclosure period.
As the company is included in the UK FTSE 250 index but has been included in the FTSE 100 index for part of the period under review, both the UK FTSE 250 and UK FTSE 100 indices are shown, by way of providing a reasonable TSR comparison.
The graph below compares the TSR on a holding of shares in John Wood Group PLC with the TSR on a holding of shares in the companies in the UK FTSE 250 and 100 indices for the last ten financial years, 2010 to 2018.
600 500 400 300 275% 265% 200 152% 100 0 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Dec-13 Dec-14 Dec-15 Dec-16 Dec-17 Dec-18 Wood FTSE 100 FTSE 250 Chief Executive remuneration The total remuneration for the Chief Executive over the same period as the TSR performance graph detailed is listed in the following table.
This table includes details of the annual bonus received in each year as a percentage of the maximum opportunity that was available, as well as the long-term incentives which vested in each year as a percentage of the maximum number of shares that could have been received.
Chief Executive remuneration 000 Year 2010 2011 2012 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Chief Executive Allister Allister Allister Bob Bob Bob Bob Robin Robin Robin b c Langlands Langlands Langlands Keiller Keiller Keiller Keiller Watson Watson Watson a Chief Executive single 1,314 3,338 2,276 199 1,624 1,330 1,147 1,179 1,420 1,875 figure of total remuneration 000 Annual bonus award as a % 84% 87% 76% 75% 60% 48% 37% 43% 59% 88% of maximum opportunity Long term incentive vesting 23% 100% 100% 25% 79% 51% 16% 25% 11% 0% rates as a % of maximum opportunity Notes to Chief Executive remuneration table a. Allister Langlands was appointed Chair on 1 November 2012.
His remuneration for 2012 related to his time as Group CEO only.
Bob Keiller was appointed Group CEO on 1 November 2012.
His remuneration for 2012 reflected his remuneration from appointment as Group CEO only.
Long term incentives vesting during the year were awarded during his time as Wood Group PSN CEO and vested based on performance targets linked to performance of that division.
c. Robin Watson was appointed as Chief Executive on 1 January 2016.
72 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Pay Ratio of Chief Executive In previous reporting years Wood has reported the ratio of Chief Executive salary with a UK comparator group using two scenarios: one comparing base salary, and the other comparing base salary, overtime, cash allowances and bonuses paid via payroll.
The UK Corporate Governance Code will introduce mandatory reporting from 2019 financial year.
The Committee will continue to take a proactive approach in this area demonstrating our consideration of pay in the wider workforce.
th th For 2018 reporting, in line with the legislative requirements, the table below sets out the Chief Executive pay ratio at the 25, 50 th and 75 percentiles for total pay and benefits using method C. The calculation is based on full time equivalent FTE salary as at 31 December 2018 for all UK based employees in our integrated systems.
UK employees in integrated systems represent 64% of the overall UK workforce which we believe is a good representation.
During 2019, our systems integration strategy will increase the overall percentage of UK employees in integrated systems, and for 2020 reporting our calculations will include all UK employees.
FTE is calculated as salary divided by contractual hours then multiplied by standard full time hours and includes all fixed allowances th th th that make up base pay.
The data was ranked and three representative employees reflecting 25, 50 and 75 percentile identified: total pay and benefits were calculated on the same basis as the single figure table for the purposes of pay ratio calculation, which includes taxable benefits medical, car allowance, bonus and LTIP payment and employer pension contribution up to a maximum 10% employer contribution as set out in the tables below: Financial Year P25 P50 P75 2018 Salary ratio 20:1 14:1 11:1 Total Pay ratio 50:1 35:1 26:1 Pay CEO P25 P50 P75 Salary 000s 690.0 34.4 48.5 63.7 Total Pay 000s 1,875.2 37.6 53.3 71.4 2.8 Percentage change in Chief Executive remuneration The following table provides a summary of the increases in remuneration for the Chief Executive as compared with the average increase for all other UK based employees in the company.
Given the wide variation in inflation rates across the various geographies in which the company operates, the comparator group used is UK based employees.
UK based employees constituted approximately 21% of the overall global workforce.
% change between 2017 and 2018 a b c Salary Benefits Bonus Chief Executive 15.0% -0.11% 71.0% Average of all other UK employees 2.0% -0.18% 89.6% Notes to the percentage change in Chief Executive remuneration a.
Salary increase is the average increase received by UK based employees during the formal annual salary review process in 2018. b.
Benefits are based on a sample employee receiving taxable employee benefits including car allowance, private family medical and dental insurance.
c. The bonus increase is based on average bonus award as a percentage of salary for those participating in the annual bonus plan.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 73 Governance | Directors' Remuneration Report 2.9 Relative importance of spend on pay Benefits The table below is provided to assist shareholders in assessing The executive directors will continue to participate in existing the relative importance of the companys spend on pay.
It benefit arrangements in line with the agreed Remuneration contains details of the remuneration paid to or received by all Policy.
employees of the company as well as the value of distributions to shareholders by way of dividend and share buyback over Bonus the previous two years.
2018 data reflects a full year of The 2019 annual bonus opportunities for the executive directors remuneration following the AFW transaction reflected in the will remain as 175% for the Chief Executive and 150% for the significant percentage change from 2017.
Item 2017 2018 Difference % Consistent with previous years, bonus measures will be split $m $m $m change between financial, HSSE and non-financial measures with a Remuneration paid 2,741.6 4,558.2 1,816.6 66.3% balance of 60%, 10% and 30% respectively as illustrated in the to or received by all chart below.
employees of the Group Relative weighting % of bonus opportunity Distributions to 125.6 231.0 105.4 83.9% shareholders by way Profit Cost Cash HSSE Corporate of dividend and share synergies generation personal objectives buyback 20% 20% 20% 10% 30% financial measures non-financial measures 60% 40% 2.10 Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the following financial year 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% The Directors Remuneration Policy was approved at the 2017 AGM.
This section provides an overview of how the Committee will implement the Remuneration Policy in 2019 which is subject Financial measures to an advisory vote at the 2018 AGM.
There are no proposed changes to Policy for 2019.
For 2019, the financial measures and the weighting will be: A measure of profit, weighted at 20% Base salary 2019 cost synergy target, weighted at 20% As described in the letter from the Chair of the Committee, Cash generation measure, weighted at 20% the Chief Executives base salary will increase to 750,000 and the CFO to 475,000 effective from 1 January 2019.
We For profit and cost synergy measures, threshold performance had proposed to apply a further 2.4% which is the standard UK will be 90% of the target set, and maximum bonus is achieved increase being given to our onshore office-based UK workforce when results exceed 110% of target.
Targets for cost synergies in 2019: this would have increased Robin Watsons salary from will reflect the overall objectives built into the strategy.
690,000 to 768,000 and David Kemps from 450,000 to Threshold performance must be met before any of that element 486,400.
Both executive directors decided to defer the 2.4% of the award is paid: if target performance is met, 50% of the increase until 2020. potential bonus opportunity is paid: 100% is payable for reaching maximum performance.
Performance between threshold Executive 2018 annual 2019 annual % increase and target and between target and maximum will result in a base salary base salary proportionate award calculated on a straight-line basis.
Robin Watson 690,000 750,000 8.7 David Kemp 450,000 475,000 5.6 For awards made in 2019, 75% of any award will be paid in cash in the March following the end of the performance year, with the remaining 25% deferred into nil cost share options for a further two years.
The Committee has set the targets for the annual bonus plan for the year ending 31 December 2019 at its meeting in March 2019.
It is the opinion of the Committee that these are commercially sensitive and in line with previous practice, the details of annual bonus targets and the extent to which the targets are met will be disclosed retrospectively in next years report.
74 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Non-financial measures HSSE measures HSSE measures total 10% of bonus opportunity and relate directly to three KPIs, equally weighted - HSSE improvement targets, measured using Total Recordable Case Frequency TRCF, close out of assurance actions and leadership engagement sessions.
Corporate personal objectives Non-financial measures relating to corporate personal objectives, weighted as 30% of bonus opportunity are summarised in the tables below.
These are considered stretching objectives, with tangible performance outcomes focused on the delivery of strategic plans.
Detailed disclosure of performance against objectives will be contained in next years Directors Remuneration Report.
Corporate objectives Positioning Wood for sustainable growth and delivering phase 2 of integration.
Overall business positioning for 2020 budget earnings to be greater than the 2019 out-turn earnings.
Deliver deleveraging plan to take Wood within 0.5 1.5 net debt to adjusted EBITDA range within 2019.
Continue to strengthen the balance sheet through 2019, compared to 2018 year-end position.
Continue to enhance leadership effectiveness, not only of the ELT, but throughout Wood.
Demonstrate continuous improvement through ELT development programme.
Personal objectives Robin Watson Organisational transition: develop the organisation structure to reflect emerging themes, opportunities and challenges of the new competitive business environment.
Ensure active management of succession plans, including identification and development of high potential talent across the Group.
Provide mechanisms for delivering against the Group strategy and demonstrate continued tactical progress.
This will include delivery against the BU and functional tactical programmes.
Active and strategic engagement across our key customer grouping and significant investors: fully embed the customer relationship management tools and maintain the opportunity pipeline: sustain the opportunity pipeline at circa 12 months work or more through 2019: actively engage with the investor community: and complete a capital markets day business deep dives in 2019, aligned to the investor relations plan.
Consolidation of marketing and communications strategy and delivery of 2019 corporate affairs programme, including active engagement of partners in our communities, business networks, media and governments.
Lead a programme of active leadership and delivery in the safety and ethics arena.
Deliver the Group risk management programme and maintain SABE and Investigations Oversight Committee effectiveness: this will be measured by Board feedback process.
Champion digitalisation and technology enhancement strategy across Wood.
David Kemp Lead Group focus on balance sheet strengthening and deleveraging: control, monitor, review and amend as necessary the Wood plans, focusing on cost control, working capital management and asset disposal.
Refinance $1bn term loan which expires Oct 2020.
Deliver 2019 F&A integration plan and associated synergies, including ERP and shared services.
Monitor and drive achievement of Wood 2019 synergies.
Enhance investor understanding by completing further deep dives: developing Wood investment case and strategy: position and execute beyond deleveraging strategy: and ensure alignment with Woods market positioning.
Leadership of the ongoing regulatory investigations, with a focus on appropriate & timely functional advice: project management: cost containment: and cost efficiency to achieve an appropriate outcome for the business.
Progress to be assessed at Board level.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 75 Governance | Directors' Remuneration Report Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Pension and life assurance benefits As described in the letter from the Chair of the Committee, the The executive directors will continue to participate in existing maximum award for the 2019-2021 performance period will pension and life assurance arrangements in line with the be will increased to 250% of salary for the Chief Executive and Policy.
Any new executive directors will participate in pension 200% of salary for the CFO.
Their normal LTIP awards for any arrangements aligned to their country of employment.
This will future awards will remain 200% and 175% of salary respectively.
be a maximum of 9% employer contributions in the UK from We have decided to apply this exceptional participation level to April 2019 for onshore office-based employees.
the Chief Executive in recognition of the fact that we set targets in previous years which failed to accurately predict the length Shareholding requirements and depth of the downturn in the oil and gas sector.
This has The shareholding requirements will remain as 200% for the resulted in zero vesting for the 2016-2018 performance period Chief Executive and 100% for all other executives.
and is predicted to result in zero outcome again for the 2017- 2019 performance period despite the positive strategic and Post-employment shareholding requirements will be considered operational progress achieved to date.
The decision to apply as part of the 2020 policy update.
this one-off increase has not been taken lightly, but we want to continue to motivate our executive directors and drive the right Chair of the Board and non-executive director NED behaviours to delivery shareholder value.
As in previous years, no remuneration portion of these awards is released until five years from grant The Chair and NED fee structure for 2019 is set out below.
in line with our focus on creating value for shareholders over the A competitive review was carried out during 2018 and the Board long term by linking a significant portion of executive directors has determined to increase non-executive fees and committee remuneration to long term performance.
chair fees accordingly to reflect the increased time commitment For the performance period commencing 2019, the performance of committee responsibilities and ensure we continue to attract measures will be relative TSR, gross margin improvement and and retain from a diverse range of backgrounds.
The Committee considers these measures are well aligned to our strategy.
Margin growth 2019 fees per annum and costs are key strategic priorities for us and are aligned Chair of the Board remuneration 280,000 with value generation for our shareholders.
The weightings and Annual non-executive director fee inclusive 57,000 targets for each of these measures are as follows: of all committee attendance Additional fee for senior independent director 10,000 Targets Performance Additional fee for Audit Remuneration 10,000 Measure Weighting % Threshold Maximum Safety, Assurance & Business Ethics Chairs th th TSR 50% 50 percentile 75 percentile Gross Margin 25% 9% 19% Improvement growth from 2018 to 2021 Overhead 25% 2021 2021 Percentage performance performance Improvement of 12.3% of 11.9% reduction from 12.7% in 2018 No award will be made for less than threshold performance: 25% becomes payable on reaching threshold and 100% is payable on reaching maximum performance.
The TSR peer group was reviewed by the Committee and remains unchanged from last year.
The peer group for 2019 will be as follows: Aecom, Aker Solutions, Fluor, Hunting, Jacobs Engineering, KBR, McDermott, Petrofac, Saipem, SBM Offshore, SNC Lavalin, Stantec, Technip FMC, Tetratech, The Weir Group, Worley Parsons and WSP.
76 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial statements Group financial statements The audited financial statements of Wood for the year ended 31 December 2018 Independent auditors' report 78 Consolidated income statement 86 Consolidated statement of 87 comprehensive income expense Consolidated balance sheet 88 Consolidated statement of 89 changes in equity Consolidated cash flow statement 90 Notes to the financial statements 91 Company financial statements Company balance sheet 160 Statement of changes in equity 161 Notes to the Company financial 162 statements Five year summary 171 Information for shareholders 172 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 77
