C O R P O R A T E G O V E R N A N C E S T A T E M E N T bid: and no agreements between the Company and its Directors of shares that could be purchased to a maximum of 32,618,571 concerning compensation for loss of office.
shares representing approximately 14.99% of the Companys issued shares as at 20th March 2019 being the latest practicable Listing Rule 9.8.
4R date prior to the publication of this document.
The authority also Listing Rule 9.8.
4R requires the Company to include certain sets minimum and maximum prices.
information in the identifiable section of the Annual Report or a cross reference table indicating where the information is set If resolution 13 is passed at the Annual General Meeting, shares out.
The Directors confirm that there are no disclosures to be repurchased might not be cancelled but rather held as Treasury made in this report.
The Company does not have authority to re-issue shares from Treasury at a discount to NAV, therefore any reissue of shares from Treasury would be at a premium to the prevailing Annual General Meeting NAV.
The notice covering the Annual General Meeting of the The full text of the resolution is set out in the Notice of Meeting Company to be held on 2nd May 2019 is given on pages 82 to on pages 82 to 85.
Repurchases will be made at the discretion of 85.
The full text of the Resolutions is set out in this notice.
the Board and will only be made in the market at prices below the Resolutions relating to the following items of special business will prevailing NAV per share, thereby enhancing the NAV of the be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting: remaining shares as and when market conditions are appropriate.
i Authority to allot new shares and to disapply statutory iii Investment Policy resolution 14 pre-emption rights resolutions 11 and 12 As detailed in the Chairs Statement on pages 5 to 14, the Board is At the Annual General Meeting the Directors will seek authority to proposing to make certain changes to its Investment Policy to issue up to 21,760,220 new shares or sell shares held in Treasury permit a change of investment process.
for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,088,011 such The proposed new Investment Policy is set out in full in the amount being equivalent to 10% of the issued share capital and Appendix on page 85 of this annual report, with the amendments disapply pre-emption rights upon such issues.
The full text of the highlighted for ease of reference.
The revised Investment Policy, resolutions is set out in the Notice of Meeting on if approved, shall come into effect on 1st June 2019.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the Investment Policy is not approved, the Company will continue to Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2020 unless renewed comply with the current investment process and Investment at a prior general meeting.
It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue new shares or to sell Treasury shares to investors when the Directors Recommendation consider that it is in the best interests of shareholders to do so.
As such issues are only made at prices greater than the net asset The Board considers that resolutions 1 to 14 are likely to promote value NAV, they increase the NAV per share and spread the the success of the Company and are in the best interests of the Companys administrative expenses, other than the management Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors fee which is charged on the value of the Companys assets, over unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the a greater number of shares.
The issue proceeds are available for resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial investment in line with the Companys investment policies.
holdings which amount in aggregate to 127,161 shares representing approximately 0.1% of the existing issued share ii Authority to repurchase the Companys shares capital of the Company.
Resolution 13 At the Annual General Meeting held on 2nd May 2018, Corporate Governance Statement shareholders gave authority to the Company to purchase up to 14.99% of its then issued share capital.
At that time, shareholders Compliance were informed that this authority would expire on 1st October The Company is committed to high standards of corporate 2019 but could be renewed by shareholders at any time at governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of a general meeting of the Company.
The Directors consider that Directors Responsibilities on page 44, indicates how the the renewal of the authority is in the interests of shareholders as Company has applied the principles of good governance of the a whole, as the repurchase of shares at a discount to the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code underlying net asset value NAV enhances the NAV of the the UK Corporate Governance Code and the AICs Code of remaining shares.
Resolution 13 gives the Company authority to Corporate Governance the AIC Code, which complements the buy back its own issued shares in the market as permitted by the UK Corporate Governance Code and provides a framework of Companies Act 2006 the Act.
The authority limits the number 3 4 | J P M O R G A N A M E R I C A N I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 8 C O R P O R A T E G O V E R N A N C E S T A T E M E N T best practice for investment trusts.
Board Composition The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of The Board consists of five non-executive Directors, chaired by corporate governance and considers that the Company has Dr Kevin Carter, all of whom are considered to be independent of complied with the best practice provisions of the UK Corporate the Companys Manager.
The Directors have a breadth of Governance Code, insofar as they are relevant to the Companys investment knowledge, business and financial skills and experience business, and the AIC Code throughout the year under review.
relevant to the Companys business and brief biographical details of each Director are set out on page 31.
The Board notes the publication of the new 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code and the new 2018 AIC Code of Corporate A review of Board composition and balance is included as part of Governance.
The Company will report against the applicable the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of which guidance in the Companys 2019 Annual Report & Financial may be found below.
Sir Alan Collins, the Senior Independent Statements.
Director, leads the evaluation of the performance of the Chair and is available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be Role of the Board resolved through discussion with the Chair.
A management agreement between the Company and JPMF sets Tenure out the matters over which the Manager has delegated authority.
This includes management of the Companys assets within the Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual General guidelines established by the Board from time to time and the Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of Association, it is provision of accounting, company secretarial, administration and required that they be reappointed by shareholders.
Subject to the some marketing services.
All other matters are reserved for the performance evaluation carried out each year, the Board will agree approval of the Board.
A formal schedule of matters reserved to the whether it is appropriate for Directors to seek annual Board for decision has been approved.
This includes determination reappointment in accordance with corporate governance best and monitoring of the Companys investment objectives and policy practice.
The Board does not believe that length of service in itself and its future strategic direction, gearing policy, management of necessarily disqualifies a Director from seeking reappointment but, the capital structure, appointment and removal of third party when making a recommendation, the Board will take into account service providers, review of key investment and financial data and the ongoing requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companys corporate governance and risk control including the need to refresh the Board and its Committees.
A list of potential conflicts of interest for each Director is The Board met six times during the year and additional meetings maintained by the Company.
These are considered carefully, taking are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely information is provided into account the circumstances surrounding them, and, if to the Board to enable it to function effectively and to allow considered appropriate, are approved.
Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
Further information on The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set out in meetings and committees can be found on page 36. formal letters of appointment, copies of which are available for The Board has procedures in place to deal with potential conflicts of inspection on request at the Companys registered office and at the interest and, following the introduction of the Bribery Act 2010, has Annual General Meeting.
adopted appropriate procedures designed to prevent bribery.
It confirms that the procedures have operated effectively during Induction and Training the year under review.
On appointment, the Manager and Company Secretary provide all There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent Directors with induction training.
Thereafter, regular briefings are professional advice in the furtherance of their duties and at the provided on changes in law and regulatory requirements that affect Companys expense.
This is in addition to the access that every the Company and Directors.
Directors are encouraged to attend Director has to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, industry and other seminars covering issues and developments JPMF, which is responsible to the Board for ensuring adherence to relevant to investment trusts.
Regular reviews of the Directors Board procedures and compliance with applicable rules and training needs are carried out by the Board by means of the regulations.
D I R E C T O R S R E P O R T | 3 5 C O R P O R A T E G O V E R N A N C E S T A T E M E N T The Directors commissioned Lintstock, a firm of independent Meetings and Committees consultants, to externally facilitate the evaluation of the Board.
The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to The process involved the completion of questionnaires by the committees.
Details of membership of committees are shown with Board.
The resulting report was discussed by Directors under the the Directors profiles on page 31. remit of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee.
The evaluation of individual Directors is led by the Chair and the The table below details the number of formal Board and Committee Chair is evaluated by the Senior Independent Director.
meetings attended by each Director.
During the year there were six Board meetings, including a meeting devoted to strategy and The Committee also reviews Directors fees and makes a private meeting of the Directors to evaluate the Manager.
recommendations to the Board as and when required.
In addition, two Audit Committee meetings, two Risk Committee Management Engagement Committee meetings and one Nomination & Remuneration Committee meeting were held.
From 1st January 2019, the Board established a Management Nomination & Engagement Committee.
Although the new duties of the Audit Risk Remuneration Management Engagement Committee were previously completed Board Committee Committee Committee by the Board as a whole, the Committee was established to bring Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings the Company in line with the AIC Code of Corporate Governance.
Director Attended Attended Attended Attended 1 Dr Kevin Carter 622 1 The Management Engagement Committee, chaired by Simon Bragg 622 1 Dr Kevin Carter, consists of all Directors and will meet at least Sir Alan Collins 622 1 annually.
The Committees remit is to review the terms of the Nadia Manzoor 622 1 management agreement between the Company and the Robert Talbut6 2 2 1 Manager, to review the performance of the Manager, to review 1 Attends Audit Committee and Risk Committee Meetings by invitation.
the notice period that the Board has with the Manager and to As well as the formal meetings detailed above, the Board meets and make recommendations to the Board.
communicates frequently by email or telephone to deal with day to Risk Committee day matters as they arise.
Directors also visited the investment management team in New York and spent time with a number of The Risk Committee, chaired by Sir Alan Collins, consists of all the longer term strategists as well as with senior management, Directors and meets at least twice each year.
The Committee governance personnel and the dealing desk in JPMAMs offices.
discusses the Companys overall risk appetite, tolerance and strategy, taking into account the current and prospective Board Committees macroeconomic and financial environment.
It further reviews the Companys key risks and identifies and manages any new risks Nomination & Remuneration Committee that arise during the year.
Finally, the Committee reviews The Nomination & Remuneration Committee, chaired by compliance with the Companys investment restrictions and Dr Kevin Carter, consists of all of the Directors and meets at guidelines.
The Nomination & Remuneration Committee Audit Committee reviews the composition, structure and diversity of the Board, succession planning, the independence of the Directors and The report of the Audit Committee is set out on page 39. whether each Director has sufficient time available to discharge their duties effectively.
Having completed the annual evaluation Terms of Reference process, the Committee confirms that it believes that the Board The Nomination & Remuneration Committee, Audit Committee has an appropriate balance of skills and experience, that all and Risk Committee have written terms of reference which define Directors should be considered as Independent in accordance clearly their respective responsibilities, copies of which are with the provisions of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance available on the Companys website and for inspection on request and that all Directors have the time available to discharge their at the Companys registered office and at the Annual General duties effectively.
The Boards policy on diversity, including gender, is to take account of the benefits of this during the appointment process.
Relations with Shareholders The Board remains committed to appointing the most appropriate The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the candidate and seeks to ensure that it does not unwittingly exclude Company.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full any group.
Therefore, no targets have been set against which to understanding of the Companys activities and performance and report.
3 6 | J P M O R G A N A M E R I C A N I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 8 C O R P O R A T E G O V E R N A N C E S T A T E M E N T reports formally to shareholders twice a year by way of the internal control mainly comprises monitoring the services Annual Report and Accounts and the Half Year Report.
This is provided by JPMorgan and its associates, including the operating supplemented by the daily publication, through the London Stock controls established by them, to ensure they meet the Companys Exchange, of the net asset value of the Companys shares.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the All shareholders have the opportunity, and are encouraged, to Company see Principal Risks on pages 27 and 28.
The Company attend the Companys Annual General Meeting at which the does not have an internal audit function of its own, but relies on Directors and representatives of the Manager are available in the internal audit department of JPMF which reports any material person to meet with shareholders and answer questions.
This arrangement is kept under review.
addition, a presentation is given by the investment manager who The key elements designed to provide effective internal control reviews the Companys performance.
During the year the are as follows: investment management team, JPMF and the Companys brokers held regular discussions with larger shareholders.
Where possible Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by the Directors attend shareholder meetings arranged by the Manager.
Board of key investment and financial data, including The Chair further writes to the Companys largest shareholders management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of each year to offer a meeting with himself and other members of transactions and performance comparisons.
the Board, with or without representatives from the Manager.
The Management Agreement Evaluation and appointment of Chair and Directors make themselves available as and when a manager and custodian regulated by the Financial Conduct required to address shareholder queries.
The Directors may be Authority FCA, whose responsibilities are clearly defined in contacted through the Company Secretary whose details are a written agreement.
Management Systems The Managers system of risk The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is published in time management and internal control includes organisational to give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of the agreements which clearly define the lines of responsibility, Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise questions delegated authority, control procedures and systems.
These are in advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit questions via monitored by JPMorgans Compliance department which regularly the Companys website or write to the Company Secretary at the monitors compliance with FCA rules and reports to the Board.
Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will be Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the Board.
published on the Company website shortly after the Annual The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys General Meeting.
system of risk management and internal control by monitoring the operation of the key operating controls of the Manager and its Risk Management and Internal Control associates as follows: The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Directors, at the Board, through the Audit Committee, reviews the terms of least annually, to review the effectiveness of the Companys the management agreement and receives regular reports system of risk management and internal control and to report to from JPMorgans Compliance department: shareholders that they have done so.
This encompasses a review of all controls, which the Board has identified to include business, the Board reviews a report, which is also independently financial, operational, compliance and risk management.
reviewed, on the internal controls and the operations of its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank: The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of risk management and internal control which is designed to safeguard the Board reviews every six months a report from the the Companys assets, maintain proper accounting records and Companys Depositary, Bank of New York Mellon ensure that financial information used within the business, or International Limited, which summarises the activities published, is reliable.
However, such a system can only be performed by the Depositary during the reporting period: and designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to the Board reviews every six months an independent report on achieve business objectives and therefore can only provide the internal controls and the operations of JPMFs investment reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against fraud, material trust department.
By means of the procedures set out above, the Board confirms Since investment management, custody of assets and all that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system of administrative services are provided to the Company by JPMorgan risk management and internal control for the year ended and its associates, the Companys system of risk management and D I R E C T O R S R E P O R T | 3 7 C O R P O R A T E G O V E R N A N C E S T A T E M E N T JPMAM endorses the FRC Stewardship Code for its UK investments 31st December 2018, and to the date of approval of this Annual and supports the principles as best practice elsewhere.
We believe Report and Accounts.
that regular contact with the companies in which we invest is central During the course of its review of the system of risk management to our investment process and we also recognise the importance of and internal control, the Board has not identified nor been being an active owner on behalf of our clients.
advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to JPMAMs Voting Policy and Corporate Governance Guidelines are be significant.
Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary available on request from the Company Secretary or can be actions has not been considered appropriate.
downloaded from JPMAMs website: http: www.
co. uk governance which Corporate Governance and Voting Policy also sets out its approach to the seven principles of the FRC The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMAM.
The Stewardship Code, its policy relating to conflicts of interest and its following information in italics is a summary of JPMAMs policy detailed voting record.
statements on corporate governance, voting policy and social and By order of the Board environmental issues, which has been reviewed and noted by the Alison Vincent, for and on behalf of Board.
Details on social and environmental issues are included in JPMorgan Funds Limited, the Strategic Report on page 27.
Secretary Corporate Governance 22nd March 2019 JPMAM believes that corporate governance is integral to its investment process.
As part of its commitment to delivering superior investment performance to clients, it expects and encourages the companies in which it invests to demonstrate the highest standards of corporate governance and best business practice.
JPMAM examines the share structure and voting structure of the companies in which it invests, as well as the board balance, oversight functions and remuneration policy.
These analyses then form the basis of JPMAMs proxy voting and engagement activity.
Proxy Voting JPMAM manages the voting rights of the shares entrusted to it as it would manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a prudent and diligent manner, based exclusively on reasonable judgement of what will best serve the financial interests of clients.
So far as is practicable, JPMAM will vote at all of the meetings called by companies in which it is invested.
Stewardship Engagement JPMAM recognises its wider FRC stewardship responsibilities to its clients as a major asset owner.
To this end, we support the introduction of the FRC Stewardship Code, which sets out the responsibilities of institutional shareholders in respect of investee companies.
Under the Code, managers should: publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge their stewardship responsibilities to their clients: disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: monitor their investee companies: establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement: be willing to act collectively with other investors where appropriate: have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their voting record: and report to clients.
