Emerging Markets AR p27-35 11 10 2018 12:22 Page 31 D I R E C T O R S R E P O R T Companys administrative expenses, other than the management Corporate Governance Statement fee which is charged on the value of the Companys assets, over a greater number of shares.
The issue proceeds are available for Compliance investment in line with the Companys investment policies.
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate The Company currently holds 8,748,179 shares in the capital of governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of the Company in Treasury.
The full text of the resolutions is set out Directors Responsibilities on page 41, indicates how the Company in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 75. has applied the principles of good governance of the Financial Reporting Council 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the UK ii Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Corporate Governance Code and the AICs Code of Corporate resolution 12 Governance, the AIC Code, which complements the UK The authority to repurchase up to 14.99% of the Companys Corporate Governance Code and provides a framework of best issued ordinary share capital, granted by shareholders at the 2017 practice for investment trusts.
AGM will expire on 23rd May 2019, unless renewed prior to that The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of time.
The Directors consider that the renewing of the authority is corporate governance and considers that the Company has in the interests of shareholders as a whole, as the repurchase of complied with the best practice provisions of the UK Corporate shares at a discount to the underlying NAV enhances the NAV of Governance Code and of the AIC Code throughout the year under the remaining shares.
Resolution 12 gives the Company authority to repurchase its own issued ordinary shares in the market as permitted by the Role of the Board Companies Act 2006 the Act.
The authority limits the number of shares that could be purchased to a maximum of 18,529,940 A management agreement between the Company and the Manager ordinary shares, representing approximately 14.99% of the sets out the matters over which the Manager has authority.
This Companys issued ordinary shares as at 10th October 2018 being includes management of the Companys assets and the provision of the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this accounting, company secretarial, administrative and some document.
The authority also sets minimum and maximum marketing services.
All other matters are reserved for the approval prices.
A formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision has been approved.
This includes determination and If resolution 12 is passed at the AGM it is the Companys current monitoring of the Companys investment objectives and policy and intention to hold in Treasury any shares it may repurchase its future strategic direction, gearing policy, management of the pursuant to the authority granted to it for possible re-issue at capital structure, appointment and removal of third party service a premium to NAV.
This policy is kept under review by the Board.
providers, review of key investment and financial data and the The full text of the resolution is set out in the Notice of Annual Companys corporate governance and risk control arrangements.
General Meeting on pages 75 and 76.
Repurchases of ordinary The Board has procedures in place to deal with potential conflicts shares will be made at the discretion of the Board and will only be of interest and, following the introduction of The Bribery made in the market at prices below the prevailing NAV per share, Act 2010, has adopted appropriate procedures designed to thereby enhancing the NAV of the remaining shares as and when prevent bribery.
It confirms that the procedures have operated market conditions are appropriate.
effectively during the year under review.
Anatole Kaletsky is a founding partner and chief economist of Recommendation Gavekal Dragonomics, whose clients include JPMorgan.
The Board The Board considers that resolutions 10 to 12 are likely to does not believe this connection influences Mr Kaletskys promote the success of the Company and are in the best interests independence as a Director of the Company.
of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and additional unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely information resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial is provided to the Board to enable it to function effectively and to holdings which amount in aggregate to 32,000 ordinary shares allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
representing approximately 0.03% of the voting rights of the Company.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice if necessary and at the Companys expense.
This is in addition to the access that every Director has to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, JPMF, which is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
