Emerging Markets AR p27-35 11 10 2018 12:22 Page 35 D I R E C T O R S R E P O R T Audit Committee Report Role and Composition Going Concern The Directors believe that having considered the Companys The Audit Committee, chaired by Richard Laing and whose investment objective see page 22, risk management policies membership is set out on page 28, meets at least twice each year.
see pages 64 to 69, capital management policies and The members of the Audit Committee consider that at least one procedures see page 70, the nature of the portfolio and member has recent and relevant financial experience and that the expenditure projections, the Company has adequate resources, an Committee as a whole has competency relevant to the sector in appropriate financial structure and suitable management which the Company operates.
arrangements in place to continue in operational existence for the The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the foreseeable future.
For these reasons, they consider that there is Manager in relation to the half year and annual accounts and the reasonable evidence to continue to adopt the going concern basis Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
in preparing the financial statements.
They have not identified It examines the effectiveness of the Companys internal control any material uncertainties to the Companys ability to continue to systems, receives information from the Managers Compliance do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of department and also reviews the scope and results of the external these financial statements.
audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the Auditor Appointment and Tenure independence and objectivity of the auditors and is satisfied that Representatives of the Companys Auditors attended the Audit the auditors are independent.
The Audit Committee also has the Committee meeting at which the draft Annual Report & Accounts primary responsibility for making recommendations to the Board were considered and also engage with Directors as and when on the reappointment and the removal of external auditors.
Having reviewed the performance of the external Auditors, including assessing the quality of work, timing of Financial Statements and Significant Accounting communications and work with the Manager, the Committee Matters considered it appropriate to recommend their reappointment.
The Board supported this recommendation which will be put to During its review of the Companys financial statements for the shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The year ended 30th June 2018, the Audit Committee considered the Board reviews and approves any non-audit services provided by following significant issues, including those communicated by the the independent auditors and assesses the impact of any non audit Auditors during their reporting: work on the ability of the auditors to remain independent.
Details Significant issue How the issue was addressed of the auditors fees paid are disclosed in note 6 on page57.
Valuation, existence The valuation of investments is undertaken in  have audited the Companys financial and ownership of accordance with the accounting policies, statements since its launch in 1991 and were reappointed following investments disclosed in note 1 b to the accounts on an auditor review in 2013.
The Companys year ended 30th June page 54.
Controls are in place to ensure that 2018 is the current Audit Partners fourth of a five year maximum valuations are appropriate and existence is term.
The Company will need to appoint a different audit firm to verified through custodian reconciliations.
Recognition of The recognition of investment income is Fair, Balanced and Understandable investment income undertaken in accordance with accounting As a result of the work performed, the Committee has concluded policy note 1 d to the accounts on page 54. that the Annual Report for the year ended 30th June 2018, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Compliance with Approval for the Company as an investment information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys Sections 1158 and trust under Sections 1158 and 1159 for position and performance, business model and strategy, and has 1159 Corporation Tax financial years commencing on or after reported on these findings to the Board.
The Boards conclusions Act 2010 Section 1st October 2012 has been obtained and in this respect are set out in the Statement of Directors 1158 and 1159 ongoing compliance with the eligibility Responsibilities on page 41. criteria is monitored on a regular basis.
The Board was made fully aware of any significant financial By order of the Board reporting issues and judgements made in connection with the Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of preparation of the financial statements.
JPMorgan Funds Limited, Company Secretary 11th October 2018 D I R E C T O R S R E P O R T | 3 5
