D I R E C T O R S R E P O R T The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and additional Corporate Governance Statement meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely information is provided to the Board to enable it to function effectively and to Compliance allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of professional advice, if necessary, and at the Companys expense.
Directors Responsibilities on page 38, indicates how the Company This is in addition to the access that every Director has to the has applied the principles of good governance of the Financial advice and services of the Company Secretary, which is Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code the responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are UK Corporate Governance Code and the Association of Investment followed and for compliance with applicable rules and Companies Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code, which regulations.
complements the UK Corporate Governance Code and provides a framework of best practice for investment trusts.
Board Composition The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of The Board, chaired by Andrew Fleming, consisted of five corporate governance and considers that the Company has non-executive Directors during the year ended 30th September complied with the best practice provisions of the UK Corporate 2018, all of whom are regarded by the Board as independent of Governance Code and of the AIC Code, other than in respect of the Companys Manager.
The Directors have a breadth of the provision relating to the appointment of a senior independent investment knowledge, business and financial skills and director, and insofar as they are relevant to the Companys experience relevant to the Companys business and brief business, throughout the year under review.
biographical details of each Director are set out on page 24.
The revised UK Corporate Governance Code the 2018 Code was There have been no changes to the Chairmans other significant published in July 2018 and applies to companies with accounting commitments during the year under review.
periods commencing on or after 1st January 2019.
The Board will report on compliance with the 2018 Code and any revised code Andrew Fleming will retire as a Director at the Annual General published by the AIC in 2020.
Christopher Samuel will become Chairman with effect from 13th December 2018 and Stephen Role of the Board Cohen will replace him as Audit Committee Chairman.
The Management Agreement between the Company and the As part of the succession planning process Fletcher Jones were Manager sets out the matters which have been delegated to the appointed, resulting in a decision to appoint Sally Macdonald as Manager.
This includes management of the Companys assets and a Director of the Company following the Annual General Meeting the provision of accounting, company secretarial, administration, on 13th December 2018.
Fletcher Jones has no other connection and some marketing services.
All other matters are reserved for with the Company.
the approval of the Board.
A formal schedule of matters reserved A review of Board composition and balance is included as part to the Board for decision has been approved.
This includes of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of determination and monitoring of the Companys investment which may be found below.
The Board has considered whether objective and policy and its future strategic direction, gearing a senior independent director should be appointed, and has policy, management of the capital structure, appointment and concluded that, due to the Companys nature of business as an removal of third party service providers, review of key investment investment trust and because the Board is comprised entirely of and financial data and the Companys corporate governance and non-executive Directors, this is unnecessary at present.
the Chairman of the Audit Committee leads the evaluation of the At each Board meeting, Directors interests are considered.
These performance of the Chairman and is available to shareholders if are reviewed carefully, taking into account the circumstances they have concerns that cannot be resolved through discussions surrounding them, and, if considered appropriate, are approved.
It was resolved that there were no actual or indirect interests of a Director which conflicted with the interests of the Company, Tenure which arose during the year.
Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual General Following the introduction of The Bribery Act 2010, the Board has Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of Association, it is adopted appropriate procedures designed to prevent bribery.
required that they be reappointed by shareholders.
Thereafter, It confirms that the procedures have operated effectively during Directors are required under the Companys Articles of the year under review.
Association to submit themselves for reappointment at least D I R E C T O R S R E V I E W | 2 9
