D I R E C T O R S R E P O R T Audit Committee Report consider that there is reasonable evidence to continue to adopt the Composition and Role going concern basis in preparing the Companys financial statements.
The Audit Committee, chaired by Christopher Samuel, and whose They have not identified any material uncertainties to the Companys membership is set out on page 24, meets at least twice each year.
The ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from members of the Audit Committee consider that they have the requisite the date of approval of these financial statements.
skills and experience to fulfil the responsibilities of the Committee.
As a Chartered Accountant, Christopher Samuel has recent and relevant The Board was made fully aware of any significant financial reporting financial experience, and the Audit Committee as a whole has issues and judgements made in connection with the preparation of the competence relevant to the sector.
Financial Statements and Significant Accounting Auditor Appointment and Tenure Matters The Committee reviews the scope and results of the external audit, its effectiveness and cost effectiveness, the balance of audit and nonThe Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the Manager in audit services and the independence and objectivity of the external relation to the half year and annual accounts and the Companys Auditors.
In the Directors opinion the Auditors are independent.
The compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Committee also has primary responsibility for making The Audit Committee examines the effectiveness of the Companys recommendations to the Board on the reappointment and removal of internal control systems and receives information from the Managers the external Auditors.
The Directors statement on the Companys Representatives of the Companys Auditors attend the Audit system of Risk Management and Internal Control is set out on pages 31 Committee meeting at which the draft annual report and financial and 32. statements are considered and also engage with the Directors as and During its review of the Companys financial statements for the year when required.
Having reviewed the performance of the external ended 30th September 2018, the Audit Committee considered the Auditors, including assessing the quality of work, timing of following significant issues, including those communicated by the communications and work with the Manager, the Committee Auditors during their reporting: considered it appropriate to recommend the Auditors reappointment.
Significant issue How the issue was addressed The Board supported this recommendation and a resolution will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Valuation, existence The valuation of investments is undertaken in and ownership of accordance with the accounting policies, disclosed in As part of its review of the continuing appointment of the Auditors, the investments note 1 b to the financial statements on page 50.
Audit Committee considered the length of tenure of the audit firm, its Controls are in place to ensure that valuations are fee, its independence from JPMF and the Investment Managers and appropriate and existence is verified through any matters raised during the audit.
A formal tender exercise was Depositary and Custodian reconciliations.
The Company undertaken in 2013, as a result of which  LLP has appointed Bank of New York Mellon International was appointed in place of Begbies.
The Companys year ended Limited BNYM as its depositary.
BNY has appointed 30th September 2018 is therefore the Audit Partners last of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. as the Custodian.
BNYM a five year maximum term.
The Board reviews and approves any remains responsible for the oversight of the custody of non-audit services provided by the independent Auditors and assesses the Companys assets.
the impact of any non-audit work on the ability of the Auditors to Recognition of The recognition of investment income is undertaken in remain independent.
No such work was undertaken during the year.
investment income accordance with accounting policy note 1 d to the Details of the fees paid for audit services are included in note 6 on financial statements on page 50.
The Board regularly page 53. reviews subjective elements of income such as special dividends and agrees their accounting treatment.
Fair, Balanced and Understandable Compliance with Approval for the Company as an investment trust under Having taken all available information into consideration and having Sections 1158 and Sections 1158 and 1159 for financial years commencing discussed the content of the annual report and financial statements 1159 Corporation on or after 1st October 2012 has been obtained and with the Alternative Investment Fund Manager, Investment Managers, Tax Act 2010 ongoing compliance with the eligibility criteria is Company Secretary and other third party service providers, the Audit monitored on a regular basis.
Committee has concluded that the annual report and financial statements for the year ended 30th September 2018, taken as a Going Concern whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the The Directors believe that, having considered the Companys information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys investment objective see page 20, risk management policies see performance, business model and strategy, and has reported these pages 60 to 66, liquidity risk see note 22 b on pages 64 to 65, findings to the Board.
The Boards conclusions in this respect are set capital management policies and procedures see note 23 on out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 38. page 66, the nature of the portfolio and revenue and expenditure Christopher Samuel projections, the Company has adequate resources, an appropriate Chairman of the Audit Committee financial structure and suitable management arrangements in place to continue in operational existence.
For these reasons, the Directors 12th November 2018 D I R E C T O R S R E V I E W | 3 3
