54 GOVERNANCE Board of Directors BOARD OF DIRECTORS Previous appointments LIZ AIREY Lizs previous roles have included Non-Executive Director of Tate & Lyle Chairman plc 2007-2017 where she served as Senior Independent Director and Appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee, Non-Executive Director of Dunedin Non-Executive Director in May 2010 Investment Enterprise Trust plc where she held the roles of Senior Chairman in September 2014 Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee 2005-2016, Chairman of the Unilever UK Pension Fund 2008-2014, Non-Executive Skills and experience Chairman of JP Morgan European Smaller Companies Trust plc 2006-2011 Liz brings a wealth of relevant financial skills NC RM and Non-Executive Chairman of Zetex plc 2003-2007.
In 1999 she was and experience in financial governance and appointed a Non-Executive Director of AMEC plc, and served as Senior executive leadership.
Prior to this she was Finance Director of Monument Oil and Gas plc, a post she held from 1990 until the sale of the company to Lasmo plc in 1999.
Current external appointments Liz is currently a member of the Corporate Governance Committee and Investments Committee of the ICAEW and Chair of Trustees of the RollsRoyce UK Pension Fund.
Previous appointments MAARTEN SLENDEBROEK Before joining Jupiter in 2012 as Distribution and Strategy Director, Chief Executive Officer Maarten spent 18 years at BlackRock and its predecessor companies.
Appointed He was a member of the global operating committee and the European Distribution and Strategy Director executive committee at BlackRock.
Earlier in his career, Maarten gained in September 2012 extensive experience as a sell-side European equity analyst.
Chief Executive Officer in March 2014 Skills and experience Maarten has more than 25 years of asset management and financial services experience.
Previous appointments EDWARD BONHAM CARTER Edward joined Jupiter in 1994 as a UK fund manager, after working at Vice Chairman Schroders 1982-1986 and Electra Investment Trust 1986-1994.
He was Appointed appointed Chief Investment Officer in 1999 and Joint Chief Executive in May Group Chief Executive in 2007 2000.
He became Group Chief Executive in 2007 and led Jupiter through its Vice Chairman in March 2014 management buyout that year and its subsequent IPO in June 2010.
Edward relinquished his role as Group Chief Executive in March 2014, on Maarten Skills and experience Slendebroeks appointment.
With 35 years experience in the investment market and 23 years working at Jupiter, Current external appointments Edward has extensive knowledge of Edward is the Senior Independent Director of Land Securities Group plc the fund management business.
He is also a Board member of The Investor Forum, Netwealth as Vice Chairman focuses on engaging Investments Limited, a Trustee of the Esme Fairbairn Foundation, and a with the Companys key stakeholders, member of the Strategic Advisory Board of Livingbridge.
including clients, prospective clients and industry bodies.
Previous appointments CHARLOTTE JONES Charlotte commenced her career at Ernst & Young where she progressed Chief Financial Officer to be an audit partner in the Financial Services Practice.
She subsequently Appointed worked at Deutsche Bank for nine years in various roles, latterly as Deputy Chief Financial Officer in September 2016 CFO and was appointed as Head of Group Finance and Chief Accounting Officer at Credit Suisse in 2013.
Skills and experience Charlotte has extensive experience in the Current external appointments global financial services sector gained in Charlotte is a Non-Executive Director of RSA Insurance Group plc.
senior financial roles and is a chartered accountant.
Previous appointments JONATHON BOND Jonathon was a founding Partner of Actis LLP, the emerging markets Senior Independent Director specialist alternatives fund manager, where he spent over ten years.
Appointed During that time he was a member of the Supervisory Board, Investment Non-Executive Director in July 2014 and Executive Committees, as well as setting up and running the in-house Senior Independent Director in August 2017 fund raising team.
For a number of years, Jonathon was a Non-Executive Director of Celtel, the first pan-African mobile company.
Jonathon Skills and experience previously worked as a founding Director of HSBC Private Equity in India Jonathon spent 25 years in the private AR NC RM 1994-2000, Electra Private Equity Partners in London and Paris 1988-1994 equity industry with a particular focus and Bain & Co in London 1985-1988.
He was also Executive Chairman of on raising standards of governance the Skagen Group Limited 2013 - 2019, a family office and family group of and performance.
He has extensive companies operating in the UK, Europe and the USA.
international and general management experience, having founded and served on Current external appointments the board of several significant businesses.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Standard Life Private Equity Trust PLC.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVE RNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 55 Previous appointments POLLY WILLIAMS Pollys previous non-executive directorships include Worldspreads Group Independent Non-Executive Director plc, APS Financial Limited, Z Group plc, National Counties Building Society Appointed as Chairman, Scotiabank Ireland Limited and Daiwa Capital Markets Non-Executive Director in March 2015 Europe Limited.
Skills and experience Current external appointments Polly has a wealth of relevant experience, Polly is a Non-Executive Director of TSB Banking Group plc, where she including roles with particular responsibility is Chairman of the Audit Committee, and RBC Europe Limited, both AR NC for audit and risk oversight, and is a wholly owned private companies.
She is also a Non-Executive Director chartered accountant.
Previously, Polly was of XP Power Limited.
Polly serves as a trustee of the Guide Dogs for the a Partner with KPMG, with responsibility for Blind Association and is Chairman of the Trustees for the Westminster the Group Audit of HSBC Group plc.
Previous appointments BRIDGET MACASKILL Bridget joined First Eagle Investment LLC in 2009 where she held the Independent Non-Executive Director position of President and Chief Executive until March 2016.
Prior to joining Appointed First Eagle, she was President and Chief Executive at Oppenheimer Non-Executive Director in May 2015 Funds, Incorporated.
Bridget was previously a Non-Executive Director of Prudential plc, J. Sainsbury plc, Scottish & Newcastle plc, Hillsdown Skills and experience Holdings plc and the Federal National Mortgage Association in the US.
Bridget brings substantive knowledge She has also served as a trustee of TIAA-CREF funds.
and deep understanding of the investment RM NC management industry and extensive Current external appointments experience at board level.
She has 25 years Bridget is currently Chairman of First Eagle Holdings LLC, the parent experience in the investment management company of First Eagle Investment Management LLC and Cambridge industry and has held several senior board Associates, LLC, both private companies.
Bridget is also a Non-Executive appointments in the UK and USA.
Director of Close Brothers Group plc and Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated.
Previous appointments KARL STERNBERG Karl was a founding Partner of institutional asset manager Oxford Independent Non-Executive Director Investment Partners, which was bought by Towers Watson in 2013.
Prior Appointed to that he held a number of positions at Morgan Grenfell Deutsche Non-Executive Director in July 2016 Asset Management between 1992 and 2004, including Chief Investment Officer for London, Australia, Europe and the Asia Pacific.
Since 2006 Skills and experience he has developed his non-executive career, with a focus on investment Karl brings some 30 years international management and the investment trust sector in particular.
From 2010 to experience in the investment industry, AR NC 2015, he was a Non-Executive Director of Friends Life Group plc, where he gained through both executive and was Chairman of the Investment Oversight Committee.
Karl was Chairman non-executive roles.
of JPMorgan Income & Growth Investment Trust plc until November 2016.
Current external appointments Karl is the Senior Independent Director of Alliance Trust plc, and a Non-Executive Director of Herald Investment Trust plc, The Monks Investment Trust plc, Clipstone Logistics Reit plc, Lowland Investment Company plc and JPMorgan Elect plc, all of which are investment trusts.
Previous appointments ROGER YATES Roger started his career at GT Management in 1981 and subsequently held Independent Non-Executive Director positions at Morgan Grenfell and Invesco as Chief Investment Officer.
He Appointed was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Henderson Group plc in 1999 and Non-Executive Director in October 2017 led the company for a decade.
Most recently Roger was a Non-Executive Director of IG Group Ltd, Chairman of Electra Private Equity plc and Skills and experience Chairman of Pioneer Global Asset Management S. p. A.
He was also a Roger has considerable knowledge of the Non-Executive Director of JPMorgan Elect plc from 2008 - 2018. asset management business with over 30 NC RM years experience in the industry having Current external appointments served as a fund manager, senior executive, Roger is the Senior Independent Director of St Jamess Place plc where he non-executive director and chairman.
chairs the Remuneration Committee, and Senior Independent Director at Having led two global asset managers, Mitie Group plc.
Roger also brings significant understanding of international business management to the Board.
Committee key: AR NC Member of Audit and Risk Committee Member of Nomination Committee RM Member of Remuneration Committee Denotes Chair of Committee Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 56 GOVERNANCE Board of Directors continued BOARD OF DIRECTORS continued HOW THE BOARD OPERATES The Board has an annual rolling agenda, BOARD ACTIVITIES FOR 2018 which ensures that there is a good balance During 2018 the Board held six formal At each meeting reports from the between strategy, performance and Board meetings and a two-day strategy CEO, CFO and Chief Investment Officer governance.
Matters arising from previous offsite.
In addition to the formal schedule are typically tabled.
The CEOs report meetings and identified Board priorities are of Board meetings, ad-hoc meetings includes updates from the Chief Risk Officer, mapped onto this agenda.
were held to consider specific items of Chief Operating Officer, Global Head of business as the need arose.
There is an Distribution, General Counsel and the HR At least four weeks before each meeting informal programme of Board events: the Director.
The Chairman of each Board an agenda setting meeting is held between Chairman held regular meetings with the Committee reports on its activities since the the Chairman, CEO and Company Non-Executive Directors, some of which last Board meeting.
An overview of the key Secretary, where the specific meeting included the CEO.
The Senior Independent additional items considered at each Board agenda is finalised and any additional Director met with the Non-Executive meeting during 2018 is detailed below.
The items of business to be considered Directors to evaluate the Chairmans Board holds a two-day strategy meeting included.
Separately, Non-Executive every year, which is a key event in our each meeting a comprehensive set of Directors meet regularly with senior Board calendar.
At this years meeting in papers is circulated to all directors, to members of management.
addition to undertaking a deep dive on enable sufficient time for review and our strategy and our progress thereon, we consideration.
This facilitates effective The Board held a dinner with a selection also considered the Companys purpose debate and constructive challenge at of the firms' Fund Management Team, and received a number of presentations the Board meeting.
primarily focused on those who had from leading experts on developments recently launched new products and trends relevant to our industry.
KEY BOARD ACTIVITIES FOR 2018 January February May Annual Report Annual Report and external audit update Board strategic objectives Fund manager presentation Dividend payment FCA market study Fund management structure Shareholder engagement Asia business update and performance AGM Notice Report from Vice Chairman Corporate governance Directors' Remuneration Policy Update on Board strategy days Corporate structure AGM July October December Interim results Institutional business plan Capital management Fund manager presentation Client profile 2019 financial plan Investment excellence and risk Operating system review Investment performance metrics Product development Talent management, diversity and Product life cycle succession planning Environmental, social and governance Investment trust business update report and update Investor perceptions study Employee engagement Approval of ICAAP Purpose Risk appetite and enterprise risk Corporate governance update Cyber risk BOARD ATTENDANCE RECORD INDUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT All new Directors are provided with a Audit and Risk Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee full, tailored induction which involves meetings with the Chairman, members Liz Airey 6 6 5 5 4 4 of the Executive Committee, Committee Jonathon Bond 6 6 6 6 5 5 4 4 Chairmen, the Senior Independent Edward Bonham Carter 6 6 Director, professional advisors and the Charlotte Jones 6 6 opportunity to meet key shareholders.
The induction programme is designed Bridget Macaskill 6 6 5 5 4 4 to provide a thorough understanding of Maarten Slendebroek 6 6 the strategy, business, operations, key Karl Sternberg 6 6 6 6 4 4 stakeholders, the governance structure 1 Lorraine Trainer 3 3 2 2 2 2 2 2 and the regulatory environment.
In Polly Williams 6 6 6 6 4 4 addition, each Director is provided with 2 key documents including the strategy, Roger Yates 6 6 4 5 3 4 business plans, governance related items 1 Lorraine Trainer stepped down from the Board on 16 May 2018. and policies, and provided with access to 2 Roger Yates joined the Board in October 2017 and due to prior commitments could not previous Board and Committee papers attend the Remuneration Committee or Nomination Committee meetings in February 2018. and minutes.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVE RNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 57 Directors receive ongoing training RISK AND INTERNAL CONTROLS Financial Receiving regular reports through Board briefings, both internally on the Groups financial position, its The Board has ultimate responsibility and externally facilitated, on business progress against budget and ongoing for the Groups risk strategy and for and market developments and legal, forecast of its results.
Through these determining an appropriate risk regulatory and governance updates.
regular updates, as well as the annual appetite, as well as the tolerance levels Directors regularly attend external ICAAP process, the Board regularly within which the Group must operate.
It is training and update programmes.
reviews the Groups balance sheet also responsible for the Groups system All directors have access to the services levels and capital requirements.
The of internal control and for reviewing its of the Company Secretary and Audit and Risk Committee assists the effectiveness, with the assistance of the independent advice, at the Companys Board in this area, reviewing the halfAudit and Risk Committee.
Such a system expense, where this is necessary to year and annual results, the ICAAP can provide only a reasonable assurance discharge their duties effectively.
process and the Annual Report, before against material financial misstatement recommending these to the Board for or loss and is designed to mitigate, not CONFLICTS OF INTEREST approval.
The Audit and Risk Committee eliminate, risk.
The Board has operated The Companys Articles of Association regularly receives reports in relation a process, throughout the year for permit the Board to consider and authorise to the key aspects of the financial identifying, evaluating and managing the situations where a Director has an actual reporting process.
Reports on financial principal risks to achieving the Groups or potential conflict of interest in relation controls are also issued by Internal and strategic objectives and for further to the Group.
The Board has a formal External Audit.
information please see the Risk Section system to record potential conflicts and, on page 32.
Compliance Overseeing the compliance if appropriate, to authorise them.
Conflicts framework operating throughout the of interest are included as a standing The Board, assisted by the Audit and Risk Group and reviewing an annual report agenda item at each Board meeting.
When Committee, periodically assesses the from the Money Laundering Reporting authorising conflicts or potential conflicts effectiveness of the internal controls.
Officer on the Groups anti-money of interest, the Director concerned may not This review covered all material controls laundering and fraud prevention take part in the Boards decision-making.
Operational oversight of the assurance The Board believes that the ongoing process to ensure the business process for identifying, evaluating and 2017 EVALUATION ACTIONS operates within the risk appetite set managing the principal risks to achieving ITEMS PROGRESS by the Board, examining the whole the Groups strategic objectives works of the Groups control environment, An update on the Board actions arising effectively.
The process was in place for the reviewing the effectiveness of the from the 2017 evaluation is detailed below, year ended 31 December 2018 and up to Enterprise Risk Management Framework with Committee specific actions detailed in the date of approval of the Annual Report and overseeing the roles of various the relevant Committee reports.
This process is regularly committees in managing risk within reviewed by the Board and complies with 2017 FINDING 2018 UPDATE the business.
the guidance, Internal Controls Revised Guidance for Directors.
Improving Board The Board agreed that and Committee there had been significant materials and improvements on the flow information flows of information between 2018 EVALUATION PROCESS 2018 EVALUATION CONCLUSIONS Committees, including the Executive Committee.
During 2017, the Board undertook a full The feedback from individual Directors noted The quality of papers external Board evaluation facilitated that the Board operated effectively and had greatly increased by Independent Board Evaluation.
In particularly highlighted for praise: and new templates and accordance with the Code, this year an The Board's open style enabling robust guidelines were adopted internally run evaluation was undertaken debate, whilst maintaining mutual trust at the end of the year.
for the Board and its Committees and the and respect: process is outlined below: The high level of individual Director Introducing A training session was Written questions were formulated and preparedness and engagement: and training for key held for senior staff circulated to each Director.
senior managers regularly presenting or Good focus on priority issues, with on Board functions preparing information improved agendas and Board and requirements for the Board.
This also Individual responses and comments were information.
to assist them provided guidance on collated into a report on an unattributed The evaluation identified a number in preparing effective Board reporting basis.
of actions for the Board to focus on for Board and and an overview of the throughout 2019: Committee revised templates.
The Chairman held individual meetings Undertake more deep-dive reviews into meetings with each Director to discuss the evaluation external threats, which could potentially findings, individual performance and related impact the strategy: Undertake deep There has been progress issues.
The Senior Independent Director also dive reviews in this regard, with Continue to improve engagement with held meetings with the other Directors to of specific risk particularly useful shareholders and other key stakeholders: discuss the Chairmans performance.
areas which sessions at the strategy and could potentially offsite.
However it was Build on the progress made with Board A summary of the evaluation and proposed impact the Groups agreed this would be and Committee meetings to further actions arising from the evaluation were strategy continued into 2019, improve efficiency and effectiveness.
presented, discussed and agreed at the with particular focus on Board and Committee meetings.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
