JUPITER EUROPEAN OPPORTUNITIES TRUST PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Report of the Directors & Governance continued Report of the Audit Committee Role of the Audit Committee Issue considered How the issue was addressed The Audit Committee meets at least annually to consider the financial Valuation of the investment Review of reports from the reporting by the Company, internal controls and relations with the portfolio Investment Adviser and Custodian Companys external auditors.
In addition, it reviews the independence and objectivity of the auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process, Compliance with section Review of portfolio holdings the quality of the audit engagement partner and the audit team, making 1158 of the Corporation reports and revenue forecasts to Tax Act 2010 ensure compliance criteria is met a recommendation to the Board with respect to the reappointment of the auditor.
It will also provide an opinion as to whether the Annual Report Calculation of performance Consideration of methodology & Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable fees used to calculate fees, matched and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the against the criteria set out in Companys performance, business model and strategy.
the Investment Management Agreement During the course of the year, representatives of the AIFM, Investment Statement of going Review of the investment portfolio, Adviser and other third party service providers may be invited to attend concern risks and uncertainties, projected meetings of the Audit Committee to report on issues as required.
cash flow and forecast revenue The Company does not have an internal audit function as most of its Auditor Effectiveness & Independence day to day operations are delegated to professional third parties.
Auditor effectiveness is assessed by means of the auditors direct The Audit Committee also reviews the Companys compliance with the engagement with the Board at Audit Committee meetings and also FRC UK Corporate Governance Code and the AIC Code of Corporate by reference to feedback from the AIFM, Investment Adviser and their Governance.
employees who have direct dealings with the auditor during the annual audit of the Company.
Auditors and Audit Tenure The Board concluded, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, The Companys current auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, have acted in this that the auditors continue to be independent of the Company, the AIFM role since the launch of the Company on 16 August 2000.
No tender for and the Investment Adviser and that their reappointment be proposed the audit of the Company has been undertaken since this date.
As part at the Annual General Meeting.
of its review of the continuing appointment of the auditors, the Audit Committee considers the length of tenure of the audit firm, its fees and Disclosure of Information to the Auditor independence from the AIFM and the Investment Adviser along with any matters raised during each audit.
The fees paid to Ernst & Young The Directors are not aware of any relevant audit information of which LLP in respect of audit services are disclosed in Note 5 of the notes to the Companys auditors are unaware.
The Directors also confirm that the financial statements.
they have taken all the steps required of a company director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish The Companys year ended 31 May 2018 is the current Audit Partners that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
first of a five year maximum term.
Non-Audit Services Audit Tender The Audit Committee has adopted a policy on the engagement of the Under new regulations a tender will need to be undertaken ahead of Companys Auditor to supply non-audit services to the Company.
No the year ending 31 May 2023 in which Ernst & Young LLP will not be fees were payable to the Auditor for non-audit services during the year invited to participate.
The Audit Committee perform a review of the audit process and The Committee ensures that auditor objectivity and independence are whether a tender would be of benefit to the Company on an annual safeguarded by requiring pre-approval by the Committee for all nonbasis.
Following a review of the 2017 audit process, the Committee audit services provided to the Company, which takes into consideration: agreed that EYs completion of the audit had been satisfactory and confirmation from the Auditor that they have adequate arrangements there would be no additional benefit to tendering the Companys audit in place to safeguard their objectivity and independence in carrying for the year ended 31 May 2018. out such work, within the meaning of the regulatory and professional requirements to which they are subject: Significant Accounting Matters During its review of the Companys accounts for the year ended the fees to be incurred, relative to the audit fees: 31 May 2018, the Audit Committee considered the following significant the nature of the non-audit services: and issues, including the consideration of principal risks and uncertainties in light of the Companys activities and issues communicated by the whether the Auditors skills and experience make it the most suitable Auditors during their review, all of which were satisfactorily addressed: supplier of such services and whether they are in a position to provide them.
21 JUPITER EUROPEAN OPPORTUNITIES TRUST PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Report of the Directors & Governance continued Report of the Audit Committee continued Statement in Respect of the Annual Report & Accounts The completion of the audit of the Companys Annual Report and Financial Statements is a lengthy process which requires high levels of review and verification with significant input from numerous different parties.
The Committee, when considering the draft Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 May 2018, reviewed the Companys financial statements and approved the Companys accounting policies.
The members of the Committee applied their recent and relevant financial experience and concluded that the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, were fair, balanced and understandable and provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model, position, and strategy.
In reaching this conclusion, the Committee has assumed that the reader of the Annual Report and Financial Statements would have a reasonable knowledge of the investment trust industry in general and of investments trusts in particular.
The Committee has reported its findings to the Board who affirm the Committees conclusions in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 26.
For and on behalf of the Audit Committee P E F Best Chairman of the Audit Committee 28 September 2018 22
