60 GOVERNANCE Nomination committee report NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT This change is anticipated to be in August 2019 and we have commenced a DEAR SHAREHOLDER recruitment process as detailed overleaf.
Lorraine Trainer stepped down from the Board at the conclusion of the 2018 The Nomination Committee sets AGM, following eight years service as a the foundations for the effective Non-Executive Director.
The Committee management of the organisation.
reviewed the composition of the Board during 2018 and decided there is an The Committee ensures that the Board appropriate balance of skills and comprises individuals with the correct experience.
It was therefore agreed that balance of skills, knowledge, experience recruitment of a further Non-Executive and diversity of thought and perspective, Director, was not required at this time, to enable the effective discharge of but would be kept under review.
In May 2019, I will have served as a Director It oversees succession planning for both of Jupiter for nine years and as Chairman the Board and senior executives together COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND for five years.
Succession planning for with policies and practices for talent REGULAR ATTENDEES my role is under consideration by the management and diversity across the firm.
Committee, led by the Senior Independent Appointment Meetings Our people are our business and ensuring Members date attended Director.
The Committee determined that that we can attract and retain talented Liz Airey Chair May 2010 4 4 it is important to have continuity in the staff, supported by appropriate succession role of Chairman during the transition to planning, is critical.
Jonathon Bond Sept 2014 4 4 a new CEO.
The Committee will balance Bridget Macaskill Dec 2016 4 4 In January 2019 the Committee the needs of the Company and the recommended the appointment of Karl Sternberg Dec 2016 4 4 governance requirements to undertake Andrew Formica as the new CEO effective 1 Lorraine Trainer Apr 2012 2 2 succession planning at an appropriate from 1 March 2019.
This appointment time, likely to be in the next 12 months.
Polly Williams Dec 2016 4 4 accelerated the succession plans for 2 Roger Yates Oct 2017 3 4 the CEO role and clearly demonstrates An overview of the Board composition 1 Lorraine Trainer stepped down from the Committee the Committees proactive and flexible including the balance of skills and on 16 May 2018. approach to succession planning.
We are experience, as at 31 December 2018, can 2 Roger Yates joined the Board in October 2017 and confident Andrew is the ideal candidate be found on page 53 and each Directors due to prior commitments could not attend the to lead the Group going forward.
Nomination Committee meeting in February 2018.
As per our diversity statement we As announced on 26 February 2019, The Committee comprises all independent believe that diversity, at all levels of the Charlotte Jones will be stepping down Non-Executive Directors in accordance organisation, leads to better decisionas CFO to take up the CFO role at RSA with the Code.
Other attendees, such as making, increased performance and Insurance Group plc.
the CEO, HR Director, CFO and General creates greater value for all stakeholders.
Establishing an inclusive culture is the foundation of this and further information on our approach to diversity and the COMMITTEES KEY RESPONSIBILITIES policies and practices to support this can be found on pages 28 to 29.
This Keep the composition of the Board and its Committees under review to ensure will continue to be a key focus for 2019. a correct balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity is in place.
The Committee keeps under review each Lead the search and selection process for new Board appointments, including Directors external appointments to ensure identifying the skills and experience required.
they have sufficient time to dedicate to their Oversee succession planning for both Directors and Senior Executives.
We are confident all Directors have Review the Companys policies and practices for talent management, sufficient capacity and have demonstrated development and diversity.
this through their diligent commitment and attention to Jupiter business.
Consider each Directors performance and continuing contribution, including the review of their external time commitments and, when appropriate, recommending their re-election to shareholders.
LIZ AIREY Chairman A full copy of the Committees Terms of Reference can be found at www.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVE RNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 61 KEY ACTIVITIES DIRECTOR APPOINTMENTS to their duties and this has been further evidenced in practice throughout the year.
TALENT MANAGEMENT, DIVERSITY For all Board appointments the Committee At the 2018 AGM Karl Sternberg received & SUCCESSION PLANNING engages a recruitment firm to help identify a significant minority of votes against This has been the cornerstone of the external candidates and identifies internal his re-election.
During engagement with Committees work during 2018 and includes: candidates itself.
The Committee decides shareholders, it was confirmed this related on the recruitment firm to be appointed Accelerated succession planning for to the number of external appointments he and provides a specific brief, including a the CEO role and recommended the holds, which prompted concerns regarding requirement for a diverse list of candidates.
appointment of Andrew Formica as his time commitment to Jupiter.
Russell Reynolds were retained to assist the Groups new CEO.
with the CEO engagement and Odgers All of Karls appointments outside of Review of the Board skills, experience Berndtson have been retained to assist Jupiter are to listed investment trusts, which and knowledge and assessment of with the recruitment of a new CFO.
Neither by their nature, require substantially less the composition of the Board and its company have any other connection with time commitment than a listed operational Committees.
Jupiter, other than for recruitment.
This was not clearly highlighted Assessed the contribution, independence in last years report.
The Committee has Selected candidates are interviewed by and performance of Directors and reviewed the time commitments for each members of the Committee and other recommended their reappointment to of Karls roles, his level of engagement, Directors, and meet with senior managers the Board.
contribution and responsiveness to the as appropriate.
Standard vetting and The review and challenge of succession Jupiter business.
Accordingly, we remain skills assessments are undertaken.
plans for the Executive Committee and confident he has sufficient time to fulfil his Feedback is collated and the Committee other senior managers.
duties and continues to provide a valuable makes a recommendation to the Board, Changes to the composition of contribution to the Group.
which makes the final decision on Board the Executive Committee and the appointments.
The Committee also considers and commencement of a coaching and approves any Director accepting an DIRECTORS EXTERNAL COMMITMENTS development programme.
This included At each meeting a schedule of Directors Various Group initiatives in relation Charlotte Jones appointment as a Nonexternal appointments, which includes to talent management and diversity Executive Director of RSA Insurance Group details of the time commitments, is developed and launched during the plc and Roger Yates appointment to reviewed by the Committee to ensure year, further details of which can be the Board of Mitie plc.
Edward Bonham all Directors can commit enough time to found on pages 28 to 29.
Carter, was appointed to the Board of ITV their duties.
This includes consideration of plc and at the same time his contracted Oversight of the ongoing pairing the need for Directors to have sufficient employment with Jupiter was reduced from programme between Non-Executive capacity, to be able to address nonfour days per week to three.
Following Directors and Executive Committee standard business situations arising in a review of the anticipated and existing members.
different roles at the same time, which time commitments for each Director, the could increase the time requirements on Committee approved the appointments.
The Committee is confident all Directors have sufficient time to dedicate BOARD EVALUATION AND COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS The 2017 Board evaluation identified a number of areas of focus for the Committee during 2018 and an update on these is provided below.
2017 PRIORITY 2018 STATUS 2018 EVALUATION TalentGroup-wide learning and development The Committee reviewed and agreed the 2018 framework for management within programmes, including management and the evaluation of the Board and its Committees, details of the organisation leadership programmes have been refreshed which are on page 57. and delivered by HR.
The Committees performance throughout the year was Further Completed and subject to regular review and reviewed under this framework and the Committee was found development of the enhancements by the Committee.
to be effective and discharging its duties well.
The Board skills matrix developments in talent management and succession planning Continued focus Detailed succession planning for the Executive were highlighted as key achievements.
The evaluation on succession Committee and Senior Executives undertaken identified the following areas of focus for 2019: planning and Revised Diversity and Inclusion Statement diversity across the Chairman succession: developed.
Further information on Diversity Group initiatives can be found on page 29. Review development of senior management team: and Continue to ensure a robust talent pipeline and effective Enhancements The recruitment and interview process for to the Board Andrew Formica was more efficient and succession planning across Jupiter.
recruitment and conducted in a more timely manner.
interview process Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
