JUPITER EUROPEAN OPPORTUNITIES TRUST PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Report of the Directors & Governance continued Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Compliance Statement Tenure This statement, together with the Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Board does not consider it appropriate that Directors should be on page 26 and the statement of Internal Controls on page 16, appointed for a specific term.
indicates how the Company has complied with the recommendations Re-election of Directors of the Association of Investment Companies AIC Code of Corporate Governance and the relevant provisions of the Financial Reporting Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the Annual General Councils UK Corporate Governance Code.
Meeting AGM following their appointment and thereafter at least every third subsequent AGM.
The Board considers that the Company has complied with the provisions of the Code throughout the accounting period under review, in so far as The Board has adopted a policy of annual re-election for all Directors they are relevant to the business of an investment trust.
as a matter of best practice, as recommended by the AIC Code.
A description of the main features of the Companys internal control The Board is recommending that all Directors be re-elected at the and risk management functions can be found on page 16 of this report.
By means of the procedures set out in that report, and in accordance Directors training with the AIC and the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has Although no formal training in Corporate Governance is given to established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing Directors, the Directors are kept up-to-date on Corporate Governance the significant risks faced by the Company.
The Board has mapped these issues through bulletins and training materials provided from time to risks and the measures taken to mitigate them, and this is reviewed time by the Company Secretary.
The Board may obtain training in alongside any proposed updates with the Companys financial reporting.
Corporate Governance on an individual basis.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal control systems within the last twelve months.
Directors Performance Evaluation The Board has not established a formal interview process for the The Board evaluation of its own performance and that of the individual Directors Role of the Board as it does not consider this to be appropriate having regard to the The Board receives monthly reports and meets at least quarterly to non-executive role of the Directors and the significant outsourcing of review the overall business of the Company and to consider matters services to external providers.
The Independent Directors undertake specifically reserved for its review.
At these meetings the Board on an annual basis an appraisal in relation to their oversight and monitors the investment performance of the Company.
The Board also monitoring of the performance of the Investment Adviser and other key reviews the Companys activities every quarter to ensure that it adheres service providers.
In addition the Directors undertake, on an annual to its investment policy or, if appropriate, to make any changes to that basis, an oral assessment of the effectiveness of the Board as a whole.
Board Committees Additional ad hoc reports are received as required and Directors Audit Committee have access at all times to the advice and services of the Company The Board established an Audit Committee which consists of Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are the entire Board other than John Wallinger.
Philip Best is Chairman of followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
Mr Best is considered to have recent and relevant The Board has adopted a schedule of items specifically reserved for financial and investment experience as a result of his employment in its decision.
The Report of the Audit Committee can be found on pages 21 and 22.
A procedure has been adopted for the Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee are available on the the Company.
Composition Other Committees As at 31 May 2018 the Board of Directors comprised five non-executive Nomination Committee Directors.
All Directors are independent of the Investment Adviser.
The Appointments to the Board of Directors are considered by the Company has no executive Directors and no employees.
The structure Nomination Committee which comprises the entire Board.
Andrew Sutch of the Board is such that it is considered unnecessary to identify a is Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
The Terms of Reference of senior independent Director other than the Chairman.
The Directors the Committee are disclosed on the Companys website and further biographies can be found on page 13. copies are available on request from the Company Secretary.
The function of this Committee is to evaluate the appointment of additional Diversity or replacement Directors against the requirements of the Companys The Companys policy on diversity can be found on page 12 under the business and the need to have a balanced Board.
The Nomination heading Board Diversity.
Committee considers job specifications and assesses whether candidates have the necessary skills and time available to devote to Appointment of Directors the Companys business.
All newly appointed directors receive any Appointments to the Board are made on merit with due regard for the necessary training and induction.
New directors will be subject to benefits of diversity, including gender.
The priority in appointing new election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting following their directors is to identify the candidate with the best range of skills and appointment and thereafter at least at every third subsequent Annual experience to complement the existing Directors.
19 JUPITER EUROPEAN OPPORTUNITIES TRUST PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Report of the Directors & Governance continued Corporate Governance continued Remuneration Committee a Conflicts of Interest Committee, made up of all independent directors who themselves are not party to any conflict under review whose The remuneration of the Board is considered by the Remuneration purpose is to authorise, if thought fit, and formally approve any directors Committee, whose Chairman is The Rt Hon.
The members of the Committee are required to act The Terms of Reference of the Committee are disclosed on the in the way they consider would be most likely to promote the success Companys section of the Investment Advisers website and further of the Company.
The Committee members may impose limits or copies are available on request from the Company Secretary.
The conditions when giving authorisation or subsequently if they think this function of this committee is to determine the remuneration of the appropriate.
In addition, Board members are given the opportunity at Board and in doing so the committee takes into consideration the each board meeting to inform the Board of any conflict of interest that remuneration of similar Boards of other investment companies of a may have arisen since the Board last met.
The Committee comprises similar size to that of the Company.
the entire Board other than those members of the Board that are subject Conflicts of Interest Committee to the conflict of interest.
The Chairman of the Committee is Andrew Sutch.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee are disclosed on the The Articles of Association permit the Board to consider and, if thought Companys website and further copies are available on request from the fit, to authorise situations where a director has a conflict, or potential Company Secretary.
conflict, of interest in relation to the Company.
The Board has established Directors Attendance at Meetings Annual Audit Remuneration Nomination General Director Board Committee Committee Committee Meeting H M Priestley 2 4 n a n a 1 1 1 1 P E F Best 4 4 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 The Rt Hon.
Lord Lamont of Lerwick 4 4 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 A L Sutch 4 4 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 J D A Wallinger 4 4 n a n a 1 1 1 1 Virginia Holmes 2 4 1 2 n a n a n a Retired as a Director of the Company on 7 November 2017.
Elected to the Board on 7 November 2017.
For and on behalf of the Board Andrew Sutch Chairman 28 September 2018 20
