CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Report of the Nomination Committee Appointments In March 2018, upon the recommendation of the Committee, I joined the Board as an Independent Non-executive Director and Chair elect.
In April 2018, Isucceeded Andrew Griffith who was acting as Interim Non-executive Chair as Chair of the Company.
The Committee also recommended the appointment of our most recent Independent Non-executive Director, HelenWeir.
These appointments followed formal, rigorous and transparent recruitment processes.
Theywere undertaken with the assistance of The Zygos Partnership now part of Russell Reynolds Associates, a leading external recruitment firm that has no connection with the Company.
The Committee is satisfied with the current composition of the Board and its Committees though it will continue tomonitor and refresh the composition of the Board where appropriate.
The Nomination Committee assists the Board In relation to the Boards engagement with the workforce, in determining Board appointments and Roisin Donnelly has been appointed as our designated succession planning for Directors.
Italso Non-executive Director in relation to engagement with reviews appointments and succession the workforce under the UK Corporate Governance Code.
This report Following Peter Plumb stepping down as Chief summarises our membership and activities Executive Officer, a process has commenced for the during 2018.
Nomination Committee to select his replacement.
Peter Duffy has been appointed Chief Executive Officer of As in prior years, the Committee continued to seek the Company on an interim basis.
diversity, including with regard to gender, as part of theoverall selection of the highest calibre candidates for appointment to the Board, based on merit and objective criteria.
Selection process for theappointment Membership ofnewBoardmembers The Nomination Committee comprises our Independent Non-executive Directors, Gwyn Burr, Alistair Cox, RoisinDonnelly, Andrew Griffith, Diego Oliva, Selection of recruitment consultants HelenWeir and myself Mike Evans as Chair.
Appropriate external executive search consultants are selected for the role.
Role and activities Candidate specification We met four times in 2018 when appropriate tohandle A specification for candidates is prepared setting matters during the year.
The Committee is responsible out the agreed key skills and character profile being for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and sought to fit with the current balance, membership experience of the Directors.
It also reviews the composition and dynamics of the Board.
and structure of the Board, makes recommendations tothe Board on retirements and appointments of Potential candidates additional and replacement Directors, and has a A longlist of candidates meeting the specification continuous and proactive approach to succession isidentified from a specific search as well as the planning.
The Committees succession planning not only search firms own database.
takes into consideration the long-term needs and This includes candidates from a diverse range natural evolution of the Board in the mid-term, but that ofbackgrounds and to ensure a gender balance.
of the short term for unforeseen departures and contingency for unexpected changes.
Interviews and selection A shortlist of candidates is then selected by the Nomination Committee and interviewed.
Recommendations and confirmation of appointment The preferred candidates are recommended to the Board by the Nomination Committee.
Candidates meet with other Directors on the Board as appropriate prior to Board approval for the appointment to be made.
60 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Skills chart Financial.
governance, risk and Listed Product and controls Food International company Marketing People technology Consumer Strategy Mike Evans Peter Duffy Paul Harrison Gwyn Burr Frederic Coorevits Alistair Cox Roisin Donnelly Andrew Griffith Diego Oliva Helen Weir Key Chair Independent Non-executive Directors male Non-independent Non-executive Director Executive Directors Independent Non-executive Directors female 2018 Key matters considered at each main meetingof the NominationCommittee during the year included: February September October December Update on Chair Review of profile of candidates Update on the process for Agreement of plans for: recruitmentprocess.
being sought as an additional recruitment of new detailed succession plans: Non-executive Director in the Non-executive Director.
Presentation on final and context of the current candidates fortherole of Review of the preferred diversity reviews, membership of the Board and Chairby external candidate including financial skillset required for at Executive Team level and .
the management level below Consideration of candidates Recommendation to the Board tobe prepared and reviewed Agreement on process for the bythe Committee, agreement for appointment of the by the Committee at least finalisation of the shortlist for on preferred candidate and preferred candidate on this twice a year.
approval of the basis as Non-executive Review of new provisions in the appointmentprocess.
Director and future Chair UKCorporate Governance Code.
Noting discussions with Review of the Committees DavidButtress regarding his terms of reference.
intentions in relation to hisNon-executive Director role.
Review and agreement for the reappointment of Directors at the AnnualGeneral Meeting.
Review of plans for the recruitment of anadditional Non-executive Director withfinancial experience.
At every main meeting, the Review of the Committees Nomination Committee terms ofreference.
also reviews: Minutes and actions from Review of and agreement for previousmeetings.
the Report of the Nomination Committee to be included in Succession planning.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 61 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Report of the Nomination Committee continued Board evaluation Performance reviews During 2018, the Board undertook an internally facilitated evaluation of the effectiveness of its own performance and that of its Directors and three standing Committees.
This process was led personally by Mike Evans as Chair.
He conducted individual meetings with each Director and the Company Secretary to ascertain their views and determine any areas of improvement.
The process undertaken is summarised below along with the conclusions and actions to be taken.
This process took into account the actions and specific areas of interest arising from the previous years internally facilitated evaluation.
The last externally facilitated Board evaluation was undertaken in 2016 so, in accordance with the Code, an externally facilitated Board evaluation will be undertaken this year which will be reported on in next years Annual Report.
Topics of discussion during individual meetings The following key areas discussed in the individual meetings the Chair had with individual Directors were: Strategy and implementation Board dynamics and communication Board materials, discussion and decision making Meeting frequency and Audit, Remuneration and Nomination agendaplanning Committees effectiveness Board construct, diversity and succession planning Full Board discussion The results of the evaluation were reported to the Board in a confidential and non-attributable manner which ensured thatthe responses were as open, frank and informative as possible.
The review of the Chairs performance was led by theSenior Independent Director.
Having considered and discussed these results, the Board agreed to follow up with specific actions as part of the continuous enhancement of its governance processes.
Conclusions and actions Conclusions were within three main areas, summarised below: Strategy Continue to review, develop, accelerate and monitor the strategy of the Group in the short term and long term.
Achieve a clear narrative to the market.
Maintain robust metrics to measure achievement and structure remuneration.
Plan for broader long-term strategy session in 2019.
The business Nomination Com mittee to work closely with the Chief People Officer in relation to the development and enhancement of the succession planning processes with management.
Develop the organisational design in line with strategic requirements.
The Board Maintain strategy high on each main meeting agenda.
Maintain dialogue between Board members Executive and Non-executive between scheduled Boardmeetings.
Continue with deep dives into the various geographic regions in which the Group operates.
Consider diversity and technical skills in relation to future appointments to the Board.
Planning for offsite meetings in 2019 and 2020 and continue holding at least one Board meeting in one ofthe business local offices.
Governance meetings In line with the Code, during the past year separate meetings took place amongst the Non-executive Directors and the Chair without the Executive Directors present to assess the performance of the Executive Directors on an ongoing basis: and the Non-executive Directors only although taking account of the views of the Executive Directors to discuss the performance of the Chair including review of: the time he dedicates to the Company: and his contributions, both at and outside formal meetings.
The Non-executive Directors concluded that the Chair is well able to, and indeed does, devote ample time and attention to the Companys affairs and that his broad past and current experience provide considerable benefit to his role in the Group.
They also confirmed that his external role has no negative impact on the Company.
62 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Diversity Succession planning We have commenced a selection process for a permanent One of the pivotal considerations on any appointment to the Board relates to diversity.
The Nomination Chief Executive Officer following the announcement in January 2019 that Peter Plumb was stepping down from Committee takes an active role in setting and meeting diversity objectives and strategies for the Company as this role.
As mentioned earlier, Peter Duffy, Chief Customer Officer, is acting as Interim Chief Executive Officer until awhole.
The Boards policy is to continue to seek andencourage diversity within long and shortlists, the search for a permanent replacement Chief Executive Officer is concluded.
including with regard to gender, as part of the overall selection process for Non-executive Director roles.
The Committee recognises that our people are critical Webelieve we have assembled a diverse Board which to our continued success and we remain focused on isable to well serve the Companys interests.
maintaining a high performing, entrepreneurial culture Further information on diversity in the Group is to attract and retain the highest calibre individuals.
TheCommittee oversees matters in relation to the included on page 29. succession planning for the senior leadership team as well as the Board and intends to review the management Reappointment layer below this in the coming year also.
It considers key In accordance with the provisions of the Code, each new appointments asthey arise and also oversees the Director retires at the AGM of the Company and, if development and management of existing resource decided appropriate by the Board, may be proposed within the organisation.
In reaching its decision, the Board acts on the advice of the Nomination Committee.
Following evaluation of their performance I, as Chair, confirm that Coming year In the coming year we will be undertaking an externally the performance of each of theNon-executive Directors being proposed for reappointment continues to be effective facilitated review of the performance of the Board.
We will report on this in next years Annual Report.
We will and demonstrates ample commitment to their duties.
report to you again next year on detailed succession We consider that they each provide distinct and plans and diversity reviews.
As well as the selection of important contributions to the overall operation anew Chief Executive Officer we will also be reporting andfunction of the Board.
to you next year on the results of our succession planning and diversity reviews in relation to our This review of the performance of the Non-executive seniormanagement.
Directors included an assessment of their: attendance at meetings: continued independence where applicable : and ability to devote ample time to the Company Mike Evans outsidemeetings.
Chair, Nomination Committee 5 March 2019 All the Directors being proposed for reappointment attended all meetings they were scheduled to attend unless unavoidably prevented from doing so.
They all devote sufficient time to their duties.
The evaluation also confirmed that the roles of the Directors in other companies in no way impede their roles within the Company.
Indeed, each demonstrates great enthusiasm as well as commitment to their roles.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 63
