CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Report of the Board Our Board is responsible for managing 1 theGroup by providing clear leadership, 1 2 direction and oversight in relation to the Groups strategy and purpose.
The Board Board promotes the long-term sustainable composition growthof the Group for the benefit of its 3 shareholders as a whole, its employees and 20 30 30 10 H its other stakeholders.
It also considers the 3 impact of the Groups operations on the community and environment in which we Chair male are engaged.
The Board aims to ensure that Executive Directors male the Groups culture and values are aligned with its strategy so that consistency can be Independent Non-executive achieved at all levels within the organisation.
Directors male Independent Non-executive Directors female Non-independent Non-executive Director male 2018 Key matters considered at each main meeting of the Board during the year included: February April June July Individual country business Confirmation of appointment Market and business Individual country business update led by the relevant of Mike Evans asChair.
update led by the relevant Country Manager.
Strategic planning update Review of plans for Capital Review of budget development including presentation Markets Day.
Strategic planning update with for the year and agreement fromadvisers.
Review of SkipTheDishes with Review of ongoing development Review and agreement for local management.
of Group product presented by approval of 2017 annual the Chief Product and People plans in the context of results, including Technology Officer.
strategy development presented announcement and byChief People Officer.
Agreement for approval of half AnnualReport.
Formal approval of Deferred Approval and finalisation of Bonus Plan following approval Review and amendment of the notice of AGM, including byshareholders.
reappointment of Directors as Review of consultation draft Review of finalised updates to recommended by the ofthe UK Corporate the UK Corporate Governance NominationCommittee.
Code and checklist of Agreement for the Nomination compliance against these.
Committee to handle the appointment of the new Chair.
42 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 10 Corporate governance A crucial part of our role is ensuring that the Group activities in the Groups industry: hasthe appropriate people, financial and other resources potential acquisition opportunities: to achieve these aims.
With our standing Committees, we alsooversee controls, risk management and senior shareholder communications and feedback: remuneration.
We set theframework to develop the reports of proceedings of Board Committees: cultural tone for the Group our Group-wide set of values.
Coupled with the enthusiasm of our people progress against previously agreed actions: and these values have always been a fundamental part of developments in corporate governance.
Our aim is to maximise returns for shareholders and other stakeholders over the In addition to our Executive Directors, members of longterm.
senior management are regularly invited to present relevant matters to the Board.
Executive Directors and This section of the Corporate Governance Report members ofmanagement may also attend and present summarises therole and activities of our Board.
at Committee meetings, where appropriate, at the Itisthen followed by specific reports from our invitation of the respective Committee Chair.
Directors have the right to request that any concerns Board and Committee meetings they may have are recorded in the appropriate Board or The Board meets regularly throughout the year, both Committee minutes although no such requests were when scheduled as part of its annual corporate calendar made in 2018.
Minutes are circulated for comment by and at other times as required for specific matters.
all Directors before being formally approved at the next Atthese meetings, it reviews: relevant meeting.
business performance: operational matters of particular note for theBoard: strategic considerations: September October December At every main meeting, the Board Further review of future Initial review of draft In France, two days also reviews: market development.
Meeting with and Report from the Chief presentations from French Strategy review with Two individual country Executive Officer, including management team.
presentations from the business updates presented by key developments in the Executive Team, including: the relevant Country Managers.
Customer strategy review Groups businesses.
presented by the Chief key markets: Confirmation of appointment Report from the Chief Customer Officer.
of Helen Weir as Non-executive marketplace and delivery: Financial Officer, including Director onthe Review of future market performanceof the Groups organisational design: and recommendation of the development.
Plans for Chairs meetings with Investor relations and Presentation of actions taken shareholders.
Report on Chairs meetings and plans in connection with Agreement of process for withshareholders.
Minutes and actions from the updated UK Corporate Board evaluation.
Confirmation that there arenoDirector conflicts tobenoted.
Reports from the BoardCommittees whenappropriate.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Report of the Board continued Membership of the Board The Board has ten members: myself, Mike Evans, Independent Non-executive Chair: We provide both support two Executive Directors, Peter Duffy Interim Chief andconstructive challenge to Executive Officer and Paul Harrison  : management in the review of six Independent Non-executive Directors, GwynBurr, their proposals.
We then monitor Alistair Cox, Roisin Donnelly, AndrewGriffith, Diego Oliva and Helen Weir: and performance in the achievement one Non-independent Non-executive Director, of the aims being targeted Frederic Coorevits, who is nominated by a major over both the shorter and shareholder and has served since before the CompanysIPO.
For the purposes of assessing compliance with the Code, the Board considers that Gwyn Burr, Alistair Cox, A proper balance of influence has been established to Roisin Donnelly, Andrew Griffith, Diego Oliva, Helen Weir ensure noone individual, or separate groups of people, and I, Mike Evans, are independent of management and haveunfettered decision-making powers.
All the free from any business or other relationship that could Non-executive Directors bring valuable insight to materially interfere with the exercise of our judgement.
theBoards deliberations and have the opportunity The Board recognises the advantages of diversity tochallenge assumptions and raise concerns at any including with regard to gender.
Contributions from stage in the decision-making process.
Thisensures the individuals with a wide range of backgrounds, skills and final conclusions are reached with the support of the experience result in creativity of ideas and enhanced Boardas a whole.
Thediversity of our Directors provides great We believe there is an excellent balance of skills and value to the Board with a depth and wide range of experience represented on the Board, enabling the insight into both the Groups business and other effective and successful management of the Company businesses, including other publicly listed companies.
Refreshment of the Board during the Atable showing some of the key skills of our Directors year included my appointment as Chair in March 2018 isshown in the Report of our Nomination Committee and the appointment of Helen Weir as Independent onpage 61.
Our Directors bring significant expertise which The Board received updates on corporate governance enablesthem to make high quality, diverse and relevant developments during the course of the year.
These included contributions to Board discussions.
As well as enriching a reminder of the Directors duties under Section 172 debates, this allows carefully considered judgements ofthe Companies Act 2006.
At its December meeting, tobe reached, consensus to be arrived at, and informed actions were agreed by the Board in relation to the decisions to then betaken.
forthcoming requirements of the new UK Corporate We provide both support and constructive challenge Governance Code.
These included the appointment tomanagement in the review of their proposals.
We then ofRoisin as our designated Non-executive Director monitor performance in the achievement of the aims forengagement with the workforce.
being targeted over both the shorter and longer terms.
The Board is confident that its membership is appropriate All our Directors have a deep interest in ensuring for this stage in the Groups development.
It will continue theGroup achieves its long-term objectives and are to pursue Board development to secure the future collectively responsible as a Board for this.
They each prosperity and direction of the business.
We believe this devote sufficient time and focus to their Board duties forward-looking approach is fundamental to achieving and responsibilities, and have a shared role in ensuring our long-term strategic goals in the interests of our the successful performance of the Board.
shareholders, our people and our other stakeholders.
44 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Role of the Board Key activities of our Board include the following: Agreeing the Groups strategic aims after Aiming to ensure that the Group has the considering recommendations from the necessary financial strength and human ExecutiveDirectors.
resources in place topursue the agreed strategy.
The Board reviews matters of strategic This includes regular reviews of the financial importance at each ofits main meetings.
performance and requirements of the Group, Thisisusually done in the context of presented by the Chief Financial Officer, along presentations on specific matters of with regular updates from the Chief Executive strategicinterest byamember of senior Officer.
Periodically, italso includes presentations management.
During 2018, the Board also from the Chief People Officer on plans forthe heldamore formal strategy review with ongoing development of the management team theExecutiveTeam.
in the context of thegrowth of theGroup.
In the past year, matters considered The Groups Chief People Officer also haveincluded: givesregular presentations to the Remuneration Committee.
the development of the Groups deliverystrategy: Reviews of the performance of executive management is led by the Nomination the Groups ongoing vision internationally: Committee with the Chief Executive Officer the ongoing development of both the whereappropriate.
customer and restaurantexperience: the development of the Groups ongoing Reviewing Group performance against the brandstrategy: agreed strategy and considering any variations that may become appropriate to thisstrategy.
the Groups technology and productplanning: The Board reviews the operational development the integration of HungryHouse into of the Group and its markets to ensure its theGroup: strategy remains appropriate.
It then considers and decides upon any adjustments that may considering the future development of improvethis.
thefood delivery market: and risks in the Group in connection with Setting the tone as well as overseeing strategic considerations as well as at implementation of the Groups values amoregranular level.
Non-executive Directors constructively The Board leads the Group in a way that is challenge matters when they feel it is intended to maximise business integrity.
appropriate as part ofthe Board as a Thisenables the Groups people and other wholereaching an overall consensus stakeholders to operate in a transparent and initsdecision-making process.
As a key ethical, as well as entrepreneurial, manner.
partofits debates, the Board reviews and This is an important part of ensuring seeks to identify risks at a strategic level.
thelongterm success of the Group.
Itissupplemented by more detailed reviewsofspecific areas by the Boards standing Committees.
Where appropriate, working with the operatingmanagement to assist in theachievement of thestrategy.
Directors have open and constructive relationships with members of senior management who can draw on their wide business experience outside of, aswellas within, Board meetings.
Board evaluation commentary on page 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 45 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Report of the Board continued Division of responsibilities Whilst the Directors take collective responsibility for the management of the Group, the effective operation of the Board benefits from a clarity of responsibilities.
Key elements of this are set out below: The Board The Board has a formal schedule of matters accounting policies, which arereviewed in detail specifically reserved for its or its Committees by the AuditCommittee: decisions which include: shareholder communications, such as Group strategy, which is reviewed by the Board announcements of results, this Annual Report and and management regularly during the year: the accompanying notice of AGM toshareholders: the Groups business plan and annual Board structure, composition and succession operatingbudget: planning, which are handled in more detail by the Nomination Committee: major investments, acquisitions and capital projects, and themonitoring of their Executive remuneration and the remuneration : ofthe Chair, which are determined by the Remuneration Committee: and internal controls and risk management, which are reviewed regularly by the Audit Committee: the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors.
Subject to such reserved matters, and any other matters which the Board determines are appropriate for its specific decision as they arise, authority for the operation of the Group is delegated to executive and other management within a system of defined authority limits.
Thematters reserved for the Boards decision are reviewed periodically and updated as considered appropriate, as they were in the past year.
Another important aspect of the division of responsibilities in any listed Company is between the roles of the Chair and the Chief Executive Officer.
In Just Eat, these roles are separate and distinct, with a clear division of responsibilities atthe head of the Company, which are established, agreed and set out in writing.
The role of the Senior Independent Director complements these roles.
Independent Non-executive Chair Interim Chief Executive Officer Senior Independent Director The Chair is primarily responsible The Chief Executive Officer, The Senior Independent Director is for managing the Board, facilitating together with the Chief Financial available to the other Non-executive the effective contribution of all Officer, has been delegated Directors and shareholders, either Directors, ensuring satisfactory appropriate responsibilities individually orcollectively, should dialogue with shareholders and andauthorities forthe they wish todiscuss matters of that all Board members are aware effectiveleadership of the concern inan alternative forum.
of the views of major shareholders.
senior management team, the day-to-day running ofthe business, carrying out the agreed strategy and implementing specific Board decisions relating to the Groupsoperations.
46 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance The Board Standing Board Committees The Board leads the Group In addition, certain matters have been delegated to threeprincipal Board Committees within clearly defined in a way that is intended to terms of reference.
Theseremits, together with the maximise business integrity.
composition of each Committee, are reviewed periodically as they have been in the past year in the context of This enables the Groups thenew UK Corporate Governance Code.
people and other stakeholders The current terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available on the Companys to operate in atransparent website at www.
and ethical, aswell as A summar y of entrepreneurial, manner.
Audit Committee the role of the AuditCommittee isincluded on page 52 Andrew Griffith Chair, Audit Committee The work of the Nomination Committee Nomination Committee issummarised on page60 Mike Evans Chair, Nomination Committee A summar y of the Remuneration Committee key matters the Remuneration Committee considers isincluded on page66 Gwyn Burr Chair, Remuneration Committee Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Report of the Board continued Support to Directors The Directors have unrestricted access to the Groups management and advisers.
They also have the opportunity to visit the business operations.
When new Directors are appointed, they receive a comprehensive induction facilitated by the Company Secretary.
This induction includes meetings with key members of management, together with briefings on the Groups business, its industry and public Company duties generally.
Further details of the induction process are included on page 49.
As well as having continuous access to the knowledge and expertise of senior management, Directors regularly receive their input at Board meetings.
These regular interactions develop their depth of knowledge of the business, and also strengthen and enhance the relationships between the Board and management.
As required, access to ongoing training is also available to Directors for A global leadership team professional development to refresh their key skills and knowledge, ensuring they are well placed to discharge The Board receives regular reports from key their duties.
management on the Groups businesses.
In September, All Directors also have access to the advice and services the entire Board visited the Groups French operations.
of the Company Secretary, who acts as Secretary to the This included all Directors meeting and receiving Board and each of its Committees.
The Company Secretary presentations from each member of the local senior reports to and advises the Board and Committees directly management team.
It also included consideration of through their Chairs on compliance with relevant how the experience being gained in France could be procedures and laws and regulations on governance more widely applied across the Group.
Through their Chairs, the Company Secretary isalso responsible for ensuring there is good communication between the Board and its Committees, senior management and the Non-executive Directors, ensuring that the relevant level of information flows within the organisation.
Directors are also able to take external advice at the expense of the Company, should they feel this is necessary.
Governance calendar for 2018 The overall calendar of meetings of the Board and its Committees for 2018 is shown below: Full report Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Board main meetings p42 Board conference calls p42 Audit Committee p52 Nomination Committee p60 Remuneration Committee p64 AGM Specific calendars for the Board and its Committees are shown in their individual reports within this review.
48 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance New Director induction Objective Overview The Chair, supported by the Company Secretary, is To provide our new Directors with the resources they need in order to be able to maximise their responsible for ensuring that new Directors have a thorough and appropriate induction.
effectiveness in the shortest time practicable.
Each newly appointed Director has participated in a Process Provision of resources including papers and minutes structured induction programme and has received a comprehensive suite of resources providing detailed from previous Board meetings and key corporate information on the Group.
Each induction has been based on the individual Business briefings with the Executive Directors and Directors requirements and included meetings with theChair.
relevant Directors, senior management and external Meetings with members of the Executive Team and advisers.
This ensures that each new Director understands seniormanagement.
the Companys strategy and governance structure.
Meetings with external advisers, as appropriate to therole.
Opportunity to visit different Group sites and attend business events.
Board induction case study I have thoroughly enjoyed the induction process which has enabled me to build an understanding of the business and the markets in which it operates.
Inaddition to gaining detailed knowledge about the Board and its Committees, I have also been able to build a link with our people as I have visited operations within the UK and also further afield, such as SkipTheDishes in Canada and Menulog in Australia.
Helen Weir Non-executive Director 1 2 3 Meetings with: Specific activities to help Future plans: The Executive Team.
Spend a day at the Contact Centre in understand the business from a Borehamwood.
restaurant owner and customer Group finance team and Group internal audit and risk team.
Spend a day with customer insight point of view: team in London.
Sales visits to a number of restaurants The UK Managing Director.
in the UK with Territory Manager.
The Managing Directors and their Spent time including call listening respective teams of SkipTheDishes with the courier and restaurant inCanada and Menulog in Australia.
Key advisers including the auditor Attended annual Menulog team and financial advisers.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 49 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Report of the Board continued Attendance at Board meetings The attendance of current Board and Committee members at meetings and calls, as compared with the number ofmeetingsheld: Board 8 Board Audit Remuneration Nomination attendance 2 1 1 2 Mike Evans 86% Paul Harrison 100% 1 Gwyn Burr 100% Frederic Coorevits 100% Alistair Cox 100% Roisin Donnelly 100% 1 3 Andrew Griffith 100% Diego Oliva 100% 4 Helen Weir 100% 5 Peter Plumb 100% 7 6 David Buttress N A Key Board seven meetings Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Board or Committee member fourmeetings not present five meetings Nomination Committee fourmeetings Non-Committee member invited toattend some or all of a meeting although not any part of any Remuneration Committee decision regarding their own remuneration wasdecided 1.
Stepped down from the Board on 26 April 2018.
Mike Evans was prevented from attending this meeting due to an urgent 7.
There was only one Board meeting before David Buttress stepped down family matter.
Full documentation was issued to him and he briefed other from the Board on 26 April 2018 he did not attend this meeting.
Board members immediately before the meeting and received a debrief 8.
D irectors do not attend meetings of the Remuneration Committee when the shortly after.
Committee is deciding matters in relation to such Directors remuneration.
Andrew Griffith was prevented from attending as this meeting was arranged Committee membership was refreshed on 20 July 2018. on short notice at a time when he was not available although he participated Peter Duffy was appointed as a Director on 21 January 2019 and therefore did in a discussion of the matters of the meeting separately.
not attend the meetings as shown above during 2018.
Appointed to the Board on 1 December 2018.
All Directors on the Board at that time attended the AGM.
Stepped down from the Board on 21 January 2019.
Directors tenure as at 5 March 2019 Appointment date IPO April 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Tenure Mike Evans 06 03 2018 01 years Peter Duffy 21 01 2019 01 years Paul Harrison 26 09 2016 23 years Gwyn Burr 12 03 2014 5 years since pre-IPO Frederic Coorevits 10 07 2009 5 years since pre-IPO Alistair Cox 02 05 2017 12 years Roisin Donnelly 17 10 2016 23 years Andrew Griffith 12 03 2014 5 years since pre-IPO Diego Oliva 24 09 2015 4 years Helen Weir 01 12 2018 01 years Key Chair Independent Non-executive Directors male Non-independent Non-executive Director Executive Directors Independent Non-executive Directors female 50 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Shareholder relations shareholders should they feel that any concerns are not being addressed properly.
Andrew is contactable The Board is committed to ensuring that it maintains continual dialogue with existing and potential shareholders through the Company Secretary.
based on the mutual understanding of the Companys Disclosures in respect of the DTR requirements under DTR strategic objectives.
6 are given in the Directors Report on pages 138 to 142 programme underpins this commitment.
The Board and are included in this section of the report by reference.
identifies key shareholders to ensure an appropriate level of contact is established.
The Chief Executive Annual General Meeting Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and I, in my role as All shareholders are encouraged to attend and have the Chair, regularly engage with institutional investors in opportunity to ask questions at the Companys AGM and order to develop an understanding of their views.
at any other times by contacting the Company.
As well During the year, in addition to our results roadshows as the Chair, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief and Capital Markets Day held in June, we have Financial Officer, the Chair of the Audit, Nomination and consulted with our major shareholders by letter, Remuneration Committees also all attend the AGM to telephone and in person in relation to remuneration and answer questions relating to the responsibilities of other key areas.
The feedback received is communicated those Committees.
back to, and discussed with, the Board and Remuneration Committee.
The Directors use this information to ensure The notice convening the 2019 AGM, to be held on any concerns or issues are understood and, if necessary, 1May 2019, will be issued along with this Annual Report addressed appropriately.
to shareholders at least 20 working days in advance of the meeting.
This will provide shareholders with the All results and other regulatory announcements, appropriate time to consider matters.
Separate resolutions presentations given to analysts and investors will be proposed on each substantially separate matter.
coveringthe preliminary and interim results, as well The results of the proxy votes on each resolution will be asfurtherinformation for investors, are included in the collated independently by the Companys registrar and will investorrelations section of the Companys website at be published on the Companys website after the meeting.
Additional shareholder information is also set out on page 156.
Shareholders are able to contact the Company through the Company Secretary or Head of Investor Relations at the Mike Evans Companys registered office, listed at the end of this report.
Chair 5 March 2019 In addition, Andrew Griffith, as Senior Independent Director, serves as an additional point of contact for Shareholder engagement activities The Board and Remuneration Committee have undertaken extensive engagement with its shareholders over the past year.
Annual General Half year results 2018 Commencement Trading update Meeting.
announcement 31July of remuneration 21 January 2019 and 2018 andmanagement consultation calls with investors.
consultation Follow-up to on2018 LTIP remuneration measures consultation on 2018 andtargets.
Chair roadshow of Continuation of preliminary results investor meetings.
announcement consultation on 2019 Q3 trading update.
management roadshow inEurope and US.
Introductory communication from Mike Evans as Chair elect to over 20 of our largest investors.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 51
