12 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Key resources and relationships OUR CUSTOMERS At Just, all our activities start by understanding how we can best meet the needs of our target customers.
Whether we are designing new services or new products, our customers are the focus of everything that our we do.
We invest our resources so we can help people achieve a better later life.
DISTRIBUTION PARTNERS Distribution plays a key role in our ability to reach, attract and retain customers.
Building out and diversifying our distribution network drive to helps ensure that we fully capitalise on the opportunities available to us in each of our markets.
Just has a highly effective multichannel distribution strategy which is one of our key strengths.
Our DB sales are made via employee benefits be just consultants EBCs who advise pension schemes trustees and we have developed strong relationships in this area.
We distribute our individual retail products through a number of channels, including generalist Our customers are the focus of and specialist financial intermediaries and emerging channels accessed via our HUB group of companies, such as life insurance everything that we do.
By investing companies, banks, building societies, pension schemes and affinity partners.
Our consistent in resources we are able to provide record in achieving the highest accolades in industry service awards demonstrates the products and services that help strength and quality of our relationships with those to whom we provide services.
peopleachieve a better later life In 2018 we have continued to develop new corporate partnerships and extend our services to current business customers to broaden our distribution reach.
This has helped our corporate partners to develop improved outcomes for their atand inretirement customers.
We continue to invest in our HUB group of businesses and we have achieved success, winning many new mandates to deliver services to pension scheme trustees, pension liability managers and other life insurance companies to provide technology solutions, regulated advice and guidance services, together with access to Justs products and those sourced from the external market.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 13 REINSURERS OUR COLLEAGUES These include the Groups key relationships We want Just to be a great place to work and with General Reinsurance AG London branch, engaged colleagues are crucial to our success.
RGA Global Reinsurance Company Ltd, RGA Our people strategy is currently focused International Reinsurance Company DAC and around three key priorities developing the Our colleagues ensure SCOR Life Global Life UK branch, as well as right organisational culture, capabilities and we continue to strong working relationships with Hannover employee experience.
Rck SE, Achmea Reinsurance Company N. V. respond effectively Pacific Life Re Ltd, Hannover Life Reassurance Just is a company with strong values and we to the changing Bermuda Ltd, Nomura Reinsurance 5IC Ltd place high expectations on our colleagues to and Partner Reinsurance Company Ltd. do business the right way and consistently external environment.
deliver our purpose of helping people achieve This diverse group of counterparties helps a better later life.
Their resilience and to ensure strong risk mitigation and enthusiasm were critical competitive terms.
OUR PEOPLE, VALUES & CULTURE PAGE 38 to the Group achieving GOVERNMENT AND REGULATORS the excellent new Regulators and policymakers are important stakeholders for Just.
We believe that an business results we important part of our role in the retirement income market is to engage positively with have reported government and regulators to encourage effective competition and consumer protection that results in achieving better customer outcomes.
We engage regularly with ministers, government officials, regulators and other policymakers directly and through trade bodies.
As a leader in the markets we serve, we are well placed to share our customer and market insights to contribute to progressive policy development.
SUPPLIERS The Group generally manages its own customer-facing systems and processes, and uses professional partners to provide specialist services.
This continues to allow us to flex and adapt our services to meet evolving customer demands.
The Group outsources certain operational and administrative functions where appropriate.
This includes the administration of pension payments for our DB business, some sections of our Guaranteed Income for Life business and some lifetime mortgage books acquired from our heritage business.
The relationships with the suppliers of these services are managed through dedicated teams.
