58 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 STATEMENT FROM THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Audit Committee Report CHAIRMAN IN SUMMARY The report sets out the activities carried out during the year aimed at ensuring the integrity of the financial reporting, accounting treatment and judgements proposed by management and at providing appropriate monitoring and challenge to the effectiveness of the Groups internal control environment.
Having conducted a thorough review of the significant financial judgements and financial statement assumptions made in the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts, and of the Annual As Chairman of the Audit Report and Accounts themselves, the Committee is satisfied that the judgements and assumptions are appropriate and that the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
Committee, I am pleased The Committee also oversaw the preparation and review of the topresent the Committees Solvency and Financial Condition Report SFCR as at 31 December 2017, the Regular Supervisory Reports and the Quantitative Reporting report for the year ended Templates for the PRA submission in June 2018.
It also continued to provide oversight of the preparatory work for the implementation of 31 December 2018 the new insurance accounting standard IFRS 17.
ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR The Committee follows an annual rolling forward agenda with standing items considered at each meeting in addition to any matters arising and topical business or financial items which the Committee has decided to focus on.
FINANCIAL REPORTING In 2018 and to date in 2019, the Committee: reviewed the quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices: reviewed the appropriateness and clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant financial and governance reporting requirements: reviewed material areas in which significant judgements have been applied or there has been discussion with the external auditor: reviewed accounting judgements in relation to the new accounting standards IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, IFRS 16 Leases and IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts: reviewed the assumptions critical to assessing the value of assets and liabilities, in particular insurance liabilities and lifetime mortgages: reviewed documentation prepared in support of the going concern basis and longer-term viability assessment with considerations made on the potential impact of PS31 18 Solvency II: Equity release mortgages and Brexit: reviewed the 31 December 2018 Group Annual Report and Accounts and the half-year statements to 30 June 2018: and assessed whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy and concluded that theyare.
To assist with the review, the Committee considers reports from the Chief Financial Officer and the Chief Actuary, and it reviews reports from the external auditor on the outcomes of their half-year review and year-end audit.
The Committee encourages the external auditor to display the necessary professional scepticism its role requires.
The key areas of judgement considered by the Committee in relation to the 2018 accounts, and how these were addressed, related to: The discount rate used to calculate the Groups insurance liabilities, reinsurance assets and deposits from reinsurers The return on bond assets is adjusted for valuation purposes for insurance liabilities, reinsurance assets and deposits from reinsurers to allow for credit risk for each bond by considering the spread the STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 59 difference between the gross redemption yield and the yield on an ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES AND equivalent duration risk-free reference instrument.
The Group sets COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS the credit risk as a fixed minimum component plus a percentage of the spread, calibrated significantly in excess of historic default rates, which are provided by the leading rating agencies.
The return on lifetime The primary role of the Audit Committee is to provide effective mortgage assets is adjusted to allow for the risks associated with these governance and assurance over the Groups financial reporting, the assets namely, the potential shortfall resulting from the no-negative audit processes, and to monitor the effectiveness of the Groups equity guarantee NNEG.
The Group calculates the shortfall in systems of internal controls and related compliance activities.
respect of the NNEG using a variant of the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
Inputs required e. g. current house prices, future house price The Audit Committee operates separately from, but alongside, the growth and house price volatility are derived from a combination of Group Risk and Compliance Committee with close cooperation available market data and management judgements.
between the Chairs of these Committees.
This ensures that audit work is focused on higher risk areas and that the results of internal Longevity assumptions and external audit work can be used to inform the work of the Group The length of time the Groups Retirement Income customers and Risk and Compliance Committee.
The terms of reference for the Lifetime Mortgage customers will live, and therefore the projected cash Committee were reviewed and aligned with those of the Risk and flows for Retirement Income and Lifetime Mortgage assets, are key Compliance Committee and better reflect the interaction of both assumptions when valuing the Groups insurance liabilities and lifetime Committees in relation to matters related to IFRS and Solvency II.
Longevity experience is a key area of focus for the Board and the Committee, and the Board receives regular reports on the actual COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS against expected number of deaths and the likely causes, by condition, The Committee members bring a wide range of financial and of any positive or negative divergence as well as the output of industry commercial expertise necessary to fulfil the Committees duties and studies.
During the year the Company completed the integration of the include appropriate life insurance accounting expertise.
The Board is IP from the Just Retirement and Partnership legacy businesses and satisfied that the Committee Chairman has recent and relevant conducted a comprehensive review of Retirement Income customer financial experience as required by the UK Corporate Governance longevity assumptions, resulting in a number of changes including Code the Code.
As a whole the Committee has competence aligning rates of improvement to a modified version of CMI 2017. relevant to the sector in which the Group operates.
Throughout this process the Committee received detailed reports setting out the work done, enabling the Committee to review, and to challenge The biographies of the members are set out on pages 44 to 47. as appropriate, the recommended updates to the longevity assumptions.
Changes to the longevity assumptions are also reviewed Attendance by the external auditor as part of their audit.
2018 scheduled Committee meetings eligibility The property assumptions used to value the Groups Lifetime Committee members Mortgages Paul Bishop Chairman 7 7 The value of the Groups Lifetime Mortgages are reliant on a range of assumptions, of which the key assumptions are future house price Steve Melcher 7 7 growth and house price volatility.
These assumptions determine the Keith Nicholson 7 7 expected shortfall on redemption in respect of the NNEG which is given to all lifetime mortgage customers.
Clare Spottiswoode 6 7 During the year the Company reviewed both these key assumptions The Committee also held two unscheduled additional meetings and and provided detailed analysis to the Committee setting out the three Working Group meetings during the year, all of which had full rationale and impact of the changes being proposed.
consideration of the potential impact of the UKs withdrawal from the European Union on UK property prices.
The Committee reviewed, and In addition to the members of the Committee, members of the challenged as appropriate, the detailed analysis and the recommended executive team and senior management team were invited and updates to future house price growth and house price volatility.
attended the meetings to submit reports in their areas of Changes to lifetime mortgage valuation assumptions are also reviewed responsibility.
Other Non-Executive Directors were also invited to by the external auditor as part of their audit.
attend and contributed to the challenge and debate.
The external auditor, KPMG LLP, attended all meetings.
The Committee set aside Going concern time at the beginning of each meeting to meet without The publication of CP13 18 Solvency II: Equity release mortgages management.
The Chairman also met separately with the external the CP by the PRA in July 2018 introduced a significant amount auditor and the Director of Group Internal Audit without other of uncertainty in relation to the Solvency II treatment of the Groups executive management being present.
Lifetime Mortgage assets being held to back Retirement Income liabilities.
The CP set out a number of parameters relating to the calculation of the matching adjustment including volatility and deferment rate, with implementation expected for the December 2018 year end.
The three month consultation period for the CP was still open at the time of publishing the Groups interim results for 2018 on 6 September 2018.
When carrying out the assessment of going concern in relation to the interim results for 2018, the Committee considered the impact of the CP, and concluded that although the going concern basis of preparation was appropriate, the potential outcome of the CP, together with any actions that the PRA might take, represented a material uncertainty.
In December 2018 the PRA published PS31 18 Solvency II: Equity release mortgages the PS setting out its conclusions, including a number of key changes from the original CP which are material to the Group, such as the deferral of the implementation date to 31 December 2019, confirmation that transitional measures for technical provisions 60 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 The Committee also reviewed the impact of adopting the new Audit Committee Report accounting standard IFRS 15 and concluded that this would not have a material impact.
The Committee also considered the disclosure continued changes that will affect the Group and subsidiary accounts.
With regard to the new accounting standard IFRS 16, which will be effective from January 2019, the Committee reviewed the high level assessment conducted by management on the impact of this standard on the Group and concluded that its adoption would not be significant for the Group.
However, the Committee considered the disclosures for pre-2016 business will be recognised over the remaining transitional required in the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts to explain the impact period to 31 December 2031, and a requirement that firms must meet as recommended by the FRC.
an effective value test using a volatility rate of 13% and a deferment rate of 0% at the end of 2019 and that the deferment rate should EXTERNAL AUDIT increase to 1% by year end 2021.
The PS also noted a number of areas The Committee is responsible for recommending to the Board the for further consideration, in particular the calculation of the SCR.
appointment, remuneration and terms of engagement letter of the external auditor.
It also ensures that appropriate audit plans are in As part of the assessment of going concern and longer-term viability place and that an effective relationship is maintained with the auditor for December 2018, the Committee considered the impact of the PS.
with regular reports received from them and by holding meetings with The PS has significantly reduced the uncertainty created by the CP and the audit engagement partner without the presence of management.
provides clarity on the calculation of the matching adjustment for In 2018, the Committee: future periods, which has enabled the Group to model the impact of reviewed the 2018 year-end audit work plan including the scope of the PS in its latest capital projections, business plan and liquidity the audit and the materiality levels adopted by the external auditor: forecasts.
There is still some uncertainty as regards the matters which reviewed the Groups policy on the use of the external auditor for are still under consideration, but the Board considers that the material non-audit work and concluded that this was in compliance with the uncertainty in relation to going concern which was disclosed in the policy.
It also evaluated the independence and objectivity of the Groups interim results for 2018 does not exist at the 2018 year end.
external auditor having regard to: a the report from the external auditor describing the general procedures to safeguard The Committee also considered other risks, including a disruptive independence and objectivity: b the level and extent of non-audit no-deal Brexit, in its combined stress scenarios for the going concern services provided by the external auditor: and c independence and assessment and the risks associated with capital raising which form objectivity considerations relating to other matters: part of the Groups business plan.
agreed the terms of engagement and fees to be paid to the external auditor for the audit of the 2018 Accounts: and Just Group plcs investment in subsidiaries reviewed recommendations made by the external auditor in their In addition to considering matters relating to the consolidated financial management letters and on the adequacy of managements response.
statements of the Group, the Committee also considers matters relating to the individual Company financial statements of Just Group The effectiveness of the external audit process is dependent on plc and its subsidiaries.
appropriate audit risk identification at the start of the audit cycle.
The Committee receives a detailed audit plan from KPMG, identifying its Just Group plcs investment in subsidiary undertakings is a significant assessment of these key risks.
For the 2018 reporting period the primary asset and underpins the net equity reported by Just Group plc in its risks identified were in relation to the valuation of insurance liabilities, individual Parent Company financial statements.
The carrying value of the valuation of loans secured by residential mortgages, the valuation of this asset is assessed through consideration of the financial position hard-to-value investments, reinsurance assets and deposits received and performance of the underlying subsidiary companies, including from reinsurers, going concern and the recoverability of Just Group plcs their net asset position and planned trading performance.
The investment in its subsidiaries.
The Committee challenged the work done Committee reviews these assessments, the recoverability of the by the auditor to test managements assumptions and estimates around balances reported and appropriateness of accounting policies, as part these areas.
The Committee assesses the effectiveness of the audit of its work on financial reporting.
process in addressing these matters through the reporting we receive Regulatory reporting oversight from KPMG at the interim and year end.
In addition, the Committee The Committee receives regular updates on the Groups regulatory seeks feedback from management on the effectiveness of the audit reporting matters including the oversight and preparation of the process.
For the 2018 reporting period, management was satisfied that Groups annual Solvency and Financial Condition Report, and there had been appropriate focus and challenge on the primary areas of Quantitative Reporting Templates.
The Committee also receives regular audit risk and assessed the quality of the audit process to be good.
The updates relating to the on-going publication by the Prudential Committee concurred with the view of management.
Regulation Authority of supervisory statements that set out its Independence and non-audit services expectations for certain aspects of prudential regulation.
The Audit The Group has a policy in relation to the provision of non-audit Committee also has responsibility for overseeing the recalculation of services by our external auditor.
All non-audit services provided TMTP.
The implementation of Solvency II in practice has continued to by KPMG are subject to review and approval by the Committee.
evolve and is expected to do so in the future.
During 2018 and to date The policy ensures that the Group benefits from the cumulative in 2019 the Committee has spent a significant amount of time knowledge and experience of its auditor while ensuring at the same considering the impact of SS3 17, CP13 18 and PS31 18.
The emergence time that the auditor maintains the same degree of objectivity and of new supervisory statements could impact certain key non-GAAP independence.
During the year, the value of non-audit services measures disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts and is closely provided by KPMG amounted to 2.03m 2017: 1.0m, comprising: monitored by the Committee to ensure disclosures are appropriate.
m New accounting standards Audit-related assurance services audit of regulatory 0.65 The Committee reviewed the new accounting standard IFRS 9 and returns approved the approach proposed by management with regard to its Audit-related assurance services other services 0.22 application, which will be deferred to the accounting period commencing on 1 January 2022 with the intention to align it with the Transaction related services 1.16 expected implementation date of the accounting standard IFRS 17.
This 2.03 deferral is allowed because the Groups business activity is predominantly insurance related.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 61 The ratio of non-audit services to audit services was 2.01:1.
This amount Committees that the first and second lines are operating appropriately.
is considerably higher than the previous year, reflecting an exceptional The Groups internal control systems comprise the following key features: level of corporate activity in the capital markets where KPMG provided establishment of clear and detailed terms of reference for the Board reporting accountant and other services relating primarily to the and each of its Committees: presentation and validation of historic financial information.
Significant a clear organisational structure, with documented delegation of non-audit services were also provided in relation to the audit of the authority from the Board to senior management: Groups Solvency II regulatory returns.
Both of these are considered a Group policy framework, which sets out risk management and to be closely related to the work performed by KPMG as auditor of control standards for the Groups operations: and the Group.
defined procedures for the approval of major transactions and capital allocation.
As part of the evaluation of the objectivity and independence of the external audit, the Committee has received and reviewed written The Audit Committee keeps under review the adequacy and confirmation that KPMG has performed their own assessment of effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
It is the view of the independence within the meaning of all UK regulatory and professional Committee that the Groups internal controls are currently appropriate requirements and of the objectivity of the audit engagement partner to the Groups needs.
and audit staff and have also concluded that the independence is not impaired by the nature of the non-audit engagements undertaken INTERNAL AUDIT during the year, the level of non-audit fees charged or any other facts The Committee receives an annual plan from the Director of Group or circumstances.
Internal Audit, regular updates on internal audit work carried out and the internal audit end of year report.
The level of non-audit services offered reflects the auditors knowledge and understanding of the Group.
The Group has also appointed other In 2018, the Committee: accountancy firms to provide certain non-audit services in connection continued to oversee investment in the Internal Audit function.
with internal audit, governance, tax and regulatory advice, in particular Thenew Director of Group Internal Audit was appointed to lead the with regard to the implementation of IFRS 17. function following the retirement of the Regulatory and Audit Director and provided direct independent reporting to the Audit An analysis of auditor remuneration is shown in note 4 to the Committee Chairman: consolidated financial statements.
oversaw the engagement of PwC to work with the internal audit team on the combined internal audit assurance work, to complete Effectiveness and reappointment of external auditor the audit plan for 2018 and to conduct a Board and Committee The Committee considered the quality and effectiveness of the effectiveness review: external audit process.
The review of the performance was completed reviewed the rolling 12 month Internal Audit plan ensuring as part of an on-going process of review throughout the year with the alignment to the key risks of the business: Audit Committee seeking assurance and understanding of the auditors reviewed results from audits performed, including any unsatisfactory approach to the audit.
Private meetings were also held with the audit findings and related actions plans: external auditor and the Chairman of the Committee as necessary reviewed open audit actions and monitored progress against them: outside the Audit Committee meetings.
The Committee considered the and findings of the FRCs Annual Audit Quality Review of KPMG and conducted an assessment of the Internal Audit function.
discussed with KPMG the firm-wide actions being taken to address observations made.
Monitoring and review of the scope, extent and effectiveness of the activity of the Group Internal Audit department is an agenda item at The lead audit partner was rotated in 2017 in accordance with the FRCs each Committee meeting.
The Committee considers and approves the Ethical Standard.
Following the auditors performance review, the Internal Audit plan annually and looks to ensure its alignment with the Board approved the reappointment of KPMG and put a resolution to external audit and the Groups risk management approach.
Reports shareholders at the 2018 Annual General Meeting to reappoint KPMG, from the Director of Internal Audit include updates on audit activities, which shareholders subsequently approved.
progress of the Internal Audit plan, the results of any unsatisfactory audits and the action plans to address these areas.
The Committee The Committee has approved KPMGs remuneration and terms of reviews the resource requirements of the Internal Audit department engagement and remains satisfied with KPMGs work and that KPMG and is satisfied that it has the appropriate resources identified.
An continues to remain independent and objective.
effectiveness review of Internal Audit is carried out every three to five years and a review is planned for 2019.
The Committee held private The Committee will review the tenure of the auditor in 2019, and will discussions with the Director of Group Internal Audit as necessary during continue to comply with the Code and extant regulations on audit the year.
The Committee Chairman also meets with the Director of Group tendering.
Internal Audit regularly outside the formal committee process, approves his performance appraisal, and sets his annual objectives.
The Group will continue to use audit firms other than KPMG for non-audit services so that relationships are enhanced with those firms WHISTLEBLOWING capable of performing the role of external auditor.
The Committee will The Group has a Whistleblowing Policy and procedure in place and an seek, with management, to ensure that there are no contractual external confidential reporting hotline.
The Group has also conducted an obligations which restrict the Committees choice of auditor.
awareness campaign to encourage employees of the Group to raise in confidence concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting, RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL other operational matters or inappropriate behaviours in the workplace.
The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining The Chairman of the Audit Committee is the Whistleblowing Champion.
the Groups systems of internal control and for undertaking an annual review of the control systems in place.
The Group operates a Three On behalf of the Audit Committee Lines of Defence model.
The first line of defence is line management who devise and operate the controls over the business.
The second line functions are Risk Management, Compliance and Actuarial Assurance, which oversee the first line, ensure that the system of controls are Paul Bishop sufficient and are operated appropriately, and also measure and report Chairman, Audit Committee on risk to the Group Risk and Compliance Committee.
The third line is 14 March 2019 Internal Audit who provide independent assurance to the Board and its
