54 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 STATEMENT FROM THE NOMINATION Nomination COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN Committee Report The report sets out the activities carried out during the year aimed at executive development, succession planning and the development of the Boards skills anddiversity.
ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR I am pleased to present The Committee follows an annual rolling forward agenda with standing items considered at each meeting, in addition to any matters arising and topical business or financial items on which the Committee has theNomination Committee decided to focus on.
Report covering our work In 2018, the Committee: actively engaged with the process for the recruitment of two in2018 additional female NEDs across the Group and Life companies, in seeking to fulfil its stated diversity goals: received and approved an assessment and development process from Korn Ferry for executives reporting to the CEO and conducted an executive team realignment exercise: reviewed the CEO profile: reviewed the Boards skills and produced a Board skills map, which sets out the Boards succession plans: conducted a search process for the replacement of the CFO: analysed the effectiveness review of the Board, its Committees, the Chairman and individual Directors, which was conducted through an externally facilitated process: kept under review the independence of Non-Executive Directors, considering the judgement, thinking and constructive challenge thatthey demonstrate in Board and Committee discussions: recommended to the Board that each of the Directors be proposed for election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 16 May 2019.
The Committee made this recommendation having considered the balance of abilities and experience required of both Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors, and on the basis that all Non-Executive Directors, whether independent or not, continue to demonstrate the personal qualities necessary to contribute to the leadership of the Company: and over the coming year, the Committee will continue to focus on Boardsuccession planning, progressing the diversity and inclusion programme and talent development.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 55 STRENGTHENING THE LEADERSHIP PIPELINE, EXECUTIVE DEVELOPMENT ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES AND PROGRAMME AND CEO SUCCESSION PLANNING COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS A focus on longer-term succession planning has meant strengthening and developing the executive and leadership pipeline within the organisation.
This means embedding robust talent management The role of the Nomination Committee is to keep under review processes to help identify and accelerate the development of theleadership needs of the Company, and regularly review the emerging leaders at all levels of the organisation.
The Enterprise sizeand composition of the Board, where appropriate making Leadership programme, being run in partnership with Saville and recommendations for the orderly succession of Executive and Holdsworth occupational psychologists, is a good example of how we Non-Executive Director appointments, and the progressive are investing in benchmarking and developing our senior leadership refreshing of the Board and its Committees.
In assisting and advising population at one level below the Executive Committee.
the Board, the Committee seeks to maintain an appropriate balance of skills, knowledge, independence, experience and diversity on the Last year we reported how the Nomination Committee had taken Board, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing account of the CEOs succession plan for his executive team and his the Group.
vision for the future structure and evolution of the management team.
This yearthe Committee reviewed the succession plans and The Committee meets not less than twice a year and the CEO and the contingency arrangements that were in place and deeply examined Group Human Resources Director are normally invited to attend the bench strength of the executive team.
The Group Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
The Committees duties are explained in more detail in We have invested in developing members of theExecutive Committee.
its terms of reference, which are available on the Groups website at Earlier this year, members took part in a leadership assessment process www.
The biographies of the members are set out with Korn Ferry.
This provided a robust evaluation of how each on pages 44 to 47. individual performed against an Executive success profile and external benchmarking.
In addition, a subgroup of executive members was assessed against the success profile for the next CEO of Just.
This Attendance provided insight into the readiness of these individuals to step up 2018 scheduled Committee meetings eligibility intothis role.
Committee members Chris Gibson-Smith Chairman 3 3 Just has put in place a structured development programme for all members of the executive team.
The Nomination Committee also Paul Bishop 3 3 received feedback from Korn Ferry on the executive development Ian Cormack 3 3 programme during the year.
As such, we have an objective and robustview of the strengths and development gaps for our executives Michael Deakin 3 3 to inform succession plans against key competencies, experiences, Keith Nicholson 3 3 traits and drivers.
Some executives have business coaches and all haveattended a number of professional development events bothinTom Cross Brown retired at the 2018 AGM.
The Committee also held two additional meetings during the year to discuss the resignation of the CFO, both of which had full attendance.
In addition to the members of the Committee, members of the executive team and senior management team were invited to attend the meetings and submit reports in their areas of responsibility.
Other Non-Executive Directors were also invited toattend and contributed to the challenge and debate.
56 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 APPOINTMENTS POLICY AND PROCESS Nomination Committee Report The Committee previously amended its appointments policy and process to promote greater diversity in the composition of the Board continued and improve in particular the gender balance.
It has put in place a diversity policy which best supports the business and promotes the success of the Company.
The current recruitment process begins by evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of its existing members, the diversity of the Board and the on-going requirements and strategic developments of the Group.
The search process is then able to focus on appointing a candidate who will BOARD DIVERSITY complement and enhance the Boards effectiveness and overall In addition, the Nomination Committee has identified the performance.
competencies that are likely to become increasingly important for Just Group Board members in the future.
This work underpinned the search The Committee uses the services of search firms to identify appropriate for Non-Executive Directors who could provide complementary skills to candidates.
The Committee will only use those firms that have adopted strengthen the overall balance of Board competencies.
the voluntary Code of Conduct addressing gender diversity and best practice in search assignments.
Korn Ferry has been retained during Taken together, these identified skills and competencies provided a the current reporting period.
It has also been retained to facilitate the success profile for a Just Board member.
This profile was also used as executive development programme.
the basis for evaluating the experience and capabilities of our current NEDs to identify gaps.
A long list of potential appointees is reviewed, followed by the shortlisting of candidates for interview based upon the objective Analysis of the skillsets of the current Board members, which had been criteria set out in the agreed role specification.
Non-Executive mapped against the current strategy and business plan, confirmed that appointees must be able to demonstrate that they have sufficient time the current Non-Executive Directors have significant experience in available to devote to the role and prior to appointment all prospective financial services and insurance, listed companies, financial service Directors must identify whether they have any potential conflicts of regulation andrisk management: audit, finance and actuarial skills interest.
However, it was recognised that there was a need to strengthen digital, IT and cyber capabilities, particularly in Shortlisted appointees are interviewed by the Chairman, other technology transformation, and also customer and distribution Committee members and the CEO.
The Committee recommends a capabilities, with aneed for deeper functional expertise in customer preferred candidate who is invited to meet other Board members.
insight, operations and managing distribution.
The Committee Finally, detailed external references are taken and following this the endorsed the analysis, identifying digital and customer and distribution Committee makes a formal recommendation to the Board for as areas to strengthen.
The Committee further discussed opportunities, appointment.
desirability and practicality of bringing new digital talent onto the Groups main and subsidiary Board and Committee structures On behalf of the Nomination Committee particularly in the HUB group of companies.
The current Non-Executive Director search aimed to increase female representation within the Non-Executive Director population and a review of current Director skillsets was aimed to support the Chris Gibson-Smith discussions around potential appointments.
Chairman, Nomination Committee 14 March 2019 I have set out in my opening governance statement an explanation for why the extended period of uncertainty created by the publication of the PRAs consultation paper CP13 18 Solvency II: Equity release mortgages on 2 July 2018 created an environment which made it difficult to secure the services of any new Non-Executive Directors during the year.
Whilst it remains the case that women are underrepresented at senior levels generally, we are taking steps to address this.
A diversity and inclusion programme, supported by the Board, is addressing these challenges.
Indeed, the Deputy CEO has been designated as the executive sponsor and diversity champion for the Group.
Within this framework we are considering other measures of cultural diversity, which is the focus of the Parker Report, such as educational background and wider experience.
When considering Board appointments, the Board follows formal and transparent procedures to ensure that appointments of Directors are made having regard to a broad set of qualities and competences to fulfil the requirements of the role and to promote diversity among Board members.
The Committee has discussed at some length the need for new strategies and behaviours not only among the Board but across all parts of the business, to improve diversity.
The Committee is sponsoring a number of initiatives to identify key female and black and minority ethnic BME talent below executive level.
A leadership programme was launched in Q2 and a talent programme was launched in Q3.
The Committee has signed up to the Women in Finance Charter to demonstrate that commitment both internally and externally.
The Group will also be mindful of findings of the BME talent initiative led by Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy in its Diversity and Inclusion programme strategy.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 57 BOARD DIVERSITY POLICY PURPOSE This policy sets out the approach to diversity in respect of the Board of Directors of Just Group plc.
The policy is intended to assist the Board, through the work of the Nomination Committee, in creating and maintaining optimum Board and Committee composition.
The broad principles of diversity contained in this policy apply to all employees of Just Group.
POLICY STATEMENT The Board has pledged to build a culture at Just that has diversity and inclusion at its core.
We are committed to hiring and developing diverse talent at all levels of the organisation.
POLICY OBJECTIVES We have registered Justs support for Inclusive Behaviours in Insurance which is about demonstrating our commitment to a culture where inclusive behaviours are the norm and everyone is supportive ofdiversity.
We have also signed up to the HM Treasury Women in Finance Charter our 33 by 23 target reflects our pledge that at least 33% of our senior leaders are female by December 2023.
In line with this commitment, we recognise and embrace the benefits of a diverse Board across all aspects of diversity, including gender, race, sexuality, skills, knowledge, experience, education, age, personality and work style.
The Nomination Committee regularly reviews the Board composition and evaluates candidates for Board membership based on merit against clear and objective criteria.
It focuses on ensuring that successful candidates add to the diversity of the Board, bringing skills and experience which are complementary to those already available to the Board through its existing membership.
In considering suitable external candidates, the Committee is committed to only using service firms that have adopted the voluntary Code of Conduct addressing gender diversity and best practice in search assignments.
The Committee will agree on an annual basis the relevant measures for achieving diversity on the Board.
It will report on the process it has used to make Board appointments.
This will include a review of progress against agreed diversity measures and targets.
The Committee will also review this policy on an annual basis and recommend revisions to the Board as required.
The policy has the full support of the Chairman and the Board of Directors.
MONITORING AND REPORTING This policy and progress against its objectives will be reviewed annually.
The Board is responsible for the implementation of this policy and for monitoring progress towards achievements of its objectives.
