62 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 STATEMENT FROM THE GROUP RISK AND Group Risk and COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN Compliance Committee The Committee assists the Board by providing leadership, direction and oversight of the Groups risk management framework and regulatory compliance of the Group.
In doing so, the Committee has played a key Report role in delivering effective oversight of the principal and emerging risks inherent in the business and the risk strategy.
SUMMARY OF MEETINGS DURING THE YEAR The Committee met formally on four occasions.
The main areas considered and activities undertaken by the Committee related to: I am pleased to report Risk governance The Committee ensured that the risk framework continued to develop in line with the business needs, ensuring that policies and practices ontheGroup Risk and were kept up to date, and that the risk appetite, against which the business plan and strategy are assessed, remained appropriate.
The Compliance Committees Committee challenged the different levels of risk appetite and reviewed and approved the risk management plan for the year.
activities during2018 Risk oversight The Committee regularly reviewed and challenged managements view of the developing risk and capital outlook for the Group by considering the Own Risk and Solvency Assessment reports together with updates provided on a quarterly basis.
The Committee will continue to focus on this area as the PRA has signposted that further consultation on the stresses will be published next year.
This included the principal risks set out on pages 34 to 37 of the Annual Report.
During the year there was a focus on the risks associated with lifetime mortgages and the regulatory capital implications of the PRAs supervisory statement SS3 17 and consultation paper CP13 18.
Atthe beginning of the year the Committee received input from an independent economics advisory firm on both the pattern of house price movements over the last 64 years and predictions of future house prices on the basis of the link with inflation forecasts.
The Committee also looked at the risks associated with using a third party house price index model to evaluate the likely cost of the no-negative equity guarantee.
This work assisted the Committee in reviewing the possible regulatory treatment proposed in the consultation paper, which adopted an approach that differed from that used for economic capital purposes.
Business resilience Operational resilience, including cyber security, continued to be an areaof focus during the year.
We reviewed the plans of, and steps taken by, management to mitigate the risks associated with the services provided by the Group.
In addition, the Committee reviewed the plans to achieve material compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR which was completed by the implementation date of May 2018.
The Committee considered the impact of Brexit on the business of the Group.
As the Group does not operate in other countries within the EU, the principal impact is the reaction of the economy to the outcome of the Brexit negotiations, particularly that on interest rates and house price inflation.
In addition, the impact on customers who receive regular guaranteed payments who since inception of the guarantee STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 63 have moved overseas, including countries within the EU, was identified ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES AND together with the necessary remedial action to be taken to ensure they COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS continue to receive their income.
The Committee carried out a review of vulnerable customers during The Committees key roles and responsibilities are set out in the theyear.
It considered the policy and the ability of the business to terms of reference, which can be found at www.
identify such customers, particularly when there may be a change in circumstances such that it makes them more vulnerable than they Biographies of the Committee members can be found on pages 44 to might otherwise have been.
The Committee works closely with the Audit and Investment Committees.
The Group Chief Risk Officer and the Group Chief Conduct Actuary attend all meetings.
Other Non-Executive Directors, Group The Committee regularly reviews and challenges managements executives and senior managers are invited to attend the meetings viewof conduct across the Group.
The risk to appropriate customer to report where appropriate on their areas of responsibility.
outcomes is considered against a dashboard of measures in general, and against the quality of advice provided by advisers in the HUB Financial Solutions business and the number and cause of complaints Attendance arising within the Group in particular.
2018 scheduled Committee meetings eligibility Committee members To ensure that the high standard of risk oversight is evidenced, the Keith Nicholson Chairman 4 4 Committee requested, and subsequently saw, increased visibility of second line review throughout the Committee and Board reporting.
Ian Cormack 4 4 Chris Gibson-Smith 4 4 On behalf of the Group Risk and Compliance Committee Steve Melcher 4 4 Clare Spottiswoode 4 4 The Committee has a standing agenda based on the annual cycle Keith Nicholson ofbusiness covering all areas of its responsibility, but additional Chairman, Group Risk and Compliance Committee items are added as and when further discussion is required due to 14 March 2019 developments during the year.
The Chairman of the Committee also holds regular private meetings with the Group Chief Risk Officer to ensure that all significant areas of risk are considered.
