48 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Dear Shareholder, Report On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present the 2018 Corporate Governance Report.
We believe that good governance is the foundation of good business.
The Board focuses primarily upon strategy, policy, governance, regulation, the allocation of resources and monitors the Groups performance acting in accordance with the best interests of the shareholders as a whole.
In a year that has produced a significant amount of additional I am pleased to present regulatory driven workload, I am assured by the contribution of my highly engaged Board.
Each member has been able to support and the Groups Corporate challenge the executive team.
The independent review conducted by  LLP PwC see below observed that the Governance Report for the nature of discussion and participation by all Executive and NonExecutive Board members, as well as non-Board members present, year to 31 December 2018 was robust and comprehensive.
The Board decisions aim to link the Groups strategy with its governance and risk appetite, to the pursuit of sustainable profit growth over the longer term for the benefit of all stakeholders.
We lead the development of a governance framework that promotes transparency, accountability and challenge as the fundamental underlying principles for the Boards entrepreneurial and prudent approach to developing Justs business.
The Group has continued to be deeply engaged with the PRA on regulatory matters throughout 2018, particularly around Solvency II and the matching adjustment SS3 17 and subsequently equity release mortgages CP13 18.
The Board has also worked closely with management on matters of regulation and has conducted a large number of additional Board meetings during the year to discuss and address this business.
Like others in the industry, we have put considerable effort into ensuring that we have effective dialogue with industry regulators to ensure our Group is understood.
In 2019, I would hope to rebalance the agenda towards a clearer focus on strategy execution, business planning and performance monitoring.
During the year, the Board spent time reviewing each of the Groups lines of business, ensuring the coherence and robustness of the strategy and competitive position of each.
Time was spent engaging on the overall Group strategy and business plan, and reviewing progress towards our longer-term customer, staff and financial goals.
This process put us in a strong position to anticipate a range of CP13 18 outcomes and develop responses appropriate to each.
Following resolution of the PRAs position on equity release mortgages we are confident in our ambition to invest to develop our existing markets, to positively disrupt markets where we believe we can deliver improved outcomes for customers, and to diversify our portfolio.
BOARD COMPOSITION AND SUCCESSION PLANNING Succession planning at both the Board and senior management level has continued to be the primary focus of the Nomination Committee.
During the year, Tom Cross Brown retired from the Board before the Annual General Meeting and Simon Thomas left the business as Chief Financial Officer on 31 October 2018.
I would like to record my thanks to both Tom and Simon for their valuable contribution to the Board during their tenure.
DIVERSITY During the first half of the year the Company worked with the external search firm, Korn Ferry, which resulted in an active engagement with two excellent female candidates who were approached for appointment to the Group and Life Company Boards.
A third was identified for appointment later in the year.
All three indicated a willingness to seriously consider joining the Group.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 49 2018 AGM However, during these discussions the extended period of uncertainty 21 98% 84% produced by the publication of the PRAs consultation paper CP13 18 created an environment which made it difficult to secure the Resolutions Votes cast for Issued share services of any new Non-Executive Director during the year: a period passed each resolution capital represented of uncertainty which only ended on publication of the Policy 1.
The average issued share capital voted across the 21 resolutions.
As a result, the Group has not been able to show progress in the last year against the BOARD ACTIVITIES DURING 2018 AND ALLOCATION OF AGENDA TIME Hampton-Alexander Reviews recommendations for FTSE 350 20% 20% companies to improve the representation of women in leadership Group strategy and business Financial reporting and positions by 2020.
These conversations with candidates are plans.
continuing, but will not be satisfactorily resolved in time for year 40% 10% end reporting.
Notwithstanding the delay to the process outlined Regulatory interaction, risk Corporate Governance, above, the Group is making strenuous efforts to improve and sustain oversight and management.
people, culture, diversity, gender diversity in its senior leadership.
Just remains committed to succession planning and 10% achieving the external targets and has set its own internal target of Board effectiveness.
33% women in senior leadership roles by 2023.
You can read more about my and the Committees work in this area GROUP STRATEGY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE in the Nomination Committee Report on page 54.
Received regular updates from AND BUSINESS PLANS Held annual Board strategy meeting committees, management and A copy of the Board Diversity Policy can be found on page 57. external advisers on legal and in October 2018 to review and agree the Groups strategy regulatory developments CULTURE Reviewed progress on data Received presentations in respect of We want Just to be a great place to work, and engaged employees strategy execution and performance governance and cyber security Reviewed HUB Board matters are crucial to delivering innovative products and services to our against the Group plan Reviewed technological capabilities Reviewed JRML PHLL Board matters customers.
During 2018 weve taken actions to drive our people and Board Intelligence project which including feedback from a cyber organisation strategy around three priorities building our security review completed by improved the quality, content and organisational culture, strengthening capabilities, and developing an format of papers Deloitte and on-going monitoring engaging employee experience.
We have good levels of employee Increased the amount of time spent Reviewed fees and agreed no uplift engagement and have once again maintained our Best Companies to in Chairman or NEDs fees for full reviewing strategy and implementation, including strategy year 2018 Work For accreditation as One to Watch.
This is particularly pleasing Director training schedule for the retail business and considering the uncertainty felt by colleagues in light of the PRA technology strategy enhanced, including unconscious consultation.
Wehave taken specific steps to continue to develop bias training Reviewed a series of presentations our culture to support a high performance organisation.
Ensuring on deep dives into the business lines that we have the appropriate capabilities to deliver our business plan On-going strategy discussions PEOPLE, CULTURE, SUCCESSION is a long-term strategic focus and over the year we have invested in regarding CP13 18 and oversight and PLANNING AND BOARD approval of the Company response leadership programmes for all of our senior leaders and people EFFECTIVENESS managers.
Just is a business with strong values and underpinning all Received results of employee OVERSIGHT OF RISK of our colleagues behaviours and customer-focused activities is the engagement survey AND RISKMANAGEMENT Significant focus was given to Board principle that we do business the right way.
We place high and executive succession planning Material interaction with regulators expectations on our colleagues to do the right thing and to Received Group Chief Risk Officer Undertook externally facilitated consistently deliver our purpose of helping people achieve a better evaluation of the Boards reports and assessed the Groups later life.
significant risks, regulatory issues effectiveness and emerging risks Discussed work on diversity and Approved the risk policies and risk inclusion, including increased EVALUATION framework for managing risk across training for all staff During the year, the Board was subject to an independent review.
the Group Approved the Company signing up Iasked PwC to perform the review with a scope that included the Reviewed the Groups capital and to the Women in Finance Charter Group Board, the Audit Committee, the JRL and PLACL Investment liquidity position Oversaw a high potential deep dive Committee, the Risk and Compliance Committee and the Group amongst female staff to facilitate Executive Office Committee.
The importance of having an effective achievement of increased women in FINANCIAL REPORTING AND senior management positions Board to set the tone from the top and engage in practices to CONTROLS, CAPITAL STRUCTURE promote success of the new enterprise was stressed.
The PwC AND DIVIDEND POLICY In advance of scheduled Board review was conducted between May 2018 and July 2018 and Reviewed the Groups financial meetings, each Director receives performance, financial results and concluded that the Board and the four in-scope Committees were documentation providing updates on dividend effective.
We have since worked hard to implement a number of its the Groups strategy, finances, Assessed the Groups capital and operations and development, and recommendations, and the actions for the year ahead are set out in liquidity requirements including which have reference to a formal the section on Board effectiveness on page 52 of this report.
Solvency II position schedule of matters reserved for Reviewed and challenged reports Board approval, which includes: provided by its committees on key the Groups business strategy and matters of financial reporting risk appetite: business strategy plans and Chris Gibson-Smith STRUCTURE AND CAPITAL objectives, budgets and forecasts: Chairman Continuing oversight of external and extension of the Groups activities into inter-Group financing, in February 14 March 2019 new business or geographic areas: 2018 the Group issued a 230m BBB changes in capital structure and any rated Solvency II Tier 3 qualifying form of fundraising: instrument at par with a maturity major changes to the Groups date of February 2025 and coupon of corporate structure, including 3.5%, which has further reduced the reorganisations, acquisitions, Groups cost of capital.
disposals and major capital projects: Continued examination of capital the Groups systems of internal matters relating to CP13 18 control and risk management: changes to the membership of theBoard: interim and annual financial statements: and dividend policy.
50 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 AUDIT COMMITTEE Corporate Governance Report The Audit Committees role is to assist the Board with the discharge of its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting, internal and external continued audits, including reviewing the Groups annual financial statements, reviewing and monitoring the scope of the annual audit and the extent of the non-audit work undertaken by external auditors, advising on the appointment of external auditors and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit activities, internal controls and risk management systems in place within the Group.
The Audit Committee will normally meet not less than four times a year and is chaired by Paul Bishop.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT During the year, the Company has applied the main principles of the UK REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Board considers that it The Remuneration Committee recommends what policy the Group has complied with the provisions of the Code during the year and up to should adopt on executive remuneration and, within the terms of the the date of the Directors Report.
Directors Remuneration Policy approved by the shareholders at the AGM in May 2018, determines the remuneration benefits, pension GOVERNANCE IN OPERATION rights and compensation payments for all Solvency II staff, the Chairman, the Executive Directors of the Company, the Group Chief BOARD LEADERSHIP Actuary, the Group Company Secretary, the members of the Executive The Group Board is responsible for the proper management of Justs Committee and any other employees of the Group for whom the Group strategy and direction, including its risk appetite.
It also oversees Committee determines it will have oversight as agreed by the Board the activities and direction of Just Retirement Limited JRL and from time to time.
The Remuneration Committee will also generate an Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited PLACL and the Groups annual remuneration report to be approved by the members of the other operating subsidiaries.
There are nine Board members: the Group at the AGM.
The Remuneration Committee will normally meet Chairman independent on appointment, two Executive and six not less than twice a year and is chaired by Ian Cormack.
Non-Executive Directors all of whom are considered independent.
Keith Nicholson is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Nomination Committee assists the Board in determining the Directors on the Board during the year and up to the date of this report composition and make-up of the Board.
It reviews the balance of skills, are as follows: experience, independence and knowledge of the Company provided by the Directors, with the aim of ensuring the Board has the capabilities Chris Gibson-Smith, Chairman necessary to deliver its responsibilities for business strategy and Tom Cross Brown, Deputy Chairman retired 17 May 2018 governance.
The Committee advises the Board on appointments, Rodney Cook, Group Chief Executive Officer retirements and resignations from the Board and its Committees and David Richardson, Group Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Interim Group reviews succession planning and talent development for the Board Chief Financial Officer, and Managing Director, UK Corporate Business and senior management.
It will normally meet not less than twice a Simon Thomas, Group Chief Financial Officer resigned 31 October 2018 year and is chaired by Chris Gibson-Smith.
The Nomination Committee Paul Bishop, Non-Executive Director actively supports the Board on the principle of improving gender Ian Cormack, Non-Executive Director balance in the boardroom.
Further information about the Boards Michael Deakin, Non-Executive Director policy on diversity is given on page 57.
Steve Melcher, Non-Executive Director Keith Nicholson, Senior Independent Director Clare Spottiswoode, Non-Executive Director BOARD COMMITTEES The Group Board has delegated specific responsibilities to the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Group Risk and Compliance Committees to assist it with the direction and control of the Group.
These Committees, together with the Investment Committee of the Just Retirement Limited and Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited Boards and the Group Executive Committee, are the principal operating committees of the Group.
The main Board Committees are comprised of Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company who were appointed by the Board following review and recommendation by the Nomination Committee.
The Chairman of each Committee reports on the proceedings of the previous Committee meeting at the next scheduled Group Board meeting.
The Group Company Secretary is the Secretary of every Committee.
The following table shows the members and invited attendees of the Board Committees: Group Risk and Investment Audit Remuneration Nomination Compliance JRL and PLACL Chris Gibson-Smith By invitation Member Chairman Member By invitation Rodney Cook By invitation By invitation By invitation David Richardson By invitation By invitation By invitation Paul Bishop Chairman Member By invitation Member Ian Cormack By invitation Chairman Member Member By invitation Michael Deakin By invitation Member Member By invitation Chairman Steve Melcher Member Member Member By invitation Keith Nicholson Member Member Chairman By invitation Clare Spottiswoode Member Member By invitation STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 51 GROUP RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES The Group Risk and Compliance Committee is principally responsible for assisting the Board and other members of the Group in the discharge of their risk and regulatory oversight responsibilities.
The Committee reviews and challenges the overall effectiveness of the The Board believes that documented roles and responsibilities for Groups regulatory systems and controls, risk management and future Directors, with a clear division of key responsibilities between the developments.
It also provides advice on regulatory and risk strategies Chairman and the Group Chief Executive Officer, are essential including oversight of current risk exposures and the Solvency II elements in the Groups governance framework and facilitate the internal model.
The Committee will normally meet not less than four effective operation of the Board.
times a year and is chaired by Keith Nicholson.
The Chairman is responsible for the effective leadership and INVESTMENT COMMITTEES governance of the Board but takes no part in the day-to-day running The Investment Committees of the Boards of JRL and PLACL assist the of the business.
His key responsibilities include: Boards in achieving their investment objectives.
The Investment leading the Board effectively to ensure it is primarily focused on Committees are responsible for reviewing and overseeing the strategy, performance, value creation and accountability: implementation of JRL and PLACLs investment policy, including the ensuring the Board determines the significant risks the Group is performance of the investment portfolio, recommending the willing to embrace in the implementation of its strategy: appointment and assessing the performance of the external leading the succession planning process and chairing the investment managers, and the effectiveness of reporting procedures.
Nomination Committee: The Investment Committees will normally meet not less than four encouraging all Directors to contribute fully to Board discussions and times a year and are chaired by Michael Deakin.
Mr Nick Poyntz-Wright, ensuring that sufficient challenge applies to major proposals: an Independent Non-Executive Director member of the JRL and PLACL fostering relationships within the Board and providing a sounding Boards, is also a member of the Investment Committee.
board for the CEO on important business issues: identifying development needs for the Board and Directors: OTHER COMMITTEES leading the process for evaluating the performance of the Board, its The Market Disclosure Committee oversees the disclosure of information Committees and individual Directors: and by the Company to meet its obligations under the Market Abuse ensuring effective communication with major shareholders and the Regulation MAR, and to ensure that decisions in relation to those regulator.
obligations can be made quickly.
The Committees role is to determine whether information is inside information, when such information needs The CEO is responsible for leadership of the Groups business and to be disclosed and whether any announcements are required.
Other managing it within the authorities delegated by the Board.
His key responsibilities include reviewing and approving announcements responsibilities include: concerning developments in Justs business and monitoring compliance proposing and developing the Groups strategy and significant with the Groups MAR disclosure controls and procedures.
Its members commercial initiatives: comprise Chris Gibson-Smith Chair, Rodney Cook, Keith Nicholson, leading the executive team in the day-to-day running of the Group: Michael Deakin and David Richardson.
ensuring the Groups operations are in accordance with the business plan approved by the Board, including the Boards overall risk The Allotment Committee has responsibility for overseeing the appetite, the policies established by the Board, and applicable laws allotment and listing of new ordinary shares in the Company in and regulations: accordance with the Companys executive incentive plans and representation of the Groups interests in the UK and abroad: employee share plans.
Its members comprise any two Directors, one of maintaining dialogue with the Chairman on important business and whom must be a Non-Executive Director.
strategy issues: recommending budgets and forecasts for Board approval: The Group Chief Executive Officer operates a Group Executive providing recommendations to the Remuneration Committee on Committee to support him in the performance of his duties, including remuneration strategy for Executive Directors and other senior the development and implementation of strategy, the monitoring of management: operating and financial performance, the assessment of control and leading the communication programme with shareholders and risk, the supervision and prioritisation of resources, the monitoring of ensuring the appropriate and timely disclosure of information to the competitive forces and the day-to-day operational management of stock market: and the Group.
The Committee meets bi-weekly to discuss and approve leading and ensuring effective engagement with the regulator.
operational matters and comprises of Rodney Cook and his executive team.
As the Senior Independent Director, Keith Nicholson provides a sounding board for the Chairman, and serves as an intermediary for Each Board Committee has written terms of reference setting out its the other Directors when necessary.
The Senior Independent Director duties, reporting responsibilities and authorities, which are reviewed will also meet annually with the Non-Executive Directors without the annually.
Committee terms of reference are subject to periodic Chairman being present to approve the Chairmans performance, and updating to reflect any changes in legislation, regulation or best address any other matters which the Directors might wish to raise.
Further details on the Committees are set out on pages 54 Senior Independent Director conveys the outcome of their discussions to 83.
The terms of reference for the Audit, Group Risk and Compliance, to the Chairman.
The Non-Executive Directors of the Board will meet at Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available on the least twice per year without the Executive Directors being present.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Non-Executive Directors appointments are subject to review every three years.
Their letters of appointment set out the expected time commitment, recognising the need for availability in exceptional circumstances, and request that the Board is informed of any subsequent changes in their other significant commitments.
None of the Executive Directors hold a Non-Executive Directorship in a FTSE 100 company.
All Directors appointments are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
52 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 INFORMATION AND SUPPORT Corporate Governance Report Directors may seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense where they consider it appropriate in relation to their duties.
continued All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary.
The role of the Group Company Secretary is to support the Chairman and the Board, which includes bringing all governance matters to the attention of the Board and delivering a programme of Board and Committee meetings, training and senior management presentations BOARD EFFECTIVENESS to ensure that each Director has the information required to discharge their statutory duties.
BOARD COMPOSITION The Code recommends that at least half the Board, excluding the BOARD EVALUATION Chairman, should comprise Non-Executive Directors determined by the The Board carries out an evaluation of its performance and that of its Board to be independent in character and judgement and free from Committees every year.
The 2017 externally facilitated Board relationships or circumstances which may affect, or could appear to evaluation confirmed that the Board continues to function effectively, affect, their judgement.
More than half of its members including the that it remains well balanced, setting the right tone from the top, with Chairman comprise of Non-Executive Directors, are independent in the a strong mix of relevant experience and skills, and promoting a manner required by the Code and the Board feels that there is a right collaborative yet challenging culture within the Group.
The relationship balance of skills and experience to support the Groups challenges between the Board and management was highly rated.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the 2018 evaluation took place earlier in the year than the preceding 2017 Board believes that it has the appropriate balance of skills, expertise, evaluation, any outstanding actions arising from 2017 were rolled into independence and knowledge to enable it and its Committees to the action plan for 2018. discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
This year, the Boards formal evaluation process was externally CONFLICTS OF INTEREST facilitated by the professional services corporate advisory firm PwC.
A Group policy and process is in place to address possible conflicts of interest of Directors.
Any relevant conflicts and potential conflicts with The first stage of the review involved PwC engaging with the Chairman, the interests of the Company that arise must be disclosed at the next the Company Secretary and Director of Internal Audit, to set the Board meeting for consideration and, if appropriate, authorisation by context for the evaluation.
This years approach adopted as a key relevant Board members in accordance with the Companys Articles.
element a pre-interview and self-reviewing questionnaire, the result of which informed one-on-one interviews with each Director conducted DEVELOPMENT by PwC, aimed at gaining a deeper insight into Directors responses.
All new Directors receive formal induction on joining the Board and a PwC also observed the Board and the four in-scope committees the tailored training plan.
Their induction includes discussions with the Audit Committee, the Risk and Compliance Committee and the JRL & Chairman and Executive Directors as well as one-to-one briefings and PLACL Investment Committees.
presentations from senior management on matters relating to the Groups business, its procedures and regulatory developments.
As part Overall, the evaluation concluded that the Board remained effective, was of the annual Board effectiveness review, the Chairman discusses with functioning well, with open and challenging debate.
Each of the each of the Directors their training and development needs.
Committees was considered to have operated effectively during the year.
COMMITMENT The Board held eight meetings during the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018.
The table below shows Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings for the period.
Group Risk and JRL & PLACL 5 3 4 Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Compliance Investment 3 Chris Gibson-Smith 8 8 6 7 4 4 4 4 1 Tom Cross Brown 3 3 3 3 2 2 2 2 Rodney Cook 8 8 Paul Bishop 8 8 9 9 4 4 4 4 Ian Cormack 8 8 7 7 4 4 4 4 Michael Deakin 8 8 7 7 4 4 4 4 Steve Melcher 8 8 9 9 7 7 4 4 6 Keith Nicholson 7 8 9 9 4 4 4 4 David Richardson 8 8 7 Clare Spottiswoode 7 8 8 9 4 4 2 Simon Thomas 6 7 1 Tom Cross Brown retired from Just Group immediately before the AGM on 17 May 2018.
2 Simon Thomas resigned from the Board on 31 October 2018.
Simon was unable to attend one Group Board meeting on 17 October due to a prior commitment.
3 One additional Remuneration Committee meeting was held to approve discrete items of business between 1 January and 31 December 2018.
Chris Gibson-Smith was unable to attend the late scheduled additional meeting due to prior commitments.
4 One additional Nomination Committee meeting was held to approve discrete items of business between 1 January and 31 December 2018.
5 Three additional Audit Committee meetings were held to approve discrete items of business between 1 January and 31 December 2018.
Clare Spottiswoode was unable to attend one of these additional late scheduled meetings.
6 Keith Nicholson was unable to attend one Group Board meeting on 21 June 2018 due to illness.
7 Clare Spottiswoode was unable to attend one Group Board meeting on 28 November due to a last minute and urgent conflict.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 As in previous years, a set of action points was compiled from the Internal Model and a further update session on Directors duties and output of the evaluation to ensure that its findings are implemented the changes introduced by the 2018 Corporate Governance Code: into the Boards activities.
This was supervised by the Chairman and b the corporate computer based training CBT programme has reviewed throughout the year.
been rolled out to each member of the Board, starting with unconscious bias training, and monitoring will be undertaken to The evaluation highlighted a number of Board priorities for 2018, including: ensure that this is completed: and c the training and competency framework for Board members will be i Board and Committee composition: The Just Group Board and the developed further and signed off.
Controls will be put in place to two Life companies operate a nested meeting arrangement which is ensure all Board members achieve the standards or expectations an efficient and effective process.
The evaluation identified a need set out in the framework.
to consider the pros and cons of having such a wide selection of attendees present throughout meetings, and to clarify what the The individual assessment of Directors concluded that all continued to Boards expectations are regarding the contribution of such contribute effectively, devoting adequate time to their duties and being attendees.
engaged and proactive in debate at all meetings.
We have reviewed and assessed the current number of attendees at RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS the nested Board meetings and we believe this to be appropriate to In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Company is meet the current demands of the business.
Overall we agree with continuing to follow the recommendation that all Directors seek their the recommendation raised and therefore will review this again at election or re-election, as relevant, at the 2019 AGM.
The shareholders the beginning of 2019. may, by special resolution, remove any Director before the expiration of that Directors period of office.
ii Diversity Policy: In conjunction with the initiatives and practices to promote diversity on the Group Board, a standalone and more SHAREHOLDER RELATIONS comprehensive Board Diversity Policy that conforms to regulatory expectations, is reflective of good practice and subject to regular INVESTOR RELATIONS ACTIVITY 2018 review should be developed and adopted by the Board.
The Group maintains an on-going dialogue with its major institutional shareholders through a scheduled programme of meetings which are A standalone and more comprehensive diversity policy that generally undertaken by the Chairman, CEO, CFO, Deputy CEO and conforms to regulatory expectations has now been approved and members of the Investor Relations team.
Just Group attended four was adopted by the Board at the end of 2018. investor conferences and seminars during 2018, and held investor roadshows in January, March and September.
Ad hoc meetings are held A copy of the Board Diversity Policy can be found on page 57. throughout the year with both existing and prospective shareholders.
iii Board and Committee agendas: Bearing in mind the importance of The Investor Relations function also provides the Board with regular regulatory matters, the Board should consider whether there are analysis of shareholder movements, market and peer activity, in opportunities to rebalance the proportion of its time spent on addition to share price performance.
Analysts and brokers reports are regulatory matters, in favour of broader strategy execution and made available to all Directors, while the Board receives detailed business performance monitoring.
feedback from our corporate brokers following investor meetings.
The rebalancing of the Boards activities will be reviewed in 2019, as The ordinary shares are covered by ten analysts currently.
The Investor we believe these are currently appropriate for the environment Just Relations team also maintains an open dialogue with non-covering is operating under.
analysts, banks, brokers and other market participants.
iv Succession planning: The evaluation recognised the work of the Fitch have maintained their A A credit ratings with stable outlook for Nomination Committee, but recommended finalising the Director members of the Group.
During 2018, we had an active programme of succession planning and documenting for Board approval the engagement with debt investors including a dedicated debt investor process by which this would be undertaken, so that the full Board roadshow.
In February 2018, the Group issued a 230m BBB rated had visibility of the plans.
Solvency II Tier 3 qualifying instrument with a maturity date of February 2025 and coupon of 3.5%, which has reduced the Groups cost Director succession planning will be completed and documented for of capital.
During 2018 Just Group plcs shares fell by 46% to 92p, compared to the v On more practical matters, there was a continuing need to improve FTSE 350 Life Insurance index which fell by 26%.
The Senior Board processes, with the refinement of Board packs, and the Independent Director is available for consultation by shareholders if promotion of consistency in Board presentations.
It was also felt they have concerns which are inappropriate to raise with the Chairman, that devoting more time to on-going training would be beneficial.
CEO or other Executive Directors.
Further information for shareholders is included on page 150.
Board packs: Just Group started working with Board Intelligence in spring 2018 to improve the quality and content of the Board papers.
SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS To date, circa 200 staff have been through a report writing training General Meeting held on 16 January 2019 session with additional paper coaching and feedback sessions I am pleased to report that the Board received strong support from its taking place as required.
The Board is pleased with the progress shareholders, approving authorities for the two resolutions to enable it made to date.
The size of the average Board and Committee pack to issue Restricted Tier 1 debt which are convertible into ordinary shares has reduced and meetings are more efficient as a result.
of the Company upon the occurrence of trigger events.
Capital sourced in this way can contribute to the Groups Solvency II capital requirements Training: The following developments are in progress or have been and gives the Group greater flexibility in the management of its capital.
implemented: a training plans for each NED will be developed to identify training already undertaken but also to plan out future training, evidencing alignment to current and future regulatory and market events.
TheBoard has recently benefited from two formal sessions developed internally and delivered to the Directors on the Just
