CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Report of the Audit Committee We reviewed those areas under our remit with management, internal and external auditors, as appropriate.
Our activities help ensure the interests ofshareholders areprotected and that the Groups reporting is fair, balanced and understandable.
Membership The Committee comprises four Independent Non-executive Directors: Gwyn Burr, Roisin Donnelly, Helen Weir and myself Andrew Griffith as its Chair.
All our members have relevant sector competence to fulfil their roles, as set out in their biographies on pages 40 to 41.
Through my background as a Chartered Accountant and as Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer of a FTSE 100 Company, I have relevant financial knowledge and extensive experience.
I am pleased to present the Report of Role and activities We met five times as a Committee during the year, with theAudit Committee, which provides a two of these meetings focused particularly on the Audit summary of the Committees role and tender.
TheChief Financial Officer and senior representatives activities during the 2018 financial year.
of the finance management team also attend meetings, as do representatives of both the external and internal auditors.
The Committee also meets privately with theexternal auditor at least once per year.
Key matters handled by the Committee include a review of: the independence, objectivity and effectiveness ofthe external auditor: the tender of the Group audit and the proposed reappointment oftheexternal auditor: the plans for and outcome of the preparation and review of the Groups half year results and audit ofthe full year accounts including presentations fromboth management and the external auditor: 2018 Key matters considered at each meeting of the Audit Committee during the year included: February July September Analysis of 2017 full year results presented Analysis of 2018 half year results presented Audit tender update.
Review of the results of the FRCs Review of 2017 full year results presented Review of half year results presented by AuditQualityReview.
Review of going concern, internal controls Review of 2018 draft half year and fair balanced and understandable resultsannouncement.
statement in the Annual Report.
Review of 2018 audit plan with the Review of the Groups Annual Report for2017.
Discussion with the external auditor in the Agreement of plans for audit tender.
Group risk update and adjustments Recommendation to the Board for approval tointernal audit plan.
of the Annual Report including the Report of the Audit Committee.
Review of the Groups whistleblowing procedures.
Review of internal audit planning andresourcing.
Introduction of future audit partner.
52 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and any formal announcements relating tothe Companys financial performance: Prior to the approval of the Annual the Groups accounting policies, significant judgements and estimates, including those set Report, the Committee receives a outonpages 99 to 137: paper detailing those steps taken the Groups system of risk management: to ensure the report can be oversight of Group tax activities and review of the Groups tax strategy statement prior to publication: considered fair, balanced the Groups material legal matters: andunderstandable.
new regulatory reporting requirements: Andrew Griffith key internal policies including data protection, anti-bribery Chair, Audit Committee and related policies, and whistleblowing arrangements: the continued development of the Groups internal audit function, which reports directly to the Committee, and establishing control and risk management procedures: the disclosures regarding risk, going concern andtheviability statement: and whether this Annual Report, taken as a whole, provides a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects andwhether it provides the necessary information toassess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, the ultimate decision on which is taken by the Board.
Prior to approval of the Annual Report, the Committee receives a paper detailing those steps taken by management to ensure the report can be considered fair, balanced and understandable.
October December At every main meeting the Audit tender review.
Progress in year-end accounting presented Audit Committee also reviews: bymanagement.
Report of the Chief Financial Officer.
Recommendation to the Board in relation to the proposed externalauditor.
Updates to the 2018 audit plan presented Report of the external auditor.
Report of Director of Internal Review and approval of 2019 internal AuditandRisk.
Minutes and actions from Review of tax matters including tax previousmeetings.
Review of the Committees terms ofreference.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Report of the Audit Committee continued Significant issues Prior to each meeting of the Audit Committee at which it is to be considered, management produces a paper providing details of any significant accounting, tax, compliance and legal matters.
Members of management arealso invited to attend these meetings where further guidance is required.
The Groups critical accounting judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty are included within Note 2 to the financial statements.
The risks the Audit Committee considers to be significant for the 2018Annual Report are disclosed below.
Significant issues the Committee has How the issue was addressed considered Review of goodwill carrying values The Committee received detailed reporting from, and held At December 2018, the Group had goodwill several meetings with, management and challenged the balances totalling 770.7 million 2017: appropriateness of the assumptions made, including: 544.9 million.
This is an area of focus for the consistent application of managements methodology: the Committee given the materiality of the Groups goodwill balances and the inherent the achievability of the business plans: subjectivity in impairment testing.
assumptions in relation to terminal growth in the The judgements in relation to goodwill businesses at the end of the plan period: impairment continue to relate primarily to discount rates: and the assumptions underlying the calculation of the value in use of the business, being the sensitivity analysis and the transparency of disclosures.
achievability of the long-term business plan The Committee was satisfied with both the appropriateness and the macroeconomic and related of the analysis performed by management, which indicated modelling assumptions underlying the that an impairment charge is not required 2017: 180.4 million, valuation process.
and the impairment-related disclosures set out in Note 10 See Note 12 for further detail on our to the financial statements.
Global tax environment The Committee reviewed the Groups approach to taxation Just Eat aims to manage all taxes and tax risks and the Group tax strategy.
that arise across the Group responsibly, in order Management continually monitors the status of tax risks to provide a competitive, responsible and and relevant legislative changes and engages with external sustainable outcome in the interests of all taxation experts as appropriate.
At each Committee meeting, stakeholders.
Just Eat aims to pay the right management presents updates on such matters.
amount of tax, in the right place at the right time, by complying with all relevant tax Taxation issues were discussed with senior management legislation in all Group entities.
and a report prepared by the Groups in-house tax team outlining key tax risks and relevant legislative changes However, given the geographical spread of the was reviewed.
Groups operations, the varied complex nature of local and global tax rules e. g. OECDs BEPS The tax positions and key judgements made within the Group Actions, EU Commission reforms and State Aid were reviewed and challenged by the Committee to ensure investigations and the ongoing tax disputes that the Groups effective tax rate, tax provisions in particular and investigations around the Group, there is in relation to the ongoing transfer pricing audit in Denmark significant uncertainty around the interpretation and the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities of such tax law and we recognise there is risk were appropriate.
and uncertainty around judgements made The Committee considered the Groups enhanced bymanagement in the reporting of tax in the disclosures, recognising that the Financial Reporting ordinary course of business, which may be Council FRC has been undertaking a thematic review subject to final decisions taken by various in this area.
The Committee was satisfied with the Groups approach See Note 10 for further detail on our global to tax and the amounts reported as set out in Note 10 in taxenvironment.
the financial statements and that Group tax issues were being efficiently monitored and dealt with appropriately.
It notes that changes in the global tax landscape mean that the Group must continue to work on its ability to respond quickly to the enhanced global reporting requirements over the next few years.
54 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Internal controls and risk management environment The Board is ultimately responsible for the operation of an effective system of internal control and risk management appropriate to the business.
A review of the Groups principal risks and how it manages them is presented on pages 20 to 28.
The Company has paid due regard to the FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial andBusiness Reporting, as applicable, throughout the period and up to the date on which these financial statements were approved.
Day-to-day operating and financial responsibility rests with senior management andperformance is closely monitored on a monthly basis.
The following key elements an appropriate organisational structure with clear lines of responsibility: comprise the internal control a comprehensive annual strategic and business planning process: environment, which has been designed to identify, evaluate and a robust risk process to establish and monitor risks at country, functional manage, rather than eliminate, the and Group levels, facilitated by a risk function that regularly reports to risks faced by the Group in seeking the Executive Team and Audit Committee to ensure ongoing assessment to achieve its business objectives and monitoring of key risks and associated potential impacts facing the business: and ensure accurate and timely established policies and procedures setting out expected standards of reporting of financial data for the integrity and ethical standards which reinforce the need for all employees Company and the Group: to adhere to all legal and regulatory requirements: an experienced and commercially focused legal function that supports the Groups operational and technical functions: an experienced treasury function that supports the business liquidity requirements, management of financial risks and related governance: a centralised information security function that establishes cyber security strategy, delivers information security operations and works to embed the correct behaviours across the business: systems of control procedures and delegated authorities which operate within defined guidelines and approval limits for capital and operating expenditure and other key business transactions and decisions: defined segregation of duties across key financial processes, which continue to mature as we integrate our markets and acquired businesses onto the strategic ERP platform: structured month-end and quarter-end procedures and controls, designed to assess the ongoing integrity of financial records e. g. reconciliations and to produce management information for regular financial monitoring and review purposes: an established whistleblowing process through which employees may report cases of fraud, impropriety or behaviour contrary to our Code of Conduct and or in contravention of policies: established operational processes and controls which support the integrity, security and availability of our online services as well as the quality and continuity of Just Eats operations: a robust financial control, budgeting and rolling forecast system, which includes regular monitoring, variance analysis, key performance indicator reviews and risk and opportunity assessments at Board level: an appropriate Delegation of Authority: and procedures by which the Groups consolidated financial statements are prepared, which are monitored and maintained through the use of internal control frameworks addressing key financial reporting risks arising from changes in the business or accounting standards.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Report of the Audit Committee continued Internal audit plan whistleblowing activity, any fraud identified and any The Committee agreed the internal audit plan to be other issue deemed to be significant.
An internal audit undertaken prior to the commencement of the year.
update is also presented, detailing the scope of work Ateach main Committee meeting, the progress of, as performed and findings, along with implementation of well as results from, the internal audit plan is reviewed any previous recommendations.
The Committee has not to ensure that it is in line with the Committees expectations.
identified, nor been advised of, any failings or weaknesses The plan was approved to ensure that there was appropriate that it has determined to be significant.
coverage of the internal control environment, strategic priorities and key risks identified by the Board.
Independence and performance of the auditor UK Financial Reporting Council FRC Audit Quality Review During the year, the audit plan was amended so that The FRCs Audit Quality Review team selected to review additional areas were added to the plan based on the the audit of the 2017 Just Eat plc financial statements changes that gave rise to increased levels of assessed as part of their 2017 annual inspection of audit firms.
These changes to the previously agreed audit plan The focus of the review and their reporting is on were approved by the Committee.
identifying areas where improvements are required The Director of Internal Audit and Risk provides updates rather than highlighting areas performed to or above the expected level.
The chairman of the audit committee to the Committee at each main meeting, summarising the internal audit findings and the progress made received a full copy of the findings of the Audit Quality Review team and has discussed these with Deloitte.
The against agreed actions from previous audits.
Detailed updates on specific audits are provided at the request audit committee confirms that there were no significant areas for improvement identified within the report.
audit committee is also satisfied that there is nothing  LLP PwC has continued within the report which might have a bearing on the tobe engaged to support our internal audit work.
The Audit Committee has set a policy which is intended How we manage risk to maintain the independence and integrity of the The Company has a robust risk management process Companys external auditor when acting as auditor of that follows a sequence of risk identification and the Groups accounts.
The policy governs the provision assessment of probability and impact, and assigns of audit, audit-related assurance and non-audit services anowner to manage mitigation activities.
A register provided by the auditor and, in summary, requires iskeptof all corporate risks and is monitored by senior approval by the Committee for all projects with an management and reported to the Audit Committee.
expected cost in excess of 50,000.
Throughout the period of review, the risk register and the methodology applied are the subject of continuous During the year, other audit-related assurance services review by senior management and are updated to reflect provided by the auditor relate to the half year reporting.
new and developing areas which might impact businessstrategy.
The fees paid for the non-audit services during the year represented 11% of the fees paid for the statutory audit The Audit Committee actively reviews the risk register and audit-related assurance services together.
Further and assesses the actions being taken by senior management details of these amounts are included in Note 5 of the to monitor and mitigate the risks.
Those risks which are financial statements.
considered to be the principal risks of the Group are presented on pages 23 to 28.
The Company complies with applicable rules in relation to non-audit fees to the auditor.
The risks related to iFood are considered as part of The external auditor is not permitted to provide internal thebroader Groupwide risk management process.
TheGroup has representation on the iFood Board and audit services to the Group.
therefore receives regular updates on the performance Before any former employee of the external or internal and outlook of the iFood business.
This includes review audit team may be employed by the Group, careful of its business plans and budgets and enables the Group consideration must be given as to whether the and the Board to keep the investment under review.
independence of the auditor will be adversely affected, During the year, the Board also received a presentation and approval of the Audit Committee is required.
This from the iFood Managing Director.
particular circumstance has not arisen in the past year.
The auditor is required regularly to report on and Review of effectiveness confirm its independence in its role.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, reviews the effectiveness of the internal control systems and the risk management processes on an ongoing basis.
This process was in place throughout the year and post-year end to include the date of approval of the Annual Report.
At each meeting, the Audit Committee receives a paper from management detailing any 56 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Deloitte was appointed as the Groups auditor in 2009 and, to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standard and to maintain objectivity and independence of the auditor, the lead audit partner, Anna Marks, rotated The Committee agreed the off after the 2017 year end and has been replaced by internal audit plan to be William Touche.
The Committee confirms compliance with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services for undertaken prior to the Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee commencement ofthe year.
Responsibilities Order 2014, as published by the UK At each Committee meeting, Competition and Markets Authority CMA.
A tender process has been conducted during 2018 and is the progress of, as well as described fully on the following pages.
results from, the internal Assessing the performance and effectiveness of the auditplan is reviewed external audit The Audit Committee assessed the performance and toensure that it is in line effectiveness of the external audit during the past year.
with the Committees The assessment was performed based on the 2017 year-end audit.
Process The process operated primarily through dialogue with the senior members ofthe finance and company secretarial teams.
Follow-up A detailed follow-up was performed where additional TheAuditCommittee believed that both Deloitte LLP feedback was sought from senior managers around the and one other firm could be recommended, but had a business not limited to the finance team through the reasoned preference for Deloitte LLP, based on clear use of audit quality questionnaires.
selection criteria established as part of thetenderprocess.
Results and appointment The Board accepted the Committees recommendation The initial results of the assessment were discussed at its meeting on 30 October 2018 and a resolution for with the Group finance team, before being presented the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as external auditor tothe Committee.
will be put to the shareholders at the 2019 AGM.
Objectivity and independence The Committee confirms that this recommendation is The Committee believes that the Groups procedures free from influence and that no contractual terms have assummarised above safeguard the objectivity and been imposed on the Company limiting the choice independence of the auditor.
TheAuditCommittee considers that the Company has Externalaudittender complied with the Competition and Markets Authoritys In July 2018, the Company announced its intention to  for Large Companies Market put the external audit engagement out to tender during Investigation Mandatory Use of Companies Tender the second half of 2018, for the financial year ending Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities.
"Order2014, including with respect toAuditCommittee Following the conclusion of a robusttenderprocess, responsibilitiesfor agreeing theaudit scope, fees including firms from within and outside ""The Big 4"", ."
detailed in the table on the following page, the Committee recommended to the Board the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as external Auditor.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Report of the Audit Committee continued How was the audit tender process undertaken?
Key selection criteria: The Audit Committee oversaw the tender process, including audit approach: agreeing the timetable, the tender participant shortlist, the objectives and the key selection criteria it would audit quality: use in determining its recommendation to the Board.
expertise, competence, independence and ability to The Interim Deputy Chief Financial Officer provided establish professional respected working relationships: assistance to the Committee, reporting directly to its technical knowledge, experience and understanding of Chair, in the running of the process, along with a the business, sector, industry and key geographies: and sub-committee comprising of the Chair of the Audit Committee, Chief Financial Officer, Company Secretary, fees and terms.
Group General Counsel, Group Financial Controller and The tender was split into two stages: Director of Internal Audit and Risk.
Stage 1 Invitation to tender An invitation to tender was developed following consultation with the AuditCommittee, detailing the tender process.
This was provided to five audit firms in total.
Expression of interest Having received the invitation to tender, each of the participant audit firms completed a confidentiality undertaking and a conflict of interest and independence declaration and was asked to affirm its intention to respond and participate in the process.
Preliminary meetings The Chief Financial Officer and Deputy Chief Financial Officer met with those firms that expressed an interest to participate, to give an outline of the tender process and key attributes the Audit Committee expected from the lead audit partner and senior members of the audit team.
In addition, the importance of audit quality was discussed at these meetings.
Submission of short proposal Participant firms were asked to submit a short document outlining key competencies and capabilities, in particular: experience and credentials of proposed lead audit partners and identification of other key team members: geographic coverage and international ways of working: firm and team expertise, including sector and industry audit experience: and audit quality team, approach and firm.
Evaluation and assessment Following the review of the submission and meetings held, on agreement with the Audit Committee Chair and then the Committee as a whole, the two firms making the submissions progressed through to Stage 2 of the tender process.
58 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Committee evaluation Coming year The Audit Committee undertakes an annual evaluation During the coming year, we will continue with our of itsperformance and effectiveness.
For 2018, interviews reviews of the financial reporting process, internal by the Chair were used to evaluate the work of the controls and enterprise risk management.
In addition, Committee as part of the Board evaluation process we will monitor the financial integration of Flyt.
please see page 62 for further details of the process.
The review concluded that the Committee had performed effectively.
During the past year the Committee also conducted a review of its terms of reference.
These Andrew Griffith were updated to reflect changes tothe Code.
Chair, Audit Committee 5 March 2019 Stage 1 Stage 2 Data room access Participant firms were granted access to information about the Group, held within a secure data room.
Meetings A series of meetings and conference calls were held between the participant audit firms and members of the Group finance leadership team, company secretariat, general counsel and internal audit, as well as the Audit Committee Chair and Chief Financial Officer, to supplement the data room material.
Written proposals Each participant firm was asked to submit a written proposal.
Presentations and Q&A Participant audit firms made a final presentation of their overall proposal to session the sub-committee.
The presentation was followed by a Q&A session.
Evaluations and assessment The written proposals and presentations were assessed and scored based of proposals and on selection criteria derived from the audit objectives as predetermined presentations and agreed by the Audit Committee at the outset of the process.
Recommendation to the The Audit Committee met to evaluate and discuss the results of the assessment Board by the Audit and to reach a decision on its recommendation of the preferred firm to Committee make to the Board.
Board decision The Audit Committee recommended two firms to the Board, with a preference for the tender to be awarded to Deloitte LLP.
The Board endorsed the recommendation made by the Audit Committee at its meeting in October and a resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP is to be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Feedback Feedback was provided to all participant firms.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 59
