CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Our Board A dynamic and professional leadership team Each of our Directors brings N R I Mike Evans Peter Duffy a variety of skills, extensive Independent Non-executive Chair Interim Chief Executive Officer experience and depth of Appointed March 2018 Appointed January 2019 knowledge that collectively Experience Until October 2018, Mike was the Experience Appointed Chief Customer contribute to the effectiveness Senior Independent Director of Chesnara plc, Officer of Just Eat in June 2018, joining having served on the Board since March theGroup from easyJet PLC, where he of the Board as a whole.
Non-executive Chairman of ZPG plc helda number of senior roles including from May 2014 to July 2018 when the company Chief Commercial Officer.
He was also Non-executive held senior roles at Audi UK Ltd and See our Boards range of skills Chairman of Hargreaves Lansdown plc from Barclays Bank PLC.
Peter has had global onpage 61 December 2009 toFebruary 2018.
Mike was responsibility for the customer-focused part also a Non-executive Director of esure plc of the organisation including marketing, from June 2013 to August 2015.
He was digital, customer relationship management formerly Chief Operating Officer at Skandia CRM, business intelligence BI, data, UK Limited.
Mike is a qualified actuary with machine learning and Group operations.
1 over30 years experience in the financial Other appointments Peter is currently an services industry.
Independent Non-executive Director of Other appointments Mike is also the Chair Close Brothers Group plc.
2 of M&G Prudential, to which he was Age of Education qualifications Peter has a BSc appointed in October 2018. in Economics from the University of Salford 5 the Board Education qualifications Mike holds a BSc and an MBA from the University of Warwick.
in Mathematics from the University of Bristol.
Favourite takeaway Indian chicken jalfrezi.
Favourite takeaway Spicy Indian food.
2 10 20 20 50 H 4044 4549 5054 5559 N R I A N R I W Alistair Cox Roisin Donnelly Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Appointed May 2017 Appointed October 2016 A Audit Committee Experience Alistair began his career at Experience Roisin has had a 30-year British Aerospace, subsequently moving to careerbuilding market-leading brands with N Nomination Committee Schlumberger in 1982 where he held roles Procter& Gamble in the UK, EMEA, the US in field engineering, management and and globally.
Most recently, she was CMO R Remuneration Committee research science based in Europe and the for Northern Europe leading six countries.
He was a manager at McKinsey & Sheis an experienced digital leader and I Independent Non-executive Company from 1991, before joining Blue has experience in acquisitions, divestitures Director Circle Industries plc latterly Lafarge and business turnaround.
Roisin has received initially as Group Strategy Director and awards including Marketer of the Year and Committee Chair latterly as Regional Director for Asia.
In Advertising Ages Woman to Watch.
S Nominee of a 2002 he was appointed Chief Executive at Other appointments Roisin is a Non-executive Xansa plc, the IT outsourcing organisation.
majorshareholder Director of Bourne Leisure and He served as a Non-executive Director at Holland&Barrett.
Education qualifications MA Hons from workforce engagement Other appointments Alistair is Chief the University of Glasgow and is an Honorary Executive of Hays plc, the global Fellow of the Marketing Society.
recruitment agency, and has held that Favourite takeaway Vegetarian Indian.
Education qualifications Chartered Engineer with a first class honours degree in Aeronautical Engineering from the University of Salford.
Also holds an MBA from Stanford University Graduate School of Business.
40 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance A N R I S Gwyn Burr Frederic Coorevits Paul Harrison Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Chief Financial Officer Appointed March 2014 Appointed July 2009 Appointed September 2016 Experience From May 2005 to March 2013, Experience Over the past 20 years, Fred Experience Paul served as Chief Financial Gwyn was Customer Director and a member has been managing a portfolio of public Officer for WANdisco plc from 2013 to 2016. of the operating board for J Sainsbury plc, and private technology companies.
Fred He was previously Group Finance Director with responsibility for marketing, brand, has profound experience in advising of FTSE 100 international software company own brand, customer service, corporate cutting edge technology companies on a The Sage Group plc for 13 years, having first communications and corporate and social strategic, financial and corporate level.
been Sages Group Financial Controller for responsibility and also, from 2010, Heled several acquisitions, divestitures three years.
Prior to that, Paul held anumber humanresources.
Previously he worked of senior positions at  as a Finance Director for i-spire plc and as a and was a Non-executive Director of Other appointments Gwyn is also a Senior Manager for  recruitment consultancy firm Hays plc until Non-executive Director of Hammerson plc, transaction services in London.
Metro AG and Taylor Wimpey plc.
She is also a member of the boards of two unlisted Other appointments Fred is an adviser for Other appointments Paul is Non-executive companies, Sainsburys Bank plc and Ingleby SM Trust, for which he manages the portfolio Director at media company Ascential plc.
of investments, focusing on the areas of Education qualifications Paul holds a BA ecommerce, software and cloud computing.
Education qualifications Gwyn holds a BSc Hons in Business Studies from Manchester Freds other directorships include Onapp Joint Hons in Economics and History from Metropolitan University and is a Fellow of Ltd, Euro Economics APS and Freeagent Ltd. the University of Bradford.
"the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Education qualifications Fred holds an MBA England and Wales ""FCA""."
and MSc in Organic Chemistry from Louvain Favourite takeaway Indian or Thai.
A N I N I A N I Andrew Griffith Diego Oliva Helen Weir Senior Independent Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed September 2015 Appointed December 2018 Appointed March 2014 Experience Diego has extensive experience Experience Helen has significant executive in global leadership roles in the technology and non-executive experience with UK-listed Experience Andrew joined Sky in 1999 from sector, having spent six years as Regional companies.
She previously served as a Rothschild Group, the investment banking Director of EMEA at Facebook.
Non-executive Director at SAB Miller and organisation where he provided financial Royal Mail Holdings, where she chaired the and strategic advice to corporate clients Other appointments Diego is co-founder audit committee.
She was, until early 2018, across the technology, media and and Executive Chairman of Glue, an in-home Chief Financial Officer at Marks & Spencer telecommunications sectors.
He is also a limited partner Group plc, with responsibility for supply and adviser at Earlybird Venture Capital, In addition, between 28 April 2017 and chain, IT and property, having previously White Star Capital and Wamda Capital, 26April 2018, Andrew served as Interim been Group Finance Director at John Lewis VCfunds.
Non-executive Chairman of the Just Eat Board.
She has also held senior executive Education qualifications Diego holds Other appointments In April 2008, Andrew positions at Lloyds Banking Group postgraduate degrees from Harvard Business was appointed Chief Financial Officer and andKingfisher.
School, Stockholm University and IE Business a member of the board of Sky, Europes largest Other appointments Helen is Non-executive School.
He also holds a BSc in Economics entertainment and communications company Director and chair of the audit committee from Tec deMonterrey.
with 27 million customers and turnover of of GEMS Education.
She also serves as an $20 billion and, since 2016, has also served Favourite takeaway Pizza.
Independent Non-executive Director of the as Skys Group Chief Operating Officer.
Rugby Football Union and as a Trustee of Education qualifications Holds a degree in Marie Curie.
Law from the University of Nottingham and Education qualifications MA Hons in is a qualified Chartered Accountant.
Mathematics from the University of Oxford Favourite takeaway Tandoori chicken.
and an MBA from Stanford University.
Helen is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 41
