Board of directors Board of directors Oleg Novachuk Andrew Southam Chair Chief Executive Officer Appointed to the Board: 2005 Appointed to the Board: 2014 Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Oleg joined the Group in 2001 and was appointed Chair on Andrew joined the Company in 2006 and has held a number of 1 January 2018, with responsibility for strategy, government senior positions including Chief Financial Officer from 2013 to 2017 relations and business development.
Oleg was Finance Director and was appointed Chief Executive Officer at the start of 2018.
He from 2005 to 2007 overseeing the Groups Listing on the London brings significant strategic and operational oversight and was, Stock Exchange before serving as Chief Executive Officer from together with Oleg Novachuk, one of the architects of the 2007 to 2017, during which time he led the delivery of the major Restructuring which created KAZ Minerals.
Andrew is a chartered growth projects, Bozshakol and Aktogay, and the Restructuring that accountant who began his career at Deloitte in London, where he created KAZ Minerals.
Before joining the Group, Oleg was provided audit and transaction services to many UK listed chairman of Kazprombank JSC.
Prior to joining the Company, Andrew worked in corporate development at GlaxoSmithKline plc.
N A R H R N H P Michael Lynch-Bell Lynda Armstrong OBE Deputy Chair and Senior Independent Independent Director Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: 2013 Appointed to the Board: 2013 Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Michael gained extensive experience working with companies in the A geophysicist by training, Lynda had more than 30 years natural mining, oil and gas industries during his 38 year career with Ernst & resources experience with Shell.
During this time, she held a Young.
He played a key role in establishing Ernst & Youngs practice number of senior exploration and operational roles, including in Kazakhstan and advised a number of major CIS companies on director of UK Exploration and New Business Development, transactions.
He retired as senior partner of Ernst & Youngs exploration director of Petroleum Development Oman and transaction advisory practice for mining and metals and as an technical vice president for Shell International.
Lyndas technical and elected member of its global advisory council in 2012.
He was operational experience of the extractives industry and her clear previously trustee and treasurer of ActionAid International.
In his commitment to health and safety provide valuable insight and role as Deputy Chair and Senior Independent Director, Michael is guidance to the Group.
She was previously chair of the trustees of responsible for leading on Board governance matters and he the British Safety Council.
provides a point of contact between the Company and Other appointments: independent shareholders.
Non-executive director of rsted A S formerly DONG Energy Other appointments: A S, a director of Calyx Consulting Ltd, chair of the Engineering Chair of Seven Energy International Limited and non-executive Construction Industry Training Board and president of Shell director of Lenta Ltd, Barloworld Limited and Gem Diamonds Pension Association.
He is also a trustee of 21 Century Legacy and The Orchid Childrens Trust and a member of the United Nations Expert Group on Resource Management.
76 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS P A H H A R P John MacKenzie Charles Watson Independent Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: 2015 Appointed to the Board: 2011 Skills and experience: Skills and experience: John is a senior mining executive with around 30 years experience During his 29 years at Shell, Charles gained extensive experience in in the metals and mining sector mostly acquired with the Anglo both operational management and major project delivery.
At Shell American group where he was CEO of Zinc from 2006 to 2009 he held a number of senior global executive positions, culminating in and CEO of Copper from 2009 to 2013.
John brings extensive his appointment as executive vice president responsible for Russia international operating experience and a wealth of health and safety and the CIS, including oversight of Shells activities in Kazakhstan, knowledge to the Group gained in Africa, South America, North chairman of Shell Russia and chairman of the board of directors for America and Europe.
the Sakhalin Energy Investment Company.
He was previously non-executive director of JSOC Bashneft.
Charles expertise in Other appointments: major project delivery and passion in the continued improvement in Executive chairman of Mantos Copper and chief executive officer health and safety performance is of significant importance to of mining at Audley Capital Advisors LLP.
A N Alison Baker Independent Vladimir Kim Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: 2017 Appointed to the Board: 2004 Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Having nearly 25 years experience in the provision of audit, capital Vladimir joined the Group in 1995, when he was appointed markets and advisory services, Alison previously led the UK and managing director and chief executive officer of EMEA Oil & Gas practice at  and prior to Zhezkazgantsvetmet JSC and was elected chairman of that that the UK Energy, Utilities and Mining Assurance practice at Ernst company in 2000.
He was appointed Chairman of KAZ Minerals in & Young.
She has extensive emerging markets experience, including 2005 prior to its listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Vladimir in the energy and mining sectors in Kazakhstan.
stepped down as Chairman in 2013 but remains on the Board as a non-executive Director.
With extensive knowledge of the mining Other appointments: industry, a thorough working knowledge of the CIS and an Non-executive director Centamin plc and Rockhopper exemplary understanding of the political and regulatory Exploration plc.
environment in Kazakhstan, Vladimir brings valuable Kazakh mining experience and continues to perform a vital role in assisting and supporting the Company in its dealings with the Government and local authorities in Kazakhstan.
Other appointments: A H Audit Committee Health, Safety and Environment Committee R P Remuneration Committee Projects Assurance Committee N Nomination Committee Chair www.
