e c n C a u n l r t e u v r e o G Governance framework Governance framework The Board is primarily responsible for strategic direction and Code compliance leadership, evaluating and managing risk and ensuring internal This section has been prepared in accordance with the April 2016 controls are in place.
Its overriding duties are to run the Company edition of the Code, which applies to the Companys Annual Report as stewards for the Companys stakeholders, with good governance, and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 and is available strong values and a safety-driven and ethical culture.
It is the Boards view that for the year ended 31 December 2018, the Company complied with all the There is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for the principles set out in the Code apart from provision A.
3.1 of the Boards decision which is reviewed regularly, a summary of which is Code which applies to the appointment of a former chief executive set out below.
These are matters that are significant to the Group as chair of the same company, which is explained in more detail in as a whole because of their potential strategic, financial and the Nomination Committee section on page 93. reputational implications and impact on stakeholders.
The Board currently has five Committees to deal with specific aspects of the Leadership Groups affairs.
The Chair of each Committee provides reports to The role of the Board the Board on the matters discussed at each Committee meeting to The Board is accountable to shareholders for managing the Company ensure that all Directors have visibility of and the opportunity to in a way which promotes its success.
It ensures that there is a discuss the matters being considered by each Committee.
complementary balance in strategy between promoting long-term growth and delivering short-term objectives, with due regard to risk.
Board Stakeholders Employees and Shareholders contractors Risk management Local Governments Internal control communities Leadership Engagement Management Strategy Suppliers Lenders Non Customers Governmental Organisations Matters reserved for the Board Key matters reserved the annual production plan the appointment and the appointment or for the Board include and financial budget: removal of Directors or the removal of the Companys the approval of: Company Secretary: external auditors and key the Companys dividend the Groups strategy and corporate advisers.
and Health, Safety and the annual performance business plans: Environmental policies, evaluation of the Board, its The full schedule of matters material restructurings or Anti-Bribery and Corruption Committees and reserved for the Board is reorganisations, including Code and Share individual Directors: available on the Companys major acquisitions, mergers Dealing Rules: annual and half-yearly website www.
and disposals and changes to the framework for reports, circulars and other the Groups capital structure: the management of the shareholder documents and Groups principal risks: the principal regulatory filings major Group financing, major with stock exchanges: and capital expenditure and projects: 78 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2018 p i h s V d a r l a u e w s e t S STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Roles and Responsibilities Division of responsibilities There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chair, Chief Executive Officer and Deputy Chair.
These roles and those of the other Directors are clearly defined so that no single individual has unrestricted powers of decision.
A summary is set out below: Chair The key roles and responsibilities include: leadership of the Board: Oleg Novachuk developing appropriate Group objectives, plans, policies and strategies with delegated authority from the Board and ensuring that these are implemented by the Chief Executive Officer, to build a sustainable business for the long term: ensuring effective communication with shareholders, major customers, strategic and commercial partners, regulators, host governments and other relevant stakeholders to maintain stakeholder confidence in the management of the Company: leadership and oversight on all health, safety and environmental matters in the countries in which the Group operates: and ensuring the Board determines the nature and extent of the principal risks the Group is willing to take to achieve its strategic objectives.
Chief Executive Officer The key roles and responsibilities include: responsibility for the executive management of the Group and leading the senior management team in Andrew Southam the day-to-day running of the Groups business: timely implementation of agreed strategy: planning human resourcing, staff development and management succession: together with the Chair, overseeing compliance of the Groups operations with all relevant health and safety standards with special regard to environmental and social concerns: ensuring the Groups risk profile is managed in line with limits which are deemed acceptable by the Board and that an effective framework of internal controls and risk management is maintained: and recommending to the Board appropriate annual budgets and medium-term financial and production plans and ensuring they are achieved.
Deputy Chair and Senior The key roles and responsibilities include: Independent Director leading on Board governance matters including the annual review of Board effectiveness: chairing the Nomination Committee: Michael Lynch-Bell promoting effective and constructive relationships and communication between non-executive Directors and executive Directors and senior management: acting as a sounding board for the Chair and ensuring that the other Directors have an intermediary through him when necessary: being the point of contact for shareholders and other stakeholders to discuss matters of concern which would not be appropriate through the normal channels of communication with the Chair, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
No such matters of concern were raised during 2018: and meeting with a range of major shareholders when required on governance matters, reporting the outcome of such meetings at subsequent Board meetings.
providing an independent external perspective to the deliberations of the Board, drawing on their Independent experiences from their careers in other businesses: non-executive Directors constructively challenging the strategies proposed by the executive Directors and scrutinising the performance of management in achieving agreed goals and objectives: monitoring the Groups risk profile: playing a key role in the functioning of the Board and its Committees: and providing between them an appropriate balance of skills, experience, knowledge and independent judgement.
com 79 Governance framework continued Corporate governance framework Shareholders Approving formal matters and providing ongoing communication Board of Directors Managing the Company on behalf of its shareholders.
Setting the strategy and risk appetite and overseeing risk management, internal control and corporate governance processes Nomination Remuneration Health, Safety Audit Projects Committee Committee and Environment Committee Assurance Committee Committee Reviewing the Setting and Reviewing the composition of the implementing Developing and integrity Overseeing the Board and its the remuneration overseeing of financial reporting, Aktogay expansion Committees, policy and a framework internal controls and the Baimskaya including succession determining of HSE policies and and project and continuing planning and leading the remuneration standards to assurance processes to monitor systems the process of executive manage risk and the work and processes at for appointments Directors of the external Bozshakol and auditors and Aktogay certain members of senior management Chief Executive Officer Implementing the strategy determined by the Board Executive Committee Supporting the Chief Executive Officer in the day-to-day running of the Group and operation of the risk management framework 80 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The number of scheduled Board meetings which each Director was Effectiveness eligible to attend and the number of meetings attended during 2018 Composition of the Board is shown below: The Board is currently comprised of the Chair, Chief Executive Attendance at scheduled Officer, and six non-executive Directors.
The balance of Directors Directors during 2018 meetings during 2018 on the Board ensures that no individual or small group of Directors 1 Oleg Novachuk 5 6 can dominate the decision-making process and that the interests of Andrew Southam 6 6 minority shareholders are protected.
Biographies of all Directors Lynda Armstrong 6 6 are set out on pages 76 and 77.
Alison Baker 6 6 It is the Companys policy that at least half the Board, excluding the 1 Vladimir Kim 5 6 Chair, should be independent non-executive Directors.
Other than Michael Lynch-Bell 6 6 Vladimir Kim, the Board considers each of its current non-executive John MacKenzie 6 6 Directors to be independent in character and judgement.
Charles Watson 6 6 In reaching its determination of independence, the Board has 1 Mr Novachuk missed one Board meeting due to personal circumstances and concluded that each of Lynda Armstrong, Alison Baker, Michael Mr Kim missed one Board meeting due to a conflict in schedules arising from his Lynch-Bell, John MacKenzie and Charles Watson provides objective commitments with the Government of Kazakhstan.
They provided any comments to the Deputy Chair or Company Secretary on matters to be discussed in advance challenge to management and is willing to defend his or her own of the meetings they missed.
beliefs and viewpoints in order to support the interests of the In addition to the six scheduled meetings of the Board during the Company and its stakeholders.
None of them has any business year, three further meetings were held which focused on the or other interests which are likely to, or could appear to, affect review of the Groups strategy and associated principal risks and the their judgement in their capacity as Director of the Company.
The Board carries out a review of the independence of its non-executive Directors on an annual basis and is satisfied that Development all of its non-executive Directors remain independent with the On appointment, all new Directors receive a comprehensive and exception of Vladimir Kim, due to his significant shareholding in structured induction, tailored to their individual requirements.
induction programme, which is arranged by the Company Secretary, includes visits to the Groups businesses and meetings Commitment with senior managers and external advisers as appropriate.
The Directors are expected to attend every Board meeting and every programme is designed to facilitate their understanding of the meeting of any Committee of which they are a member, unless Group, the key drivers of business performance, the role of the there are exceptional circumstances preventing their attendance.
Board and its Committees and the Companys corporate Scheduled Board and Committee meetings are arranged at least a governance practices and procedures.
It also provides them with year in advance to allow Directors to manage other commitments.
appropriate training and guidance as to their duties, responsibilities Directors are provided with the relevant Board or Committee and liabilities as a director of a public limited company listed on the papers for consideration around seven days in advance of each London and Kazakhstan Stock Exchanges.
meeting via an electronic board portal.
Regular agenda items this To assist Directors in the performance of their duties, there are year included: reports on health, safety and environmental matters: procedures in place to provide them with appropriate and timely cash forecasts: updates on operations: requests for capital information, including receiving information on Group business expenditure approval: reports on operational and financial development and financial performance between meetings.
This performance: updates on the Groups principal risks and risk enables the Directors to discharge their duties effectively on management processes: updates on business development projects strategic, financial, operational, compliance and governance issues.
and strategic matters: corporate communications: changes in corporate governance: and reports received from Board All Directors are provided with the opportunity for, and Committees.
If a Director is unable to attend a meeting due to encouraged to attend, training to ensure they are kept up to date exceptional circumstances, he or she still receives the papers in on relevant legal, financial and industry developments or changes in advance of the meeting and has the opportunity to discuss with the best practice.
Typical training for Directors includes internal relevant Chair or the Company Secretary any matters he or she briefings, attendance at seminars, forums, conferences and working wishes to raise and to follow up on the decisions taken at the groups as well as the receipt of written and verbal updates from meeting.
The Chair, Chief Executive Officer, Deputy Chair and relevant bodies or external advisers on legal, regulatory and Company Secretary are always available to discuss issues relating to governance matters.
meetings or other matters with the Directors.
Reasons for Where appropriate, additional training and updates on particular non-attendance are generally prior business or personal issues are provided.
During the year, the Board was briefed on the commitments that cannot be re-arranged or illness.
proposed changes to the Code and on the New Code following its publication.
This was followed by discussion on the ways in which the Board planned to incorporate the principles of the New Code into the business and governance systems.
The Board received training on anti-bribery and corruption and an update on the EU General Data Protection Regulation with a presentation of the new processes to be put in place within the Group under this regulation.
com 81 Governance framework continued The Board receives regular reports on shareholder views and improvement areas were identified, including enhancing further sentiment from the Head of Investor Relations to ensure that stakeholder reporting into the Board, in particular in light of the New members of the Board remain apprised of the current views of Code, consideration of the future Board composition given the shareholders.
Non-executive Directors can attend meetings with strategic direction of the Group following the Baimskaya acquisition, a shareholders and analyst presentations and all shareholders have continued focus on Board and senior management succession planning the opportunity to meet informally with the Directors at the and keeping under review the roles and responsibilities of the Board, to Annual General Meeting.
ensure it remains relevant going into 2019.
These recommendations are being incorporated into the Board and Committee processes for 2019.
Information and support The Company Secretary, through the Deputy Chair, is responsible for During the year, the Deputy Chair held a number of meetings with advising the Board on all governance matters and for ensuring that non-executive Directors without executive Directors being Board procedures are followed, applicable rules and regulations are present.
He led the non-executive Directors in evaluating the complied with and that due account is taken of relevant codes of best performance of the Chair as part of the Board evaluation process, practice.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring following which the Board was satisfied that Oleg Novachuk communication flows between the Board and its Committees, and continued to be able to fulfil all of the commitments required of the between senior management and non-executive Directors.
All role to its satisfaction.
Directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary and in Re-election appropriate circumstances, may also obtain independent professional Directors newly appointed by the Board, are required to submit advice at the Companys expense.
The appointment and removal of the themselves for election by shareholders at the Annual General Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
The Company Meeting following their appointment.
In accordance with best Secretary is Susanna Freeman who joined the Group in 2014.
She is practice and the New Code, all current Directors will be submitted admitted as a solicitor in England and Wales.
for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Performance evaluation Vladimir Kim non-executive Director and Eduard Ogay former In compliance with the provisions of the Code, an externally facilitated executive Director of the Company, are deemed to be acting in annual performance evaluation of the Board and its Committees is concert with each other by the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers carried out every three years, with internal annual performance and to constitute a Concert Party for the purposes of the City evaluations carried out for the intervening years.
During 2018, an Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
Under the Listing Rules, a externally facilitated performance evaluation of the Board and its Concert Party is classed as a controlling shareholder of the Committees was carried out by an independent external consultant, Company.
This means that the independent non-executive Prism Boardroom, which has no other connection with the Company.
Directors of the Company, must be elected or re-elected by a The next external evaluation will be carried out in 2021. majority of votes cast by independent shareholders.
Therefore, at The scope of the 2018 evaluation was determined following a the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the resolutions for the review by Prism Boardroom of Board and Committee papers, re-election of the independent non-executive Directors will be minutes, previous evaluations of the Board and its terms of taken on a poll and passed only if a majority of votes cast by reference and was discussed in advance with the Deputy Chair independent shareholders which excludes Vladimir Kim and and the Company Secretary.
The process agreed on was to use Eduard Ogay, in addition to a majority of the votes cast by all one-to-one interviews with each of the Directors, the Chief shareholders, are in favour.
Financial Officer and the Company Secretary.
Once completed, Conflicts of interest the report was circulated to members of the Board and its Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they recommendations discussed at the following Board meeting, have or could have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or may with the external facilitator present so that the report could be conflict with the interests of the Company.
The main focus of the evaluation amongst other things of Association give the Directors authority to approve such was on: situations and there is no breach of duty by a Director, if the assessment of strategy and risk: relevant situation has been authorised in advance.
In addition, a Director has a duty to disclose to the Board any transaction or the impact of the Board changes made at the beginning of 2018: arrangement under consideration by the Company, in which he or Board composition and succession planning: she has a personal interest.
effectiveness of Board and Committee meetings and communication: and Directors are required to declare all directorships or other appointments outside the Group which could give rise to an actual implementation of the requirements of the New Code.
or potential conflict of interest.
Only the independent Directors are The overall conclusion of the evaluation was that the Board and its able to authorise such conflict situations and, where appropriate, Committees were operating effectively, the changes made to the Board this authorisation may be subject to certain conditions.
Directors at the start of the year having been well implemented with the right are also required to declare if there are any changes in checks and balances in place.
The Chair, Chief Executive Officer and circumstances that may affect an existing authorisation and they Deputy Chair were found to be accessible, with communication good need to seek permission from the Board before accepting any and the independent non-executive Directors were stated to be external appointments.
The Company Secretary minutes the prepared to provide challenge when required to, whilst being supportive of their executive colleagues.
Certain potential 82 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS consideration of any actual or potential conflict of interest and any Competition policy authorisation granted and maintains a register of this information.
A competition policy is in place to govern any dealings between the KAZ Minerals Group and the Kazakhmys group and their The Companys Articles of Association also include provisions employees.
This policy recognises that the two groups are relating to the treatment of third-party confidential information competitors and its aim is to prevent anti-competitive behaviour.
received by a Director and the circumstances in which a Director Prior approval is required internally within the KAZ Minerals Group should absent himself or herself from a Board meeting and refrain before any Group company enters into any arrangement with a from reviewing Board papers in relation to a matter in which he or Kazakhmys group company.
No competitively sensitive information she has an actual or potential conflict.
These provisions will only can be exchanged between the parties except in relation to a apply where the circumstance giving rise to the potential conflict of specific business purpose and where suitable controls are in place.
interest has previously been authorised by the Directors.
Accountability Anti-Bribery and Corruption ABC The Board considers the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a The Group has in place an ABC Compliance Programme the whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides Programme to assist in the prevention of unlawful activities by the necessary information required for shareholders to assess the individuals or Group entities and to comply with the requirements Companys position and performance, business model and strategy, of the UK Bribery Act 2010.
The Board has a firm stance on bribery and that the business continues to operate as a going concern.
and corruption and attaches the utmost importance to the Risk management and internal control Programme in clarifying the standards expected of all employees of The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and the Group, wherever it conducts business.
determines the Groups risk strategy, assesses and approves risk The foundation of the Programme is the ABC Code, below which appetite and monitors risk exposure consistent with strategic there is a subset of policies which provide a process for operating in priorities.
The Board has established a Group-wide system of risk accordance with the Programme in specific situations.
These policies management and internal control which identifies and enables include the process for dealing with public officials, the giving and management and the Board to evaluate and manage the Groups receipt of gifts and hospitality, due diligence processes to be carried principal risks.
Due to the limitations inherent in any system of out on third party business partners and policies on conflicts of internal control, this system provides robust, but not absolute, interest, lobbying, social investment and Speak-Up.
Regular training in assurance against material misstatement or loss and is designed to ABC and awareness campaigns are carried out across the Group and manage rather than eliminate risk.
The effectiveness of the Groups monitoring and assurance of processes is carried out by the Internal system of internal control is regularly reviewed by the Board as is Audit team and by external advisers.
Anti-bribery and corruption the Groups risk management framework, with specific clauses are included in contracts with the Groups business partners.
consideration given to material financial, operational and The Group undertakes due diligence on potential suppliers, sustainability risks and controls, with appropriate steps taken to customers, consultants, agents, distributors and other business address any issues identified.
During 2018, no significant internal partners to check they are suitable to do business with, are control failings were identified.
reputable and ethical and do not commit or engage in any form of The Board has authorised the Audit Committee to oversee the risk bribery or corruption.
New business partners complete an ABC management framework and the effectiveness of the Groups questionnaire in which they need to include two business referees financial reporting, internal control and assurance systems.
If the Group has a continued Board Committee provides updates on any risks considered within relationship with a business partner, the questionnaire is its remit when providing regular updates to the Board.
The Board confirms that throughout 2018 and up to the date of During 2018, new employees were trained on ABC, existing approval of this Annual Report and Accounts, there have been employees received refresher training and online testing was carried rigorous processes in place to identify, evaluate and manage the out, to ensure there was a good understanding of the Programme principal risks faced by the Group, including those that would in the Group.
The Groups ABC Policies were reviewed and threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or updated during the year and a number of these policies can be liquidity in accordance with Principle C. 2 of the Code and the viewed on the Groups website at www.
Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Related party transactions Financial and Business Reporting published by the Financial The Group has in place a policy for the identification of related Reporting Council.
The Groups approach to risk management, the parties and a process for the approval of any transactions with these risks identified and how it profiles these risks is set out in the Risk parties.
Under this policy, all Kazakhmys Group entities are deemed management overview and Principal risks section on pages 65 to 73. to be related parties due to Vladimir Kims substantial shareholdings in both the Group and Kazakhmys Group.
The list of related parties is regularly reviewed and updated throughout the year and, prior to entering into any related party transactions, an assessment is undertaken to ensure that the proposed transaction is on an arms length basis and on normal commercial terms.
Specific consideration is given to the requirements under the Listing Rules.
com 83 Governance framework continued Internal Audit principles of the Code of Fair Employment and the Suppliers Internal Audit provides independent, objective assurance to the Charter and to ensure there is no modern slavery within Group designed to improve the Groups operations and safeguard theiroperations.
the Groups assets and integrity.
It advises management on the extent The Group published its second Modern Slavery Act statement in to which systems of internal control and governance processes are May2018 which can be found on our website at www.
appropriate and effective to manage business risk, safeguard the Human Rights Groups resources and maintain compliance with the Groups policies The Company acknowledges that human rights are basic rights that and legal and regulatory requirements.
It advises on ways in which form the foundation for freedom, justice and peace, which apply areas of risk can be addressed and provides objective assurance on equally and universally in all countries.
We are guided by our risk and controls to senior management, the Audit Committee and Human Rights Policy which has been approved by the Board and the Board.
Internal Audits work is focused on the Groups principal which can be found on our website at www.
KAZ risks: the Head of Internal Audit and the Group Risk function work Minerals supports human rights that are defined, recognised and together when considering the appropriate scope and focus of identified in international conventions.
We follow the international internal audits.
The three-year programme of work of the Internal human rights principles encompassed in the Universal Declaration Audit department is considered and approved by the Audit of Human Rights, and adopt the UN Guiding Principles on Business Committee on a rolling annual basis, subject to any additional and Human Rights.
As set out in our Code of Fair Employment, we suggestions from the Committee.
The audit plan has space for ad hoc commit to our employees working in an environment and under audits as required by the Committee or management.
conditions that respect their rights and require the same standards Under the Internal Audit plan, a number of audits take place across from our business partners.
Through due diligence we aim to the Groups operations and functions to identify areas for prevent and mitigate any infringement of human rights both improvement of the Groups internal controls.
Findings are internally and amongst our business partners.
reported to relevant operational management who put in place Diversity processes for strengthening controls.
Internal Audit follows up on KAZ Minerals endeavours to create a positive, supportive and the implementation of recommendations and reports on progress inclusive culture amongst its workforce.
We promote our to senior management and to the Audit Committee.
corporate values of teamwork, integrity, long-term efficiency, The Head of Internal Audit reports regularly to the Chair of the professional development and safety and we strongly believe in the Audit Committee and attends Audit Committee meetings four importance of diversity and equality.
Diversity and equality in our times a year to present the findings from internal audits.
workforce enable the business to draw from a wide range of Modern Slavery Act 2015 thought, experience and expertise.
The KAZ Minerals workforce The Board recognises the importance of the provisions of the represents all sectors of society and reflects the communities local Modern Slavery Act 2015 and the Directors aim to ensure that to its operations.
We do not discriminate between our employees slavery and human trafficking have no part in the Groups supply on the basis of age, gender, race, nationality or ethnic origin, family chain.
The Group has always been vigilant about employee welfare situation, religion, language, political beliefs, sexual orientation, and aims to be transparent in its practices.
The Group has established pregnancy, maternity or paternity or disability protected a Code of Fair Employment which sets out its stance in relation to characteristics except as may be required to comply with forced labour, slavery, human trafficking and child labour and this can applicable laws and regulations, including those relating to be found on the Groups website at www.
The employment and health and safety, in the countries in which we Human Resources department periodically conducts a Group-wide operate.
We endeavour to ensure a fair and consistent approach in review to check internal compliance with the Code of Fair the recruitment and employment of our people regardless of their Employment and no instances of any breach have been identified.
differences and we do not tolerate any form of unlawful or unfair discrimination, victimisation or harassment based on protected Risk assessments of the Groups major contractors and suppliers characteristics, whether direct or indirect.
are carried out to identify those with a higher potential risk of modern slavery.
General Directors at each of the Groups Our approach is set out in the Companys Diversity and Equality Policy operations are required to confirm that they have reported any which applies to all our staff.
It is particularly relevant to Directors, line conditions which could indicate modern slavery amongst managers and other employees and contractors concerned with the contractors staff working at KAZ Minerals sites or confirm that no recruitment, training and promotion of staff and with any employment such conditions were observed.
Relevant staff were trained during matters which relate to others.
The Group Director of Human the year to raise awareness of modern slavery issues, with a Resources is responsible for ensuring that the policy is applied and the particular focus on management and contractors working on our Group Human Resources team has been trained and ensures construction sites.
Employees are encouraged to report any awareness amongst managers of the provisions of the policy and of instance or suspected occurrence of modern slavery or human their obligation to comply with them.
trafficking in the supply chain to management or through the During 2018, a series of meetings with female employees was held and Groups Speak-Up helpline facility.
these were attended by the Group Director of Human Resources and the Deputy Chair.
Presentations were given and discussions took place The Group has a Suppliers Charter which sets out our to understand better any challenges that female employees may face in expectations of our suppliers in relation to their treatment of their the workplace and especially at our remote operations, with the aim workers to ensure they are committed to employment practices of identifying ways of reducing or eliminating any such challenges and which are acceptable to the Group.
Under our standard terms of improving gender diversity in our workplace.
business our customers and suppliers agree to comply with the 84 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS This year, we are delighted to report that two of our senior female and senior management held meetings with institutional investors in employees, the Head of Procurement and Group Chief Geologist the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Russia and the United won awards at the 100 Inspirational Women in Mining Awards States of America and attended conferences in these locations, which signals to our female workforce that gender is no bar to a providing a comprehensive dialogue with shareholders and potential successful career with the Company.
23 per cent of our staff are new investors.
female and the proportion of females on the Board and in senior During 2018, the Company issued quarterly production updates in management 25 per cent and 23 per cent respectively is January, April, July and October.
These, together with copies of representative of females in the workforce as a whole.
We believe analyst presentations each half year, the Groups preliminary and these statistics position KAZ Minerals amongst the most gender half-yearly results and all announcements issued to the London diverse of our mining peer group.
Stock Exchange, are available on the Companys website www.
In addition, users of the Companys website can The Group has in place a detailed leadership development register to hear live webcasts of the results presentations.
programme under which key positions are determined and Annual General Meetings potential successors for these roles are identified.
The potential The Notice of Annual General Meeting is circulated to all successors are given individual development plans, mentoring and shareholders at least 20 working days prior to such meeting and it is training.
The progress of their development is monitored regularly Company policy not to combine resolutions.
All shareholders are by the Group Director of Human Resources, quarterly by other invited to attend the Annual General Meeting where there is an senior management and half yearly by the Chief Executive Officer.
opportunity for individual shareholders to question the Chair, The Group Director of Human Resources will report into the Deputy Chair and, through them, the chairs of the principal Board Nomination Committee on succession planning during 2019, during Committees.
After the Annual General Meeting, shareholders can 2018 he reported to the Board on succession planning and meet informally with the Directors.
consideration is given under this process to the Diversity and At the Annual General Meeting, the Chair provides a brief summary Equality Policy and the Board Diversity Policy.
of the Companys activities for the previous year to shareholders.
We have appointed a Designated Non-Executive Director in order All resolutions at the 2018 Annual General Meeting were voted on to engage with our workforce and Michael Lynch-Bell, our Deputy by way of a poll.
The procedure for voting on a poll follows best Chair, will be the first Director to take on this role.
He will make practice and allows the Company to count all votes rather than just two site visits to our operations in Kazakhstan during 2019 in order those of the shareholders attending the meeting.
to meet employee representatives to fully understand the views of As recommended by the Code, all resolutions proposed at the 2018 our workforce in relation to the Companys strategy and purpose Annual General Meeting were voted separately and the voting so that we can consider these views in Board discussions and results, which included all votes cast for, against and those withheld, decision making.
The role will rotate amongst our non-executive together with all proxies lodged prior to the meeting, were Directors so that there is an opportunity to widen engagement announced to the London Stock Exchange and made available on across different members of the Board.
For more information on www.
com as soon as practicable after the meeting.
As how we engage with our employees please see page 58 of the in previous years, the Form of Proxy clearly advised that a vote Corporate Responsibility section.
withheld is not a vote in law and is not used in calculating the votes Relations with shareholders for or against a resolution.
The Board endeavours to ensure good communication with its Board Committees shareholders and maintains an active dialogue with its key financial The five Committees of the Board are the Audit: Health, Safety and audiences including institutional shareholders, sell-side analysts, Environment: Nomination: Remuneration and Projects Assurance private individuals and potential new shareholders.
The Head of Committee, the latter re-established in 2018.
Board Committee Investor Relations is in communication with shareholders on a members are appointed by the Board upon the recommendation day-to-day basis and the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial of the Nomination Committee, which reviews the composition of Officer are closely involved in investor relations activities at key each Committee regularly.
In accordance with their specific skills times throughout the year.
The Board is provided with shareholder and experience, independent non-executive Directors are and broader market feedback from the Head of Investor Relations appointed to different Board Committees.
Committee members are expected to attend each Committee The executive Directors are available, through the Head of Investor meeting, unless there are exceptional circumstances which prevent Relations, to discuss the concerns of major shareholders at any time and them from doing so.
Only members of the Committees are entitled the Deputy Chair is available to discuss governance with them.
to attend Committee meetings, but others may be invited Non-executive Directors make themselves available to attend meetings to attend.
with shareholders when requested in order to develop an understanding of their views.
The Company responds as necessary to The terms of reference of each Committee are reviewed annually requests it receives from individual shareholders on a wide range and are available to view on the Companys website www.
They can be obtained on request from the Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
Senior management has regular contact with key institutional shareholders, external financing providers and sell-side analysts to Board Committee membership discuss the strategy, financial performance and investment activities The current membership of the Boards Committees is shown on of the Group.
Meetings with management are also supplemented by page 75. visits to the Groups operations.
com 85 Governance framework continued Audit Committee The Audit Committee reports to the Board on its assessment of effective governance in financial reporting, internal control and assurance processes and on the procedures in place for the identification and management of risk.
During 2018, the Committee continued to focus on its core role of reviewing the Groups financial results, including significant financial reporting estimates and judgements, as well as the financial disclosures in the interim management statements, monitoring the Groups systems of internal control and risk management and overseeing the relationship with the external auditors and with the internal audit function.
Dear shareholder, I would firstly like to thank Michael Lynch-Bell, for his contribution In this report, there is a summary of the significant issues that the as chair of the Committee over the last five years.
Michael Committee considered over the course of the year and the stepped down as chair of the Committee at the Annual General activities that it undertook in the performance of its duties.
Meeting in May 2018 but he remains a member of the Over the next 12 months, the Committee, in addition to its usual Committee and I value his continued counsel.
I would also like to duties will assess the integration of the Baimskaya copper project thank my other fellow Committee members, John MacKenzie into the Group and will monitor tax developments arising in and Charles Watson, whose insightful contributions have enabled Kazakhstan, Russia and the United Kingdom.
the Committee to perform its duties effectively.
Alison Baker Chair, Audit Committee management being present, to discuss any matters arising from their Composition audits or in relation to any other matter.
The current members of the Committee are: Alison Baker, Chair: Role and responsibilities Michael Lynch-Bell: The primary responsibilities of the Committee are set out on the pages that follow.
Whilst the Committee has very specific duties John MacKenzie: and which are set out in its terms of reference, its overarching purpose is Charles Watson to reassure shareholders that their interests are properly protected Alison Baker has recent and relevant financial experience, having in respect of the Companys financial management and reporting.
spent nearly 25 years in the provision of audit, capital markets and TheCommittee regularly updates the Board on matters discussed at advisory services in the extractives sector.
She previously led the UK its meetings.
The Board has delegated responsibility to the Committee and EMEA Oil & Gas practice at  and prior for monitoring the Companys procedures and system of internal to that the UK Energy, Utilities and Mining Assurance practice at Ernst control in relation to risk management and the Committee oversees & Young.
Michael Lynch-Bell, who chaired the Committee until June the internal and external audit processes which report into it.
2018, also has recent and relevant financial experience, having spent Key roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee include: 38 years with Ernst & Young developing and later leading, its global mining and energy practices.
John Mackenzie, former CEO of copper monitoring and challenging, where necessary, the integrity of the at Anglo American between 2009 and 2013, has around 30 years financial and narrative statements, the annual and half-yearly experience in the metals and mining industry and Charles Watson has results, and any other formal announcement relating to the over 30 years experience in the extractives industry.
Accordingly, the Groups financial performance, including a review of significant Board considers that the Committee as a whole has competence financial reporting judgements which they contain: relevant to the mining sector.
reviewing and challenging, where necessary, the actions and judgements of management taking into account the views of the The Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial external auditors in relation to the Companys financial statements, Officer, Company Secretary, Head of Internal Audit and the lead strategic report, financial review, governance statement insofar as partner and audit director of the external auditors are usually it relates to audit and risk management, half-yearly reports, invited to attend Committee meetings.
At the end of each meeting preliminary announcements and related formal statements, the Committee meets separately with representatives of the including the going concern assumption and the viability statement: external auditors and the Head of Internal Audit, without 86 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS reviewing the Companys internal controls, including financial External auditors controls and risk management systems: KPMG were appointed as external auditors of the Group in 2012 approving the annual and three-year internal audit plans and following a formal competitive tender process and continue to be monitoring the role and effectiveness of the internal audit function: the Companys external auditors.
overseeing the Companys relationship with the external auditors, The appointment of KPMG is reviewed annually and the including the monitoring of their independence and expertise, the Committee undertook an assessment of the effectiveness of the terms of their engagement and fees, and assessing the effectiveness external audit process during the year.
Consideration was given to of the audit process with due regard to relevant UK professional performance, objectivity, independence, resource and relevant and regulatory requirements: experience of the external auditors and following the identification agreeing the scope of the external auditors annual audit plan and and discussion of improvements that could be implemented, the reviewing the output: Committee recommended to the Board the re-appointment of reviewing and approving any changes to the policy on the KPMG.
The Committee believes that the Group continues to provision of non-audit services by the external auditors: benefit from the insight and knowledge that the external auditors have of its business processes and controls and following the assessing annually the Committees own performance, Committees recommendation, the Board has approved resolutions constitution and terms of reference: and to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, to reporting to the Board on how the Committee has discharged re-appoint KPMG as the Companys external auditors and to its responsibilities.
authorise the Directors to set KPMGs remuneration.
A copy of the Committees terms of reference is available to view In accordance with regulations on tendering audit contracts at least on the Companys website www.
every 10 years, it continues to be the intention of the Committee that the external audit will be put out to tender by 2022 at the Audit Committee responsibilities latest, subject to any further regulatory change.
Policy on the provision of non-audit services The Committee reviews annually the Groups policy on the use of Monitoring Overseeing Reviewing the external auditors for non-audit services.
The policy identifies risk those non-audit services which may, and those which may not, be provided and sets out the process through which non-audit services must be approved.
Under the policy, the external auditors can only Reporting Analysing be used for non-audit services where there are benefits to the Group and the provision of such services will not threaten the external auditors independence and objectivity.
Under the policy, any new engagement for non-audit services in Attendance at Audit Committee meetings excess of 100,000 must be approved by either the Chief Financial During 2018, there were seven scheduled meetings of the Audit Officer and the Committee Chair or a sub-committee of any two Committee, including two meetings which were convened to discuss Committee members and certain engagements must additionally one item of business only, the financial disclosures in the Groups be subject to a competitive tender process.
KPMG has informed the production reports, with each member attending as shown below: Audit Committee that with effect from 1 January 2019 they will not Attendance at Committee scheduled meetings undertake any non-audit services with the exception of services Members during 2018 member since during 2018 closely related to the audit.
Alison Baker 9 October 2017 7 7 Michael Lynch-Bell 27 February 2013 7 7 Full information on engagements and total annual fees paid for non-audit services are reported to the Committee.
There were no John MacKenzie 1 January 2016 7 7 fees paid to KPMG for non-audit services in 2018.
Details of all fees Charles Watson 24 August 2011 7 7 paid to the external auditors for the year ended 31 December 2018 and information on the nature of non-audit fees appear in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements on page 139. www.
com 87 Governance framework continued Financial Reporting Council Corporate Reporting Activities in 2018 At its meetings in 2018, the Committee: Review FRC The 2017 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts was reviewed Financial reporting by the FRCs Corporate Reporting Review team during 2018. reviewed the annual and half-yearly results including the quality and acceptability of accounting policies, significant financial The review was conducted by FRC staff who have an understanding of reporting estimates and judgements applied in preparing them, the relevant legal and accounting framework.
It was subject to inherent the transparency and clarity of the disclosures within them and limitations, as it was based on a review of the Annual Report and compliance with financial reporting standards and governance: Accounts and therefore did not benefit from detailed knowledge of the considered the process followed by management, including its Groups business or an understanding of the underlying transactions interaction with the Chair of the Committee and the Groups entered into.
The FRCs review provides no assurance that the 2017 external auditors, in responding to the queries raised by the FRC Annual Report and Accounts was correct in all material aspects and the as detailed above: FRC accepts no liability for reliance placed on its work.
considered whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a In performing its work, the FRC requested information on the whole, was fair, balanced and understandable and provided the Groups disclosures in respect of the cash flow statement, cash and necessary information for shareholders to assess the Companys cash equivalent balances and significant judgements and sources of position and performance, business model and strategy: estimation uncertainty.
The Chair of the Audit Committee and the received reports from management and the external auditors on Groups external auditors were consulted by management in accounting, financial reporting, regulatory and taxation matters preparing correspondence with the FRC.
including adoption of new accounting standards: The FRC questioned the appropriateness of the Groups accounting considered impairment indicator reviews performed policy for cash and cash equivalents, specifically the classification of by management: the Groups deposits with original maturity of greater than three reviewed the methodology for producing the disclosure of ore months within cash and cash equivalents.
Following a change in the reserves and mineral resources and other relevant disclosures in Groups conditions, management has prospectively classified the the Annual Report and Accounts: Groups deposits with original maturity of greater than three months reviewed the accounting treatment for the Baimskaya copper as current investments, which was welcomed by the FRC.
Further project acquisition: details are set out in note 36 h to the Financial Statements on pages reviewed the basis for preparing the Group accounts on a going 163 and 164.
Following comments from the FRC, management has concern basis: and also clarified its disclosures relating to significant judgements and sources of estimation uncertainty in the 2018 Annual Report considered the viability statement to be made by the Company.
Internal control The FRC also provided recommendations on other areas of reviewed the structure and effectiveness of the Groups system disclosure which were incorporated into the 2018 Annual Report of internal control as set out on pages 83 and 84 and the and Accounts, where applicable.
disclosures made in the Annual Report and Accounts on this matter: Brexit reviewed and recommended to the Board amendments to the The Committee, in conjunction with management, considered the Group Treasury Policy: effect of Brexit on the Group and its operations.
reviewed and recommended to the Board the Group Tax The Groups operations are located in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan, Strategy: and with the majority of sales made into China and non-EU countries.
reviewed the Groups processes for disclosing information to the The principal business carried out by the Group in the UK relates external auditors and the statement concerning such disclosure in toits listing on the London Stock Exchange and it maintains a small the Annual Report and Accounts.
office in London where corporate functions such as Company Secretarial, Investor Relations and Treasury are located.
The Board of Directors and Committee meetings are mostly held at the London office.
From a tax perspective, the Groups arrangements are largely subject to bi-lateral agreements between the UK and Kazakhstan: the UK and the Netherlands: and the Netherlands andKazakhstan, which are generally expected to remain in placepost-Brexit.
Taking into account the circumstances of the Group, the Committee does not expect Brexit to have a significant impact on the Group.
88 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Risk management Other matters received an overview of the Groups risk environment and risk reviewed reports on changes to UK, Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan management activities together with analysis of the key risks to tax legislation: achieving the Groups strategic priorities: received the report on payments to governments: reviewed and challenged the Groups top 20 risks identified by reviewed the Speak-Up policy: management in the Group risk map and movements of those received reports on matters raised via the Speak-Up facilities, the risks over the course of the year: process for the investigation of those matters raised, the outcome reviewed the effectiveness of the Group risk management of any investigation and any related actions taken: framework as described on pages 65 and 66: reviewed status updates on the Groups Anti-Bribery and reviewed reports from internal audit on issues identified and Corruption Compliance Programme: confirmed that there was an appropriate response received updates from management on the latest technical from management: accounting, taxation and regulatory issues: reviewed reports from external auditors on any issues identified received a report on revenue processes: in the course of their work including the internal controls received a report on IT security: report: and received a presentation on the structure and composition of the monitored the Groups catastrophic risk insurance arrangements.
Groups finance function: Internal audit received updates on the implementation of a new Oracle approved the annual and rolling three-year operational plans: and Enterprise Resource Planning system: regularly reviewed reports from the internal audit department, reviewed the terms of reference and the results of the received presentations from the Head of Internal Audit on performance evaluation of the Committee: and internal control and followed up on the manner in which reviewed the training requirements of the Committee members.
recommendations made in these audits had been addressed.
External auditors approved the terms of engagement of the external auditors, the fees paid and scope of work: received reports on the findings of the external auditors during the half-yearly review and annual audit and reviewed the recommendations made to management by the external auditors and managements responses: reviewed the performance and effectiveness of the external auditors in respect of the previous financial year and recommended their re-appointment: performed an annual review of the policies on the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, the use of the external auditors for non-audit services, and the employment of former employees of the external auditors: assessed the continued independence and objectivity of the external auditors: reviewed the quality assurance processes of the external auditors and letters of representation to them: and discussed the procedures performed and findings related to anti-bribery and corruption and revenue.
com 89 Governance framework continued Significant judgements considered by the Audit Committee The Committee considered, amongst other matters, a number of significant judgements in relation to the financial reporting of the Group, including: Significant issues Committee action Going concern and viability statement It is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing The Committee considered and approved the the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018.
In reaching this underlying assumptions used in the preparation of the conclusion, management took into account the financial position of the Group and its long-term viability statement, together with the going forecast cash flows and made certain assumptions and judgements as set out in the basis concern assumption.
After reviewing papers prepared of preparation note to the financial statements on pages 126 to 128 and in the Strategic by management and also taking into account the Report on page 44. external auditors review of the papers and their This Annual Report and Accounts also includes the long-term viability statement in assumptions, the Committee concluded that it was compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Management considered the appropriate to prepare the accounts on a going Groups long-term viability statement, in addition to and together with the going concern concern basis.
The Committee considered the statement, which is set out on page 67. long-term viability statement and going concern statement and approved managements disclosures.
Impairments Group At 30 June 2018, an assessment of impairment indicators or reversals across the Groups The Committee considered managements assessment cash generating units CGUs was performed and this did not identify indicators which as at 30 June 2018 and as at 31 December 2018.
The would require an impairment or reversal review.
Accordingly, impairment reviews were Committee evaluated the appropriateness of not undertaken.
managements assumptions and estimates, including At 31 December 2018, an assessment of impairment indicators across the Groups CGUs those used in the Bozymchak impairment review, and was performed and an impairment indicator was identified at Bozymchak.
Having received input from the review was undertaken which identified that an impairment charge was required to external auditor, the Committee agreed with reduce the carrying value of the Bozymchak operation.
See page of 137 of the Groups managements assessment and disclosures.
Impairments KAZ Minerals PLC An assessment of impairment indicators in respect of the investments of KAZ Minerals The Committee considered papers setting out PLC was performed, given the fall in its share price in the second half of 2018.
The managements impairment indicator review together reduction in the share price was not found to be driven by fundamental changes to the with the latest internal valuation of KAZ Minerals PLCs long-term value of the Companys business operations.
This conclusion was also investments.
Having received input from the external supported by the use of consistent methodology used for impairment indicator reviews auditor and challenged the appropriateness of key across the Groups CGUs.
An impairment review was therefore not undertaken.
assumptions used by management in their value estimates, the Committee agreed with managements assessment and disclosures.
Consideration and assessment of tax matters of the Group Due to the evolving nature of tax legislation and its application in Kazakhstan and The Committee considered papers prepared by Kyrgyzstan, management is required to make judgements and estimates in relation to tax management and after receiving input from the risks, the outcomes of which can be less predictable than in other jurisdictions.
external auditor, concluded that the Groups tax Management has determined its best estimates for taxes payable and the likelihood and position has been appropriately accounted for timing of taxes receivable, including VAT, and accounted for them accordingly.
Joint arrangement accounting Industrial Construction Group ICG The Group has established a joint arrangement, ICG, for the construction of the The Committee considered papers prepared by additional sulphide processing facility at Aktogay.
The Group has a 49 per cent interest in management and taking into account the external ICG and is deemed to have joint control, as decisions about the relevant activities of the auditors review of the papers and their assumptions, joint arrangement require unanimous consent of the parties.
This arrangment was judged concluded that managements judgement relating to to be a joint operation for accounting purposes.
the accounting of ICG was appropriate.
Acquisition accounting Baimskaya copper deposit The Group announced the completion of the acquisition of the Baimskaya copper The Committee considered papers prepared by project in January 2019.
In determining the appropriate accounting for the purchase, management and taking into account the external consideration was given as to whether the deposit represented a business, as defined auditors review of the papers and their assumptions, under the accounting standards, or an asset.
Management considered the progress and concluded that managements judgement in respect of stage of exploration at the site: the quantitative and qualitative nature of its assets and the acquisition accounting for the Baimskaya copper liabilities: and whether a viable process was in place to generate outputs.
determined that the site did not meet the requirements of a business combination as there was no viable process in place which, together with the inputs the copper bearing ore could result in outputs.
As such, it was judged that the acquisition of the Baimskaya copper project should be accounted for as an asset purchase, not a business combination.
The impact of this judgement will apply to the 2019 financial statements.
90 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Health, Safety and Environment Committee safety improvement project which we approved in 2017, and we were pleased to see progress in many areas.
During the year a further audit of storage facilities was completed, on which the Committee received an update.
The Committee received the findings of internal and external reviews of HSE at a number of our sites which were conducted during the year.
These reviews assess compliance with the Groups HSE policies, make recommendations for further improvements and give focus to specific priorities of HSE.
In 2018, one such area of focus was awareness of safety rules, Dear shareholder, hazards and user procedures amongst employees.
The Over the course of the year, the Committee has continued to Committee considered the outcomes of these audits and support management in its aim of reducing health, safety and requested improvements to be made in various areas identified.
environmental HSE related risks, whilst providing We also reviewed the three year strategic plan focused on essential challenge.
strenthening the long-term foundations for safe, productive Our key priority is to achieve the Groups goal of zero fatalities work.
The Committee also received and discussed an which I am disappointed to report was not achieved in 2018 and environmental report containing metrics on the Groups we will continue to focus strongly on this.
performance during 2018 and on the improvements that were being put in place by management.
In early 2018, the Committee reviewed managements new health and safety initiatives which included the roll out of the We made two trips to Kazakhstan in 2018, one in June and one in SLAM system Stop, Look, Assess, Manage and putting in place October, to visit four of our operations including the two new processes to increase site management safety interactions and mines, Bozshakol and Aktogay, as well as Irtyshsky and the sharing of learnings from incidents across sites.
Improvements Artemyevsky, two established underground mines in the East have been made to systems and training, across all levels, from Region.
During our visits to the operations we met with locally workers to General Directors.
This includes the commitment of based staff and managers to gain a first-hand view of the risks and more visible presence on site by senior line management focused challenges they face and to visit the locations where incidents had on safety issues.
The Committee also reviewed and was involved taken place.
We had the opportunity to see the Groups HSE in updating with management, the Groups leading safety initiatives in practice, to interact with workers to discuss safety indicators, to ensure that focus is directed in the most important and to understand areas where improvements could be made.
areas for the prevention of harm.
We will continue our drive to improve all areas of HSE over the During the year, the Committee received reports on next few years and will report on our progress during 2019 at the occupational diseases and on the ways in which management is end of the year.
working on reducing incidences of such health issues.
We also received a further update on the three year underground mine Charles Watson Chair, Health, Safety and Environment Committee Key responsibilities of the Committee include: Composition The current members of the Committee are: assessing the impact of health, safety and environmental issues on the Groups stakeholders and ensuring remedial action is taken in Charles Watson, Chair: respect of any such issues where appropriate: Lynda Armstrong: Michael Lynch-Bell: and reviewing compliance by the Group with relevant health, safety John MacKenzie and environmental legislation: monitoring and assessing the commitment and behaviour of Role and responsibilities management towards health, safety and environmental The Committee is primarily responsible for keeping under review related risks: the development and maintenance of a framework of policies and reviewing significant safety incidents, considering the key causes standards which are used to assess, manage and where possible thereof and ensuring actions are taken to prevent similar incidents prevent health, safety and environmental risks.
Reports on the occurring including reporting of these incidents and any near Committees reviews are then provided to the Board.
misses: Two of the three meetings of the Committee during the year were facilitating the promotion by management of a culture of care and held in Kazakhstan and involved meeting with management sensitivity towards the environment and the communities in responsible for health and safety at the mine sites, with each visit which the Group operates: lasting for two or three days.
com 91 Governance framework continued making proposals to the Remuneration Committee regarding visited the underground mine at Artemyevsky and reviewed the appropriate health, safety and environmental performance new underground support systems: objectives for executive directors and certain senior managers received presentations on the approach to health and safety from and providing its assessment as to performance against such the Project Directors at each of the Aktogay and Artmeyevksy objectives: and expansion sites where substantial construction works are ongoing: reviewing the findings of any internal or external reports on the evaluated the Committees effectiveness for 2018, including Groups health, safety and environmental systems.
identifying training needs and reviewed its terms of reference and future role and direction: The Committees terms of reference are available to view on the reviewed reports received through the Speak-Up system where Companys website www.
HSE concerns were raised: Attendance at Health, Safety and Environment received a status update on corporate responsibility reporting, Committee meetings including key performance indicators: and There were three scheduled meetings of the Health, Safety and reviewed and evaluated fatal and serious incident reports and Environment Committee during 2018, with each member attending visited locations of some of the fatalities and serious incidents at as shown below: the mines.
Attendance at Committee scheduled meetings Plans for 2019 Members during 2018 member since during 2018 In 2019, the Committee will seek assurance that health, safety and Charles Watson 16 November 2011 3 3 environmental systems, procedures and behaviours are well Lynda Armstrong 21 October 2013 3 3 established throughout the Group.
Over the course of the year it John MacKenzie 1 March 2015 3 3 plans to visit an East Region mine, as well as Bozshakol and Aktogay.
Michael Lynch-Bell 1 January 2018 3 3 Activities in 2018 At its meetings in 2018, the Committee, amongst other matters: visited the mine and the concentrator at Aktogay, with particular focus on sites of HSE incidents to better understand the reasons why they took place and learned about the local social programmes including funding for scholarships and for local schools and health checks for local residents: visited the mine, concentrator, clay plant and clay dump, the new training centre and sites of HSE incidents at Bozshakol: reviewed the new roof bolting system at the underground mine at Irtyshsky and other safety initiatives: 92 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Nomination Committee Assurance Committee PAC, to oversee the construction of the Aktogay expansion and Baimskaya projects.
The Nomination Committee selected John MacKenzie to chair the PAC due to his extensive projects experience in the copper mining industry and he is joined on that Committee by Lynda Armstrong and Charles Watson who have many years of experience in the extractives industry.
The PAC held its first meeting in October 2018.
See page 96 for more information on the PAC.
Following the publication of the New Code, the Committee met to consider its additional responsibilities under this code.
In light Dear shareholder, of the principles of the New Code, the Nomination Committee During 2018, the Board has been unchanged following the new is now working with Group Human Resources to oversee structure put in place at the beginning of the year, when after appointments and succession planning for the senior management consultation with our major institutional shareholders, the Board pipeline as well as the Board, taking into account the need for appointed Oleg Novachuk, previously Chief Executive Officer, as diversity of age, disability, education, gender, ethnicity and social Chair of the Company.
The Board considered him to be uniquely background.
We are delighted to embrace these new duties and qualified for the role due to his operational knowledge, project began our work in this area during 2018. development expertise and relationships with industrial, financial As part of our ongoing review of the structure of the Board and and political leaders in Kazakhstan, China and the region.
Andrew Committees and following a skills audit, it has been agreed by the Southam, previously Chief Financial Officer, was appointed our Nomination Committee that during 2019 we will keep under new Chief Executive Officer and I was appointed Deputy Chair, review the composition of the Board in light of the developments in addition to my role as Senior Independent Director, with of the business.
We have had this structure In February 2019, the Committee considered and discussed a in place for over a year and I consider it to be working well, a paper setting out the regulations and guidelines regarding the conclusion shared by the independent board evaluation we retirement of Directors at the Annual General Meeting and performed at the end of 2018. having reviewed the performance of all Directors, concluded that There has been one minor change to our Committee structure it was appropriate to recommend that all the Directors be as mentioned in my Governance Overview.
In October 2018, the proposed to retire and stand for re-election by shareholders at Chair of the Operations Ramp Up Assurance Committee the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on ORAC informed the Board that the members of the ORAC 2 May 2019. had reviewed the current status of Aktogay and Bozshakol now that these operations were close to achieving design capacity.
It Michael Lynch-Bell was their view that the ORACs role of monitoring key technical Chair, Nomination Committee and operational matters at Aktogay and Bozshakol during the ramp up phase was now complete and a decision was made to close the ORAC.
The Board decided to re-establish the Projects The Committee, which provides a rigorous, formal and transparent Composition procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board, The current members of the Committee are: generally consults with external search consultants and advisers on Michael Lynch-Bell, Chair: prospective Board appointments.
The Committee keeps under Lynda Armstrong: and review the planned and progressive refreshing of the Board and its Alison Baker Committees.
It assesses the performance of current Directors and makes recommendations to the Board for their re-appointment Role and responsibilities where appropriate, as well as advising the Board on the terms of The Committee is primarily responsible for leading the process for any re-appointment.
It supervises and puts in place succession Board and Committee appointments and for keeping under review planning for non-executive Directors and for certain senior the balance of skills, experience, independence, knowledge and managers and, where applicable, makes recommendations to the general diversity on the Board to ensure the composition of the Board on Directors conflicts of interest for authorisation.
Board and its Committees remains appropriate.
com 93 Governance framework continued Key roles and responsibilities of the Nomination Committee include: Governance The Committee is chaired by the Deputy Chair and all members of the regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition including Committee are independent non-executive Directors in accordance skills, experience, independence, knowledge and general diversity with the provisions of the Code that a majority of members should be of the Board and making recommendations to the Board with independent.
If a matter concerns the Deputy Chair personally, then he regard to any changes: leaves the meeting and Lynda Armstrong takes the chair.
overseeing succession planning for Directors and senior management with appointments and succession plans based on Diversity merit and objective criteria as well as the skills and expertise that will The Board is comprised of men and women with a wide range of be needed in these roles in the future whilst promoting diversity: skills and business experience drawn from a number of industries, selecting and appointing external search consultants to identify which enables different perspectives to be brought to Board potential candidates for the Board and senior management discussions.
Furthermore, the Board is made up of a variety of positions when required: nationalities, which brings cultural and ethnic diversity as well as responsibility for identifying and nominating, for the approval of different geographical experiences and viewpoints.
The combination the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they of these factors enables the Board to benefit from a variety of skills, arise in light of the role and capabilities required for a perspectives and thoughts, which provides a dynamic environment particular appointment: for decision making.
When recruiting, the Board seeks to maintain or improve its diversity and we have recently adopted a Board Diversity keeping under review Directors existing and any new conflicts of Policy under which we set out our aspiration to reach a composition interest and making recommendations as to whether a conflict of 33% women on the Board by the end of 2020.
The Policy can be should be authorised: viewed at www.
reviewing the results of the Board performance evaluation process in relation to the composition of the Board and reviewing The Board recognises the need to create conditions which foster talent annually the time commitment required from the non-executive and we encourage all employees to achieve their full career potential at Directors to fulfil their duties: the Group.
As part of the Groups approach to human resource management, it encourages employee diversity and aims to ensure that reviewing annually the Committees own performance, KAZ Minerals future senior leadership team reflects the demographics constitution and terms of reference: and ethnic diversity of the countries in which it operates and the recommending to the Board suitable candidates for the general employee base.
membership of Board Committees: recommending the re-appointment of non-executive Directors Activities in 2018 as appropriate at the conclusion of their specified term of At its meetings in 2018, the Committee amongst other matters and in office: and addition to those already stated in this Nomination Committee section: recommending the re-election by shareholders of Directors in conducted a thorough review of and recommended the accordance with the provisions of the Code.
appointment of Charles Watson for a further term of one year The Committees terms of reference are available to view on the following the end of his eighth year of appointment to the Board: Companys website www.
in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, recommended to the Board the re-election of all Directors by Attendance at Nomination Committee meetings shareholders at the 2019 Annual General Meeting having due There were two scheduled meetings of the Nomination regard to the performance and ability of each Director to Committee during 2018, each member attending as shown below: continue to contribute to the Board and its Committees: Attendance at Members Committee scheduled meetings reviewed the time commitment required by non-executive during 2018 member since during 2018 Directors to fulfil their duties: and Michael Lynch-Bell 1 September 2013 2 2 amended its terms of reference and conducted a review of the Lynda Armstrong 7 May 2015 2 2 results of the performance evaluation of the Committee.
Alison Baker 1 January 2018 2 2 Recruitment process For the recruitment of new candidates to fill appointments to the Board we generally use executive search consultants who specialise in the recruitment of high calibre executive and non-executive candidates and have no other connection with the Company.
This ensures that we have access to a wide and high calibre pool of candidates from which to choose.
A formal, rigorous and transparent search process is put in place with a candidate profile and position specification prepared, including time commitment expected and experience required.
Interviews are then conducted by the Chair of the Nomination Committee, the other members of the Committee and the executive Directors.
Sometimes other nonexecutive Directors are also invited to meet candidates during the interview process.
94 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Operations Ramp Up Assurance Committee overseeing Bozshakol and Aktogay and was supported by an external adviser who performed periodic site visits providing the Committee with an independent assessment of the ramp up.
Drawing on his senior operational experience in the copper mining industry, the external adviser also provided recommendations to management and to the Committee on potential improvements.
The Committee met four times over the course of the year and it was decided in October 2018 that, due to the operations at Bozshakol and Aktogay being close to achieving design capacity Dear shareholder, and the ramp up phase being complete, the Committee would The Operations Ramp Up Assurance Committee was be succeeded by a re-established Projects Assurance Committee established in February 2017, with a planned 18 month life, to with the remit of overseeing project development at the Aktogay monitor key technical and operational matters at Bozshakol and expansion and the Baimskaya copper project and to continue Aktogay during the ramp up phase in their development, with the monitoring the systems and processes at Bozshakol and Aktogay.
objective of assuring that these operations implemented systems Details of the Projects Assurance Committee are set out in the and processes capable of delivering sustainable performance in Projects Assurance Committee section that follows.
line with their design parameters.
During 2018, the Committee received reports and presentations John MacKenzie from the members of management responsible for directly Chair, Operations Ramp Up Assurance Committee Composition Attendance at Operations Ramp Up Assurance The current members of the Committee are: Committee meetings There were four scheduled meetings of the Committee during 2018, with each member attending as shown below: John MacKenzie, Chair: Attendance at Lynda Armstrong: and Committee scheduled meetings Charles Watson Members during 2018 member since during 2018 Charles Watson 17 February 2017 4 4 Role and responsibilities Lynda Armstrong 17 February 2017 4 4 Until October 2018, the Committee was primarily responsible for John MacKenzie 17 February 2017 4 4 reviewing and providing assurance to the Board on the ramp up of operations at Bozshakol and Aktogay.
Key responsibilities of the Committee conducted in relation to Bozshakol and Aktogay: undertook regular reviews of the operations performance against approved plans and metrics, identified any material risks and issues that may impact successful delivery of the Companys business plan and ensured that operational reporting was clear and consistent with transparent performance metrics: reviewed the results of technical and operational audits of the operations conducted by management and external advisers: reviewed specified technical and operational matters regarding the operations: and reviewed the scope of potential risks in the areas of focus of the Committee and the adequacy of the systems in place to manage those risks.
com 95 Governance framework continued Projects Assurance Committee Dear shareholder, In October 2018, on its re-establishment, the Committee assumed primary responsibility for overseeing the Aktogay expansion and the Baimskaya project and for continuing to monitor systems and processes at Bozshakol and Aktogay.
We have appointed two independent advisers to the Committee, both of whom have many years of project experience in the extractives industry.
We look forward to reporting on our activities during 2019 at the end of the year.
John MacKenzie Chair, Projects Assurance Committee Composition Attendance at Projects Assurance Committee The current members of the Committee are: meetings There was one scheduled meeting of the Committee during 2018, John MacKenzie, Chair: with each member attending as shown below: Lynda Armstrong: and Attendance at Charles Watson Committee scheduled meetings Members during 2018 member since during 2018 Role and responsibilities Lynda Armstrong 18 October 2018 1 1 Key responsibilities of the Committee include: John MacKenzie 18 October 2018 1 1 undertaking regular reviews of the Groups major capital Charles Watson 18 October 2018 1 1 expenditure projects at the Aktogay expansion project and Baimskaya against approved plans to determine any material Plans for 2019 variances to the plans and forecasts and to identify any material The Committee is scheduled to meet four times during 2019 and risks and issues that may impact the successful delivery of will regularly review the Groups major capital expenditure projects.
the projects: At the Aktogay expansion project it will monitor the construction reviewing any findings and recommendations arising from the processes and at Baimskaya, the focus will be on the feasibility study.
assessments and monitoring progress in implementing any such findings and recommendations: monitoring the composition and performance of the projects owners teams, including regularly reviewing the processes, systems, staffing and organisation of the projects, and benchmarking against international best practice: and continuing to monitor the ongoing implementation of systems and processes at Bozshakol and Aktogay and ensuring that these are in line with good industry practice.
96 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2018
