Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Risk Management and Audit Committee report The Committee plays an important role in overseeing the Groups systems of risk management and internal control and in ensuring transparent reporting to shareholders.
Chair Allocation of time Allocation of time Adam Walker External audit and financial reporting Other Committee members Internal audit Justin Atkinson Risk management Constance Baroudel and internal controls Kirsty Bashforth Governance Nick Winser CBE by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience and Dear shareholder competence in accounting and auditing.
The Committee as a whole I am pleased to present the Risk Management and Audit has competence relevant to the sectors in which the Group Committee report, which provides a summary of the Committees operates, for example: activities during the 2018 financial year.
Justin Atkinson: a qualified accountant, has previous executive The construction and related sectors are inherently risky, with a experience in the contracting sector through his former roles high level of judgement applied to financial outcomes.
Effective risk withKeller: management is essential, as demonstrated by a number of high Constance Baroudel: has experience of the risks associated with profile corporate failures this year.
strategy implementation: Kier continues to develop its systems of risk management and Kirsty Bashforth: has strong global, commercial, safety and risk internal control and the Committee continues to work with management and operational experience through her former role management and both the internal and external auditors to ensure at BP and as a non-executive director of Serco: and that they are effective.
During the year, we strengthened our Nick Winser: a qualified civil engineer, has significant experience internal risk management team and appointed Grant Thornton as in the contracting sector and health and safety risk management our co-sourced internal auditor.
through his former role at National Grid.
Please see pages 64 and 65 for further details of the Committee Role members experience.
The role of the Committee includes: During the year, the following individuals were also in attendance monitoring the Groups financial reporting procedures and at Committee meetings: the external audit: the Finance Director: examining the integrity of the Groups financial other members of the Board, where appropriate for example, statements and challenging significant financial and the Chairman and the Chief Executive attended the September otherjudgements: 2017 and March 2018 meetings to consider the Groups results reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups and other Executive Directors attended meetings when key systems of risk management and internal control: accounting judgements on contracts were discussed: reviewing the Groups whistleblowing arrangements: the Group Financial Controller and representatives from PwC for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit external audit matters: and function, agreeing the list of audits to be conducted each the Group Head of Risk and Internal Audit and representatives year and reviewing the results of those audits: and from KPMG and, subsequently, Grant Thornton for internal testing the independence and objectivity of the external auditmatters.
auditor, assessing its effectiveness and approving the Outside the formal meetings, I met members of management provision of non-audit services.
including the Finance Director, PwC, KPMG and, following their The terms of reference for the Committee can be viewed on the appointment, Grant Thornton to discuss a number of matters Companys website at www.
relating to the operation of the Committee.
The secretary of the Committee is the Company Secretary, HughRaven.
Committee composition and meeting attendance The Committee met formally four times during the year: details of The names of the members of the Committee are set out above.
attendance at those meetings are set out on page 63.
Following As a chartered accountant, and having been the Chief Financial those meetings, I provided the Board with an update on the Officer of three UK listed companies in the last 15 years and now principal matters arising.
the Chief Financial Officer of IHS Holding Limited, I am considered Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 73 Corporate Governance Statement Risk Management and Audit Committee report continued Certain other matters are considered regularly by the Committee Committee performance evaluation during the year.
These include: 2018 progress against 2017 evaluation non-audit fees incurred by the external auditor: The 2017 Board effectiveness review identified the following as whistleblowing and compliance updates: key areas of focus for the Committee in the 2018 financial year: progress against the internal audit plan: and ensuring that the Groups systems of risk management corporate reporting and governance developments.
andinternal control continue to support the Groups growth.
Pleasesee Systems of risk management and internal control Systems of risk management and internal control Effectiveness review below: and General working with PwC to continue to ensure a rigorous and robust Information on how the Group manages risk, including a description approach to the annual audit, for example in relation to of the principal aspects of the Groups systems of risk management significant judgements made by management.
As an illustration and internal control, is set out on pages 36 to 43 inclusive.
of this approach, the Committee worked with PwC prior to the Groups post-close trading update in July 2018 to obtain PwCs Effectiveness review views on certain matters prior to the formal commencement of The Code requires the Board, at least annually, to conduct a review the 2018 audit.
of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of risk management and internal control.
The Boards statement about this review is 2019 principal areas of focus set out on page 60.
Following the 2018 Board evaluation, the Committees principal areas of focus for the 2019 financial year include: At its meeting in September 2018, the Committee reviewed managements assessment of the key elements of these systems the timely reporting of key risk issues in particular, those which and confirmed their overall effectiveness, taking into account the relate to any underperforming contracts : and Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, the implementation of the actions arising from the key Internal Control and Related Business Reporting September commercial controls review undertaken by KPMG in the 2018 2014.
In forming its conclusion, the Committee noted, in financial year.
particular, that: In addition, and following receipt of the letter from the Financial of the 12 internal audits completed during the year, only one Reporting Council the FRC referred to under Engagement with was marked as red: theFRC FRCCorporate Reporting Review on page 78, the the transition to the integrated Oracle ERP system, together with Committee will oversee the implementation of any the Finance Shared Services Centre, had standardised financial recommendations which the FRC may make.
reporting procedures across the Group to a material extent: Principal activities 2018 financial year the integration of risk considerations into the Boards review The Committee met formally four times during the year.
The principal ofthe Groups strategy for example, at its meeting in agenda items at those meetings were as follows: December2017 : the discussions held by the Board with respect to its risk appetite: and September 2017 the Boards specific focus during the year on contract riskmanagement.
Review of the Groups 2017 results and ancillary matters The 2017 final dividend Whistleblowing helpline The Group makes available an externally-hosted, confidential December 2017 whistleblowing helpline which employees can call if they have any concerns that they would like to raise.
Any such concerns are then Evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal investigated.
Following the appointment of a new helpline provider and external auditors in 2017, the Group Compliance function continued its programme Risk management to raise awareness of the facility.
At each Committee meeting during the year, the Committee reviewed reports which provided March 2018 details of the issues reported to the helpline and how management had investigated them.
No issues which were material in the Review of the Groups 2018 interim results context of the Group were reported to the helpline or via other and ancillary matters means during the year.
The 2018 interim dividend June 2018 The 2018 external audit plan The 2019 internal audit plan Approving revised non-audit fee and whistleblowing policies Risk management 74 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Board statements Introduction Under the Code, the Board is required to provide a number of statements.
These statements are set out on page 60.
For further information on the Committees work to support the Boards statement on the Groups systems of risk management and internal control, please see Systems of risk management and internal control Effectiveness review on page 74.
The Committees work with respect to the fair, balanced and understandable, going concern and viability statements is describedbelow.
Fair, balanced and understandable review At its meeting in September 2018, the Committee noted the fair, balanced and understandable statement and the work undertaken tosupport it, which included: Who?
How assurance was provided The working group comprised senior individuals who drafted the Annual Report Annual Report working group The group held regular meetings to discuss material disclosure items The working group members reviewed the sections drafted by them in light of the fair, balanced and understandable requirement Key contributors to the Annual Report Certain key contributors to sections of the Annual Report for example, Managing Directors and Finance Directors within the business signed a declaration confirming the accuracy of the information provided Provided by PwC, FutureValue, a corporate reporting consultancy, and Mercer, who reviewed the External support Directors Remuneration Report The Committee and the Board Drafts of the Annual Report were circulated to individual members of the Board, the Committee and the full Board for review Material disclosure items were discussed at the Committees meeting in September 2018 Going concern At its meeting in September 2018, the Committee noted the going concern statement and the principal aspects of the review process conducted to support it, which included: Going concern element How assurance was provided Reviewing the Groups available sources of funding and, in particular, testing the covenants and Sources of funding assessing the available headroom using a range of assumptions Cash flow Reviewing the short, medium and long-term cash flow forecasts in various material downside scenarios Current and forecast activities Assessing the Groups current and forecast activities, including its long-term contracts and order books, and those factors considered likely to affect its future performance and financial position Assessing the level of available bonding facilities, which are considered necessary to support Bonding facilities the Groups ability to tender and deliver future growth Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 75 Corporate Governance Statement Risk Management and Audit Committee report continued Viability statement As they have done in previous years, the Directors have chosen to consider the prospects of the Group over a three-year period ending 30June 2021, as they consider it to be a period over which they are able to forecast the Groups performance with reasonable certainty, principally because: a number of programmes relating to the Groups key projects, which are important factors in an assessment of the Groups performance, operate over a period of up to approximately threeyears: the visibility of the Groups secured work and bidding opportunities can reasonably be assessed over a three-year period: and a number of the Groups businesses produce business plans over a period of approximately three years.
At its meeting in September 2018, the Committee noted the viability statement and the work undertaken to support it.
The Committee also noted that management had engaged external advisers to undertake a review of its process and methodology.
The following table summarises this process, the stress-testing scenarios reviewed and the key mitigating actions applied: identify the principal risks and uncertainties relating to the Group: Process identify a number of stress-testing scenarios, together with mitigating actions for each of those scenarios: and draft the financial forecasts, reflecting certain assumptions with respect to the Groups principal finance facilities for example, their availability and the Groups compliance with covenants, andapply the stress-testing scenarios to them: and draft the viability statement, having taken into account the financial performance and scenariosmodelled.
loss-making contracts having a significant impact on the Groups reported profit and cash over Stress-testing scenarios the three-year period: Buildings turnover decreasing 15% year-on-year in the 2019, 2020 and 2021 financial years: Utilities not obtaining forecast contract extensions and new work in the water sector: gross margins decreasing materially over the three-year period: a material decline in the property market in the 2019 financial year, following Brexit, causing the Property business profits to decrease to 20% of its forecast for the 2021 financial year: a material decline in the house-building market in the 2019 financial year, following Brexit, causing significant volume reductions in the Residential business in the 2019 and 2020 financial years: payment terms across the Group tightening over the 2019 and 2020 financial years: and the supplier finance scheme no longer being available to Kier from January 2019 and, following the repayment of the Schuldschein and the US private placements of notes, no new financing being secured.
Key mitigating actions overhead and cost reduction programmes delivering significant cash savings over the three-yearperiod: capital expenditure being reduced significantly over the three-year period: the sale of non-core businesses: and stabilising investment in Property and Residential.
76 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Internal audit function effectiveness Internal audit To assess the effectiveness of the internal audit function, Internal audits 2018 financial year members of the Committee and senior management completed During the year, the Committee conducted a formal tender process adetailed questionnaire addressing various aspects of both to identify a new provider of co-sourced internal audit services.
theinternal audit functions and KPMGs performance.
The Theprocess involved four firms, each of which was invited to feedback was then reviewed by the Committee at its meeting respond to a detailed request for proposal.
Following meetings inDecember 2017. between representatives of the firms, management and members of the Committee, Grant Thornton were selected and appointed The Committee concluded that, overall, the Internal Audit function with effect from 1 January 2018 to replace KPMG.
Grant Thornton was operating effectively.
A summary of the results of the review and KPMG then worked together to ensure an orderly transition of isas follows: the 2018 internal audit plan.
During the year, the Committee monitored progress against the Strengths 2018 internal audit plan, which was approved by the Committee The link between the business and the RMAC provided atits June 2017 meeting.
Results from each audit were discussed bymanagement by the Committee, together with the follow-up actions taken Clear audit reports assist the business in its management bymanagement.
of risk During the year, 12 internal audits were completed.
Examples of Internal audit plan is well-structured these audits include: key commercial controls: anti-bribery and anti-corruption procedures: Future areas of focus joint venture reporting: Continue to develop Grant Thorntons understanding of WIP and debt management: and thebusiness treasury management.
Continue to focus on completing audits, and agreeing the recommendations, promptly Before each audit, the scope of review, timetable and resources Increased use of technology to drive efficiency required was agreed with management.
Regular updates were provided to management and members of the Committee on the status of ongoing audits.
Internal audits 2019 financial year At its June 2018 meeting, the Committee approved the 2019 internal audit plan.
Audits planned for the 2019 financial year include: contract governance controls: miscellaneous procurement-related audits: information security: tax a review of data flow from the business to Group Tax: and expenses system a review of compliance with the Groups expenses policy.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 77 Corporate Governance Statement Risk Management and Audit Committee report continued The Committee has overseen the engagement with the FRC, Engagement with the FRC discussed the points raised in the FRCs letter with PwC and FRC Audit Quality Review reviewed the responses provided by the Company to the FRC.
The FRCs Audit Quality Review team AQRT selected PwCs audit TheCommittee noted that the Company has included a number of of the Companys 2017 financial statements for review, as part of additional disclosures in this Annual Report.
Examples of these are: its annual programme of promoting improvement in the overall quality of auditing in the UK.
page 129: note 1 Significant accounting policies Critical accounting estimates and judgements b Construction contracts: The Committee discussed the AQRTs findings, some of which page 129: note 1 Significant accounting policies Critical highlighted that significant improvements were required.
As the accounting estimates and judgements c Valuation of land and Chair of the Committee, I discussed the FRCs report with both work in progress: and PwC and the FRC.
The principal findings were the incorrect pages 149 to 157 inclusive : note 14 Investments in and presentation of the gain on the disposals of Mouchel Consulting loans to joint ventures.
and Biogen, which is referred to in further detail below under FRCCorporate Reporting Review, and the AQRT identifying the In addition, the Company has restated the 2017 income statement need to apply appropriate challenge to judgements made in and cash flow statement as follows: relation to long-term contracts.
PwC confirmed that, in the 2018 the profit from the disposal of Mouchel Consulting has been audit, it had applied more challenge and obtained more presented in discontinued operations and not in continuing independent evidence to support the judgements.
operations : and FRC Corporate Reporting Review the proceeds from the disposal of Mouchel Consulting and On 30 July 2018, the Company received a letter from the FRC Biogen have been presented as cash flows from investing raising a number of points on the Companys 2017 Annual Report.
activities and not operating activities.
The Company provided responses to the FRC on 28 August and Please see note 1 Significant accounting policies 2017 14September 2018 and, accordingly, the FRCs enquiries are restatement on page 124. considered to be at an early stage.
At the date of this Annual Report, the Company continues to engage with the FRC.
External audit 2018 audit The following table summarises the key steps taken by the Committee in overseeing the 2018 audit: Meeting Issue Decisions and actions taken by the Committee PwCs audit plan Challenged and agreed the plan Reviewed and challenged PwCs approach to the PwCs audit risk assessment identified risks June Agreed at substantially the same level as the Materiality level for the audit 2017audit 2018 Reviewed and discussed with PwC, so as to ensure PwCs resources that the audit was adequately resourced Reviewed, challenged and approved the fee and terms Audit fee and terms of engagement of engagement PwC confirmed that no material changes were Review of PwCs audit plan made to the agreed plan Audit findings, significant issues and other Discussed these with PwC and management accounting judgements September 2018 Reviewed and approved the letter, following a review Management representation letter by management PwCs independence, objectivity and quality Independence and objectivity confirmed: quality control procedures reviewed: AQRT reviewdiscussed control procedures During the audit, I met PwCs lead audit partner to discuss the process.
The Committee met PwC without management being present at the March, June and September 2018 meetings.
78 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 2018 financial statements significant issues and other accounting judgements The Committee is responsible for reviewing the appropriateness of managements judgements, assumptions and estimates in preparing the financial statements.
Following discussions with management and PwC, the Committee determined that the significant issues and other accounting judgements relating to the 2018 financial statements are as shown in the table below.
Significant issues and accounting judgements Action undertaken by the RMAC Board The Group holds inventory within the Residential and Property divisions, primarily comprising land held for Valuation of land development, for which construction has not started, and work-in-progress.
The carrying value of the anddevelopment inventory is based on the Groups current estimates of the sales prices and building costs.
properties Inventory in these divisions is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value i. e. the forecast selling price, less the remaining costs to build and sell.
An assessment of the net realisable value was carried out as at 30 June 2018 and required management to estimate forecast selling prices and build costs, which may require significant judgement.
One of the key elements of the systems of risk management and internal control within these divisions is the development appraisals prepared by management, using a number of internal and external reference points.
Accordingly, PwC challenged these appraisals in a number of ways, including: in Residential, reviewing managements expected build costs, challenging management on its intention to develop the sites and challenging forecast sales prices and, in Property, reconciling the development appraisals to the work-in-progress summary, interviewing those responsible for each development and, where applicable, obtaining independent evidence to support the rental and yield rates adopted in the appraisal.
In relation to each of Property and Residential, where management had relied on experts, PwC reviewed whether those experts were qualified, independent and objective.
PwCs conclusion, following these steps, is set out in the independent auditors report on page 112.
The Committee discussed PwCs conclusion at its meeting in September 2018.
The Group has significant long-term contracts in the Construction and Services divisions, in particular.
Accounting for Profit is recognised according to the stage of completion of the contract.
The assessment of profit long-term contracts requires the exercise of judgement when preparing estimates of the forecast costs and revenues of a including profit contract.
A number of factors are relevant to this assessment, including, in particular, the expected recognition, recovery of costs.
work-in-progress During the year, the Board reviewed and considered managements latest assessment of the forecast and provisioning costs of, and revenues from, certain long-term contracts, particularly those in the UK Building and Infrastructure businesses for example, the Groups Mersey Gateway and Broadmoor Hospital projects.
The Committee identified accounting for long-term contracts as one of the principal matters for review by PwC in the 2018 audit.
As part of its work, PwC reviewed the forecast end life positions, challenging the judgements applied by management in particular, the key assumptions on which they are based, and sought evidence, including reviewing correspondence and contracts, to support the judgements.
The Committee discussed managements assessment of such contracts with PwC and management when considering the interim and year-end financial statements at its meetings in March and September 2018, respectively.
PwCs conclusion is set out in the independent auditors report on page 113.
Following the acquisition in July 2017, management carried out an exercise to account for the acquisition, Accounting for including fair valuing assets and calculating goodwill.
McNicholas acquisition PwC assessed managements fair value calculation, reviewed the allocation of the purchase price, challenged the key assumptions and reviewed the other accounting judgements.
PwCs conclusion is set out in the independent auditors report on page 114.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 79 Corporate Governance Statement Risk Management and Audit Committee report continued External auditor effectiveness Non-audit fees incurred during the 2018 financial year were 95,000, which is approximately 7.5% of the 2017 audit fee of During the year, the Committee conducted an evaluation of PwCs performance with respect to the 2017 audit.
The non-audit fees related to sustainability reporting assurance for the 2017 Annual Report 60,000 and the 2018 wasissued to key stakeholders, including members of the Committee and those involved in the 2017 audit.
Feedback from interim financial statements review 35,000.
PwC was engaged in relation to the sustainability reporting because of its knowledge the evaluation was discussed by the Committee at its meeting in December 2017 and was subsequently provided to PwC so that it of the Groups reporting systems and, in relation to the interim financial statements, because the review would enable it to could be taken into account when planning the 2018 audit.
conduct preparatory work in advance of the year-end audit.
The A summary of the results of the evaluation isasfollows: Committee concluded that PwCs independence and objectivity was not compromised by it providing these services.
Strengths PwC first audited the Groups financial statements in the 2015 Good experience of the industry within the audit team financial year.
The lead audit partner since that date has been Jonathan Hook.
PwC requires the lead audit partner to change after Good engagement between the audit team and the business five years.
As part of the 2018 audit, PwC confirmed that it was Audit planning resulted in work being completed within independent within the meaning of applicable regulatory and agreed timelines professional requirements.
Taking this into account, and having considered the steps taken by PwC to preserve its independence, the Committee concluded that PwC continues to demonstrate Future areas of focus appropriate independence and objectivity.
Avoiding duplication of work and requests The Company complied with the Statutory Audit Services Order for So far as possible, maintaining continuity of audit the 2018 financial year.
teammembers Conclusion Continuing to improve the communication between theaudit team and the business I will be available to answer any questions about the Committee, our work and how we operate at the AGM on 16 November 2018.
The Committee will formally assess PwCs performance in relation to the 2018 audit following its completion.
A resolution to re-appoint PwC as the external auditor will be proposed at the 2018 AGM.
External auditor independence and non-audit services Adam Walker During the year, PwC provided certain non-audit services to the Chair of the Risk Management and Audit Committee Group.
The Committee monitors the level and scope of these 19 September 2018 services to ensure that the associated fees are not of a levelthatwould affect PwCs independence and objectivity.
Thelimits of authority within the policy are: Fees Approval required May be authorised by the Group Finance Up to 10,000 Director on individual assignments notexceeding 50,000 in any financialyear Must be approved in advance by Above 10,000 theCommittee Where approval is urgently required, thismay be provided by the Chair of the Committee subject to the subsequent reporting of the approval to the Committee The Company has a non-audit fee policy which reflects the FRCs revised Ethical Standards for Auditors published in June 2016.
Thepolicy, which was last reviewed in June 2018, provides that the Committee expects that the level of non-audit fees in any one financial year will not exceed 15% of the audit fee payable in relation to the previous year.
80 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018
