Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Governance in action Strategic priority The Boards governance role What we did in 2018 Outcomes of our actions The Board, together with the Safety, Oversaw a 26% reduction in the Assisted in the development of Operate a safe Health and Environment Committee, Groups reportable accident best practice for sharing across andsustainable oversees the framework within which the incidence rate.
business Group manages safety, health and Led the culture of visible safety Demonstrated a tone from environmental risks.
leadership, with 122 site visits thetop with respect to For further information, please see during the year by Board members.
Corporate responsibility on pages 32 to Challenged management to continue Drove a reduction in lost hours 35 inclusive and the Safety, Health to focus on the health and wellbeing through ill health, together with and Environment Committee report on of employees and the management good progress against the pages 81 and 82. of the Groups environmental risks.
The Board approves the Groups Dedicated the December 2017 Identified a number of Accelerate growth strategy, reviews subsequent progress Board meeting to strategy with actionsto drive the delivery to be a top three and makes decisions to support the regular updates during the year.
ofVision 2020. player in our strategys delivery.
Oversaw the re-alignment of the Provided clarity to the chosenmarkets For further information on progress Groups operating model into three Groupsmanagement and during the year, please see the Chief reporting lines.
Executives strategic review on pages Oversaw the continued simplification Facilitated a greater focus on 14 to 19 inclusive.
The Board sets operational and financial Began a Group-wide operational Identified opportunities to Achieve top quartile targets and reviews performance by the efficiency and streamlining increase productivity and performance and Groups businesses.
efficiency For further information on the businesses Monitored the businesses Identified areas within the performance, please see the divisional performance against a set of formal business for immediate reviews on pages 44 to 49 inclusive.
Challenged management to Challenged management to maintaina disciplined approach control closely investment in toworking capital.
The Board, via management, Oversaw the appointment of a Group Provided a senior focal point Provide sectoroverseesthe delivery of services Business Development Director from forthe Groups business leading customer tocustomers and reviews and 1 July 2018. development activities.
experience challenges reports which provide Via executive management, based Reinforced the importance of detailsof customer feedback.
the June 2018 Leaders Conference customer service to members For further information on customer around customer experience.
feedback, please see Strategy Reviewed progress against Identified good practice and dashboard on pages 28 and 29. theGroups customer areas for improvement within satisfactiontargets.
The Board, together with the Nomination Reviewed the Groups people Confirmed good progress Attract and retain Committee, reviews the pipeline of strategy and challenged against the strategy and highly motivated, potential talent at senior level and management to increase diversity.
identified risks to its delivery.
high-performing challenges management to ensure that The Nomination Committee reviewed Identified potential future teams the Group is appropriately resourced.
and challenged the senior members of the Board and any For further information on the senior management succession plan.
management succession plan, please Reviewed progress against the Challenged management to see the Nomination Committee report Groups diversity targets.
increase the rate of progress.
The Board challenges management to Appointed a Board sponsor of the Demonstrated a tone from the Embrace innovation support a focus on innovation to drive Groups innovation focus.
top with respect to innovation.
and technology the Groups future growth.
Reviewed examples of innovative Challenged management to across our business practice and proposals to share drive innovation throughout For further information on steps taken to them throughout the Group.
promote innovative practices, please see Strategy dashboard on pages 28 Monitored the progress of the Identified ways of promoting and 29.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 59
