Nomination committee report Ensuring balance anddiversity Dear Shareholders, The importance of the Nomination Committees role is increasingly recognised by our shareholders and other stakeholders.
In my first year as Chairman of the Committee, we have taken a fresh look at the composition of the Board and Committees.
It is essential that the membership of the Board and its Committees align IMAGE REMOVED to the needs of the business.
This report explains the composition and succession review conducted by the Committee during the year, which has resulted in our decision to recruit additional independent non-executive directors during 2018 19.
Our candidate selection process has been reviewed and updated, and is outlined in the following pages.
The Board is proud of its existing diversity, and recognises the need to ensure that the company continues to recruit from a suitably diverse pool of high-quality candidates.
Committee Key Activities 2017 18 During the year, we updated our Diversity Policy, and 1.
Chairmans appointment induction committed to several objectives which are the core of 2.
Skills review our non-executive director recruitment programme.
Succession planning The company fully supports the work of the 30% Club, 4.
Selection and appointments process which aims to encourage more appointments of women 5.
Diversity Policy to boards, and to drive improvements in diversity of all levels.
Non-executive director recruitment As announced in March 2018, we are pleased to confirm Areas of Focus 2018 19 that Jeff Carr will be joining the Board on 1 June 2018, 1.
Non-executive director recruitment bringing over 30 years of relevant experience to the 2.
Induction of new non-executive directors Board.
Claudia Arney, an experienced non-executive 3.
Succession planning director, will also be joining the Board on 1 November 2018 bringing a wealth of experience of business transformation and building digital capabilities.
Claudia Arney and Jeff Carrs biographical details are provided within this report, and the Committee will oversee a tailored induction process, which is also outlined on the following page.
Having served over eight years on the Board, Andrew Bonfield will retire at the conclusion of the 2018 AGM, and will therefore not seek reappointment.
The Committee will continue to review the composition of the Board and its Committees during 2018 19.
Looking ahead, long-term succession planning at board and executive level will remain a key priority of the Committee.
Andy Cosslett Chairman of the Nomination Committee 20 March 2018 www.
com 61 Nomination committee report continued Succession Planning The Committee reviewed the tenure and anticipated During the year, the Committee took a fresh look at retirement dates of the non-executive membership of the succession arrangements to help secure the desired Board, to ensure sufficient balance between continuity mix of skills and experience of Board and Committee and the introduction of fresh perspectives.
The Boards members to help meet the companys ambitions now composition, nationality and tenure information is shown and in the future.
Board Composition, Nationality and Tenure Years service as at 2017 18 Current Directors 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Year-End Andy Cosslett 1 Independent non-executive Andrew Bonfield 7 Pascal Cagni 7 Executive Clare Chapman 7 Anders Dahlvig 8 Rakhi Goss-Custard 1 Mark Seligman 6 Vronique Laury 3 Karen Witts 5 Our current Board members each bring a variety of Following a review of the skills, knowledge, experience, individual skills, knowledge and experience to the Board background, and diversity currently represented on the and the Committees on which they serve.
The Committee Board, and that which would be desirable in future, the created a Skills Matrix, capturing the core skills required Committee recommended appointing up to three new for running a listed, international retail business.
This non-executive directors, to ensure the Board continues provides a framework for considering the skills the to have the skills and experience required to support the Committee may wish to prioritise when preparing development and delivery of the companys strategy.
non-executive director role briefs, and when evaluating The recruitment process began in late 2017, initially potential new candidates.
A summary of the skills of seeking to recruit three new non-executive directors, serving non-executive directors can be found in the including individuals capable of fulfilling the roles of Chair figure below.
of the Audit and Remuneration Committees, and at least one non-executive director with strong retail experience.
When considering new appointments to the Board, the Nomination Committee oversees the selection and appointment process, which was updated during Non-executive Skills and Experience the year.
The selection process is outlined in the figure on Number of page 63.
Skills Experience Non-executives The Board Diversity Policy was also updated, and was Retail applied to the recruitment process.
In accordance with Digital this policy, the independent Executive Search Agency International Markets appointed, Egon Zehnder, was instructed to consider candidates from a broad range of backgrounds.
More Former CEO information is provided on page 65.
Egon Zehnder Brand Marketing have no other relationship to the company.
Listed Market Experience Remuneration People Finance 62 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 Selection and Appointment Process Recruitment outcomes In March 2018, the Board approved the appointments of: 1.
Jeff Carr who will become a member of the Audit and Board Composition Review Nomination Committees, and will succeed Andrew Bonfield as Chairman of the Audit Committee with The Committee reviewed the structure, size effect from 13 June 2018. and composition of the Board including the skills 2.
Claudia Arney who will become a member of matrix and the experience, diversity and tenure of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The Committee considered the skills and experience which would be required during the Biographical details for Jeff and Claudia can be found next five years.
These appointments will temporarily increase the size of the Board to support an effective induction process and orderly transitions for key Committee roles.
Role Brief Development The Committee, in conjunction with Egon Zehnder, Jeff Carr, developed comprehensive role briefs for the Non-executive Director non-executive positions to be filled.
The briefs IMAGE REMOVED are aligned to the desired Board and Committee Appointed to the Board composition, with reference to the Skills Matrix effective 1 June 2018. and the Diversity Policy and related commitments.
Expertise and experience: Jeff is currently Chief Financial Officer of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N. V. Ahold Delhaize, one of the worlds largest retail groups.
Ahold Delhaize is headquartered in the Netherlands, operates across Europe and the US, and has a strong physical and ecommerce offering.
Shortlisting Jeff was previously Group Finance Director at An initial mandate to propose candidates for three both FirstGroup plc and easyJet plc, and held senior non-executive positions supported Egon Zhender in finance roles at Associated British Foods plc and preparing an initial longlist which included a diverse Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
He was also previously range of candidates.
The Chairman and Company a non-executive director at McBride plc.
Secretary worked with Egon Zehnder to prepare a shortlist for review by the Nomination Committee.
Claudia Arney, Interview Non-executive Director IMAGE REMOVED A formal two-stage interview process is used when Appointed to the Board assessing candidates for non-executive positions, effective 1 November 2018. with interviewers customised according to the specific role brief for each position.
Additional Expertise and experience: Claudia brings extensive advisory meetings with senior management experience of building digital businesses, strategy are included where appropriate.
Claudia was Chairman of The Public Data Group and Deputy Chairman of TelecityGroup.
In her executive career, Claudia was Group Managing Director, Digital at EMAP, Director of the Enterprise and Growth Unit at HM Treasury and Managing Director of Due Diligence and Recommendation TheStreet.
Claudia joined the Board of Halfords in January 2011 and was subsequently A due diligence and referencing process was appointed as the Remuneration Committee Chair undertaken for all appointments.
Upon satisfactory and is also a Non-executive Director of Aviva plc, completion, the Committee makes appointment Derwent London plc and the Premier League.
com 63 Nomination committee report continued Induction Effectiveness Evaluation The Nomination Committee oversees the induction The effectiveness of the Committee was considered as programmes of new directors, which are designed to part of the Board evaluation detailed on page 58.
The develop a directors knowledge and understanding of the evaluation report noted improvements in the succession companys operations and culture.
The comprehensive planning process, which had been an action identified in programme is tailored to meet each directors specific the 2016 17 evaluation, but highlighted that continued requirements and is phased to allow feedback and further progress in this area was desirable.
This has been customisation of development activities, if required.
incorporated into the Committees Forward Plan ofactivities for the year.
A tailored induction programme was created for AndyCosslett, who joined the Board in April 2017.
Independence and Re-election to the Board This programme included: The independence, effectiveness and commitment individual one-to-one meetings with all directors: of each of the non-executive directors has been meetings with management of our Operating reviewed by the Committee, which satisfied itself on Companies and other key senior managers across the contributions and time commitment of all the nonthe company: executive directors during the year.
An evaluation of the performance of the Chairman was conducted by meetings with shareholders: the non-executive directors, led by Mark Seligman, site visits to the companys stores and offices: the Senior Independent Director.
briefing sessions on the activities of each of the Boards Committees: and Mark Seligman completed his second three-year term during the year.
The Nomination Committee reviewed access to an online resource site of key reference his commitment and contribution to the Board, with a materials to support the above.
The Committee was Information about the Boards approach to ongoing satisfied that the appointment should be renewed for director development and training is available in the afurther three-year term.
Board Governance Statement on our website.
The Board has confirmed that the contribution of each director continues to be effective and recommends that Crisis Situation Succession shareholders support their re-election to the Board.
The Committee also considered crisis situation succession arrangements, in the event of sudden changes in availability of key personnel at Board and executive level.
Immediate stand-in candidates were identified for these roles, and the Committee continues to monitor a range of candidates with potential to become suitable longer-term successors.
64 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 Diversity the diversity of skills, knowledge, and experience of the The Board places great emphasis on ensuring that Board as a whole.
We consider diversity to include its membership is diverse in its broadest sense.
The diversity of background, race, disability, gender, sexual Committee is responsible for identifying and proposing orientation, beliefs and age, as well as of culture, highly skilled and capable candidates to join the Kingfisher personality and work-style.
The new policy has three Board, while ensuring the Board remains diverse and objectives and the Committee has made a number rounded.
During the year, the Committee reviewed an of commitments to ensure delivery against these updated Diversity Policy, which was adopted by the Board.
objectives, which are outlined in the table below.
It is Kingfishers policy to maintain and develop the diversity In addition, Vronique Laury and Andy Cosslett are of its Board without compromising on the calibre of new members of the 30% Club, which aims to encourage directors appointed.
Appointments to the Board should more appointments of women to boards, and to drive be based on merit while complementing and enhancing improvements in diversity at all levels.
Objectives Commitments Engage with Executive Only those Executive Search firms who are signatories to the Voluntary Code of Search Agencies Conduct for Executive Search Firms will be considered when recruiting for a in a manner which Kingfisher plc Board position.
enhances opportunities The Nomination Committee will work with the Executive Search Agency to prepare for diverse candidates an appropriate role brief, including relevant skills, underlying competencies, and to be considered personal capabilities desired, in order to support the agency in assessing candidates for appointment.
from a broad range of backgrounds.
To facilitate the provision of a broad and diverse range of candidates, and in addition to the requirements of the Voluntary Code of Conduct, the Nomination Committee will require long lists to be drawn up following consideration of candidates from both within and beyond the corporate mainstream.
Support Board-level Succession planning will be reviewed at least annually by the Nomination Committee, diversity throughout and will address the need for progressive refreshing of the Board, the Succession in accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Nomination Committee will assess current individual Board member competencies and develop its understanding of the qualities needed for the companys continued Board and Committee effectiveness in the longer term.
This review will also consider the long-term diversity of the Board.
Non-executive directors will normally serve no more than nine years to support progressive refreshing of the Board and to maintain appropriate levels of independence.
Appointments of non-executive directors for periods beyond nine years will be made only in exceptional circumstances.
Support efforts to increase Senior management succession planning processes will include identification diversity in the senior of individuals within the organisation with Board-level potential and will support management pipeline.
those individuals to progress their careers.
Each of the above diversity commitments has been met during 2017 18, and have been integral to the ongoing nonexecutive recruitment process.
Gender diversity outcomes for the year are outlined in the figures below.
Board Senior management Total workforce FTE 4 109 25,013 44% 20% 40% Female Female Female 436 38,236 5 80% 60% 56% Male Male Male www.
