Corporate Governance Statement Leadership Highlights The matters requiring Board approval include, amongst others: Continued engagement with the Boards key stakeholders the Groups strategy: Continued focus on the Executive Director succession plan mergers, acquisitions and disposals of a material size Undertook a number of visible leadership tours and nature: material changes to the Groups structure and capital: For further information on Kiers strategy and performance, please turn to pages 1 to 56 inclusive.
the payment of dividends: the approval of material Group policies: and The Board material contract tenders and material investments.
The Board is responsible for the effective leadership and the The Executive Directors have significant commercial, financial and long-term success of the Group.
operational experience of the markets and sectors within which the The Board has delegated certain of its responsibilities to the Board Group operates.
The diverse range of skills and leadership committees.
The principal activities of each of these committees experience of the Non-Executive Directors enables them to monitor during the year are set out in their respective reports in this Annual the performance of, provide constructive challenge to and support Report.
The decisions which can only be made by the Board are the Executive Directors.
clearly defined in the schedule of matters reserved for the Board.
Biographical details of each of the Directors are set out on pages The full schedule of matters reserved for the Board is available on 64 and 65. the Companys website at www.
The paragraphs under the heading The Remuneration Committee on page 101 are incorporated by reference into this Corporate Governance Statement.
Governance framework The following chart provides details of the Shareholders Boards governance framework, together with those individuals who provide support to the Board committees: Board Accountable to shareholders and responsible for the long-term success of the Company Committees Nomination Remuneration Risk Safety, see page 69 see page 86 Management Health and and Audit Environment see page 73 see page 81 Group HR Director Group HR Director Chris Last Chris Last Talent and Group Reward and Organisational Pensions Director Development Director Mark Bradshaw Group Financial General Counsel and Jan Atkinson Controller Company Secretary Simon Martle Hugh Raven Group Head of Risk and Group SHE Director Internal Audit John Edwards Clare Ball 62 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Board and committee meeting attendance Board and committee meetings are typically held at our new London office in Foley Street, Tempsford Hall or at one of the Groups regional offices or sites.
For example, the August 2017 meeting was held at the Financial Shared Services Centre in Manchester and the August 2018 meeting was held at the Glasgow office.
Board meetings were held in each month of the financial year, other than July, October, January and April.
The number of formal Board and committee meetings attended by each Director during the 2018 financial year is as follows: Risk Management and Safety, Health and Board Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Environment Committee Director maximum 8 maximum 3 maximum 4 maximum 4 maximum 4 Philip Cox 8 3 4 1 Justin Atkinson 8 3 3 4 3 Constance Baroudel 8 3 4 4 4 Kirsty Bashforth 8 3 4 4 4 Nigel Brook 8 Bev Dew 8 Haydn Mursell 8 Nigel Turner 8 Claudio Veritiero 8 Adam Walker 8 3 4 4 2 Nick Winser 8 2 4 4 4 3 Phil White Notes: 1 Justin Atkinson did not attend the December 2017 Remuneration Committee and Safety, Health and Environment Committee meetings due to a prior business commitment.
Mr. Atkinson reviewed the papers for the meetings in advance and provided his comments.
2 Nick Winser did not attend the November 2017 Nomination Committee meeting due to a prior business commitment.
Mr. Winser reviewed the papers for the meeting in advance and provided his comments.
3 Phil White retired from the Board with effect from 31 August 2017 and did not attend the August Board meeting.
The Board and its committees held a number of other meetings including via teleconference to discuss specific matters or issues during the year.
Certain Executive Directors attended certain committee meetings: please see the respective committee reports in this Corporate Governance Statement for further details.
The Boards role in the Groups culture The Board recognises the important role that it plays in overseeing the Groups culture and members of the Board are open and accountable to the Groups key stakeholders, actively engaging with a number of them during the year.
A summary of how the Board engages with shareholders and other stakeholders is set out on pages 83 to 85 inclusive.
The Board also empowers the HR, SHE, compliance and internal audit functions to promote and embed the Groups culture, with representatives from each of these functions attending meetings of the Board or its committees to provide updates on the steps they have taken to do so.
The Board oversees the Groups employee engagement survey, discussing the results and challenging management to seek higher levels of engagement year-on-year.
During the year, members of the Board undertook a total of 122 visible leadership tours to the Groups sites.
In addition to Philip Cox on a tour of the Foley Street development in central London.
demonstrating the Boards support for the strategic objective of operating a safe and sustainable business, these visits provided the Board members with an excellent opportunity to engage with employees and the supply chain.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 63
