Corporate Governance Statement Board statements The Company is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code April 2016 edition.
A full version of the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website: www.
Under the Code, the Board is required to make a number of statements.
These statements are set out in the following table: Requirement Board statement Where to find further information The Directors confirm that, throughout the 2018 Explanation of non-compliance with the Code below.
Compliance with financial year, the Company complied with the the Code Application of the main principles of the Code on provisions of the Code, except as described below, and page 61. continued to apply the main principles of the Code.
The Directors are satisfied that the Group has sufficient Financial review on pages 50 to 56 inclusive.
Going concern financial resources to continue operating in the basis Strategic Report on pages 1 to 56 inclusive.
foreseeable future and, therefore, have adopted the goingconcern basis in preparing the Groups 2018 Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 38 financial statements.
Board statements Going concern in the Risk Management and Audit Committee report on page 75.
The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 38 Viability statement over a three-year period ending 30 June 2021, taking into to43 inclusive.
account the Groups current position and certain of the Board statements Viability statement in the Risk principal risks and uncertainties set out on pages 38 to Management and Audit Committee report on page 76.
Following this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over this period.
The Directors confirm that they have carried out a robust Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 38 Robust assessment assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, to43 inclusive.
of the principal risks including those that would threaten its business model, facing the Group Assessment of principal risks and risk appetite in future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Directors Accountability on page 71. also assessed their appetite with respect to these risks and, via the RMAC, considered the systems required to mitigate and manage them.
During the 2018 financial year, the Board monitored the Systems of risk management and internal control Annual review of Groups systems of risk management and internal Effectiveness review in the Risk Management and systems of risk control, via the RMAC, and carried out a review of their Audit Committee report on page 74. management and effectiveness.
The conclusion was that, overall, these internal control systems were effective.
The Directors consider that this Annual Report, taken as Board statements Fair, balanced and Fair, balanced and a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and understandable review in the Risk Management understandable provides the information necessary for shareholders to andAudit Committee report on page 75. assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
However, each Non-Executive Directors letter of appointment Explanation of non-compliance with the Code contains a notice period of one month either way and his her Kier complies with all provisions of the Code other than Code appointment is subject to annual re-election and to statutory provision B.
2.3, which requires Non-Executive Directors to be provisions relating to the removal of directors.
The Companys appointed for specified terms.
Although Philip Cox, Constance current policy is that all Directors, including the Non-Executive Baroudel and Adam Walker were each appointed for an initial term Directors, are subject to annual re-election at the Companys AGM of three years, the other Non-Executive Directors were not and that, in the future, all Non-Executive Directors will be appointed appointed for a specified term.
for an initial three-year term.
60 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Application of the main principles of the Code During the 2018 financial year, the Company continued to apply the main principles of the Code, as follows: A.
Leadership C. Accountability A1 The Boards role The Board met formally eight times C1 Financial and business reporting The Board has during the year, with other meetings being held during the year established arrangements to ensure that reports and other to discuss specific matters.
There is a clear schedule of information published by the Group are fair, balanced and matters reserved for the Board please see page 62 for a understandable.
The Strategic Report, set out on pages 1 summary, together with delegated authorities which are used to56 inclusive, provides information about the performance throughout the Group.
of the Group, the business model, the Groups strategy andthe risks and uncertainties relating to the Groups A2 A clear division of responsibilities The roles of the futureprospects.
Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly defined.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness C2 Risk management and internal control systems The of the Board.
The Chief Executive is responsible for leading Board sets the Groups risk appetite and, via the RMAC, the day-to-day management of the Group within the strategy monitors and annually reviews the effectiveness of the set by the Board.
Groups systems of risk management and internal control.
A3 Role of the Chairman In conjunction with the Company C3 Role and responsibilities of the Risk Management and Secretary, the Chairman sets the agendas for and manages Audit Committee The Board has delegated a number of Board meetings.
The principal activities of the RMAC are summarised in the Risk Management and Audit A4 Role of the Non-Executive Directors The Chairman Committee report on pages 73 to 80 inclusive.
promotes an open and constructive discussion during meetings of the Board.
The Non-Executive Directors provide objective, rigorous and constructive challenge to management.
D. Remuneration D1 Levels and elements of remuneration The Remuneration B.
Effectiveness Committee sets levels of remuneration which are designed to promote the long-term success of the Group and structures B1 The Boards composition The Nomination Committee is remuneration so as to link it to both corporate and individual responsible for regularly reviewing the composition of the performance, thereby aligning managements interests with Board.
In recommending appointments to the Board, the those of shareholders.
Nomination Committee considers the range of skills, knowledge and experience required, taking into account the D2 Development of remuneration policy and packages benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
Details of the activities of the Remuneration Committee can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 86 B2 Board appointments The appointment of new Directors is to 107 inclusive.
led by the Nomination Committee.
Further details of the activities of the Nomination Committee can be found on pages 69 and 70.
B3 Time commitments On appointment, Directors are notified E. Relations with shareholders of the time commitment expected from them which, in E1 Shareholder engagement and dialogue The Board takes practice, goes beyond that set out in their letter of an active role in engaging with shareholders.
External directorships, which may affect existing particularly values opportunities to meet with shareholders time commitments, must be agreed in advance with the and other stakeholders and the views of shareholders and Chairman.
During the 2018 financial year, there were no other stakeholders are discussed at Board meetings.
Please changes to the Chairmans other directorships.
see Relations with shareholders and other stakeholders on B4 Induction, training and development All Directors receive pages 83 to 85 inclusive.
an induction on joining the Board.
Training is made available E2 Constructive use of the AGM The AGM provides the Board to members of the Board in accordance with their with an important opportunity to meet with shareholders, who requirements.
Please see page 66 for details of Philip Coxs are invited to meet the Board following the formal business of induction during the year.
B5 Provision of information and support The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensures that all Board members receive accurate and timely information.
B6 Board and committee performance evaluation During the 2018 financial year, the Board undertook an evaluation of its own performance.
Details of the evaluation can be found on page 68.
B7 Re-election of Directors All Directors in office at the date of this Annual Report, other than Nick Winser, will be subject to re-election by shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 61
