Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Nomination Committee report The Committee plays a vital role in the identification and development of talented individuals to lead the Group in thefuture.
Chair Allocation of time Allocation of time Philip Cox CBE Executive Director senior management succession planning Other Committee members Board changes Justin Atkinson Diversity Constance Baroudel Non-Executive Directors Kirsty Bashforth Board committees Adam Walker experience Governance Nick Winser CBE a need for regular reviews of the Executive Director and senior Dear shareholder management succession plan.
Iam pleased to present the Nomination Committee report, which provides a summary of the Committees activities during 2018.
The 2018 Board evaluation confirmed that good progress had been made with respect to each of these objectives.
Details of the progress made by the Committee are set out in this report.
Role 2019 principal areas of focus The role of the Committee includes: Following the 2018 Board evaluation, the Committees principal reviewing the structure, size and composition of the areas of focus for the 2019 financial year include: Board and making recommendations to the Board with challenging management to continue to develop the pipeline regard to any changes: offuture Board members and increase diversity in the evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge, experience business:and and diversity on the Board: and increasing the Boards engagement with individuals identified on considering succession planning for the Board and other the Board succession plan.
senior executives, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Group and the skills and Principal activities 2018 financial year expertise needed on the Board in the future.
A summary of the principal matters considered by the Committee The terms of reference for the Committee can be viewed on the during the year is as follows: Companys website at www.
Diversity Board diversity policy Committee composition and meeting attendance The Board recognises the benefits of diversity as an important The names of the members of the Committee are set out above.
element in its effectiveness, including diversity of skills, At the invitation of the Committee, any other Director may attend background, knowledge, experience and perspective, amongst a meetings of the Committee.
During the year, the Chief Executive, number of factors.
In particular, the Board recognises the role that theGroup HR Director and the Group Head of Talent and gender has to play in contributing to the Boards perspective and Organisational Development attended meetings to discuss decision-making.
Accordingly, at its meeting in February 2018, the Committee The secretary of the Committee is the Company Secretary, reviewed a diversity policy for the Board.
The policy was then HughRaven.
approved by the Board in March 2018.
The principal objective of the policy is to ensure that, when reviewing and evaluating its The Committee met formally three times during the year: details composition, the Board takes into account diversity, including ofattendance at those meetings are set out on page 63. diversity of gender, amongst other relevant factors.
Inaddition, the Committee held a number of informal discussions on specific matters during the year.
Whilst all appointments to the Board will be made on merit, the policy contains a number of specific commitments, including: Committee performance evaluation the Committee will brief executive search firms to review 2018 progress against 2017 evaluation candidates from a variety of backgrounds and produce candidate The 2017 Board evaluation identified the following as being areas lists which fully reflect the benefits of diversity, giving priority to of focus for the Committee in the 2018 financial year: those firms which have signed up to the Voluntary Code of the need to establish a clear set of priorities for the Committee: Conduct for Executive Search Firms: a requirement formally to review the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board: and Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 69 Corporate Governance Statement Nomination Committee report continued the Committee will consider candidates for Non-Executive Board changes Director roles from a wide pool of individuals, including those One of the Committees key responsibilities is to review the with little or no previous listed company board experience but structure and composition of the Board.
At the same time as whose skills and experience will add value to the Board: announcing the Future Proofing Kier programme, the Committee took the opportunity to review the composition of the Board and the Company will develop and implement policies, programmes concluded that, so as to oversee the delivery of the benefits of the and initiatives which are designed to promote diversity and programme, it would recommend the appointment of a Chief inclusion at all levels of the organisation.
Please see Action Operating Officer to the Board.
The Committee identified Claudio taken during 2018 below for further information: and Veritiero as having the necessary skills for the role and he was recognising the FTSE350 target of 33% female representation appointed with effect from 1 August 2018.
Prior to making its both on boards and senior leadership teams by 2020, the Board recommendation, the Committee: is committed to increasing the number of female members of the Board and the Companys senior management.
agreed a role profile for the Chief Operating Officer: agreed the interaction between the Chief Executive and the Action taken during 2018 ChiefOperating Officer: The Committee has overseen various programmes and initiatives which management has introduced to increase the number of assessed Claudio Veritieros experience for the role: women employees at all levels of the organisation.
These include: defined the interaction between the Chief Operating Officer andsenior management within the business: and challenging local management to ensure that, when recruiting, reviewed the changes to the structure of the Groups senior candidate lists demonstrate sufficient gender diversity: management team which followed the introduction of the agreeing specific objectives on gender diversity with newrole.
seniorleaders: providing specific guidance for leaders on career coaching As a consequence of the appointment of the Chief Operating forfemale talent: Officer, the roles of Executive Director Construction and Infrastructure Services and Executive Director Developments, identifying fast potential female talent and providing mentoring Property and Business Services were no longer considered and development programmes to those identified: and necessary.
Nigel Brook and Nigel Turner therefore stood down from reviewing the graduate recruitment programme.
the Board with effect from 1 August 2018.
At the date of this Annual Report, the percentage of Executive Having completed nine years on the Board, Nick Winser will not be Directors and direct reports who are women is 19% 2017: 15%.
standing for re-election at the November AGM.
In light of the range Executive Director senior management succession planning of skills and experience on the Board, the Committee concluded In the 2017 Annual Report, we summarised some of the key that there is no immediate need to appoint an additional Nonelements of the programme which management had implemented Executive Director.
The Committee also concluded that, in light of led by the Group HR Director and the Group Head of Talent and her experience in SHE matters, it would be appropriate to Organisational Development to identify a pipeline of future Board recommend that the Board appoint Kirsty Bashforth to the role of members.
During the year, management has continued to monitor Chair of the SHE Committee with effect from the conclusion of and develop this pipeline, reporting on progress to the Committee.
A summary of some of the key actions taken during the year is Non-Executive Directors Board committees experience asfollows: At its meeting in February 2018, the Committee reviewed the Action Why?
Next steps balance of skills and experience of the Non-Executive Directors.
Selected members of To provide the Assess the The Committee concluded that there was a range of experience the succession plan individuals with extentto which across the Non-Executive Directors in a number of areas, including attended external anobjective theprogrammes risk management, strategy development, SHE issues, corporate leadership development perspective on have assisted in finance, accounting issues and change management.
The programmes leadership across the individuals Committee also concluded that members of the Board currently a range of issues development had relatively limited experience of business disruption issues and Assessment of new To obtain Draft and digital systems.
The Committee agreed that, when considering members of the anobjective monitorprogress future non-executive appointments, it would take into account the succession plan assessment of against tailored conclusions of its review.
bybusiness theindividuals development plans Conclusion psychologists Deloitte strengths and prepared for these development areas individuals I will be available to answer any questions about theCommittee, our work and how we operate at the AGM on 16 November 2018.
Providing members of To assess the Assess how thesuccession plan with individuals ability effectively increased managerial and potential theindividuals responsibilities torespond to new haveresponded challenges and tothe increased responsibilities responsibilities Philip Cox CBE Chair of the Nomination Committee 19 September 2018 70 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018
