Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Accountability Assessment of principal risks and risk appetite Highlights During the year, the Board conducted a review of the Groups Oversaw the continued good progress of the transition to a new, principal risks and uncertainties, together with its appetite with integrated Oracle ERP system respect to each such risk.
A summary of the various stages of the review process undertaken in 2018 is as follows: Systems of risk management and internal controls assessed as being effective overall Continued focus on the Groups management of risk, in light of August 2017 its plans for future growth Board discussion about its risk appetite and the Groups For further information on how the Group manages risk, please turn to the Risk Management and Audit Committee Report on pages 73 to 80 inclusive.
risk management framework Systems of risk management and internal control December 2017 General Further Board discussion about its risk appetite in the The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups systems of context of its review of the Groups strategy risk management and internal control, including those established to identify, manage and monitor risk.
January March 2018 The Board has delegated the responsibility for overseeing Meetings with the Executive Directors to assess their risk managements implementation of those systems to the RMAC.
appetite against the Groups six strategic priorities The Group Head of Risk and Internal Audit, who has direct access April and May 2018 to the RMAC and its Chair, reports to the RMAC on strategic risk issues and oversees the Groups risk management framework.
Business risk measurement metrics and tolerance Working with the Group Head of Risk and Internal Audit, discussed with the Executive Directors management is responsible for the identification and evaluation of the risks that apply to the Groups business and operations, June 2018 together with the design and implementation of systems and Meeting of the Executive Directors to discuss specific controls which are designed to manage those risks.
Management business risks reviews these systems and controls to ensure that they remain Board discussion about its appetite for contract risk by effective to support the Groups plans for future growth.
The Board contract type and the RMAC oversee the steps taken by management.
A summary of the key elements of the Groups risk management July and August 2018 framework is set out on pages 36 and 37.
Drafting of the Principal risks and uncertainties section of this Annual Report Effectiveness review The Code requires that the Board conducts an annual review of September 2018 theGroups systems of risk management and internal control.
Thesteps taken by the RMAC, on behalf of the Board, in reviewing RMAC and Board approval of the sections of this Annual these systems are described under Systems of risk management Report relating to risk management and internal control Effectiveness review in the Risk Management and Audit Committee report on page 74.
Further information about the Groups principal risks and uncertainties is set out on pages 38 to 43 inclusive of the Strategic Report.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 71 Corporate Governance Statement Accountability continued Financial reporting The Group has clear policies and procedures which are designed to ensure the conformity, reliability and accuracy of financial reporting, including the process for preparing the Groups interim and annual financial statements.
The Groups financial reporting policies and procedures cover financial planning and reporting, preparation of financial information and the monitoring and control of capital expenditure.
The Groups financial statements preparation process includes reviews at business and Group levels.
Over the past few years, the Group has introduced: the Oracle ERP system: and the Finance Shared Service Centre, based in Manchester, which produces the base or core information on which the Groups financial statements are produced via the Oracle ERP system.
Each business monitors its financial performance, using the Groups finance manual.
Following the conclusion of each quarter of the financial year, each business will conduct a formal quarterly review, the results of which, in turn, are reported to the Board.
TheBoard then oversees the production of the Groups interim and full-year financial results, reporting them in March and September, respectively, each year.
By way of example, a summary of the process for preparing the full-year 2018 results is: July and August The business produces year-end packs for central review August Central consolidation process and drafting the Groups financial statements August and September Audit close-out meetings, RMAC review and Board approval Board statements The Board delegated the responsibility for conducting the work required for it to provide the fair, balanced and understandable, going concern and viability statements to the RMAC.
These statements and the Boards statement relating to its assessment of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties are set out on page 60.
Further details of the work carried out by the RMAC in support of these statements is set out in the Risk Management and Audit Committee report on pages 75 and 76.
In conducting this work, the RMAC acts on behalf of the Board and its activities remain the responsibility of the Board.
72 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018
