Governance Chairmans introduction We are absolutely committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance at Kingfisher for the benefit of all of our stakeholders.
IMAGE REMOVED Dear shareholders, I am pleased to present our Corporate Governance Shareholders clearly have an important role in supporting Report for the year ended 31 January 2018, on behalf companies to achieve their ambitions, and in supporting of the Board.
Board refreshment and succession planning, two areas of increasing investor The Board and I are absolutely committed to maintaining focus, continue to be a key focus for the Board.
Further the highest standards of corporate governance across details of our succession planning, including progress the business for the benefit of all our stakeholders.
I firmly on non-executive director recruitment, is set out in believe that strong corporate governance remains a our Nomination Committee report on page 61. critical component to the successful delivery of our long-term strategy.
We took the decision to cease payment of dividends by cheque, and shareholders will instead receive cash Over the past two years, the primary focus of the dividends directly to their nominated bank account Board has been the delivery of our transformation plan.
improving security and ensuring that dividends are Whilst vital at all times, strong and effective governance is received in a timely manner.
This initiative aligns with our especially critical to managing the volume of change, and digital ambitions, and reduces our paper consumption, and the delivery against our commitments, during our ONE therefore impact on the environment.
this change to shareholders through our November 2017 Given the significance of our Transformation Plan to our dividend mailing, and we will cease using cheques from business, Steve Willett Chief Transformation Officer was the interim dividend in November 2018 onwards.
invited to attend all Board meetings, and his attendance Looking forward, the Board and I welcome the intent provides me and my fellow directors with valuable insight behind the FRCs proposed changes to the UK Corporate into the successes and challenges encountered through Governance Code, and we look forward to the publication the execution of our strategy.
During the year, we also of the new Code with interest.
The proposed Code places adopted a new Delegation of Authority matrix, which an explicit requirement on us as Directors, and as a Board, aligns with Kingfishers operating structure.
This is also to consider the views of our stakeholders and the impact a key component of our governance arrangements at of our activities on wider society.
We welcome these the Company.
proposals, which align with our focus on colleagues and As part of its annual cycle of business, the Board customers, who are central to our ONE Kingfisher plan.
conducted an effectiveness review to consider the I look forward to continuing to evolve our governance performance of the Board, each of the Directors, and arrangements during 2018 19 and in the years ahead.
This review concluded that the Board continued to operate effectively, although Andy Cosslett a few areas of improvement were identified, for which Chairman an action plan has been created.
Further details of this 20 March 2018 review are set out on page 58, where you can also find an update on progress against the previous years actions.
54 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 Key activities for the year Strategy and Transformation Operations Monitored delivery of the ONE Kingfisher plan.
Received and challenged performance updates from Approved business developments relating to the the CEO.
unified offer implementation, integration of the Visited Operating Companies in Poland and the UK and supply chain, and investments in Unified ranges.
Oversaw investment in digital technologies.
Conducted a review of performance in Castorama and Reviewed the next stage of Kingfishers strategic Brico Dpt France.
Visited the Unified Product Show in Farnborough to Completed the acquisition of Praktiker in Romania.
view new product ranges and innovations.
Finance and Risk Governance, People and Other Received monthly financial performance Considered senior management succession planning dashboard, and reviewed financial performance and performance.
at every meeting, with regular review of financing Reviewed anti-bribery and corruption governance and liquidity requirements.
and compliance with the UK Bribery Act and the Appraised the principal risks, mitigations and recently implemented French Loi Sapin II.
Approved the Modern Slavery Statement Approved the Three Year Plan and Budget.
Recommended the Tax Strategy Statement Revised the Delegation of Authorities for for publication.
Considered data protection and cyber security.
Governance in Action Strategy Review Matters Reserved The two-day November 2017 Board meeting was The schedule of matters reserved for the Board includes dedicated to a review of strategic objectives.
The session consideration and approval of: involved the Board and senior management considering The companys overall strategy, medium-term plans and topics which included: annual budgets.
The competitive environment in all our global markets.
Financial statements and companys dividend policy, Key digital and store concept trends and customer including the recommendation of the final dividend.
Major acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure.
Feedback from customers on their purchasing journey, Major changes to the capital structure including tax their experiences and their priorities.
Colleague engagement, including how colleagues Major changes to accounting policies and practices.
are considered as ONE Kingfishers ways of working develop.
The full schedule of matters reserved for the Board is An update on the financial impact of the strategic plan.
available on the companys website.
Board Focus for 2018 19 Further development of strategy, including supply chain strategy, store formats, and the ONE Kingfisher strategic model.
Analysing and challenging on financial performance.
Examining the potential impacts of Brexit.
Operating Company visits, including Screwfix and our Romanian business.
com 55 Governance continued Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The notes below outline how the company has applied the Principles of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code for the year ended 31 January 2018.
Additional information is available in the Board Governance Statement published on kingfisher.
The Board considers that the company has complied with the Provisions of the Code for the whole year ending 31 January 2018, except with regards to Provision D. 1.1 in relation to grants under long-term incentive schemes.
A copy of the Code is available on the Financial Reporting Councils website: www.
4 Training and Development The Boards role in leading The balance of skills, experience, Directors induction programmes the company is outlined in the independence, and knowledge on are tailored for each appointment.
Board Governance Statement the Board is the responsibility of The Chairman annually reviews the on kingfisher.
The formal the Nomination Committee and is development needs of each of the schedule of matters reserved to reviewed annually and whenever non-executive directors.
Ongoing the Board is summarised on page new appointments are considered.
development needs are considered 55 and available on our website.
when setting the Board forward The majority of the Board are planner, including deep-dives, independent non-executive A.
2 Division of Responsibilities topic briefings and sitevisits.
directors, as shown in the The roles of Chairman and Chief composition chart on page 62.
5 Provision of Information and clearly defined.
2 Board Appointments The Chairman, supported by the The appointment of new A.
3 Role of the Chairman Company Secretary, ensures that directors to the Board is led by The Chairman leads the Board, directors receive appropriate and the Nomination Committee, who ensures its effectiveness and timely information.
All directors may thenmake recommendations to promotes an inspirational culture.
seek advice from the Company theBoard.
Secretary and may also take The Chairman, Andy Cosslett, More detail about succession independent advice in was independent at appointment.
planning and the appointment relation to their duties, at process can be found in the the companys expense.
4 Role of the Committees Report on page 62.
6 Board and Committee The Board has a Senior B.
3 Time Commitments Performance and Evaluation Independent Director SID, The time commitments of nonAn internally led performance Mark Seligman, who may be executive directors are considered evaluation was completed during contacted by shareholders by the Nomination Committee at the year.
More information about and other directors as required.
the evaluation can be found on page Meetings are held between 58.
The findings and any actions for The Chairman considers new the non-executive directors each committee are located in the external appointments of current in the absence of the executive relevant committee report.
directors which may impact existing directors, and in the absence of time commitments.
7 Re-election of Directors The executive directors hold At the 2017 AGM, all directors More information on the no more than one external were subject to either election or responsibilities of the Chairman, non-executive directorship re-election.
At the 2018 AGM, with CEO and SID can be found in the at a listed entity.
the exception of Andrew Bonfield, Board Governance Statement on all directors will be standing for There are no directors whose time kingfisher.
either election or re-election commitments are considered to be by shareholders.
56 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 Our Governance Report has been redesigned to give greater emphasis to reporting on the Boards activities during this financial year and the year to come.
More information about Board and Committee governance and associated activities are set out in our new Board Governance Statement, available on our website.
The Board Governance Statement includes further information about how the Principles and each of the Provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code have been complied with.
C D E Accountability Remuneration Relations with Shareholders C. 1 Financial and D. 1 Level and Elements of E. 1 Shareholder Engagement BusinessReporting Remuneration.
Details of engagements with The Directors and Auditors The Directors Remuneration shareholders during the year Statements of Responsibility Report on pages 70 to 93 explains may be found on page 60. can be found on pages 97 and the work of the Remuneration 108 respectively.
The remuneration E. 2 Use of the AGM received by the directors, in The 2018 AGM will be held on Information on the companys accordance with the Remuneration 12June 2018.
The whole Board business model and strategy Policy, is presented on pages 74 is expected to attend the AGM can be found on pages 1 to 47. to 81. and be available to answer The Directors viability statement shareholders questions.
As advised in the 2016 and 2017 and confirmation that the business Annual Reports, the company is a going concern can be found became non-compliant with on page 48.
Code Provision D. 1.1 following the approval of, and grant of awards C. 2 Risk Management and under the Kingfisher Alignment Internal Control Systems Share & Transformation Incentive The Board sets the companys Plan.
Code Provision D. 1.1. requires risk appetite and reviews the that long-term awards be phased Audit Committees assessment rather than awarded in one large of the effectiveness of the risk block: the Transformation Incentive management and internal controls conflicts with this, as it is designed to during the year.
The findings of this be a single block awarded to cover review are included in the Audit a five-year performance period.
D. 2 Development of Remuneration Policy C. 3 Role and Responsibilities and Packages of the Audit Committee The Remuneration Policy was The Audit Committee supports fully reviewed during 2015 16 and, the Board in its responsibilities in following extensive shareholder relation to corporate reporting, risk consultation, was approved at the management and internal controls, 2016 AGM.
The 2016 Annual Report and manages the relationship with and Accounts contains more the companys external auditors.
information about how the The Committee provides regular Policy was developed.
Under the Code, the Policy must be brought back to shareholders for review or revision no later than the 2019 AGM.
com 57 Governance continued Board evaluation Following the 2016 17  board In autumn 2017, an  Board Evaluation evaluation, the Board prepared an action plan to address process was conducted to consider the performance and the key evaluation findings.
Good progress was made in effectiveness of the Board, its Committees, and individual each area during the year: directors.
An online survey was developed in conjunction with Lintstock, an independent third party, who collated Board Information Flows The Boards forward the anonymised survey feedback.
planning process has been improved, with the Chairman, CEO and Group Executive members The key areas of focus for the evaluation were: reviewing the planner more frequently.
The board Board composition: paper template and guidance to authors has been fully Board expertise and dynamics: revised and the improvements in board pack format Board support: and content were noted in the most recent Management of and focus of meetings: effectiveness review.
Case study: the November strategy review meeting: Board Succession Planning The Boards desired composition, skills balance and succession priorities Strategic oversight: were considered by the Nomination Committee during Risk management and internal control: the year.
As the Board is seeking to recruit several new Succession planning: and non-executive directors to the Board during 2018 19, Priorities for change.
anew Board Diversity Policy was developed to The evaluation findings were considered at the January support the appointments process.
The Boards 2018 Board and Committee meetings.
No significant Crisis Succession Plans were also reviewed by issues were highlighted and the review indicated that the Nomination Committee.
the Board, its Committees, the Chairman and each of the Contact with Senior Management The Board met directors continued to work effectively.
A Board Action senior management from across the business during Plan for 2018 19 was developed, based on the findings of Board presentations, Operating Company visits to B&Q the above process: the key findings and planned actions UK, Castorama Poland and at the Offer and Supply are outlined in the table below.
The Board will continue to Chain Product Show.
The CEOs of the four largest review its procedures, effectiveness and development in operating segments of the company also joined the the year ahead, and the Chairman will use the output of Board and Group Executive at the strategy review the Board evaluation in his individual meetings with meeting in November 2017. directors during the year.
Board Evaluation Findings and 2018 19 Action Plan Key Findings Development Plans Board Expertise The Board wishes to further develop Management will continue to develop and and Dynamics understanding of its stakeholders, share the Customer Insights data, including particularly the views of customers Net Promotor Score data.
The Board will and employees.
review methods used to gain insight into, and respond to, employee views and needs.
Strategic Focus The Board wishes to ensure A greater proportion of Board time will focus on key strategic priorities is be dedicated to longer-term strategic maintained.
The Board requested vision during 2018 19.
The Board will receive an increase in the Board time spent more in-depth information regarding people on strategictopics.
including culture and talent development, delivery of our digital ambition, global competition and reviews of major Operating Company performance.
Succession The importance of continued focus Will be fully reviewed by the Nomination Planning on Succession Planning was noted Committee during 2018.
The Committee in both the Board and Nomination will review induction plans for any new Committee evaluation reports.
58 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 Kingfisher Board Strategy, performance and governance oversight Audit Committee Nomination Committee  Overseefinancial Oversee Board composition Oversee the linking of reward to strategy.
Read more on page 70 Read more on page 66 Read more on page 61 CEO and Group Executive Group Executive led by Vronique Laury to create a long-term sustainable business with a strong purpose by developing a strategy that will create uniqueness and leadership.
Deliver that strategy through business plans and milestones.
Engage all colleagues: recruit, retain and develop the best talent.
Offer & Supply Chain Transformation, Digital & IT Finance & Business Services Arja Taaveniku Steve Willett Karen Witts Lead and develop the sustainable, unique and Oversee transformation governance Lead the financial and legal agenda with audit, unified offer of products.
risk, investor relations, health and safety, Goods Deliver customer benefits, which include new Define and drive the digital strategy to Not For Resale and corporate governance.
Not For Resale and corporate governance.
deliver industry-leading digital solutions and higher quality and sustainable products, lower Responsible for developing our sustainable prices, simpler ranges, clearer merchandising capability, unlocking seamless customer and better packaging.
business model and creating the conditions journeys and leveraging Screwfixs for continuous improvement.
Ensure availability and efficient delivery to all stores and customers homes.
Also responsible for: Brico Dpt Romania Support ONE Kingfisher with the design, delivery and operation of all IT services.
Also responsible for: Castorama Russia.
Customer, Brand, Communications People & Sustainability Alastair Robertson Pierre Woreczek Lead the people agenda to effectively support all our global activities.
Develop home improvement customer insights to form the basis of everything Develop engaged and skilled colleagues to we do.
champion the positive customer experience.
Define and build brand strategy and lead its Develop the leadership skills required to execution in every country.
deliver the companys future aspirations.
Lead on sustainability strategy and manage Also responsible for: Brico Dpt Iberia.
our global corporate reputation with all keystakeholders.
Extended Group Executive: CEOs from selected Operating Companies are invited to attend Group Executive meetings CEO B&Q CEO France CEO Screwfix CEO Poland Christian Mazauric Marc Tnart Graham Bell Sebastien Krysiak www.
com 59 Governance continued Relations with Shareholders employees.
On the back of this event Kingfisher held a Kingfisher and the Board acknowledge the importance Capital Markets Day, which was very well attended by of having effective and regular lines of communication both sell-side analysts and investors, a number of whom with both existing and potential shareholders.
The day focused on Kingfishers engagements take a variety of forms and include capital progress in unifying its offer and developing its digital markets events, presentations, roadshows in Europe, strategy.
In addition to presentations from the senior North America and Asia, conferences, store and leadership team, there were a series of presentations and operational facility visits.
Alongside the Investor product demonstrations from category leads in Bathroom Relations team, relations involve the Chief Executive & Storage, Tools & Hardware and Building & Joinery Officer, Chief Financial Officer and other members followed by digital updates on ecommerce and the launch of the Group Executive.
of our first digital home improvement services.
The Chairman held introductory calls with major Results, annual reports, latest analyst estimates and shareholders shortly after he joined Kingfisher in April, technical guidance, presentations and archived webcasts followed by meetings in November 2017. are all available at kingfisher.
We can also be followed on Twitter @kingfisherplc.
During the year we have engaged with shareholders on arange of topics including: Annual General Meeting investment case: The Board welcomes the opportunity to engage with our ONE Kingfisher business strategy and the wider, retail shareholder base each year at the Annual five year plan: General Meeting AGM.
financial and business performance: At the 2018 AGM, to be held on Tuesday 12 June 2018, final and half year results, including trading updates: all resolutions will again be put to shareholders on a poll, sustainability: and and the results announced to the London Stock Exchange, and published on our website, shortly after the meeting.
governance, including succession planning: and Further details about the 2018 AGM can be found in the executive remuneration.
Notice of Annual General Meeting, which is available at Kingfisher held its first global unified offer product kingfisher.
show in November 2017 in Farnborough, UK, showcasing the seven categories where we are developing leading ranges.
The event was attended by over 2,000 Kingfisher Board Attendance 5 Current Directors Board Nomination Audit Remuneration 1 Andy Cosslett 6 6 3 3 2 2 2 Andrew Bonfield 8 9 4 4 4 4 3 4 2 Pascal Cagni 8 9 4 4 Clare Chapman 9 9 4 4 4 4 2,3 Anders Dahlvig 8 9 3 4 3 4 Rakhi Goss-Custard 9 9 4 4 4 4 Vronique Laury 9 9 Mark Seligman 9 9 4 4 4 4 4 4 Karen Witts 9 9 Former Directors who served during 2017 18 4 Daniel Bernard 4 4 2 2 1 2 The above table shows the attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year to 31 January 2018.
Andy Cosslett joined the Board on 1 April 2017.
Pascal Cagni and Anders Dahlvig were each unable to attend one Board meeting due to prior commitments.
In addition, Andrew Bonfield was unable to attend one Board meeting, as reflected above, but was able to join part of the meeting by telephone.
Anders was unable to attend the Remuneration and Audit Committee meetings in January 2018 due to a prior commitment.
Daniel Bernard resigned as a director on 13 June 2017.
Clare Chapman and Mark Seligman attended an additional, ad hoc Committee meeting in February 2017 to consider the fees payable to Andy Cosslett upon his appointment, and following commencement of his duties as Chairman.
Daniel Bernard was not invited to attend this meeting given its agenda, and Andrew Bonfield was unavailable due to a prior commitment.
