Audit committee report Overseeing effective controls Dear Shareholders, I am pleased to present the Audit Committee Report for the year ended 31 January 2018, on behalf of the Board.
Over the following pages we provide insight into the workings of the Audit Committee and its activities in the year.
Our report provides an overview of the significant issues the Audit Committee assessed and the IMAGE REMOVED Committees opinion on the Annual Report when viewed as a whole.
We continued to monitor the treatment and presentation of the alternative performance measures used in Kingfishers financial reporting, to ensure these clearly convey the underlying performance of the business during the transformation programme.
These measures are described on page 67.
The Committee continues to value the regular in-depth presentations received from the management of Kingfishers Operating Companies, providing the Committee Key Activities2017 18 Committee with real insight into the businesss challenges, 1.
how risks are managed and mitigated, and how effectively our system of internal control is operating.
Internal controls during ONE Kingfisher briefings from core group functions have included transformation.
operational risk and legal matters and controls within Areas of Focus 2018 19 the offer and supply chain.
The above are all areas of 1.
External audit tender process particular focus while implementing the major change programmes required to deliver ONE Kingfisher.
Internal audit audits covering the sessions provide us with an opportunity to challenge, transformation programme digital, unified IT discuss, and debate issues with management, while platform, efficiency and unified and unique sharing our experience.
dataprivacy, Bribery Act, SAP user access andFinancial Shared Service Centre.
The Committee began preparations for a competitive 3.
Controls presentations from B&Q, Screwfix, tender for the external auditor services, which will be Castorama Poland.
Digital, Goods Not for Resale, completed in time for the selected firm to audit the HR controls 2019 20 financial results.
IFRS 16 Leases implementation governance arrangements were designed to ensure effective Audit Committee oversight of a selection process which prioritises audit quality.
The members of the Committee have been chosen to provide the wide range of financial and commercial experience needed to fulfil its duties and the Committee is well-placed to continue this oversight and governance role in the year ahead.
Details of the members and their attendance at Committee meetings during the year are shown on page 60.
I am grateful to all the Committee members for their contribution during the year.
As announced on 16 March 2018, I will be retiring from the Board following the conclusion of this years AGM and will be succeeded as Chair of the Audit Committee by Jeff Carr.
I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
Andrew Bonfield Chairman of the Audit Committee 20 March 2018 66 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 The Committee reviewed the treatment and Significant Financial Reporting Matters presentation of transformation costs and exceptional The Committee considered the carrying value of items, and associated alternative performance goodwill 2.4 billion and poor-performing stores, measures, such as underlying and adjusted profits.
to determine whether any impairment had been Transformation costs set out in the consolidated income suffered.
The Committee reviewed the validity of statement and Financial Review included those related cash flow projections based on three year strategic to the unified and unique offer range implementation and plans and the significant financial assumptions used, the digital strategic initiative.
Exceptional items set out in including the selection of appropriate discount and the consolidated income statement and note 5 to the long-term growth rates, with a focus on France in financial statements included movements in the UK and light of the weaker performance in this market.
These continental Europe restructuring provisions, along with projections and assumptions were further challenged restructuring costs associated with the transformation through the use of sensitivity analyses.
As set out in programme, and were also reviewed for appropriate note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, no recognition and measurement.
The Committee impairments of goodwill resulted from this exercise concluded that the separate reporting of transformation and the Committee did not consider that a reasonably costs and exceptional items was useful to readers in possible change in the assumptions used would cause providing an indication of the companys underlying an impairment to be recognised.
No material store business performance during the transformational asset impairments or impairment reversals change programme, and that the prominence, were recorded.
explanation and reconciliation of the alternative The Committee reviewed the principal judgements performance measures were appropriate.
relating to inventory valuation, which at 2.7 billion In conducting these reviews, the Committee represents a significant component of the considered the work and recommendations of the consolidated balance sheet.
This included a review of companys finance function and received reports the application of the companys stock provisioning from the companys external auditor on their findings, policy, which takes into consideration such factors including any control observations relevant to their as stock turn, range or fide-listed status, shrinkage, audit work.
damage and obsolescence when assessing the net realisable value of inventories held at the reporting Fair, Balanced and Understandable date.
The Committee considered the increase in the The Committee formally reviews the companys level of inventories held, the performance of the new annual and interim financial statements and Unified and Unique ranges, and the estimated impacts associated announcements, and considers on future selling prices of range review and clearance significant accounting principles, policies and activities.
The Committee concluded that the stock practices and their appropriateness, financial provisions recorded were appropriate.
More reporting issues and significant judgements made, information is available in note 17 to the including those summarised above.
The Committee reviewed the significant judgements The Committee also advises the Board on whether and estimates relating to corporate and business the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken taxes.
The company is subject to taxes in numerous as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, jurisdictions and there are many transactions for and provide the necessary information to assess the which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The companys position and performance, business model Committee considered managements assessment and strategy.
of the significant exposures, including opinions from The Committee concluded that these disclosures, and external advisers, and concluded that the provisions the processes and controls underlying their production, recorded and disclosures made were appropriate.
meet the latest legal and regulatory requirements for a Matters reviewed by the Committee included the listed company and that the 2017 18 Annual Report and transfer pricing policy to support development of the Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
Offer and Supply Chain organisation, a corporate tax surcharge in France, a dispute with the French Tax Authority regarding the treatment of interest paid, and developments in relation to EU State Aid investigations.
More information is available in notes 9 and 35 to the consolidated financial statements.
com 67 Audit committee report continued effectiveness, and reported the results of the review Governance to the Board.
No significant weaknesses were identified.
The Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the sector in which the company operates, and members Further information on the companys risk management are invited to provide feedback on the Committees and internal control procedures can be found on pages composition as part of the annual effectiveness review.
Andrew Bonfield is designated as the Committee member As part of the Committees continuing programme with recent and relevant financial experience.
All members to maintain awareness of the companys operations of the Audit Committee are deemed to have the necessary and to understand the implementation of Operating ability and experience to understand financial statements.
Company control processes, the Committee received All members of the Committee receive an appropriate presentations from the senior management of Castorama induction.
The induction programme for new directors and Brico Dpt France, Castorama Russia, Brico Dpt is outlined in the Board Governance Statement on our Iberia Spain and Portugal, and of the Koctas Joint website at www.
Company function presentations were also received from the senior management of Kingfishers The effectiveness of the Committee was considered Offer and Supply Chain, IT and Digital and Risk functions.
as part of the Board and Committee evaluation detailed on page 58.
The evaluation findings recognised the Group internal audit importance of a timely and orderly succession for Reports from the internal audit function during the year the Committee Chairmans role as Andrew Bonfield included updates on the companys risk management approaches the end of his time on the Board.
This is systems and findings from reviews of these systems.
reflected in the Nomination Committees activities The Committee reviewed the remit, organisation, annual during the year and activity plan for 2018 19. plan and resources of the internal audit function, and approved the annual Internal Audit Plan for 2018 19.
The Activities of the Committee duringtheyear plan is regularly reviewed during the year to ensure the During the year, among other matters, the Committee: function remains aligned to the key risks of the business considered the going concern and longer-term viability and responsive to matters developing during the course statements, reviewing scenarios and risk mitigations of the transformation.
which underpin the sensitivity analysis completed, and The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the considered how these align to delivery of the strategic internal audit function, via an internal questionnaire plan over the three-year period.
The impact of both with input from the functions key stakeholders within separate and cumulative scenarios occurring, and the company, the external auditors and the Committee.
the potential mitigating actions, were considered in No significant issues were highlighted by the review.
Further information is provided in the Strategic Report, External audit page 48: The Committee reviews and makes recommendations considered the internal audit functions regular to the Board with regard to the re-appointment of the reviews of the unified IT platform and other strategic external auditor.
In doing so, the Committee takes into activities related to the transformation, to provide account auditor independence and audit partner rotation.
the Committee with assurance over the governance, Deloitte LLP were appointed in 2009 10, following a performance and delivery of these programmes.
Richard Muschamp was appointed These are significant projects for the company and the lead audit partner following the conclusion of the 2013 14 Committee is satisfied that the correct level of control audit process.
Further reviews will be carried out in 2018: During the year, the Committee agreed the approach to, and scope of, the audit work to be undertaken by the received briefings on operational risks and ongoing external auditor.
The Committee also reviewed the terms controls, including updates on controls failings during of engagement and fees payable for the 2017 18 audit the period: and work.
Details of the amounts paid to Deloitte for their received presentations focusing on cyber risks the audit services are given in note 7 to the accounts.
The company faces and the mitigations in place.
external auditor provides the Committee with a schedule Internal controls and risk of any matter on which there was an initial difference The Committee received reports during the year between them and management in relation to the from the internal audit function on the work undertaken accounting treatment, and the final decisions on in reviewing and auditing the company, in order to these issues.
assess the quality and effectiveness of the internal In addition to their statutory duties, the services of control system.
Deloitte LLP are also engaged where, as a result of their The Committee also considered reports from the position as external auditor, they either must, or are best companys external auditor, Deloitte LLP, which placed to, perform non-statutory audit services.
This is included any control findings relevant to their audit.
primarily work in relation to matters such as the interim review, additional assurance procedures, shareholder The Committee considered reports on the output from circulars, regulatory filings and certain business the company-wide process used to identify, evaluate acquisitions and disposals.
Other work is awarded on the and mitigate risks and reviewed the annual report on basis of competitive tendering.
The companys policy on the companys systems of internal control and their the use of the external auditor for non-audit work can be found on the companys website.
68 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 The Committee considered the effectiveness and appropriate level.
These procedures are subject to independence of the external auditor and reviewed the regular review and provide an ongoing process for experience and expertise of the audit team, the fulfilment identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks of the agreed audit plan and any variations to it, feedback faced by the company.
Such a system is designed to from the companys businesses and the contents of manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the external audit report.
The Committee received a business objectives and can provide only reasonable and statement of independence from the auditor, a report not absolute assurance against material misstatement describing their arrangements to identify, report and orloss.
manage any conflicts of interest, and also reviewed the Management is required to apply judgement in extent of non-audit services provided to the company.
evaluating the risks facing the company in achieving its The Committee confirmed its satisfaction withboth the objectives, indetermining the risks that are considered effectiveness and independence of the external auditor.
acceptable tobear, in assessing the likelihood of those The Committee has recommended to the Board that risks materialising, in identifying the companys ability to Deloitte LLP be proposed for re-appointment by reduce the incidence and impact on the business of risks shareholders as the companys external auditor at that do materialise, and in ensuring the costs of operating the forthcoming AGM.
As a result of its work during particular controls are proportionate to the benefit the year, the Committee has concluded that it acted in provided.
Further information regarding our approach accordance with its terms of reference and has ensured to Risk Management is provided on page 40. the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
The Committee has initiated a competitive tender Monitoring process for the external auditor, to be completed in time There are clear processes for controlling and for the selected firm to audit the 2019 20 financial results.
monitoring the system of internal control and reporting The tender process is to be conducted in compliance with any significant control failings or weaknesses together the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services for Large with details of corrective action.
These include: Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of an annual planning process and regular financial Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee reporting, comparing results with plan and the Responsibilities Order 2014.
The Committee approved previous year on both a monthly and cumulative basis: objective criteria for the initial technical screening written reports from the Chief Executive Officer and exercise and the selection criteria to be applied during Chief Financial Officer which are submitted to each the tender process, ensuring that these criteria prioritise Board meeting: audit quality.
Management provided confirmation that regular formal reports from Operating Company firms to be invited to tender would not face independence management to the Audit Committee on the control issues.
Following review of the outcome of the technical environment in their business and actions taken screening exercise, the Committee selected the firms to maintain or improve the environment as to be invited to tender, and approved the timetable appropriate: and and governance arrangements for the process.
The reports and presentations to the Board on certain areas Committee endorsed the composition of managements of specialist risk.
These include treasury, insurance, tax Core Tender Team and appointed a Selection Panel and pensions.
comprising the CFO and certain Committee members, who will recommend a preferred firm to the Committee.
A formal bi-annual certification is provided by the Chief Executive Officer and Finance Director of each Accountability, risk management and Operating Company, stating that appropriate internal internalcontrol controls were in operation and confirming compliance with the companys policies and procedures.
Any Internal control and risk management weaknesses are highlighted and the results are reviewed The Board has overall responsibility for the system of by Operating Company management, the Group Audit internal control, which is designed to safeguard the assets and Risk Management Director, the Deputy Chief Financial of the company and ensure the reliability of the financial Officer, the Audit Committee and the Board.
The internal information for both internal use and external publication.
audit function monitors and selectively checks the results The system complies with the requirements of the UK of this exercise, ensuring that representations made are Corporate Governance Code and has been developed consistent with the results of its work during the year.
with reference to the Guidance on Risk Management, The internal audit function reviews each year are aligned Internal Control and Related Financial and to the companys risks.
The function works with the BusinessReporting.
Operating Companies to develop, improve and embed The Board confirms that it has reviewed the risk management tools and processes into their business effectiveness of the internal control system, including operations.
Internal Audit reports directly to the Audit financial, operational and compliance controls and risk Committee and has the authority to review any relevant management in accordance with the Code, for the period part of the company and its businesses and to oversee from 1 February 2017 to the date of approval of the Annual the operation of the individual Operating Companies Report and Accounts 2017 18. audit committees.
The function provides the Audit The Board has approved a set of policies, procedures and Committee and the Board with objective assurance frameworks for effective internal control.
The company on the control environment across Kingfisher.
has procedures for the delegation of authorities for significant matters, to ensure approval is sought at the www.
