Structure and operations The Committee members collectively have The Audit Committees structure and operations, abroad range of financial, commercial and Accountability including its delegated responsibilities and property sector expertise that enables them authority, are governed by terms of reference toprovide oversight of both financial and risk which are reviewed annually and approved by matters, and to advise the Board accordingly.
The new Chairman ofthe the Board.
The Terms of Reference are available Nicholas Cadbury is determined by the Board as on our website: landsec.
having recent and relevant financial experience Committee has continued for the purposes of satisfying the UK Corporate the thorough oversight To maintain effective communication between Governance Code.
Details of the experience all relevant parties, and in support of its of all members of the Committee can be found ofthe Groups risk activities, the Chief Executive, Chief Financial on pages 62 and 63.
Officer, Group General Counsel and Company assessment and control, Secretary, Director of Risk Management and The Committee works to a structured reporting process and Internal Audit, the partner and representatives programme of activities and meetings to of our external auditor, Ernst & Young LLP EY, coincide with key events around our financial financial management.
and other members of the senior finance team calendar.
Following each meeting, the regularly attend Committee meetings.
Committee Chairman reports on the main discussion points and findings to the Board.
The Chairman of the Board and all Directors are invited to attend meetings when the External auditor Groups external valuer, CBRE, makes property EY is engaged to conduct a statutory audit valuation presentations.
andexpress an opinion on the Companys and the Groups financial statements.
Their audit The Committee has private sessions with the includes an assessment of the systems of internal and external audit teams.
In addition, internal control that produce the information the Committee Chairman has private and contained in the financial statements, and a informal sessions with the EY audit teams and review by EY of the property valuation process the CBRE valuation team to ensure that open and methodology using its own chartered lines of communication exist in case they wish surveyors more details below, in each case to to raise any concerns outside of formal meetings.
the extent necessary to express an audit opinion.
Structure and operations Audit Committee meeting All Directors are invited Regular attendance to attend meetings when Committee at meetings to support the Groups external valuer, private sessions the Committee CBRE, makes property valuation presentations Group Chief General CBRE Chief Chairman of Internal Financial Counsel and EY valuation Executive the Board audit team Officer Company team Secretary Director ofRisk Members Management EY of senior All Directors and Internal finance team Audit 78 Landsec Annual Report 2018 Governance Audit Committee activity Financial reporting External audit The table shows the key areas of Audit Committee activity during the year.
the quality, appropriateness and integrity the external audit plan of the half-yearly and full year financial the independence and objectivity of EY statements the quality and effectiveness of EYs the information, underlying assumptions audit services and stress test analysis presented in the level of fees paid to EY in support of Going Concern and the accordance with the policy for the Viability Statement provision of non-audit services the consistency and appropriateness the appointment of Kath Barrow as of the financial control and reporting the new EY audit engagement partner environment for the 2018 19 financial year the dividend policy with due regard to EYs reappointment to office as the Companys REIT status external auditor.
the fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Annual Report and any other financial statements such as the half-yearly statement.
Risk management and Internal audit External property valuation internal control the scope of the internal audit plan the quality and appropriateness of and resourcing requirements the half-yearly and full year external the scope of the internal control and valuation of the Groups property the independence, appropriateness risk management programme portfolio, together with an assessment and effectiveness of internal audit.
the results of internal audit reviews ofthe methodology applied andthe progress made against agreed the independence and effectiveness management action of the external valuer.
quarterly reports on investigated internal control issues significant to theGroup quarterly reports on the Groups risk register, including significant and Other Significant financial matters emerging risks the implications, management and the Committees terms of reference the appropriateness of significant implementation of the new General and performance effectiveness financial matters made connection Data Protection Regulation GDPR with the financial statements as set compliance with the Code and the Groups outon page 83. compliance by management regulatory and legislative environment.
concerning the operation of the business for which they are responsible the adequacy and effectiveness of theGroups internal control and risk management processes.
Landsec Annual Report 2018 79 The Committees preliminary view is that, Details of the fees charged by EY during the Accountability inlinewith the conclusions from last years year can be found in note 8 to the financial continued performance review, EY have again performed statements.
Total fees for non-audit services, their audit services effectively and toa high including the half-yearly review and other Audit plan standard.
Areas identified for development assurance-related services, amounted to EY presented their proposed audit plan will be shared with them for inclusion in their 216,000.
This sum represented 35% of the total reviewed by Senior Management and the audit and service delivery plans going forward.
Group audit fees, and 29% of the total audit Director of Risk Management and Internal fees payable by the Group to EY during the Audit tendering Audit to the Committee for discussion.
year including the audit of its joint ventures.
EY were first appointed to the office of Theobjective was to ensure that their work Nonon-audit fees were approved or paid on auditor, following a competitive tender process, remained aligned to the Groups structure and acontingent basis.
in respect of the 2013 14 financial year.
The audit plan was again risk and External valuations and valuers materiality focused, challenge based and Under current regulations, we will be required to The valuation of the Groups property portfolio, designed to provide valuable insights beyond retender the audit by no later than the 2023 24 including properties held within the development the audit.
After five years in post, Eamonn programme and in joint arrangements, is McGrath stepped down as audit engagement Objectivity and independence undertaken by external valuers.
The Group partner following the publication of our 2017 18 The Committee is responsible for monitoring and provides input, such as source data, and support financial results, and has been replaced by reviewing the objectivity and independence of to the valuation process.
CBRE has been the Kath Barrow.
The Board took the opportunity the external auditor.
In undertaking its annual Companys principal valuer since September of the audit partner rotation to review the assessment, the Committee has reviewed: 2015.
The valuation helps to determine a position of EYasthe Groups auditor and, on significant part of the Groups net asset value, the confirmation from EY that they maintain the recommendation of the Audit Committee, which has consequential implications for the appropriate internal safeguards in line with concluded that there was no reason to consider Groups reported performance and the level applicable professional standards an audit retender at this time.
There are no of variable remuneration received by Senior the mitigation actions we take in seeking contractual restrictions in relation to the Management through bonus and long-term to safeguard EYs independent status, Companys choice of external auditor.
Accordingly, the scrutiny of including the operation of policies designed recommendation of the Audit Committee, each valuation and the valuers independence, to regulate the amount of non-audit services the Board is proposing a resolution at this years objectivity and effectiveness represent an provided by EY and the employment of Annual General Meeting that EY be reappointed important part of the Committees work.
former EY employees to office for a further year.
the tenure of the audit engagement partner Valuations for the full and half-year were Audit fee not being greater than five years.
Eamonn presented to the Committee by CBRE.
These The audit fees payable to EY for the audit McGrath has now completed five years as were reviewed and challenged by management and half-yearly review for 2017 18 are 811,000 audit engagement partner following the and the Committee, with reference to CBREs 2017: 836,000. completion of the 2017 18 Annual Report.
approach, methodology, valuation basis and Kath Barrow has been appointed as EY underlying property and market assumptions.
Non-audit services audit engagement partner for the 2018 19 Other Non-executive Directors attended the To help safeguard EYs objectivity and financial year final full and half-year presentations.
The independence, we operate a non-audit services Committee Chairman also met separately the internal performance and effectiveness policy that sets out the circumstances and withCBRE.
review of EY referred to above.
financial limits within which EY may be permitted to provide certain non-audit services such as Additionally, CBRE met with EY and exchanged Taking the above review into account, the assurance work where an audit opinion is information independently of management.
Committee concluded that EY remained not required.
EYhas experienced chartered surveyors on its objective and independent in their role as team who consider the valuers qualifications external auditor.
The Committee monitors compliance with the and assess and challenge the valuation policy, including the prior approvals required for Effectiveness of the external audit approach, assumptions and judgements made non-audit services, which are as follows: Following the issue of our Annual Report, by them.
Their audit procedures are targeted at the Director of Risk Management and Internal addressing the risks in respect of the valuations Table 38 Auditconducts a performance evaluation and the potential for any undue management Per Aggregate and effectiveness review of the external audit.
influence in arriving at them.
This year, EY assignment during the This isconducted against structured guidelines identified 35 properties comprising 67% of year in consultation with the Executive Directors theportfolio by valuation for substantive Chief 0 25,000 100,000 and members of the senior finance team.
review by its valuation experts primarily on Financial This years review will continue to use an audit the basis of their value, type, risk profile and Officer quality assessment based on the Practice Aid location.
EY performed site visits for a sample guidelines issued by the Financial Reporting ofassets and completed analytical reviews over Audit 25,000 100,000 100,000 321,000 Council FRC.
The Committee Chairman meets the input data for the valuations, comparing Committee privately with theaudit engagement partner Chairman this to market data.
The Committee reviewed before the Committee considers the results their findings.
80 Landsec Annual Report 2018 Governance An internal evaluation of CBREs performance Primary responsibility for operation of and effectiveness will be conducted after the the Companys internal control and risk Internal control year-end results are finalised with the results management systems, which extend to include reported to the Committee.
financial, operational and compliance controls The key elements of the Groups internal control and accord with the FRCs 2014 Guidance on are as follows: A fixed-fee arrangement subject to adjustment Risk Management, Internal Control and Related for acquisitions and disposals is in place with Financial and Business Reporting, has been an established organisation structure with CBRE for the valuation of the Groups properties delegated to management.
These systems clear lines of responsibility, approval levels and, given the importance of their work, we have been designed to manage, rather than and delegated authorities have disclosed the fees paid to them in note 9 eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the a disciplined management and committee to the financial statements.
The total valuation Groups business goals and can provide only structure which facilitates regular fees paid by the Company to CBRE during the reasonable, not absolute, assurance against performance review and decision-making year represented less than 5% of their total fee material misstatement or loss.
a comprehensive strategic review and income for the year.
annual planning process Risk management Significant financial matters a robust budgeting, forecasting and Under the overall supervision of the Committee, The Committee reviewed two significant financial reporting process there are several sub-committees and work financial matters in connection with the groups that oversee and manage day-to-day various policies, procedures and guidelines financial statements, namely the valuation risk within the business.
The Group has a underpinning the development, asset of the Groups property portfolio and revenue Director of Risk Management and Internal management, financing and main recognition.
Further details are set out in the Audit with a direct reporting line to the Audit operations of the business, together with table on page 83.
Committee Chairman who provides regular professional services support including oversight of risk matters, evaluates emerging legal, human resources, information These items were considered to be significant risks that may affect the business and monitors services, tax, company secretarial and taking into account the level of materiality compliance to ensure that any mitigating health, safety and security and the degree of judgement exercised by actions are properly managed and completed.
management and, in respect of the valuation, a compliance certification process from The Committee, in consultation with the external valuer.
The Committee discussed management conducted in relation to management, agrees the annual work plan these with both parties, as well as EY.
In addition, thehalf-yearly and full year results, and including any assistance that may be the Committee considered, took action and business activities generally required from external specialists of the risk made onward recommendations to the Board, a quarterly self-certification by management and internal audit function to as appropriate, in respect of other key matters management confirming that key internal ensure alignment with the needs of the business including the Viability Statement, the going controls within their area of responsibility and compliance with its governance charter.
concern basis on which the financial statements have been operating effectively are prepared, accounting for property acquisitions a risk management and internal audit and disposals, bond buy-backs and new function whose work spans the whole issuance, maintenance of the Groups REIT Group status and other specific areas of individual a focused post-acquisition review and property and audit focus.
integration programme to ensure the The Committee was satisfied that all issues had Groups governance, procedures, been fully and adequately addressed and that standards and control environment are the judgements made were reasonable and implemented effectively and on time appropriate and had been reviewed and debated a financial and property information with the external auditor who concurred with management system.
the approach taken by management.
Risk management framework The Board is responsible for determining both the nature and extent of the Groups risk management framework and the risk appetite that is acceptable in seeking to achieve its strategic objectives.
The Committee supports the Board in the management of risk and is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of risk management and internal control processes during the year.
An overview of the risk management process explaining the key elements of the approach to risk, the developments in the process over the course of the current year and the key risk management priorities for 2018 19 are described on pages 52 and 53.
Landsec Annual Report 2018 81 Fair, balanced and understandable Accountability The Committee applied the same due diligence continued approach adopted in previous years inorder to assess whether the Annual Report is fair, Additionally, the Committee receives and balanced and understandable, one of the key discusses on a quarterly basis: UK Corporate Governance Code requirements.
The Committee received assurance from the the Groups risk register, including significant verification process carried out on the content and emerging risks, and how exposures have of the Annual Report by the Executive Directors changed during the period to ensure consistent reporting and the existence summary reports and progress against of appropriate links between key messages and agreed actions from internal audit on their relevant sections ofthe Annual Report.
review of the effectiveness of various elements of the internal control system Taking the above into account, together with maintained by the Group.
the views expressed by EY, the Committee recommended, and in turn the Board confirmed, General Data Protection Regulation GDPR that the 2018 Annual Report, taken as a whole, With GDPR taking effect in May 2018, the is fair, balanced and understandable and provides Committee provided oversight of the Companys the necessary information for shareholders to approach to data protection matters.
A GDPR assess the Companys position, performance, project team has been established, led by our business model and strategy.
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, and we appointed a Privacy and Compliance Whistleblowing policy Officer with specific GDPR experience.
As part The Committee reviews the Groups of its risk assessment process, the Committee arrangements, incorporated within a specific required the Company to explain the extent to policy, which allow employees to report which personal data was held by the Group, concerns about suspected impropriety or thebusiness reasons for holding such data, the wrongdoing whether financial or otherwise protections in place to safeguard the data and within the Group on a confidential basis, and process for reporting any breach should that anonymously if preferred.
The Committee also ensured that there independent third party reporting facility was sufficient communication and training comprising a telephone hotline and an across all parts of the business to emphasise the alternative online process.
Any matters reported importance of data protection compliance, and are investigated by the Company Secretary and to explain how GDPR would or may impact the escalated to the Committee, as appropriate.
In addition to the training, During the year, there were no whistleblowing data protection policies and processes have incidents reported.
Following the implementation of GDPR in May, the Committee will keep GDPR Each year we run a whistleblowing awareness compliance under review as part of ongoing campaign, reminding employees of the process oversight of information security.
should they ever need to blow the whistle.
Thearrangements also form part of the Effectiveness induction programme for new employees.
The Board has undertaken a robust assessment Thewhistleblowing hotline has been included of the principal risks faced by the Group, including in ourrecently introduced Sustainability Charter those that could threaten the business model, and is included within our procurement tender future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Assisted by the Committee, the Board also reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of Bribery and corruption policy internal control and risk management in place The Board has a zero tolerance policy for bribery throughout the year and up to the date of this and corruption of any sort.
This took into account the valuable training to staff on the procedures, highlighting assurance work undertaken by the risk areas of vulnerability, and this year ran a management and internal audit function programme for relevant employees on the which is supplemented by external specialist new legislation on the facilitation of tax evasion.
resource as necessary and the relevant process, New employees are required to complete an controls and testing work undertaken by EY online training module when they join.
Our aspart of their half-yearly review and full year principal suppliers are required to have similar audit.
No weaknesses or control failures policies and practices in place within their significant to the Group were identified.
Whereareas for improvement were identified, new procedures have been introduced to strengthen the controls and will themselves be subject to regular review as part of the ongoing assurance process.
82 Landsec Annual Report 2018 Governance Significant financial matters Table 39 Significant financial matters considered How the Committee addressed the matters Valuation of the Groups property portfolio including investment The Audit Committee adopts a formal approach by which the valuation process, properties, investment properties held in joint ventures and trading methodology, assumptions and outcomes are reviewed and robustly challenged.
properties This includes separate review and scrutiny by management, the Committee The valuation of the Groups property portfolio is a major determinant of Chairman and the Committee itself.
The Group uses CBRE, a leading firm in the the Groups performance and drives an element of the variable remuneration UK property market, as its principal valuer.
It also involves EY as the external for Senior Management.
Although the portfolio valuation is conducted by an auditor which is assisted by its own specialist team of chartered surveyors who external valuer, the nature of the valuation estimates is inherently subjective are familiar with the valuation approach and the UK property market.
and requires the making of significant judgements and assumptions by EY met with CBRE separately from management and their remit extends to management and the valuer.
investigating and confirming that no undue influence has been exerted by Significant assumptions and judgements made by the valuer in determining management in relation to the external valuer arriving at its valuations.
valuations may include the appropriate yield based on recent market evidence, CBRE submits its valuation report to the Committee as part of the half-yearly changes to market rents ERVs, what will occur at the end of each lease, the and full year results process.
They were asked to attend and present their report level of non-recoverable costs and alternative uses.
Development valuations to the Board and to highlight any significant judgements made or disagreements also include assumptions around costs to complete the development, the which existed between themselves and management.
level of letting at completion, incentives, lease terms and thelength of time The valuer proposed changes to the values of our properties and developments space remains void.
during the year, which were discussed by the Committee in detail and accepted.
Based on the degree of oversight and challenge applied to the valuation process, the Committee concluded that the valuations had each been conducted appropriately, objectively and in accordance with the valuers professional standards.
Revenue recognition including the timing of revenue recognition, The Committee and EY considered the main areasof judgement exercised the treatment of rents, incentives and recognition of trading by management inaccounting for matters related to revenue recognition, property proceeds including timing and treatment of rents, incentives, surrender premia and Certain transactions require management to make judgements as to other property-related revenue.
whether and to what extent they should be recognised as revenue in theyear.
EY reviewed and tested individual transactions on asample basis to ensure Market expectations and revenue profitbased targets may place pressure there was a contractual relationship and consistency of accounting treatment on management to distort revenue recognition.
Thismay result in between last year and this year.
overstatement or deferral of revenues to assist in meeting current or future It performed data analytics over the whole population of leases in the Groups targets or expectations.
portfolio, analysing data held in the Groups document and property management system.
In its assessment, the Committee, in consultation with EY, considered all relevant facts, challenged the recoverability of occupier incentives, the options that management had in terms of accounting treatment and the appropriateness of the judgements made by management.
These matters had themselves been the subject of prior discussion between EY and management.
The Committee, having consulted with EY, concurred with the judgements made by management and were satisfied that the revenue reported for the year had been appropriately recognised.
The above description of the significant financial matters should be read in conjunction with the Independent Auditors Report on pages 117-122 and the significant accounting policies disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
Further details on significant accounting judgements and key estimations of uncertainty can be found in note 2 to the financial statements on page128.
