Leadership Board Collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Group.
Withdue regard to the views of shareholders and other stakeholders including itscustomers, communities, employees and partners, itprovides leadership and direction including establishing the Groupsculture, values and ethics: setting strategy and overseeing itsimplementation, ensuring only acceptable risks are taken, takinglong-term factors into consideration: and being responsible for corporate governance and the overall financial performance ofthe Group.
Board committees Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Reviews and is responsible for oversight of Reviews and recommends to the Board the Reviews the structure, size and composition theGroups financial and narrative reporting executive remuneration policy: determines oftheBoard and its Committees, reviews and processes and the integrity of the financial theremuneration packages of the Executive oversees the succession planning of Directors statements and supports the Board in risk Directors and other members of the Executive andmembers of the Executive Committee management.
Committee: and has oversight of the Groups and leads any appointment process, and makes remuneration policy for all employees.
recommendations to the Board accordingly.
Monitors and responds to developments in See pages 86-111. corporate governance.
Matters reserved to the Board and The matters reserved to the Board and the terms The Board and each Committee receive sufficient, of reference for each of its Committees can be reliable and timely information in advance of delegatedauthorities To retain control of key decisions and ensure found on our website: landsec.
meetings and are provided with or given access Any matters outside of these fall within the Chief toallnecessary resources and expertise to enable there is aclear division of responsibilities between the running of the Board and the running of the Executives responsibility and authority.
He reports themto fulfil their responsibilities and undertake business, the Board has identified certain reserved onthe activities of all management committees theirduties in an effective manner.
matters that only it can approve.
Other matters, through his and the Chief Financial Officers responsibilities and authorities have been regular reports to the Board.
These are augmented delegated as above.
bythe London and Retail Portfolio reports that are nowpresented to the Board by Colette OShea and Terms of reference of each Board Committee can be ScottParsons.
found on our website: landsec.
com board-committees 66 Landsec Annual Report 2018 Governance Board composition and roles Chief Executive Chairman Responsible for leadership of the Group and articulation of the Dame Alison Carnwath Leads the Board, governance, major shareholder Groupsvision, developingand implementing strategy, managing and other stakeholder engagement.
theoverall performance ofthe businessand ensuring an effective Chief Executive andmotivated leadership team.
Robert Noel Responsible for the leadership of the Group, Hecan approve transactions with avalue of between 10m and 20m.
implementation of strategy, managing overall business performance and leading the executive team.
Chief Financial Officer Martin Greenslade Supports the Chief Executive in developing and implementing strategy and Group financial performance.
Managing Director, London Portfolio Colette OShea Responsible for our London Portfolio comprising offices, leisure, retail and residential space.
Executive Committee Managing Director, Retail Portfolio Scott Parsons An advisory committee that operates under the direction and Responsible for our Retail Portfolio of shopping and authority of the Chief Executive.
outlet destinations, retail parks and leisure and residential space.
It sets the vision for the Group and assists the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and the other Executive Directors in preparing and agreeing strategy, Senior Independent Director Edward Bonham Carter operating plans, budgets, policies and procedures, and managing the operational Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and a trusted and financial performance of the Group.
It also addresses other key business intermediary for other Directors.
Available to discuss and corporate related matters, including competitive forces, risk and reputation withshareholders any concerns that cannot be resolved through the normal channels of communication with management, cycle watch, brand, resource allocation, succession planning, theChairman or the Executive Directors.
Leads the other organisational development andemployee remuneration.
independent Non-executive Directors in the performance evaluation of the Chairman and led the Board evaluation process this year.
Independent Non-executive Directors Chris Bartram, Nicholas Cadbury, Cressida Hogg, SimonPalley and Stacey Rauch Responsible for bringing an external perspective, sound judgement and objectivity to the Boards deliberations and decision-making.
Support and constructively Management committees challenge the Executive Directors using their broad range of experience and expertise.
Monitor the delivery of the Investment Committee Sustainability Committee agreed strategy within the risk management framework Considers and approves significant investment Develops and implements the Groups set by the Board.
transactions and commercial agreements, sustainability strategy as integrated withthe including the acquisition, disposal and Groups overall corporate strategy.
In doing so, Group General Counsel and Company Secretary development of assets with a value between it also considers environmental, social, economic Tim Ashby 20mand 150m.
It also reviews and and energy issues affecting the business andthe Provides advice and assistance to the Board, the Chairman recommends higher value transactions to the impact of these issues on our customers.
and other Directors, particularly in relation to formulating Board and implements the annual funding the agenda for Board meetings, corporate governance, Health, Safety and Security Committee strategy approved by the Board.
Oversees the Groups health and safety policy Assesses the impact of proposed sales, and operations, security governance, policy and Ensures that Board procedures are complied with, purchases, developments and debt funding procedures at allGroup properties, performance applicable rules are followed and good information flow arrangements on the Groups balance sheet against targets and progress towards goals.
exists to the Board and its Committees.
The appointment andinternal control metrics over the short Following thetragedy at Grenfell Tower, the and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for and medium term.
Also addresses the likely Committee ledourinvestigation intothe cladding the Board as a whole.
impact ofmacro-economic developments in place atallproperties in our portfolio and on the business.
agreed actions toaddress the three properties which wereidentified as having insufficient London and Retail Executive Committees mitigation measures in place.
Responsible for the financial, operational and governance performance of the London and Retail business portfolios, each of which are significant in their ownright.
Each Committee can approve transactions up to a value of 10m.
Landsec Annual Report 2018 67 Leadership continued Board activity Setting strategy Shareholders, stakeholders The table shows the key areas of Board and governance activity during the year to support our Monitored property cycle and sector trends strategic objectives.
The key below highlights Reviewed Group performance versus budget, Reviewed feedback from institutional the link between our strategic objectives targets, external benchmarks and peers, shareholders, roadshows and other consideration of share price versus NAV and what the Board did during the year.
engagement activities Analysed portfolio liquidity and development Discussed Board evaluation and exposure effectiveness review Approved Going Concern and Viability Considered the Groups 2020 sustainability Statements strategy, including progress versus annual targets and improvements planned Approved dividend policy, debt funding arrangements and gearing levels Reviewed regular health, safety and security updates, including the impact of the tragedy Considered the bond funding strategy at Grenfell Tower and the subsequent review including the Queen Annes Gate Bond carried out by Landsec of all properties in redemption its portfolio Continued focus on innovation Strategic objectives Reviewed developments in corporate Approved significant acquisitions and governance and received key legal and disposals includingthis year the sale Deliver sustainable long-term regulatory updates of20Fenchurch Street and the return of shareholder value Received regular meeting reports from the capitalto shareholders and the acquisition Chairman of the Audit, Remuneration and ofthe retail outlets at Braintree, Street Maximise the returns from the Nomination Committees andCastleford investment portfolio Reviewed and approved no change to the Approved the 21 Moorfields development Maximise development annual fees for Non-executive Directors and pre-let to Deutsche Bank performance Approved the Groups Slavery and Human Considered the performance of key schemes Trafficking Statement and assets acquired, completed or Ensure high levels of customer developed versus Board approval with Considered the factors set out in section 172 satisfaction particular consideration of the Westgate of the Companies Act where appropriate.
Attract, develop, retain and motivate Link to Strategic objectives high performance individuals Link to Strategic objectives Continually improve sustainability performance Sale of 20 Fenchurch Street Section 172 Companies Act 2006 What it means for us to be theWalkie Talkie ontheBoard The duties placed on Directors by section 172 ofthe Companies Act have been discussed at In July 2017, the Board approved the sale of the Board and at the Nomination Committee 20Fenchurch Street for a headline price of during the year.
We believe that the Board does 641m for our 50% share.
This crystallised Im delighted to be part of the Board take intoaccount the factors set out in section anexceptional life-cycle return for our 172 where appropriate when making decisions, and to benefit from the diverse shareholders.
The sale completed in August, andthis isreinforced by the Groups focus in and in September we called an Extraordinary business and leadership experience recent years on being the best UK property General Meeting of our shareholders to seek that the Board has as wediscuss company in the eyesof itscustomers, partners, approval for a capital return of 475m awide range of issues.
We have or60pper share and accompanying share nevertheless reminded decision-makers consolidation.
Shareholders overwhelmingly Colette OShea throughout our business of theimportance of approved both resolutions.
Importantly, after keeping these factors in mind and this has been completion of the sale, with our customers in tabled specifically at meetings of each of the mind, we continued to provide ongoing facilities Companys management committees.
management services to occupiers on behalf I really enjoy being part of the Board ofthe purchaser.
and participating in discussions Further details on the share consolidation can about our business.
The Chairman be found on page 113. and other Directors bring a broad spectrum of expertise to the table.
Scott Parsons 68 Landsec Annual Report 2018 Governance Board activity Ensuring acceptable risk Providing leadership and Financial performance The table shows the key areas of Board direction activity during the year to support our Reviewed the Groups risk register and the Considered the financial performance effectiveness of the systems of internal of the business and approved the annual strategic objectives.
The key below highlights Discussed the composition of the Board control and risk management budget, key performance targets and the link between our strategic objectives andits Committees, including succession discussed the five year plan Reviewed the risk framework and reporting and what the Board did during the year.
planning, with a particular focus on the structure Reviewed the half-yearly and annual succession planning for the Chairman results and presentations to analysts and following her decision to retire in 2018 Reviewed risk appetite which included the approved the Annual Report results of questionnaires issued to the Board, Reviewed the development of people and Executive Committee and Senior Leaders Considered the half-yearly and full year potential talent in the Group, including valuation of the Groups portfolio by the succession planning for Senior Leaders Debated significant and emerging risks, external valuer.
including cyber security, terrorism, the loss Discussed new Head of Strategy and Head ofkey people, uncertainty arising from the of Innovation roles Link to Strategic objectives Brexit process and other political risks Discussed feedback from Creating Experiences Reviewed cladding throughout London Undertook development sessions on and Retail portfolios propertyvaluations and accounting and Assessed GDPR risk.
Link to Strategic objectives Link to Strategic objectives Sale of 20 Fenchurch Street Section 172 Companies Act 2006 What it means for us to be theWalkie Talkie ontheBoard The duties placed on Directors by section 172 ofthe Companies Act have been discussed at In July 2017, the Board approved the sale of the Board and at the Nomination Committee 20Fenchurch Street for a headline price of during the year.
Scott Parsons Landsec Annual Report 2018 69
