Investor conference Investor The investor conference is held annually and Engaging with our investors focuses on the Retail and London portfolios in alternate years.
We regularly review and Relations refresh our engagement The presentations and an audio recording of theconference were made available on the withshareholders, lenders Approach to investor relations corporate website to enable non-attendees and bondholders.
We are committed to maintaining an open to access the information provided.
dialogue with shareholders and the Board recognises the importance of that relationship Investor tours and presentations in the governance process.
The Chairman, In addition to our annual investor conference, 2018 investor conference supported by the Executive Directors, has overall we hosted various presentations and tours responsibility for ensuring that we listen to and ofsome of our major assets in the Retail effectively communicate with our shareholders.
This years investor conference focused on andLondon portfolios, including Gunwharf the Retail Portfolio and was held in Oxford.
Quays, Westgate Oxford and key properties We have a comprehensive investor relations Almost 50investors and analysts attended in Victoria, SW1, and 20 Fenchurch Street, EC3.
programme designed for institutional investors, the day together with around 25 Landsec private shareholders and debt investors We conducted meetings during the year with colleagues from every function of the which aims to help our existing and potential the sales teams of the major investment banks Retail business.
investors understand our business, strategy and which provided the Executive Directors with performance.
Shareholder feedback is provided The day started at Balliol College with the opportunity to present our strategy and to the Board to ensure that it understands the apresentation about Oxford, followed by performance directly and take questions.
objectives and views of major investors.
awalk through Oxfordsmain shopping Industry conferences streets before arriving at Westgate Oxford.
We approach our debt investor relations on a Industry conferences provide Executive Directors At Westgate, a management presentation partnership basis, ensuring that any feedback with a chance to meet a large number of was followed by a tour of the centre isconsidered and that we take into account investors on a formal and informal basis.
to highlight particular aspects ofthe best practice guidance from the Investment Conferences attended this year included the schemesuch as design, construction Association.
UBS Global Property and JPMorgan conferences and sustainability.
The event finished with in London, the Bank of America Merrill Lynch lunch at one ofthe restaurants on the roof Institutional shareholders programme conference in New York, the Kempen conferences terrace of Westgate, demonstrating the The Executive Directors had meetings with in Amsterdam and New York, The Citi conference quality of food offering in this latest shareholders representing more than half in Miami and the HSBC conference in Cape Town.
addition to the Landsec Retail Portfolio.
the register by value during the year Other initiatives The geographic spread of the programme The Senior Independent Director and Chief covered Europe, North America, South Africa Executive held a dinner for the senior heads and the Far East of equities from UK institutions.
The Senior Independent Director, and other Non-executive Directors, were available to Private shareholders programme meet with shareholders Private shareholders are encouraged to Institutional shareholders were invited to givefeedback to and communicate with the attend the Companys full year and halfDirectors through the Company Secretary.
During the year they were also able to meet Directors at the Annual GeneralMeeting and the Extraordinary General Meeting in September.
Investor relations events 2017 2018 April May June July August September October November December January February March Investors Analyst Investors Landsec Close Annual Real estate Close Real estate Real estate Preliminary meetings in meetings Half-yearly meetings in investor period General conference in period investor investor results Zurich and with the Chief results the Far East Fitch conference Meeting New York Post results conference conference Post-results Frankfurt Financial and South annual Bond in Oxford Moodys Real estate investor meetings in London in Miami investor Officer Africa review holder annual investor in London and meetings in meeting updates rating conference in The Netherlands London and North North review New York Sales team Scotland American Standard Real estate American Extraordinary presentations investor roadshow: & Poors Sales team investor investor roadshow: General Bond CEO and CFO Toronto, New York Real estate annual review presentations conference Heads Toronto, New York Meeting holder and Boston investor meeting CEO and CFO in London of equity and Boston updates conference in dinner Bond The Netherlands holder updates 84 Landsec Annual Report 2018 Governance Our 2017 shareholder meetings Debt investors programme We held both our July Annual General Meeting Credit side institutional investors and analysts Listening to our shareholders AGM and our Extraordinary General Meeting Our treasury team held non-deal specific EGM in September at our offices in Victoria meetings with credit side institutional Street, SW1.
Holding these meetings on-site Common themes raised by investors and analysts after the half-year gave our shareholders the opportunity to and full year results.
our institutional andindividual visit one of our buildings and also see our shareholders throughout the developments around Victoria.
In addition, the team met with a number yearincluded: of accounts to gather feedback on the bond Our AGM provided all shareholders with an tender and new issue exercises in February April Our view on the market opportunity to question the Board and the of this year.
andthe positioning of the Chairmen of each Board Committee on matters put to the meeting.
Shareholders who 1:1 meetings were offered to investors and business.
In particular, attended the AGM received a strategic progress analysts in September and March to support theshort-term outlook for update from the Chairman.
Questions from the bond tender and new issue exercises.
theLondon office market shareholders included detail on the letting Banks andthepressures facing market and rents following completion of our Regular dialogue is maintained with our developments, what we had done to assess the retail market keyrelationship banks, including at least our properties in light of the Grenfell Tower Sources of rental growth in bi-annual meetings with our treasury team tragedy and our borrowing and debt activity.
andin-house dinners hosted by the Executive the short term Our EGM was held for shareholders to approve and Non-executive Directors.
The acquisition of the three the return of part of the proceeds of our sale of Our treasury team also actively engaged with 20 Fenchurch Street.
Shareholders approved the outlets potential lenders.
receipt of 60p per share and a resulting share Share buybacks consolidation which changed the denomination Credit rating agencies 2 of our shares to 10 3p.
It also provided our Bond purchases and issuance During the year, business and financial updates shareholders with an opportunity to ask were provided by our treasury team and Senior The pre-letting of 21 Moorfields questions about the transaction and return of Management to Standard & Poors, Fitch Ratings to DeutscheBank capital.
For more detail on our return of capital and Moodys.
and share consolidation see page 113.
The sale of 20 Fenchurch Street Further information for our debt investors can The results of voting at general meetings The return of capital and be found on our website: landsec.
are published on the Companys website: share consolidation landsec.
Independent feedback on investor relations The serviced office market During the coming year, the Board will Reuniting our shareholders with inLondon commission an independent adviser to unclaimed dividends conduct the biennial investor audit of investor In December 2017, together with our Registrar The valuation of Bluewater perceptions of the Company, its management, Equiniti and its partner ProSearch, we launched strategy, governance and the investor relations an asset reunification programme with the programme.
The feedback from the audit will intention of reuniting our shareholders with be presented to the Board to help Directors uncashed dividend entitlements.
To date, we develop their understanding of shareholders have successfully returned over 70,000 to needs and expectations.
The programme will continue until the end of June 2018.
Investor relations events 2017 2018 April May June July August September October November December January February March Investors Analyst Investors Landsec Close Annual Real estate Close Real estate Real estate Preliminary meetings in meetings Half-yearly meetings in investor period General conference in period investor investor results Zurich and with the Chief results the Far East Fitch conference Meeting New York Post results conference conference Post-results Frankfurt Financial and South annual Bond in Oxford Moodys Real estate investor meetings in London in Miami investor Officer Africa review holder annual investor in London and meetings in meeting updates rating conference in The Netherlands London and North North review New York Sales team Scotland American Standard Real estate American Extraordinary presentations investor roadshow: & Poors Sales team investor investor roadshow: General Bond CEO and CFO Toronto, New York Real estate annual review presentations conference Heads Toronto, New York Meeting holder and Boston investor meeting CEO and CFO in London of equity and Boston updates conference in dinner Bond The Netherlands holder updates Landsec Annual Report 2018 85
