Board evaluation process 2017 18 Board appraisals This years review of the Boards effectiveness Separately, the Chairman held appraisal Effectiveness was conducted internally.
This year, for the first meetings with each Director focusing on their time, the effectiveness review was performed own performance and contribution to the in two parts, with the Board evaluation led Board, using a structured questionnaire to bring The separation of the by the Senior Independent Director SID, consistency to the approach at each interview.
and the Director appraisal process conducted The SID separately evaluated the performance Board evaluation and by the Chairman, both supported by the of the Chairman having first collated points appraisal process worked Company Secretary.
of view and questions from the other Directors and then discussed the outcome with her.
The Board evaluation Board evaluation The output of this years effectiveness review The first part of the evaluation required each was led by theSenior was presented at the Board meeting in March Director to complete an anonymous online and discussed by the Directors.
Separate Independent Director survey and questionnaire that focused on reports were prepared for each of the Audit, matters such as the Boards performance and Remuneration and Nomination Committees andthe Directors collective judgement, the performance of each based on the feedback received, and in each of its Committees, the Boards focus on appraisals were led case the conclusions were discussed by those strategy, innovation and risk and the relationship Committees at their meetings in March 2018. bytheChairman.
between the Non-executive and Executive Directors.
The evaluation addressed issues Conclusions from this years Board raised in last years review and the effectiveness evaluation of some of the changes that were implemented.
The conclusion from this years Board evaluation The survey included open questions that was that the Board and its Committees encouraged Directors to provide comments or continue to operate to a high standard and work enabled them to raise any concerns.
The output well and effectively.
The results overall ranged of this survey was collated and provided to the from positive to very positive, and there were no Board for discussion.
specific concerns raised by any of the Directors As SID, Edward Bonham Carter then met to the Chairman or SID, or anonymously through separately with each Director and used the the online survey.
Strengths identified included: output of the survey and questionnaire to explore a positive atmosphere and culture: in more detail the issues raised and obtain strong working relationships between the supplementary comments and observations.
Executives and Non-executives: good collective judgement, demonstrated by decisions taken on the sale of 20 Fenchurch Street, people planning, succession and culture: and the quality of information provided to the Board and the level of discussion at meetings.
Board, Committee and Directors performance evaluation cycle BOARD EVALUATION 2017 18 Year 2 Year 3 Review focused Year 2 progress on Year 1 issues reviewed and A combination of Performance review Areas of focus raised and any areas of focus Board evaluation and against targets set identified for 2018 19 new issues arising identified Director appraisal for 2017 18 Year 1 Independent, externally facilitated review 72 Landsec Annual Report 2018 Governance As always, there are some areas that provide Progress against targets set for 2017 18 Table 36 room for improvement.
The following areas were identified: improve and embed the use of the Boards Objective Performance action plan to monitor performance: Strategy The changes made to the Boards agenda timing, and the enhance the focus on strategy, innovation Board meetings to allocate sufficient inclusion of more Board development sessions with external and risk at Board meetings: and time to both mediumand speakers, have enabled the Board to allocate more time to greater exposure at Board meetings to longer-term strategic discussion strategic discussions.
experts in other sectors that complement Innovation The Board has received several presentations during the year on and are relevant to our business.
Appreciate the impact of rapid how technology may impact the future of the business, ranging technological development on from developing new sectors, the changing way people work and The meetings held by Edward Bonham Carter us and our customers live and modern methods of construction.
with each Director were useful in exploring in more detail some of the themes emerging Risk The Board held an in-depth review of the Groups risks, looking at from the questionnaire responses.
The overall Further develop the approach to risk, the principal risks, emerging risks and risk appetite of the business.
message was that the Board agenda must especially in the context of the wider The review was based on a risk survey of the Board and senior remain focused on the challenges ahead and economic and political framework in leadership team.
The Board received briefings on risk factors that that time be allocated to them accordingly.
which we will be operating may affect the broader commercial environment, including economic, political and Brexit risk, and reports from both London Other themes that emerged were: and Retail on past investment decisions.
the Board is conscious of the need to spend Culture and people The Company adopted the name Landsec during the year and time on succession planning and the value Provide oversight and support to underpinned this by its Creating Experiences cultural programme of doing so: management as Landsec introduces involving everyone in the organisation, all of which were supported its new brand framework by theBoard.
the Board should keep spending time on innovation in general, and customers in particular, to match the pace of change: the Group should be ready to experiment Areas of focus for 2018 19 the Group is financially strong and is able The Board challenges itself to keep improving Survey responses to rely on its core business to pay for testing year on year and, using the results of this years some new ideas: evaluation, intends to focus on the areas listed... honest and challenging below for 2018 19.
They are similar to last year Board meetings should continue with the debates with all Directors which reflects that they are not topics that progress made over the past year to increase contributing... can be concluded in a year.
the use of external speakers, including customers and experts in other sectors, Strategy and innovation this continues as... conversations more toprovide diverse perspectives: an ongoing requirement each year, and for wide-ranging and less 2018 19 the Board intends to keep accessing at a time of change and market uncertainty, operational... diverse expertise and, where appropriate, to the Board should reassess risk on a frequent test and experiment as a part of the process basis: and... freedom of thought to understand customer requirements.
the Board should retain its strong focus is encouraged... Risk be willing to re-assess risk on a regular on the success of the Company, and the basis by reference to the changing situation.
recognition of its broader impact on others This may involve new areas of business or with its continued focus on all stakeholders.
Where does the Board think Finally, the Board recognised its role in the People and succession planning this is it has added most value in oversight and governance of the business and fundamental to any business, and the Board the last year?
its culture at a time of increased focus on will continue to assess its own requirements, corporate governance matters.
This impacts together with that of the Executive team thebehaviour displayed within the Group and senior leaders within the organisation.
as well as its external reputation.
Pleasingly, Landsec was recognised externally during the Next year year for the high standards it delivers and We believe that our internal Board evaluation promotes in this respect.
process has provided a thorough review of our Management performance over the past year.
The separate succession and talent Conclusions from this years Directors roles performed by the Chairman and SID, development appraisal process coupled with the combination of the The Directors appraisals provided the Chairman questionnaire, SID interviews and individual with the opportunity to assess the performance appraisals, was comprehensive.
However, Engagement of each Director and listen to their perspective in2018 19, in line with our three-year cycle, and perspective on on the Board operation and dynamics.
The wewill be conducting an externally facilitated strategic issues messages support the weighting of Board time performance evaluation as required by the and debate to matters and topics of long-term UK Corporate Governance Code.
interest to the Group and its success, supported Support and by ongoing training and development.
challenge on investment decisions Landsec Annual Report 2018 73 Choosing the new Chairman based on her complementary experience and Effectiveness At the Boards request, the Nomination expertise.
The Board unanimously approved continued Committee led the process to find a successor theappointment.
to Dame Alison after she signalled her intention Board environment and access to to retire as Chairman after serving nine years Induction appropriate information leading the Board.
The Committee was As Colette OShea and Scott Parsons clearly The Board environment and its culture of supported by Egon Zehnder, an independent know the business well, their induction focused transparency and openness were again rated search consultancy with expertise in board on the role and responsibilities of a director of favourably in this years effectiveness review.
level appointments, and considered a wide alisted company.
They both received training Inaddition to the Board meetings, and the and diverse range of internal and external from the law firm Slaughter and May in this private sessions scheduled at each Board meeting candidates with different skills and business respect.
Following his appointment to the Board held by the Chairman and the Non-executive backgrounds that would be suitable for the in January 2017, Nicholas Cadburys induction Directors, there are other opportunities arranged role.
Interviews were held by the Nomination tothe Board continued during this year and during the year when Directors meet and at Committee with selected candidates, following included asset visits and meeting with key which relevant items can be discussed in detail.
which the Committee recommended the advisors to the business, EY and CBRE.
appointment of Cressida Hogg as Chairman The Board and its Committees receive papers ina timely fashion and Directors have access toinformation, support and advice from the Company Secretary and members of his team The appointment of Colette and Scott throughout the year.
The Board is complimentary isawelcome addition to the Board and of the quality of papers it receives but has set anongoing challenge to reduce the volume of demonstrates good internal development papers it receives where it is appropriate todo so.
and bench strength in Landsec.
Both bring their extensive property experience and broad business and commercial knowledge to our Board discussions.
They are proven leaders who live Landsec values.
We are delighted tohave them as Directors.
Dame Alison Carnwath, Chairman 74 Landsec Annual Report 2018 Governance Professional development, support and Board strategy Diversity policy training for Directors The Board considers strategy throughout the The Board embraces diversity in its broadest The Board held an increased number of specific year, encompassing topics such as funding and sense, believing that a wide range of experience, knowledge development sessions during the capital allocation, competition and emerging background, perspective, skills and knowledge year, on such matters as property company sectors.
Additionally, the Board held its regular combine to contribute towards a high performing, financial and accounting metrics, political two-day strategy meeting in February that effective Board, which is better able to support and economic risk factors that may affect enabled it to explore and debate in detail and direct us as a business.
the business or the wider property market a wide range of items such as: We continue to make good progress in terms of in the UKand market trends.
The Board also the business and customer trends relevant diversity.
The addition of Colette OShea to the refreshed its review of risk this year and carried to the property market: Board increased the percentage of women on out an in-depth session on risk and risk appetite.
possible longer-term threats and challenges the Board to 36% from 30% last year.
Diversity This followed an internal survey on risk and to our portfolio: and is more than just gender based and the Board risk appetite which was issued to the Board, geopolitical and macro-economic trends.
will continue to focus on this important issue Executive Committee and Senior Leaders.
Further information on Directors continued to receive regular reports diversity throughout Landsec can be found facilitating greater awareness and understanding on pages 47 and 48. of the Groups business and the legal, regulatory Conflicts of interest and industry-specific environment in which it The Board operates a policy to identify and, operates.
This is complemented by visits to where appropriate, manage any potential properties owned, managed or being developed conflicts of interest that Directors may have.
by the Group which enable a deeper insight into The Nomination Committee monitors the the operations of the business and provide situation and determines the actions necessary Directors with the opportunity to meet with to address potential conflicts of interest, senior and local management teams.
asdetailed in the table below.
Table 37 Conflicts of interest Director Potential conflict situation Nomination Committee decision and mitigating action taken Dame Alison Carnwath A non-executive director of Zurich Insurance Since the Groups insurance programme and policy matters Company Limited with whom the Group places arehandled by the Executive Directors outside of the Board certain of its insurance policies and pension andin consultation with its own independent insurance investments.
brokers, the Committee concluded that in practice conflicts of interest involving Dame Alison Carnwath and Zurich Insurance were unlikely to occur.
Edward Bonham Carter Vice Chairman of Jupiter Fund Management plc, Mr Bonham Carters position is such that he is unlikely to be afund manager which invests in listed company involved in the selection of particular investments and has shares including, at times, the Company.
Jupiter agreednot to participate in any investment decisions which may is also a customer of the Group.
Since operational matters, such asoffice leasing, are unlikely to be considered at Board level, theCommittee concluded that in practice conflicts of interest involving Mr Bonham Carter and his employer were unlikely tooccur.
Nicholas Cadbury Group Finance Director of Whitbread PLC which, Since operational matters, such as retail leasing, are unlikely through its Costa Coffee operations, leases a tobeconsidered at Board level, the Committee concluded that number of retail properties from the Company inpractice conflicts of interest involving Mr Cadbury and his around the UK.
employer were unlikely to occur.
Cressida Hogg Managing Director, Head of Infrastructure, of the In her role, Ms Hogg did not have any involvement with the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board CPPIB development in question as this was managed by a different which is the Groups joint venture partner at a business unit within CPPIB.
As an additional precaution, the major development.
Group did not share any sensitive information on that development with her and she agreed not to participate inany Board discussion that related to it.
Ms Hogg stepped down from herrole at CPPIB in April 2018.
