Governance Nominations Committee report The composition of the Committee The Committee is composed of all the independent Non-Executive Directors.
The table below sets out the Committee membership during the year.
The Group Chief Executive and Group HR Director may be invited to attend meetings where this may assist the Committee in fullling its responsibilities and, most notably, in relation to executive appointments and succession planning.
Members: Sir John Kingman Chair Julia Wilson Henrietta Baldock from 4 October 2018 Carolyn Bradley Philip Broadley Lesley Knox George Lewis from 1 November 2018 Toby Strauss Sir John Kingman In line with our conicts of interest management Chairman policy, directors are asked to absent themselves fromany discussions relating to his her own reappointment or succession.
The role of the Committee How the Committee spent its time in 2018 The Committee has overall responsibility for leading the process for During 2018 the Committee has focused in particular on the new appointments to the Board and ensuring that these appointments recruitment of two new Non-Executive Directors, Henrietta Baldock bring the required skills and experience to the Board to support the and George Lewis.
Their biographies are detailed on pages 52 to 53 Boards role in development and oversight of the groups strategy.
As and show the strength and depth of skills and experience they have part of this, the Committee reviews the structure, size and composition brought to theBoard.
of the Board to ensure the Board is made up of the right people with The Committee identified thatthe Boards skill set could be the necessary skills and experience whilst striving to achieve a Board strengthened with the addition ofincreased asset management and composition that promotes diversity of thought and approach.
insurance knowledge and US experience, reflecting feedback from The Committees key responsibilities are: previous Board evaluations.
The Committee produced a detailed candidate brief and engaged external search consultants Heidrick & Regularly reassessing the structure, size and composition of the Struggles, JCA Group, to undertake the search.
On the basis of this Board and recommending any suggested changes to the Board.
brief, a long list of candidates was produced including candidates from Reviewing the criteria for identifying and nominating candidates a range of diverse backgrounds.
Following rigorous interviews, the based on the specification for a prospective appointment including Committee recommended the appointment of George Lewis to the the required skills and capabilities.
Board, which occurred in November 2018.
Considering succession planning for directors and other senior The Boards skill set was further strengthened with the executives, taking into account the promotion of diversity and recommendation of Henrietta Baldocks appointment to the Board.
inclusion, the challenges and opportunities facing the company, Henrietta was appointed as Chair of LGAS in March 2018 and is and what skills and expertise will be needed by the Board in future, continuing that role following her appointment to the Group Board ensuring the continued ability of the company to compete effectively in October 2018.
She has brought to the Board further extensive in the market place.
knowledge of the financial services and insurance sectors through Reviewing the time commitment required from Non-Executive her 25 years experience in investment banking.
Directors and assessing the Non-Executive Directors other significant The Committee has continued to focus on succession planning for the commitments to ensure that they continue to be able to fulfil their executive and senior management, with particular focus on succession duties effectively.
for the LGIM CEO role following the announcement made in May 2018regarding Mark Zinkulas intention to retire from the Company inAugust 2019.
The Committees terms of reference, which set out full details of the Committees responsibilities, can be viewed on our website: Please visit: legalandgeneralgroup.
com about-us corporate-governance  64 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Nominations Committee report The Committee is responsible for evaluating the independence Diversity of all non-executive directors and undertakes an annual review The Committee only engages of each non-executive directors other interests.
The Board, Gender executive search rms that are on the recommendation of the Committee, is satisfied that each signatories to the Voluntary Code non-executive director serving at the end of the year remains of Conduct for Executive Search independent and continues to have sufficient time to discharge Firms, which promotes gender their responsibilities to the company.
Julia Wilson has served diversity andbest practice for on the Board for seven years and, as a result, her continued corporate board searches.
In 2018, independence was subject to more rigorous review.
Committee the company engaged Heidrik & members considered Julias external interests and other Struggles, JCA Group and Korn relationships which could materially interfere with her ability to Ferry which are both signatories to this Codeand have no other exercise independent judgement.
It was concluded that there connection tothe company.
were no circumstances which would affect Julias ability to act As at 31 December 2018 in the best interest of the company and that her length of tenure The Committee briefs the search the Board comprised: had no detrimental impact on her level of independence.
rm to ensure that the pool of candidates presented includes Females 33% Our approach to diversity candidates with an appropriate Males 67% Our approach to diversity on the Board is set out in our Group Board range of experience, knowledge Diversity Policy, which is reviewed annually.
We have continued to and background, and who recruit based on merit while remaining committed to diversity in demonstrate independence of Sector experience thewidest sense including diversity of gender, social and ethnic approach and thought.
As detailed on page 64, this process was backgrounds, cognitive and personal strengths, when seeking to followed for the recruitment of fillvacant Board positions and for the company more generally.
our new non-executive directors We have maintained the diversity on our Board which comprises appointed in 2018.
33% females and 67% males, whilst our Executive Committee comprises 27% females and 73% males.
Three of our seven business divisions are led by a female CEO.
The Board continues to support Lord Davies and the Hampton-Alexander voluntary targets, namely for a third of all Board members in FTSE 350 companies and FTSE 100 companies to be women by 2020.
Further than this, the Board supports the Legal & General 50 50 by 2020 Network which Board members come from the following backgrounds: aims to have a 50 50 balance ofmen and women right through the organisation by 2020.
More information can be found on pages 35 to 37.
Financial Services 92% The chart opposite demonstrates the Boards current position.
Customer and Retail 8% The Board continues to support the delivery of the talent and leadership programmes within the wider organisation which seek Tenure years to address diversity imbalance by removing barriers that prevent people from realising their potential.
Board members actively participate in discussions relating to talent and leadership and a number of Board members act as mentors to individual employees who have been identified as future leaders.
We have published our Gender Pay Gap data, which can be found online at: legalandgeneralgroup.
A summary is available on page 36 of this report.
The length of tenure of the non-executives varies: Over six years 12.5% Sir John Kingman Between three and six years 12.5% Chairman Between one and three years 50% Less than one year 25% Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 65
