Governance Group Risk Committee report The composition of the Committee The Committee is composed entirely of independent non-executive directors.
The table below sets out its membership during the year.
Members: Toby Strauss Chair Henrietta Baldock from 4 October 2018 Philip Broadley Lesley Knox George Lewis from 1 November 2018 Julia Wilson Other attendees at Committee meetings include: the Group Chairman: Group Chief Executive: Group Chief Financial Officer: Group Chief Risk Officer: Group Conduct Risk Director: Group Chief Internal Auditor: Chief Executive Officer LGC: and representatives of the external auditor, KPMG LLP.
Toby Strauss Chairman of the Group Risk Committee The role of the Committee is to assist the Board in the oversight of the Group Conduct Risk Directors report risks to which the group may be exposed and to provide the Board with At each meeting the Committee receives a report from the Group strategic advice in relation to current and potential future risk exposures.
This provides the Committee with an This includes reviewing the groups risk profile and appetite for risk, assessment of the overall profile of conduct risks for the group: analysis and assessing the effectiveness of the groups risk management and trends in conduct risk indicators including complaints data and the framework.
The groups approach to the management of risk is set results of reviews undertaken by the group conduct risk monitoring out in more detail on pages 44 to 49. team: and evaluation of changes in the conduct risk landscape as regulatory approaches evolve.
Committee activities during 2018 The work of the Committee is supported by the Group Chief Risk Focused business and risk reviews Officer and the Company Secretary, who assist the Committee Focused deep dive reviews of particular risk areas are undertaken at Chairman in planning the Committees work and ensuring that the each Committee meeting.
The purpose of these reviews is to enable Committee receives accurate and timely information.
The Committee Committee members to examine the risk profile of the core business met six times during 2018. lines and to consider the robustness of the frameworks in place to manage the key risk exposures.
Committee members are invited Group Chief Risk Officers report to participate in setting the agenda for these deep dive reviews, The Committee receives at each meeting a formal report from the considering both the current operating environment and emerging risk Group Chief Risk Officer.
This report brings to the Committees factors.
Below are some examples of the key reviews that took place attention key factors in the operating environment of the groups during 2018, and the areas of focus by the Committee.
businesses and an assessment of the potential risks that may emerge.
The review includes analysis of risks arising from the macro-economic Value for Money reviews: assessment of the controls and monitoring outlook and conditions in financial markets, together with geopolitical, frameworks in our general insurance and investment products legislative and regulatory change risks that may impact the groups businesses that ensure pricing reflects the risks implicit in products businesses, and risks associated with the implementation of the whilst providing value for money to our customers groups business strategy.
Brexit Contingency Planning: understanding the key issues for the group in the event of a no deal Brexit scenario and the potential In addition to the Group Chief Risk Officers report, the Committee is actions to advance our contingency planning provided with management information on risk appetite, comparing actual positions relative to the groups risk appetite statement and Property Risk Management: the approach within our property quantitative analysis of the groups exposures to financial and manufacturing and construction businesses to managing legal, operational risks, including risk based capital requirements in relation regulatory and reputational risks including health and safety to the core risks implicit in the groups businesses.
riskmanagement 70 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Group Risk Committee report Derivative and Collateral Management: the groups framework for Own risk and solvency assessment ORSA managing collateral and liquidity requirements associated with The ORSA is an ongoing assessment of the risks to which Legal & financial risk hedging activities General is exposed and an evaluation of the sufficiency of capital resources to sustain the business strategy over the plan horizon.
Over Technology Risk: focus on the groups technology risk landscape, the course of the year the Committee considered different aspects of expressions of risk appetite, and areas for further development as the groups ORSA process.
This included the review of proposed stress new technologies emerge tests and scenarios to be used in the evaluation of capital adequacy, Direct Investments Governance: review of the risk and control the profile of risks within the groups strategic plan and how they may framework in managing the risk arising from new and illiquid direct change over the planning period, and the groups overall capacity to investment assets bear the risks identified.
LGIM Internal Control Framework: an annual review of the A formal ORSA report is subject to annual review by the Committee management of the core operational risks implicit in LGIMs prior to formal approval by the Group Board.
investment management activities Outsourcing and Supplier Management: an overview of the groups Risk governance framework for managing third party supplier arrangements within Sound frameworks of risk management and internal control are our UK businesses, and associated risks essential in the management of risks.
During the year, the Committee has received updates on the continued development of the risk The regular management information received by the Committee governance framework.
includes customer lifecycle metrics, analysing by business division core measures of customer service delivery.
The analysis provides Risk based remuneration a focal point for discussion on the management and oversight of The Committee advises the Remuneration Committee on risk matters customer and related reputation risks.
to be considered in reviewing bonus pools.
The Committee also takes an active role in the development and review of the groups recovery and resolution plans, which have been put in place in line with the UK regulatory requirements relating to systemically important insurers.
Risk appetite At its August meeting the Committee undertook a detailed review of the operation of the groups risk appetite framework and the key measures and tolerances used to determine acceptable risk taking, recommending some refinements to the Board.
In December, the Committee considered the risk profile of the groups strategic plan and its alignment with the groups overall risk appetite.
In addition to this aggregate view of acceptable risk taking, the Committee may also consider, as part of the groups overall transaction approval process, the appetite for specific risks associated with transactions, particularly where the transaction is material in the quantum of risks being assumed or aspects of the transaction may present risks that are relatively new to the group.
The Committee is also responsible for recommending to the Board risk appetite levels for particular business lines.
Risk-based capital model The groups risk-based capital model is used to determine the capital requirements for the group and forms the calculation engine for the Solvency II internal model.
As well as reviewing and using the output of the model in its understanding of the groups risk profile, the Committee is the focal point for model governance with specific consideration of the: key assumptions, methodologies and areas of expert judgement used within the model activities undertaken to independently validate the outputs of the model ongoing development of the model to ensure that it reflects the business lines and risk profile of the group processes to ensure that changes applied in the model are undertaken in a controlled manner, and in line with model development plans Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 71
