Governance Audit Committee report The composition of the Committee The Committee is composed entirely of independent non-executive directors.
The table below sets out its membership during the year.
Members: Philip Broadley Chair Henrietta Baldock from 4 October 2018 Lesley Knox George Lewis from 1 November 2018 Toby Strauss Julia Wilson Other regular attendees at Committee meetings include the following: Group Chairman: Group Chief Executive: Group ChiefFinancial Officer: Group Chief Risk Officer: Director of Group Finance: Group Chief Internal Auditor: Legal & General Retirement Finance Director: LGIM Finance Director: Group Actuary: Chief Tax Officer: Representatives of the external Philip Broadley auditor, KPMG LLP.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Letter from the Chairman Audit Committee focus for the 2018 year Dear Shareholder During 2018, the Audit Committee met five times in accordance with I am pleased to present the Audit Committee Report for the year its annual plan and additional meetings were arranged as necessary.
The report explains the work of the Audit In line with its purpose, the Audit Committees time over the course Committee during the year, and meets the disclosure requirements of the year was spent in consideration of: set out in the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The integrity of the Companys financial statements and Solvency II The Code requires that the Audit Committee must operate effectively disclosures, including consideration of the viability statement and and efficiently and that its members have a balance of skills and going concern assessments experience to deliver its responsibilities.
During the year under review, Key accounting and actuarial areas of judgement Henrietta Baldock and George Lewis joined the Audit Committee on The adequacy and effectiveness of our systems of internal control, 4 October and 1 November 2018 respectively, and all members of the including whistleblowing Audit Committee have varied experience including: as executives in the The effectiveness, performance and objectivity of both the internal financial services and other sectors: as non-executive directors in other and external audit functions sectors: and as Board members responsible for financial reporting.
The Board consider that I meet the requirements of the Code in having During September 2018, the Company received a letter from the recent and relevant financial experience, as do other members of the Corporate Reporting Review Team CRRT of the Financial Reporting Audit Committee.
Council FRC, as part of its regular review and assessment of the quality of corporate reporting in the UK, requesting further information It is worth highlighting that all members of the Audit Committee are in relation to the companys 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
The also members of the Group Risk Committee, ensuring the appropriate letter focused on the disclosure of Alternative Performance Measures identification and management ofany issues that are relevant to APMs and Critical Accounting Judgements.
In relation to APMs, both Committees.
the CRRT raised questions regarding the labelling and reconciliation The Audit Committee meets regularly and privately with each of of certain measures within the Annual Report and Accounts.
On Critical theexternal auditor and the Chief Internal Auditor.
These meetings Accounting Judgements, the CRRT raised questions over the specific allow for regular and open dialogue of any issues relevant to the Audit nature of the judgements that are made and how they have been Committees work.
Audit Committee members also meet regularly with concluded on.
We have responded to the CRRTs questions providing management outside of formal Committee meetings to discuss topical clarifying information and proposing specific enhancements to the 2018 issues and maintain their understanding of the groups businesses.
Annual Report and Accounts, all of which have been applied.
The CRRT subsequently confirmed in writing that it had closed its enquiries.
66 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Audit Committee report Following the conclusion of the 2016 tender process, KPMG LLP The Audit Committees terms of reference, which set out full KPMG were appointed as the groups external auditors with effect details of the its responsibilities, can be viewed on our website: from the financial year commencing 1 January 2018.
com about-us corporate-governance approval of the appointment was received at the Annual General  Meeting of the Company on 17 May 2018.
KPMG were invited to The Audit Committee has an annual work plan aligned with the financial observe the audit of the financial year ended 31 December 2017 and reporting cycle of the Company.
The Audit Committees activities fall attended Audit Committee meetings in order to ensure an effective into three principal areas: and orderly transition.
I believe that, following their appointment, the transition period has run smoothly and we look forward to working with Accounting and Financial Reporting KPMG over the coming years.
However, given that KPMG has only just Internal Control completed its first full year audit, no external auditor effectiveness External Auditor review was carried out in 2018.
A review will be conducted during 2019 of KPMGs first year as auditors.
Accounting and financial reporting The Audit Committee reviews the appropriateness of the half year and The information on the following pages sets out in detail the activities of annual financial statements, which it carries out with both management the Audit Committee during the year.
I hope that you will find this report and the external auditors.
This review includes ensuring that the useful in understanding our work and I welcome any comments from Annual report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and shareholders on my report.
understandable: that they comply with disclosure requirements: and they reflect the material areas in which significant judgements have been applied.
In collaboration with the Group Risk Committee, the Audit Committee also reviews the disclosures to be made in relation to internal control Philip Broadley and risk management, and principal risks and uncertainties.
Chair of the Audit Committee The significant accounting issues considered in relation to the 2018 financial statements are detailed on page 68.
Robust year-end governance processes are in place to support the AuditCommittees considerations which include: How the Audit Committee spent its time in 2018 The Audit Committee is a Board Committee with governance ensuring that all of those involved in the preparation of the companys responsibilities that include the oversight of financial disclosures and annual report have been appropriately trained and fully briefed on the corporate reporting.
The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee fair, balanced and understandable requirements: the following principal responsibilities to assist the Board in discharging internal legal verification of all factual statements, together with legal its responsibilities with regards to monitoring the integrity of the groups verification of descriptions used within the narrative: financial statements, monitoring the effectiveness of the internal control regular engagement with and feedback from senior management on including financial internal control framework and the independence proposed content and changes: and objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
The Audit feedback from external advisers corporate reporting specialists, Committee is also responsible for advising the Board on whether remuneration and strategic reporting advisers, external auditor to theAnnual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced enhance the quality of our reporting: and andunderstandable and for reviewing the basis on which the Board provides the viability statement and going concern assessment.
early opportunity for review and feedback on our annual report by Theseconsiderations have been factored into our year-end processes.
The Audit Committee, having completed its review, recommended to the Board that, when taken as a whole, the 2018 annual report is fair, Percentage of time allocated balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary to specific agenda items for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit Committee, together with the Group Risk Committee, reviewed the key assumptions and methodologies of the risk-based capital model as well as related Solvency II disclosures and the proposed disclosures pertaining to thegroups economic capital disclosure.
During the year, the Audit Committee has continued to keep abreast of significant and emerging accounting developments, in particular changes to IFRS relating to insurance accounting and financial instruments.
The Audit Committee regularly considers the progress of the projects to implement new standards, in particular IFRS 17, and the Financial reporting, including areas of judgement, key judgements relating to their implementation, including the expected and reporting developments 48% impacts on results and the approach to transitional disclosures.
External audit 16% Internal audit 9% Internal controls 9% Other including governance 18% Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 67 Governance Significant accounting issues considered by the Committee Issue Committees response Valuation of non-participating insurance contract The Committee evaluated the significant judgements that have an impact on the valuation of liabilities retirement: non-participating insurance liabilities for retirement products.
This included considering: The non-participating insurance liabilities for Valuation interest rates which are used to discount the liabilities.
These are sensitive to judgements retirement products are significant in size and made, for example, on credit default of the backing assets, as well as the investment data used to their estimation is inherently judgemental.
calculate the internal rate of return.
The Committee focused on managements proposed changes to reserving assumptions, other modeling changes, and the determination of the credit default assumption.
This included analysis of internal historic data and external market experience, including consideration of Brexit outcomes.
Longevity assumptions which estimate how long policyholders receiving annuity payments will live.
The challenge around the setting of longevity assumptions was a particularly significant area for review as the judgements could be expected to have a material impact on the groups results.
The Committee considered the effectiveness of the controls over the accuracy and completeness of the data used in determining the longevity assumption and the validity of independent industry data supporting those assumptions.
The Committee also reviewed available data illustrating recent trends in mortality experience in the UK population and the mortality experience on different blocks of our business.
The Committee concluded that the retirement insurance contract liabilities are appropriate for including in the financial statements, reflecting the asset risks and the available data on policy holder longevity.
Valuation of complex investments: The valuation of property assets, lifetime mortgages, private credit and certain unquoted equities require the use of complex models and management judgement.
The Committee seeks to ensure Mark to model investments can involve that the valuation process for these investments is robust.
significant judgement and can produce valuation challenges for investments in new classes.
The Committee reviewed the processes and controls over investment valuations, in particular the valuation uncertainty policies and governance which included managements assessment of valuation Mark to model valuations inherently include uncertainty by asset type.
The Committee also reviewed available data illustrating recent trends in assumptions that lead to the existence of a range relation to retail property assets in the UK, and obtained comfort that market conditions were being of plausible valuations for financial instruments reflected in the relevant asset valuations.
Certain assets are subject to a higher degree of valuation The Committee concluded that there are appropriate controls surrounding the valuation of complex uncertainty particularly where valuations are assets and that they are valued appropriately for inclusion in the financial statements.
modelled using no-market inputs or the valuations are affected by other factors such as the illiquidity of the asset.
Valuation of non-participating insurance The Committee has reviewed the methodology for calculating reserves including the allowance made liabilities insurance: for payments to and from reassurance counterparties.
The assumptions for the rate of future mortality and morbidity how many customers will die or become ill during the policy term and persistency The non-participating insurance liabilities for how many customers will discontinue cover are based on the companys internal experience and protection contracts are an important driver use judgement about how experience may vary in the future.
of the profitability for this line of business and require judgements to be made regarding the The Committee reviewed the assumptions and the expected level of prudence taking into account assumed rates of mortality and persistency.
market benchmarking, internal experience studies and the reassurance structure.
The Committee The company makes extensive use of also considered the internal control environment in place to control the valuation models.
reassurance to reduce mortality risk.
The Committee concluded that the insurance liabilities of the Insurance division are appropriate for inclusion in the financial statements.
Internal control current year, significant to the preparation of the financial statements.
The Board has delegated responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness Where areas for improvement were identified, processes are in place to of the groups systems of internal control to the Audit Committee.
ensure that the necessary actions are taken and progress is monitored by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee has the primary responsibility for the oversight of the groups system of internal controls including financial control The Audit Committee monitored and reviewed the scope, extent and the work of the internal audit function.
The Audit Committee, and effectiveness of the activity of the Group Internal Audit function.
in collaboration with the Group Risk Committee, seeks to ensure that In particular, the Audit Committee evaluates the alignment of the the group operates within a framework of prudent and effective internal audit plan with the groups key risks and strategy.
controls that allow risk to be identified, assessed and managed.
The Group Chief Internal Auditor has a standing agenda item at each The Audit Committee has completed its review of the effectiveness of Audit Committee meeting to update the Audit Committee on audit the groups system of internal control policies and procedures, during activities, progress of the audit plans, the results of any unsatisfactory the year and up to the date this report was approved, in accordance audits and the action plans to address these areas.
In 2018, 107 audits with the requirements of the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal were completed in line with the Internal Audit Plan approved by the Control and related Financial and Business Reporting published by the Audit Committee.
There was a particular focus on key themes FRC.
During this review, the Audit Committee did not identify any including cyber data management and governance, digital business weaknesses which were determined to be significant to the preparation and regulatory change, conduct risk, financial management and of the financial statements.
The Audit Committee also noted that there control, model risk, outsourcing vendor management and economic were no significant changes to the control environment identified in the and political volatility.
68 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Audit Committee report The external auditor The Audit Committee reviews and approves the terms of engagement The Audit Committee has the primary responsibility for overseeing the of the external auditor and monitors its independence.
This includes relationship with, and performance of the external auditor.
This includes overseeing, and in certain circumstances approving, the engagement making recommendations for their appointment, reappointment, of the external auditors for non-audit work.
The non-audit services removal and remuneration.
policy prohibits the auditor from providing the following services: Appointment Tax advice and compliance The Audit Committee is cognisant of the requirements governing the Management or decision making appointment of an external auditor, notably the requirements of the Book-keeping and preparing accounting records or statements Competition and Markets Authority CMA in relation to the mandatory Design or implementation of internal controls re-tendering of audit services every ten years, together with the European Unions requirements for mandatory audit firm rotation.
Valuation The Company confirms that it has complied with the CMA Legal, internal audit or human resources requirements for the financial year under review.
Those linked to financing, capital structure or allocation, or Indeed, following the conclusion of the 2016 tender process, investmentstrategy KPMG were appointed as the Groups external auditors with effect Promoting, dealing in or underwriting share issues from the financial year commencing 1 January 2018.
Shareholder Payroll services approval of the appointment was received at the Annual General Meeting of the Company on 17 May 2018.
KPMG were invited to Remuneration observe the audit of the financial year ended 31 December 2017 In 2018, the group spent 2.3 million on non-audit services provided by and attended Audit Committee meetings in order to ensure an KPMG.
It spent a further 0.8 million on audit-related services required effective and orderly transition.
by legislation, which is excluded from any calculation of the ratio of non-audit to audit fees in accordance with the UK FRC Ethical Standard Performance for Auditors June 2016.
Further details can be found in Note 31 to the The Audit Committee assesses the effectiveness of the external consolidated financial statements.
The non-audit fee represents 38% auditor against some of the following criteria: of the total audit fee for 2018.
Provision of timely and accurate industry specific and Analysis of current and prior-year spend on audit, other assurance technical knowledge and non-assurance services: Maintaining a professional and open dialogue with the Audit Committee Chair and members at all times 2018 2017 2016 Audit 6.0 6.1 5.7 Delivery of an efficient audit and the ability to meet objectives within the agreed timeframes Audit-related required by legislation 0.8 0.8 1.0 The quality of its audit findings, managements response and Other audit-related 0.6 1.0 1.0 stakeholder feedback Other assurance 0.2 0.4 0.4 Non-assurance 1.5 0.8 1.1 The Audit Committee receives regular reports from the external auditor on audit findings and significant accounting issues.
In 2018, the Audit Total 9.1 9.1 9.2 Committee continued to focus on the external auditors assurance work on the financial control environment, as well as their conclusions on the Following the audit tender process, the policy was updated and significant accounting issues noted above.
approved by the Audit Committee to address the requirements as set out in the EU Audit regulation.
In addition, during the year, the Financial Reporting Councils Audit Quality Review Team AQRT reviewed PwCs audit of the groups Our policy is to approach other firms for significant non-audit work.
2017 financial statements as part of their annual inspection of audit The groups policy requires that all services with an anticipated cost in firms.
The Audit Committee received and reviewed the final report excess of a specified amount are subject to a full competitive tender from the AQRT which indicated that there were no significant areas involving at least one other alternate party in addition to the external of concern.
If the external auditor is selected following the tender process, the Audit Committee is responsible for approving the external auditors The Chair of the Audit Committee regularly meets the external auditor fees on the engagement.
For services with an anticipated cost below throughout the course of the year.
The Audit Committee also meets the specified amount, the Group Chief Financial Officer has authority the external auditor in private throughout the year.
The external auditor and management are required to report regularly to the Audit Committee on the nature and fees relating to non-audit services provided under this authority.
The Audit Committee remains satisfied that KPMG continued to be independent.
In addition, KPMG annually reports on whether and why it deems itself to be independent.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 69
