Governance Committed to the Compliance with the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code.
For the year ended 31 December 2018, we are pleased to highest standards report that we have applied the principles and complied withthe provisions of the Code.
Effectiveness A1 The role of the Board B1 The composition of the Board B4 Development The Board held eight formal meetings The Nominations Committee is responsible for The Board places great value on the inductions throughout the year, with additional ad hoc reviewing the composition of the Board and, in that are offered to new non-executives and the meetings held in line with business need.
making recommendations for appointments to ongoing training opportunities made available A number of sub-committee meetings took the Board, the Committee considers the balance toall Board members.
Over the course of the place to deal with matters such as the final of skills, experience and knowledge needed in year directors have attended one-to-one approval of the full and half year results.
order to enhance the Board and support the briefingsessions with members of the senior The Boards agenda is set by the Chairman and company in the execution of its strategy.
Details management team as well as more formal deals with those matters reserved to the Board, of the work undertaken by the Nominations Boardtraining sessions.
Further details of the including matters relating to the groups Committee are set out on pages 64 and 65. development sessions which have taken place strategic plan, risk appetite, and systems of during the year are set out on page 60.
B2 Appointments to the Board internal control and corporate governance The Nominations Committee is responsible for B5 Information and support policies.
Matters delegated to the Group Chief leading the process of appointing new directors Procedures are in place to ensure that Executive include managing the groups to the Board.
The Committee is committed to Boardmembers receive accurate and timely business in line with the strategic plan and ensuring that all appointments are made on information via a secure electronic portal.
approved risk appetite, and responsibility for merit having evaluated the capabilities of all Alldirectors have access to the advice of the the operation of the internal control framework.
potential candidates against the requirements of Group General Counsel and Company Secretary There is a formal schedule ofmatters reserved the Board, with due regard for the benets of all aswell as independent professional advice at for the Board which sets outthe structure under types of diversity, including diversity of gender, theexpense of the company.
which the Board manages its responsibilities, social and ethnic backgrounds, cognitive and providing guidance on how it discharges its B6 Evaluation personal strengths.
Further details of the authority and manages the Boards activities.
An internal board effectiveness review was appointments undertaken during the year can be undertaken this year.
Sir John Kingmans A2 Division of responsibilities found on page 58 and a summary of the Boards performance was appraised as part of this The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief policy on diversity can be found on page 65. review.
An externally facilitated evaluation was Executive are clearly dened and the role proles B3 Commitment undertaken by Oliver Ziehn of Lintstock in 2017. are reviewed as part of the annual governance The Non-Executive Directors letters of Details of this years internal evaluation and an review undertaken by the Board.
Sir John appointment set out the time commitment update on the recommendations from the 2017 Kingman, the Chairman, is responsible for expected from them.
At times, this time external evaluation are set out on page 61. leading the Board while Nigel Wilson, Group commitment may go beyond that set out in the Chief Executive, is responsible for the day-to-day B7 Re-election letter of appointment and is therefore reviewed management of the company within the strategy All directors were subject to shareholder regularly.
External commitments, which may set by the Board.
electionor re-election at the 2018 AGM, with have an impact on existing time commitments, theexception of those directors who were A3 The Chairman must be agreed in advance with the Chairman.
retiring at the conclusion of the meeting.
All The Chairman sets the agendas for meetings, Inaddition, the policy for the identification and directors received over 98% votes in favour of manages the meeting timetable and encourages management of directors conflicts of interest their re-election at the 2018 AGM.
All directors an open and constructive dialogue during isreviewed on an annual basis.
The significant will be subject to shareholder election or meetings.
Sir John Kingman was identified commitments of each of the directors are re-election at the 2019 AGM.
bythe directors as being independent on included in the Board biographies on pages 52 appointment, in accordance with the and 53.
The Chairmans commitments were independence criteria set out in provision considered as part of his appointment and the B.
Board agreed that he had no commitments that were expected to have a negative impact upon A4 Non-executive directors his time commitment to the Company.
This is The Chairman encourages an open and kept under review.
constructive dialogue in the boardroom and actively invites the views of all Board members.
The Chairman is available to the Non-Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Directors regularly meet in the absence of the Executive Directors.
In addition, the Chairman and Senior Independent Director are both available to shareholders should they have any concerns they wish to raise.
UK Corporate Governance Code A full version of the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website Please visit: frc.
uk 62 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Committed to the highest standards C. Accountability D. Remuneration C1 Financial and business reporting C3 Audit Committee and auditors D1 The level and components of remuneration The Strategic report, located on pages 1 to 49, The Audit Committee comprises six independent The company aims to reward employees fairly sets out the performance of the company, the Non-Executive Directors and the Board delegates a and its remuneration policy is designed to business model, strategy, and the risks and number of responsibilities to the Audit Committee, promote the long-term success of the company uncertainties relating to the companys future including oversight of the groups financial whilst aligning the interests of both the directors prospects.
When taken as a whole, the directors reporting processes and internal control, and the and shareholders.
Shareholders approved the consider the annual report is fair, balanced and work undertaken by the external and internal remuneration policy at the 2017 AGM.
The understandable and provides information auditors.
The Committee also supports the Boards Directors remuneration policy is set out on necessary for shareholders to assess the companys consideration of the companys viability pages 78 to 85. performance, business model and strategy.
statement and its ability to operate as a going D2 Procedure concern.
The Audit Committee chair provides C2 Risk management and internal control The Remuneration Committee is responsible regular updates to the Board on key matters The Board sets the companys risk appetite for setting the remuneration for all executive discussed by the Committee.
The Audit and annually reviews the effectiveness of the directors.
Details of the composition and the Committees terms of reference are reviewed companys risk management and internal control work of the Remuneration Committee are set annually and are available on the website, systems.
A description of the principal risks out in the Directors Remuneration Report on legalandgeneralgroup.
facing the company is set out on pages 48 and pages 72 to 101.
Page 47 sets out how the directors have assessed the prospects of the company, over what period they have done so and why they E. Relations with shareholders consider that period to be appropriate the viability statement.
The activities of the Audit E1 Dialogue with shareholders and Group Risk Committees, which assist the Board members take an active role in engaging Board with its responsibilities in relation to with both institutional and retail shareholders, financial reporting, audit matters, risk appetite both in private meetings and in wider forums setting and risk management, are set out on such as the AGM.
The Chairman and the Senior pages 66 to 71.
A Group IT Committee was Independent Director aim to meet the major established at the beginning of 2018.
The institutional investors at least once per year and Committee enabled the Board to have greater are available to meet other investors on request.
oversight of the companys programme to The Chairman shares feedback from these implement improvements during 2018 to ensure meetings with the wider Board.
A capital markets the group is operating within its targeted access event for investors was held in June 2018. management, information security and cyber risk appetite.
In Q4 2018 the remit of the committee E2 Constructive use of the AGM was expanded to cover a broader remit of IT The Board values the AGM as an important issues across the group.
Further details are opportunity to engage with investors.
Attendees set out on page 60. have the opportunity to ask questions of the Board and are invited to meet the Board following the formal business of the meeting.
1 Board and Committee meetings attendance during 2018 Appointment Committee Audit Nominations Remuneration Group Risk Group IT Director date appointments Board 8 Committee 5 Committee 2 Committee 5 Committee 6 Committee 11 Chairman and Executive directors 2 Sir John Kingman 24 October 2016 8 8 2 2 11 11 N D Wilson 1 September 2009 8 8 J Davies 9 March 2017 8 8 K Procter 9 March 2017 8 8 3 M Zinkula 18 September 2012 7 8 Non-executive directors 3 J Wilson 9 November 2011 7 8 4 5 2 2 5 6 11 11 4 H Baldock 4 October 2018 2 2 2 2 0 0 2 2 2 2 C Bradley 8 December 2014 8 8 2 2 5 5 P Broadley 8 July 2016 8 8 5 5 2 2 5 5 6 6 9 11 L Knox 1 June 2016 8 8 4 5 2 2 5 5 4 6 5 G Lewis 1 November 2018 1 1 1 1 0 0 1 1 T Strauss 1 January 2017 8 8 5 5 2 2 6 6 6 11 1.
Attendance at meetings in accordance with the formal schedule of meetings.
Attends all Audit, Remuneration and Group Risk Committee meetings as an invitee.
Attended all scheduled Board meetings but was unable to join one ad hoc meeting dealing with a single item.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 63
