Governance Governance report The UK Corporate Governance Code committed to Shortly after the new Code was published Board members received thehighest standards apresentation on the changes in the new Code and participated in The updated 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code new Code was discussions around the approach and actions to be taken to ensure published in July 2018.
This new Code emphasises the value of good fullcompliance with the new Code.
We have already taken steps to corporate governance to long-term sustainable success.
The principles implement the new principles of the new Code with the appointment of the UK Corporate Governance Code as published in 2016 the Code ofLesley Knox as employee-designated non-executive director.
are the standards against which we were required to measure ourselves Page 61 provides further detail on this new role.
during the year, however we are endeavouring, and have already made Governance is integral to both our Board environment and steps, to apply the updated principles of the new Code as soon as organisational culture and is a key ingredient in the success of our possible.
The information on the following pages demonstrates how business.
Our governance framework and policies support good we apply the principles of the Code in practice.
The information required decision making thereby contributing to the success of the business under Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 7.2.
6 can be found in over the long term, supporting our day-to-day operations and the directors report on pages 234 to 237.
Each year, the Board reviews protecting the interests of our stakeholders.
the groups corporate governance framework and compliance with the Code and the table on pages 62 and 63 sets out at a high level how we The Board have complied with each of the principles.
The table below sets out the changes to the Board that have taken place over the course of the year.
Henrietta Baldock, currently the Chair of LGAS, was appointed to the Board on 4 October 2018.
George Lewis Steps we have taken to implement the 2018 Code was appointed to the Board on 1 November 2018.
Their biographies are Annual Governance Review: As part of this years Group Board detailed on pages 52 to 53 and show the strength and depth of skills annual corporate governance review, the Board and Committee and experience they have brought to the Board.
Carolyn Bradley terms of reference, group policies, statements of responsibility stepped down from the Board with effect from 31 December 2018 and other group documents were updated to ensure they were following four years of service.
The Board continues to focus on in line with the provisions of the new Code.
maintaining a well-balanced Board with the right mix of individuals who can apply their wider business knowledge and experiences to the Designated non-executive director for engagement with the oversight and guidance of delivery of the groups strategy within the Companys workforce: Lesley Knox, non-executive director, was environment in which the group operates.
appointed as Designated Workforce Director in October 2018 and a schedule of work in relation to Lesleys new role is Changes to the Board underway.
Further detail on the role is provided on page 61.
Retirement Appointments Board and Committee papers: It is now a requirement that all group and subsidiary board papers demonstrate that stakeholder Carolyn Bradley Henrietta Baldock consideration has been taken into account as part of the Board George Lewis decision making process.
Customer Champion: Chris Knight, CEO Legal & General Changes to the Board since 31 December 2018 Retirement Retail, was appointed Group Customer Champion On 25 February 2019 the Company announced the appointment of on 24 May 2018.
This role was designed to ensure the voice of Michelle Scrimgeour as Chief Executive Officer of Legal & General the customer was at the heart of decision making across the Investment Management LGIM and executive director of Legal & Group.
The initial focus of the role has been to ensure that: General Group Plc.
Michelle will succeed Mark Zinkula as CEO of LGIM, We continue to listen to our customers when they tell us who on 31 May 2018 announced his intention to retire from the what is important to them: Company in August 2019.
Michelle will take up her post formally following the completion of regulatory and other formalities and Mark We can evidence that we put customer interests at the heart will be working closely with her to ensure a comprehensive handover.
of our decision making and governance processes: Michelle will join the Board of Legal & General Group Plc on Our MI demonstrates that the customer outcomes we deliver appointment, at which point Mark will step down from the Legal & match up to the high, market-leading standards we aspire to: General Group Plc Board.
The specific retirement and appointment and dates will be confirmed in due course.
We constantly improve how we treat vulnerable customers.
How the Board operates The Group Board will receive, annually, a Customer The Board is led by the Chairman, Sir John Kingman.
management of the group is led by Nigel Wilson, the Group Chief Executive.
The Non-Executive Directors play a key role in contributing Employee Survey: A new employee survey format was tothe delivery of strong governance and their role is not limited to the introduced this year.
The new platform enables complete Boardroom.
Examples of some of the other activities they have visibility on the current state of engagement across the undertaken during the course of the year are set out on page 59. workforce.
The new survey will be undertaken four times per year.
This increased visibility, combined with improved The Board is accountable for the long-term success of the company by technology, enables senior managers to take faster action on setting the groups strategic objectives and monitoring performance the insight received.
The Board receives, periodically, detailed against those objectives.
The Board meets formally on a regular basis metrics on the views and requirements of employees coming and, at each meeting, considers business performance, strategic out of the survey and plans for how actions will be implemented proposals, acquisitions and material transactions.
The group and its to address issues raised by employees in the survey.
subsidiaries operate within a clearly defined delegated authority framework, which has been fully embedded across the group.
The delegated authority framework ensures that there is an appropriate levelof Board contribution to and oversight of key decisions and that the day-to-day business is managed effectively.
The Board delegated 58 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Governance report authority framework consists of a clearly defined schedule of matters The Group Board agenda is set by the Chairman and consists of reserved for the Group Board.
The types of matters reserved for the thefollowing broad discussion areas: Board include, amongst other things, matters relating to the groups an update from the Group Chief Executive, the Group Chief Financial strategic plan, material transactions, risk appetite, and oversight of Officer and each of the key business division heads on business systems of internal control and corporate governance policies.
Those performance and key business initiatives.
matters which are not reserved are delegated by the Board to group discussions on strategic proposals, acquisitions, material level committees and to the Group Chief Executive, who then delegates transactionsand other group matters.
decision making onward to the Group Capital Committee, an executive decision making forum, andhis direct reports.
How the Board spent its time in 2018 The Board met formally 8 times during 2018 and Board sub-committees Board members and, as appropriate, individuals from the relevant were constituted on a number of occasions in order to deal with matters business areas are invited to present on key items, allowing the Board arising in the ordinary course of business outside of the formal schedule the opportunity to debate and challenge on initiatives directly with the of meetings.
The Board held one two-day and one full-day strategy senior management team along with the Executives.
A table of individual Board member attendance at the formal Board and committee meetings is provided on page 63.
Key areas of focus Discussion and actions arising Strategy At each Board meeting, the Board considered corporate and material transactions to ensure that proposed transactions were aligned with the groups strategy.
The Board had early sight of pipeline initiatives.
The Board assessed the range of ongoing corporate and commercial transactions to provide Board members with full opportunity to debate and feed back to the management team.
The Board held a full day strategy event which covered, among other things, the groups medium-term strategic opportunities, which had been determined as a key issue for the Board to focus on by the 2017 Board evaluation.
The Board held a two-day strategy event in Cardiff, a city of prominent business and investment interest for the group, to discuss progress against the groups strategic plan, the strategic direction of the group and optionality for certain of the business divisions, and the risks and future opportunities for the group with a particular focus on strategic considerations and capability of executing against the plan.
At its December meeting, the Board considered and approved the groups five-year business plan and 2019 budget.
Thisincluded a review of the divisional strategic objectives, initiatives and KPIs.
Solvency II The Board considered and approved Internal Model Major Change applications.
Governance An externally facilitated Board evaluation took place in Q4 2018 and the Board considered the findings at the January 2019 meeting.
Detailed recommendations arising from the evaluation were developed and were subsequently approved by the Board.
The Board is regularly updated by the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary on legal matters, emerging regulation and governance changes.
The Board is regularly updated by the Group General Chief Risk Officer on risk and compliance matters.
Stakeholders During the year, the Board regularly considered the groups relationship with various stakeholder groups.
It discussed shareholder matters, employee engagement, customers, and the groups impact on, and relationship with, widersociety.
Employee engagement was a focus of the Board in 2018 and a number of new initiatives, including the appointment of Lesley Knox as Designated Workforce Director and the rollout of a new employee survey, were implemented throughout the year.
Board members met throughout the year with its key regulators, the Prudential Regulation Authority and Financial ConductAuthority.
Strategy away days Ensuring our directors have the right skills and experience Strategy remained a key focus for the Board throughout the course tomaintain an effective Board of the year.
It held two separate strategy events outside the formal The Board believes that continuous director training and development Board meeting schedule in 2018 one full day event in April and one is important to maximise the effectiveness of the Board.
The Chairman two-day event in September.
These events provided the Board with an is assisted by the Group Company Secretary in providing all new opportunity to reect on the progress the groups strategy is making directors with a comprehensive induction programme on joining the against the backdrop of the macro trends identified as the drivers of Board.
This is individually tailored to the knowledge and experience strategy, and also allow Board members to debate, scrutinise and of each individual and includes a series of meetings with members of review performance against the strategic plan.
The Board also focuses the Board and with the groups operational and functional leadership, on the future and the next phase of the companys strategy.
The external advisers to the group and a programme of meetings with staff.
agendas for the strategy events included debate and discussion This ensures they obtain a detailed overview of the group, its business onstrategic options involving the heads of each of the groups key and governance framework as well as the regulatory environment in business divisions.
Both Henrietta Baldock and George Lewis were provided with a formal, tailored induction programme when joining the Board in 2018.
An example of the induction programme tailored for each incoming non-executive director is provided on the following page.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 59 Governance receptions with a broad group of employees as part of the continuing Tailored induction programme engagement with employees across the group.
Non-executive directors An introduction to the groups corporate structure, governance also visited variousbusiness operations and attended one-to-one framework and guiding principles: meeting with the Group briefing sessions withkey members of the senior management team Company Secretary who provided detail on the roles and on a regular basisover the year.
responsibilities of the Board, listed company requirements Group Information Technology Committee and the 2016 and 2018 UK Corporate Governance Codes.
A Group IT Committee of the Board was established in January 2018, Meetings with the CEO of each business division to receive an the primary purpose of which was to provide assurance to Board on overview of each business unit including information around the delivery of the companys programme to implement planned strategic goals, risk overview and management, customers and enhancements during 2018 to ensure the group was operating within key financials.
its targeted access management, information security and cyber risk Meetings with members of the Board, the Executive appetite.
In addition the Committees remit was set to cover further IT Committee and senior management, covering areas such as: matters across the group, including IT strategy and the technology aspects of major change programmes.
This reflects the significant Group risk management multi-year investment and change agenda that the organisation is Risk and compliance undertaking across its IT estate to ensure delivery of the groups Finance strategic objectives.
Remuneration For 2018, a specific additional purpose of the Committee was to provide Investor relations and corporate affairs assurance to the Board on the delivery of the companys programme to Meeting with the Group Actuary focusing on regulatory capital be GDPR compliant by May 2018. and the Groups Internal Model.
The Committees membership comprises the Chairman, the Senior Meeting with the Chairs of the Risk, Remuneration and Audit Independent Director, the Chair of the Audit Committee and the Chair Committee and the external auditor.
of the Group Risk Committee.
The Group Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer and Group IT Director are all required standing attendees.
In light of the Committees broad remit and the Subsequently, all Board members receive continuing education and extent of change activity across the group, the Committee met 11 times development opportunities at regular intervals throughout the year.
The initial meetings focused on establishing a framework Board and Committee meetings are used regularly to update the Board for reporting and addressing immediate concerns such as ensuring on developments in the areas in which the group operates and specific compliance with GDPR by the implementation date.
The later meetings training sessions for directors are scheduled for key topical issues.
focused on refining the management information and metrics presented TheBoard received, for example, a specific training session on IFRS17 to the Committee, reviewing ongoing work across all IT activities and in May and a specific session to update Board members on the changes working towards an appropriate IT and cyber security risk appetite.
to the UK Corporate Governance Code in August.
Other development activities undertaken throughout the year included deep dives into our Throughout the year the Committee provided effective oversight of businesses and Board site visits to business operations including: the the companys cyber security, information security and access General Insurance division in Birmingham and Home Finance division management and GDPR programmes.
in Solihull and the LGC and LGIM developments in Cardiff, including Central Square.
While in Birmingham and Cardiff, the Board attended 2018 Board and Committee evaluations The Board undertakes a formal review of The review focused in particular on the following areas: its performance and that of its committees Board composition, expertise and dynamics each year.
The 2018 review was conducted by Strategic and performance oversight Lintstock, an external board review specialist.
Lintstock have no other connection to the Succession planning and human resource management company.
The aim of the review was to assess Priorities for change the effectiveness of the Board, both as a The review included a review of the Chairman and individual directorsperformance.
collective unitary board, and at individual Board member level, in order to implement The results of the review were extremely positive.
A summary of recommendations from the any actions required to become a more review is set out below, together with an update on the progress made against the effective Board.
The performance of each of recommendations from the 2017 internal review.
the Board Committees was also assessed.
Recommendations from 2018 Continue to have regular oversight over and involvement in executive and senior management development and succession.
Continue to improve the Boards understanding of the views and requirements of customers.
Enhance the Boards understanding of digital and technological developments and major projects.
Continue to improve oversight of the groups subsidiaries, including holding an annual event for Group Board and key subsidiary board non-executive directors.
60 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Governance report Recommendations from 2017 review Progress against 2017 recommendations Evolve the medium-term succession plans Throughout the year the Nominations Committee held sessions on executive and senior management for non-executive and executive directors and succession planning and Board succession.
In addition, the Group Board received two sessions on the senior management in line with the groups top talent at the levels below senior management.
At the Group Board strategy event in September, strategic ambitions.
the Group HR Director presented a session on the capability of the group to implement the strategy as set out in the groups five-year plan.
Against the backdrop of the UK Stewardship The Chairman undertook a number of meetings with shareholders in 2018 and the executive meet Code, assess how the group engages with with shareholders on a regular basis.
Work is ongoing in this area and the Board received a detailed presentation from its brokers in February 2019 on investor targeting.
Assess how the Boards consideration of the Lesley Knox was appointed as Designated Workforce Director in October 2018 and a schedule of views and requirements of group employees work in relation to Lesleys new role is underway.
Lesley reports back to the Board at each meeting can be enhanced.
A new employee survey tool was introduced in 2018.
The Board receives periodically detailed metrics on the views and requirements of employees coming out of the survey.
The Board has had opportunities throughout the year to meet group employees in various locations, including in Birmingham and Cardiff.
Continue to maintain the groups focus on The Board discussed the groups culture in detail in the October Board meeting and specifically when culture, including ensuring that the groups considering the formation of and recommendations coming out of the new employee survey tool culture and core values are maintained as the introduced by the group in 2018.
When considering material acquisitions and strategic expansion group grows.
throughout the year, maintaining the groups culture was a focus for the Board.
Under the new UK Corporate Governance Code the Board will have a specific duty to assess and monitor culture.
The Board is well positioned going forward to build on the work undertaken in this area in 2018 to comply with this duty.
Assess the groups brand and the strength and The group appointed a new Group Brand Director at the beginning of 2018.
The Board undertook a opportunities of the brand.
detailed discussion on the group brand in December 2018 where the strength and opportunities of the brand in the UK were fully explored.
Work continues on how to harness the strength and opportunities of the brand in the UK and on properly understanding the value of the brand in the US and other international markets.
Stakeholder engagement Lesley is in the process of scoping the role and developing a work plan Each year the Chairman meets a number of the groups major investors, to ensure that engagement is as effective as possible and her new role providing them with theopportunity to ask the Chairman questions and satisfies the requirements of our employees.
It is intended that some of to discuss a variety of topics relating to the group.
In 2018 the Chairman the key activities will include: held 22 investor meetings.
Some of the themes that emerged from Leading a programme of workforce listening events across the UK these meetings included culture: LGIM and group succession planning: business, including formal meetings on specific subjects with targeted Board composition: the dividend: and pension risk transfer and direct cohorts, informal in-person listening sessions, and on-line discussions: investments.
Reviewing workforce metrics, feedback and engagement mechanisms: Designated Workforce Director Meeting with elected workforce representatives, including Unite and On 4 October 2018 Lesley Knox was appointed as Designated MCF, and other employee network groups: Workforce Director for the group.
This positions Lesley as the identified Reporting to the Board on key issues and themes, and representing director responsible for gathering the views of our employees and the workforce view in Board discussions and decision making.
representing the views of our workforce at Board level.
Lesleys new role will facilitate effective engagement with our employees and Lesley has a standing item at every Board meeting to report back to the strengthen the link between workers and the boardroom.
Board on employee related matters.
Sir John Kingman Chairman Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 61
