56 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance report Our Board in 2018 Gender diversity Skills and experience Board tenure Age Non-Executive Directors only Retail Commercial Banking A.
Financial markets wholesale banking 8 out of 10 corporate clients B. C. D. Insurance 5 out of 10 Prudential and conduct risk in 10 out of 10 A.
56-65: 9 Core technology operations 5 out of 10 C. 4-6 years: 4 C. 66-75: 2 Government regulatory D. 6-8 years: 4 10 out of 10 E. 8 years: 1 Consumer marketing distribution 8 out of 10 Strategic thinking 10 out of 10 Data as at 31 December 2018.
Amanda Mackenzie joined the Board on 1 October 2018, and Deborah McWhinney retired from the Board on 31 December 2018.
4 Board and Committee composition and attendance in 2018 Nomination and Audit Board Risk Remuneration Responsible Board member Board meetings Governance Committee Committee Committee Committee Business Committee C Lord Blackwell C 8 8 7 7 8 8 6 6 4 4 Antnio Horta-Osrio 8 8 Juan Colombs 8 8 George Culmer 8 8 C Alan Dickinson 8 8 7 7 7 7 8 8 6 6 3 C Anita Frew 8 8 6 7 7 7 8 8 6 6 4 4 C Simon Henry 7 8 7 7 8 8 Lord Lupton 8 8 6 7 8 8 1 Amanda Mackenzie 1 1 2 2 1 1 2 Deborah McWhinney 8 8 6 7 8 8 Nick Prettejohn 8 8 7 7 8 8 3 C Stuart Sinclair 7 8 7 8 6 6 4 4 C Sara Weller 8 8 7 7 8 8 6 6 4 4 1 Amanda Mackenzie joined the Board and respective Committees on 1 October 2018.
2 Deborah McWhinney retired from the Board on 31 December 2018.
3 Stuart Sinclair succeeded Anita Frew as the Chair of the Remuneration Committee on 1 September 2018.
4 Where a Director is unable to attend a meeting s he receives papers in advance and has the opportunity to provide comments to the Chair of the Board, or to the relevant Committee Chair.
C Chairman Deep dive sessions The Board regularly takes the opportunity to hold deep dive sessions with senior management outside formal Board meetings.
The purpose of the sessions is to provide the Board with deeper insight into key areas of strategic focus, whilst providing Directors with a greater understanding and appreciation for the subject matter to help drive better quality of debate and enhance knowledge.
Thesessions are structured to allow plenty of opportunity for discussion and include presentations and videos.
In 2018 deep dive sessions were held on the following topics: IT Architecture Strategy People and ways of working initial deep dive in April, and update meeting in October Open Banking Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets plc update Scottish Widows strategy Governance of GSR3 and value streams Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information E S I M I X A M T R A N S Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 57 Key focus areas 1 The Board sets the strategy, oversees its Strategy Governance and stakeholders delivery and establishes the culture, values Two strategy away days to review and standards of the Group.
The Board Establishment of the operational, the progress in implementing the ensures that the Group manages risk organisational and governance structure Groups strategy effectively, monitors financial performance for the Ring-Fenced Banks.
and reporting and ensures that appropriate Deep dive on IT Architecture Board effectiveness and Chairmans and effective succession planning Strategy performance reviews arrangements and remuneration policies Deep dive on Open Banking are in place.
It provides and encourages AGM documentation approval and entrepreneurial leadership across the Group subsequent voting results briefing Consideration and approval of within this framework.
large transactions Review and approval of the Corporate Governance Framework Cloud strategy, which supports Below are details of the the transformation of the Groups main topics discussed Review and approval of various IT architecture by the Board during the Group policies including Signing Authorities, LEADING year.
CUSTOMER Group Statement on Modern Slavery, EXPERIENCE and Board and GEC Members Dealing Policy Customers Investor Relations updates Revised principal Committee responsibilities Discussions and decisions Annual review of customer conduct framework and risks Chairmans fee review without Chairman present Performance reviews against customer Regular updates dashboard Non-Executive Directors fees review with Non-Executive Directors abstaining Deep dives on customer propositions, Group Performance Report including mortgage offerings and Going concern and viability statement Finance report, including budgets, transforming customer journeys Banking Standards Board update forecast and capital positions Processes and outcomes for fair Board appointments and Executive Risk reports treatment of customer complaints succession plans and remediation 2018 customer performance dashboard 1 Further details regarding stakeholder engagement can be Progress in providing a single found on pages 16 to 18.
Chairmans report customer view of Group products and Reports from Chairmen of Committees supporting Open Banking developments and principal subsidiaries Supporting vulnerable customers and customers in financial difficulty Regulatory Updates on our support for financial inclusion Ring-Fenced Banking updates Financial Whistleblowing updates 2018 budget Regulatory updates Culture and values Dividend approval Senior Manager and Certification Deep dive on people and ways Regime updates Update on structural hedging strategy of working in April, and an additional Pension scheme valuations deep dive in October Group Corporate Treasury Management Helping Britain Prosper Plan information pack Conduct, culture and values Risk management GSR3 and four year operating plan Culture dashboard Draft results and presentations to analysts Responsible business report Approval of Group risk appetite Funding and liquidity plans Cyber security briefings Capital plan Review and approval of conduct risk Basel Pillar 3 disclosures Review and approval of PRA and EBA stress testing results Annual report and Form 20-F Review and approval of the Unconsolidated income statement Risk Management Framework Group treasury plan 2019 F O R M E S I T I G I D 58 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance in action following a structured Request for Proposal process, involving two Schroders joint venture rounds of bidding, due diligence, site visits, client references and joint On 23 October 2018, the Group announced a strategic partnership implementation workshops.
An evaluation process indicated that with Schroders plc to create a market-leading wealth management Schroders would be the preferred bidder, with Schroders standing proposition.
The three key components of the partnership are: out on strategic alignment as well as investment performance, which i the establishment of a new financial planning joint venture the JV : was seen as key to building a successful long-term relationship.
The recommendation included the proposed strategic partnership with ii the Group taking a 19.9 per cent stake in Schroders high net worth UK the Wealth business, which would benefit the Insurance business.
wealth management business: and The recommendation to appoint Schroders to manage the funds was iii the appointment of Schroders as the active investment manager of accepted in principle by the Insurance Board, subject to approval of the approximately 80 billion of the Scottish Widows and Lloyds Banking proposed JV arrangements by the Group Board.
Group Board approval Group insurance and wealth related assets.
of the JV proposals was obtained on 2October 2018.
This strategic partnership will combine the Groups significant client The JV element of the partnership was considered by the main Group base, multi-channel distribution and digital capabilities with Schroders Board.
Initially papers were presented at scheduled Board meetings, investment and wealth management expertise and technology but as the proposal progressed, a Committee of the Board considered capabilities.
and approved the project to provide flexibility, to better respond to the As part of the structure of the partnership, the Board considered two needs of the business and engage in governance of the project, which primary elements: was important for the implementation of the Groups strategy in the The management of the insurance and wealth related assets: and area of insurance and wealth, and for the Group as a whole.
TheBoard scrutinised the proposal to satisfy itself that the establishment of the The establishment of the JV JV was in the best interests of the Groups customers.
The Board Management of the assets was largely the responsibility of the considered, amongst other things, the process for referring Group Insurance Business.
In July 2018, a recommendation was made to the customers to the JV and that the standards of customer service would Insurance Board and the Boards of all the other entities that were to be meet the Groups values and standards, ensuring that customers were at parties to the arrangements proposing that Schroders be appointed the heart of the decision being made.
as core investment management and investment advisory partner the Equity sub-group under a new equity holding company, LBG Revised Group governance arrangements and Equity Investments Limited, under which the principal subsidiary is Group restructure to comply with ring-fencing Lloyds Development Capital Limited.
Following the financial crisis, UK legislation was passed to better protect customers and the day-to-day banking services they rely on.
The new rules mean large UK banks must separate personal banking services Lloyds Banking Group plc such as current and savings accounts from risks in other parts of the Aligned Boards business, like investment banking.
Banks have taken different approaches on how they implement these rules with effect from 1 January 2019.
Lloyds Bank plc Scottish The Group, led by the Nomination and Governance Committee, has Lloyds Bank LBG Equity Widows HBOS plc Corporate Investments worked closely with the Regulators to ensure that there is in place a Group Markets plc Limited Group structure and governance arrangements which are appropriate Limited Bank of Scotland plc for the Group, and meet regulatory requirements.
Lloyds Bank plc and Bank of Scotland plc have been identified as the banks which have been included within the ring-fence together, the Ring-Fenced Banks.
Ring-Fenced Banks Non Ring-Fenced Bank Insurance Equity Investments Broadly, there are three key PRA principles that underpin the governance structure for the Ring-Fenced Banks.
The board structure Independent decision making by the Ring-Fenced Bank Boards on To facilitate effective governance, the boards of Lloyds Banking Group any matters where there might be a conflict between the interests of plc, Lloyds Bank plc, Bank of Scotland plc and HBOS plc are run on an the Ring-Fenced Banks and the interests of another part of the Group, aligned basis as the business of the Ring-Fenced Banks accounts for ensuring that the Ring-Fenced Bank Boards act in the interests of the the majority of the Groups operations.
This involves the Directors of Ring-Fenced Banks.
Lloyds Banking Group plc also sitting on the Boards of the other three Risks considered and managed from the Ring-Fenced Banks companies.
To provide further support to the fulfilment of the three perspective this includes maintenance of the capital adequacy and key principles of governance of the Ring-Fenced Banks outlined above, liquidity of the Ring-Fenced Banks.
three additional independent Non-Executive Directors have been Clear and effective governance at both Ring-Fenced Bank and appointed to the Ring-Fenced Bank Boards.
Lloyds Banking Group plc level including second and third lines of Consistent with the existing independent Scottish Widows Limited defence in respect of risk management.
Board, Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets plc also has an independent In order to meet ring-fencing requirements a major governance and Board.
Further detail on the risk management framework of the Group legal entity programme has been implemented across the Group, which and of each sub-group is set out on page 106. has included the following aspects: New directors of the Ring-Fenced Banks Reorganisation During the first quarter of the year the Nomination and Governance The reorganisation of the subsidiaries of the Group, which have now Committee oversaw the selection process and recommendation for been restructured into four sub-groups under Lloyds Banking Group plc: appointment of three new Non-Executive Directors to the Boards the Ring-Fenced Bank sub-group containing Lloyds Bank plc and of Lloyds Bank plc and Bank of Scotland plc.
As described in the Bank of Scotland plc which includes the Halifax business and MBNA : Chairmans introduction on page 51, Sarah Bentley, Brendan Gilligan and the LBCM sub-group under Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets plc, Nigel Hinshelwood were recruited during the year, and took office with which now holds the Groups subsidiaries and branches in the Crown effect from 1 January 2019.
All the Ring-Fenced Bank only Directors sit Dependencies, Singapore and the US.
Anumber of client agreements on the Board Risk Committees of each of the Ring-Fenced Banks and were also transferred from Lloyds Bank plc and Bank of Scotland plc to two are members of the relevant Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets plc in order to comply with the ringNigel Hinshelwood, who is the Senior Independent Director of each of fencing regulatory requirements which took effect on 1 January 2019: the Ring-Fenced Banks with effect from 1 January2019, is also a member the Insurance sub-group under Scottish Widows Group Limited of the Nomination Committee of each of the Ring-Fenced Banks.
including Scottish Widows Limited : and Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 59 Q&A with Alan Dickinson, Chair of the Board Risk Committee Q: How do we remain focused on resolving Aside from the balance sheet impacts of such legacy conduct, litigation and regulatory events, operational resilience has become matters?
ever more important as the processes and systems by which banks provide their services A: The Committee pays a great deal of become ever more technologically reliant attention to these issues.
Whilst PPI misselling and dependent upon continued smooth is by far the most costly and well known issue, running of services provided inhouse and there remain many smaller issues which through expert third parties.
The demand for have been identified over the years since the change and more sophisticated services in financial crisis.
The Group has established itself brings operational risk as platforms are very considerable resources to address changed.
Add on the increasing risk of cyber these potential redress requirements and attacks and operational resilience is receiving has made material progress over the last Q: What is the Groups risk appetite and risk a very considerable amount of attention from 12months in resolving these matters.
many cases our customers may have been A: Taking risk is a critical part of what unaware of their potential claim.
The Board Change also brings other risks.
It is important any bank must do.
How well it does that to provide the ever more user friendly and Risk Committee has placed great emphasis determines how well it meets the needs of its on clearing up these issues and achieving sophisticated services that the banking customers and how successful it will be as an customers of tomorrow increasingly require, resolution as rapidly as possible and reviews organisation.
progress at each and every meeting.
and will obtain from other suppliers if we do not.
Changing processes and systems that The Board Risk Committee has three key Q: What are the biggest risk factors to our have been established over decades if not responsibilities.
industry and what steps are we taking to more and making the organisation agile and The first is to review the environment in address them?
able to respond to demand, is a very material which the Group is operating factors such risk and will take up a great deal of the Board A: Even in the best of times, it is essential as the economic and geopolitical climate Risk Committees time for many years ahead.
for banks to be aware of both inherent and for example and recommend for Board emerging risks of which there are many.
approval how much risk the Group should Q: What keeps you awake at night?
The inherent risks receive regular scrutiny, take the Risk Appetite.
This will usually be a but emerging risks require special attention A: Fortunately, I sleep pretty well.
The maximum level of risk in any one area such particularly with a banking group the size of comprehensive work programme undertaken as how large a proportion of new mortgage Lloyds Banking Group.
by the Board Risk Committee means that loans should be represented by high loan to most issues have been reviewed in detail value loans, typically to first time buyers.
The sheer scale of our balance sheet and and actions taken or accelerated where the nature of banking in taking deposits and The second is to ensure that the ways in appropriate.
lending those deposits on to other customers which the risk that is taken are effective and means that we are mindful of the risks in The greater concerns lie where it is simply efficient, for example setting out policies impossible to be in control of events be the UK economy at any time and indeed in and procedures to be followed and checks the global economy given that, as a trading they geopolitical or, say, operational such as and balances to make sure that the right cybersecurity.
It is much easier to predict with nation, what goes on in the world will very actions happen.
This is the Risk Management rapidly impact the UK.
The geopolitical accuracy potential losses from lending on Framework which is reviewed regularly by the mortgage or credit card than the reputational situation and, closer to home, EU exit are very Board Risk Committee to give comfort that it important risk factors to be considered when and financial losses that might arise from a is still guiding the Group to do those things successful cyberattack.
assessing the Groups Risk Appetite.
As economic cycles mature, it is important to Ensuring that the Group is as prepared as it The third responsibility is to continually assess be mindful of the impact of the money supply possibly can be with the strongest defences the ways in which Group colleagues have risk upon asset prices and to gauge the impact and tools at its disposal is the only prudent in mind when doing their jobs what I would of a sudden reversal of asset price growth course to take and is one we have pursued call the Risk Culture.
The role of the Board on investor sentiment, markets and the real vigorously in recent years to protect the and its Risk Committee is to set the tone from economy.
We are always wary of asset price Group and all of its customers from whatever the top to set an example as to what risks to bubbles and the potential impact upon an might happen in the future.
take and how to manage those risks.
ever more closely linked global economy of a sudden reversal.
Where further training or awareness is identified, such as new Beyond Board meetings technology, regulations or sector advances, deep dives are held NonExecutive Directors regularly meet with senior management and with therelevant field expert to provide overviews, chances to raise spend time increasing their understanding of the business through questions, and debate the impacts on business in an informal setting.
site visits, formal briefing sessions or more informal events including Details of the new mandatory training that has been rolled out to the breakfast meetings with senior staff.
These informal meetings allow NonExecutive Directors this year can be seen on page 63.
Directors greater time to discuss business in an informal setting, The Board held joint discussions with Scottish Widows Group Limited ensuring that there is sufficient time for the Board to discuss matters of a in April, and Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets plc in September.
These material nature at Board meetings.
meetings are important in respect of both governance and the sharing NonExecutive Directors see attendance at Board and Committee of best practice.
They also provide the opportunity for indepth focus meetings as only one part of their role.
In addition to the annual on both insurance and corporate markets matters.
Performance and schedule of Board and Committee meetings, the NonExecutive business updates are also provided, and, in the case of Lloyds Bank Directors undertake a full programme of activities and engagements Corporate Markets plc, updates on key milestones in respect of the each year, please see pages 16 to 18 for more information.
development of this new bank.
60 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 How our Board works Meetings, activities and processes In the rare event of a Director being unable to attend a meeting, the The right processes in place to deliver onour Chairmen of the respective meetings discuss the matters proposed with strategy the Director concerned wherever possible, seeking their support and During the year, there were eight scheduled Board meetings, with details feedback accordingly.
The Chairman subsequently represents those of attendance shown on page 56.
In addition to formal meetings, the views at the meeting.
Board meets as necessary to consider matters of a time-sensitive nature.
The Board recognises the need to be adaptable and flexible to respond The Chairman and the Chairmen of each Committee ensure Board and to changing circumstances and emerging business priorities, whilst Committee meetings are structured to facilitate open discussion, debate ensuring the continuing monitoring and oversight of core issues.
The Group has a comprehensive and continuous agenda setting and The Board is supported by its Committees which make escalation process in place to ensure that the Board has the right recommendations on matters delegated to them under the Corporate information at the right time and in the right format to enable the Governance Framework, in particular in relation to Board appointments Directors to make the right decisions.
The Chairman leads the process, internal control risk, financial reporting, governance and remuneration assisted by the Group Chief Executive and Company Secretary.
process ensures that sufficient time is being set aside for strategic The management of all Committees is in keeping with the basis on which discussions and business critical items.
meetings of the Board are managed.
Each of the Committees structures The process of escalating issues and agenda setting is reviewed at least facilitates open discussion and debate, with steps taken to ensure annually as part of the Board Effectiveness Review with enhancements adequate time for members of the Committees to consider proposals made to the process, where necessary, to ensure it remains effective.
Details of the meeting process are provided on the next page.
The Executive Directors make decisions within clearly defined The Non-Executive Directors also receive regular updates from the parameters which are documented within the Corporate Governance Group Chief Executives office including a weekly email which gives Framework.
However, where appropriate, any activities outside the context to current issues.
In-depth and background materials are regularly ordinary course of business are brought to the full Board for their provided via a designated area on the secure electronic Board portal.
consideration, even if the matters fall within the agreed parameters.
A full schedule of matters reserved for the Board and Terms of TheCorporate Governance Framework helps to ensure that decisions Reference for each of the principal Committees can be found at are made by management with the correct authority.
com Q&A with Anita Frew, Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director Regarding the Board as a whole, I act as concerns and as such I delegate much of a trusted intermediary for the other Nonthe day-to-day activity to these trusted Executive Directors where this is required colleagues.
I retain oversight over the team to help them to challenge and contribute through regular catch up meetings and have effectively: and take the initiative in discussion a direct reporting line for matters that require with the Chairman or other Board members escalation tome.
On an annual basis, I am if it should seem that the Board is not responsible for presenting to the Board on the functioning effectively.
effectiveness of the Groups arrangements and this includes relevant case updates, For the Group, as the Ring-Fenced Bank industry perspective and whether the internal structure is now in place, I also liaise and processes are effective to handle disclosures collaborate with the Ring-Fenced Bank Senior Q: What is your role as Senior Independent properly.
Q: Are you satisfied the Company has Q: Where does the Senior Independent A: I have a number of different stakeholders to a robust process in place in respect of Director add value?
whom I am accountable, being shareholders, whistleblowing?
the Chairman, the other Directors and the A: The role of the Senior Independent A: The Groups whistleblowing arrangements Group as a whole.
I make myself available to Director has grown enormously in the past are subject to annual review by Group shareholders when there are concerns that few years, and I believe stakeholders really Internal Audit.
This provides an opportunity have not or cannot be dealt with through the value this alternative contact within the Board, for an independent party to review the usual channels of the Chairman or Executive providing a highly versatile intermediary with whistleblowing processes and test whether Directors.
I also attend regular meetings with the Board and senior management.
This is they are effective.
The results to date from major shareholders to ensure that there is a supported by me having a close relationship these reviews have been positive compared balanced understanding of the issues and with the stakeholders to reinforce the trust to our peers.
TheAudit Committee and concerns that this group of shareholders have.
and confidence needed to perform the Board also receive regular reports regarding I act as a sounding board for the Chairman role effectively.
The majority of my role whistleblowing.
and Group Chief Executive on Board and is undertaken during normal business shareholder matters, and have regular circumstances, but recognising that I will In addition, the Group has recently meetings with both.
In matters relating to need to step in when any issues arise.
The participated in a benchmarking exercise the Chairman such as his performance and relationships fostered during times of normal led by Protect.
Protect formerly known as conduct evaluation, agreeing his objectives business provide a strong basis to deal with Public Concern at Work provide external and succession planning, I will Chair the any such issues effectively and independently.
Colleagues can contact Nomination and Governance Committee in the independent UK Whistleblowing charity, Q: As Whistleblowing Champion for the his place to ensure independence.
I will also Protect who can talk you through your options Group, what are the reporting lines to you, and conduct his annual appraisal, and deal with and help you raise a concern about risk, how do matters get escalated to the Board?
any concerns regarding the Chairman that malpractice or suspected wrongdoing at A: My role as the Groups whistleblowing other members of the Board have.
This exercise reviewed the governance, Champion is to oversee the integrity, engagement and operational arrangements independence and effectiveness of the and compared these to other financial Groups procedures for whistleblowing.
The Group is a dedicated team within the Group that scored positively with the results showing a is responsible for managing whistleblowing favourable position.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 61 Board meetings A yearly planner is prepared by the Company Secretary to map out the flow of key items of business to the Board.
Start of Board venues are agreed and colleagues in the areas that the Board will visit are engaged at both senior management and the year operational level.
The Chairman holds monthly meetings to review the draft agenda and planner with the Company Secretary and Chief of Agenda set Staff, as well as quarterly meetings with a wider group of central functions, to identify emerging issues.
The draft Board agenda is discussed between the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive and reviewed at GEC meetings.
Matters may be added to agendas in response to external events, Non-Executive Director requests, regulatory initiatives and the quarterly Board topic review meetings.
Templates and guidelines are included within targeted training for authors of papers to ensure consistency and high Papers quality of information.
compiled and Meeting packs are uploaded and communicated to all Directors via a secure electronic Board portal typically a week in distributed advance of the meeting to ensure sufficient time to review the matters which are to bediscussed and seek clarification or any additional information.
Executive meetings are held ahead of all Board and Committee meetings to ensure all matters being presented to the Board have been through a thorough discussion and escalation process.
Before the meeting Committee meetings are held prior to Board meetings, with the Chairman of each Committee then reporting matters discussed to the Board.
Non-Executive discussions and informal dinners are held prior to most Board meetings, some of which also include the Group Chief Executive.
Board meetings have certain standing items, such as a report from the Group Chief Executive and ChiefFinancial Officer on Group performance, reports from the Chairmen of Committees and principal subsidiaries and updates from GEC Board members.
meeting Topics for deep dives or additional items are discussed when required and include business, governance and regulatory updates.
The Board makes full use of technology such as video conferencing, teleconferencing, a Board portal and tablets devices in its meeting arrangements.
This leads to greater flexibility, security and efficiency inBoard paper distribution and meeting arrangements.
The Board meetings offer the Board the chance to meet colleagues within the business, and if any additional meetings are After the required to provide more details, these are arranged.
meeting Minutes and matters arising from the meeting are produced and circulated to the Directors for review and feedback.
Those responsible for matters arising are asked to provide updates to a subsequent meeting.
Lord Blackwells visit to Cardiff The Chairman met with a number of teams, Lord Blackwells visit continued with a Town including the Group Customer Services Hall session, with over 200 colleagues, Customer Solutions Centre, which is followed by a visit to two local branches where designing and developing a new customer he discussed the evolution of technology management system which utilises artificial with mortgage advisors, and how their intelligence, and colleagues from Black Horse, role has changed.
Lord Blackwell then met including the Complaints team.
Lord Blackwell with Women Connect First, which aims to sat with colleagues and went through some empower black and minority ethnic women in live cases with them, discussing the challenges Cardiff, helping them realise their full potential they face in ensuring fair and reasonable and make an impact on Welsh society.
To end his visit in Cardiff, Lord Blackwell As one of his regular site visits, Lord Blackwell This was followed by a networking lunch hosted a colleague recognition dinner.
The was in Cardiff in September meeting withthe Commercial Banking SME and the evening recognised the achievements of colleagues from St. William House, local Mid Markets Team, who deliver local face-tocolleagues who demonstrate the Group branches and LloydsBank Foundation charity, face relationships across five geographical values of making a difference together, Women Connect First.
keeping things simple and putting customersfirst.
62 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 How our Board works This is a well functioning Board underpinned by a shared purpose, strong team dynamics and Assessing our effectiveness 2 robust processes.
If Directors have concerns about the Company or a proposed action Board evaluation which cannot be resolved, it is recorded in the Board minutes.
Also on resignation, Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to provide a written How the Board performs and is evaluated statement of any concerns to the Chairman, for circulation to the Board.
In accordance with the three-year cycle, the 2018 effectiveness review 1 No such concerns were raised in 2018 and up to the date of this report.
was facilitated externally by Egon Zehnder, an external board evaluation specialist, between August 2018 and January 2019.
The annual effectiveness review, which is facilitated externally at least once every External evaluation process three years, provides an opportunity to consider ways of identifying greater efficiencies, maximising strengths and highlighting areas of Stage 1 August 2018 further development.
The effectiveness review was commissioned by Initial meetings with the Chairman took place to build on the existing the Board, assisted by the Company Secretary and overseen by the questionnaire and establish a discussion guide.
Analysis of the Nomination and Governance Committee.
Details of this effectiveness existing skills matrix was undertaken.
This enabled Egon Zehnder review are provided below.
to understand the Boards purpose and scope out the effectiveness The Board conducted internal effectiveness reviews in 2016 and 2017. review.
These were led by the Chairman of the Board, and included a review of effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors Stage 2 September to November 2018 with the support of the Nomination and Governance Committee.
Questionnaires were sent to the Directors ahead of the one-to-one Performance evaluation of the Chairman is carried out by the Noninterviews with each Director.
Egon Zehnder also attended the Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, taking into November Board meeting.
This enabled Egon Zehnder to witness account the views of the Executive Directors.
and evaluate the Boards processes and behaviours.
2018 evaluation of the Boards performance Stage 3 January 2019 The 2018 effectiveness review sought the Directors views on a range of Findings were reviewed with the Company Secretary.
The summary topics including: strategy: planning and performance: risk and control: findings were then shared and discussed with the Chairman and Board composition and size: balance of skills and experience: diversity: feedback on each of the Committees was shared with the relevant culture and dynamics: the Boards calendar and agenda: the quality and principal Committees.
The final summary was presented to the Board timeliness of information: and support for Directors and Committees.
in January at a meeting facilitated by Egon Zehnder.
Feedback on The effectiveness review findings focus on both evaluation of individual Directors is shared with the Chairman.
effectiveness of the Board as a whole, and of the individual Directors.
Highlights from the 2018 review The evaluation concluded that the performance of the Board, its Committees, the Chairman and each of the Directors continues to be effective.
AllDirectors demonstrated commitment to their roles.
The key findings and areas for consideration include the following: Findings Areas for consideration Purpose of creating the conditions for sound Despite strong engagement in strategy the Board agenda is Purpose and governance and renewed stakeholder perceived to be still overly rooted in regulatory compliance and risk Strategy confidence has been well executed mitigation.
Looking ahead, there is an opportunity for the Board to through tight controls and disciplined become more outwardly-focused.
riskmanagement: The strategy is clear and the Directors are aligned on strategic priorities.
Controls and governance are very strong: Further streamlining of meeting papers and agendas to enable Processes Committees are broadly well chaired: more expansive discussion: The 2018 strategy review process was hailed The increase in the number of Directors attending aligned Board as a great success in allowing for widemeetings may require different disciplines in the conduct of ranging and free-flowing debate.
meetings: Large attendance of Committee meetings could inhibit debate.
The Chairman: Consideration as to whether there is scope for bringing further People has focused on building an  know-how to the Board in due course: minded, diverse Board, and has laid the Non-Executive Directors would like to offer greater support to the foundations for an open Board culture: Chairman by leveraging their unique skills and experience more invests considerable one-on-one time with fully.
Non-Executive Directors, which provides a platform for timely, two-way feedback, and helps the new Non-Executive Directors build confidence and a sense of belonging.
Board Directors are committed and suitably inquisitive.
They come well-prepared to meetings and show a healthy balance of supporting management and asking pertinent questions.
1 At the time of the 2018 review Egon Zehnder provided certain Board and senior management level services from time to time, including in respect of succession planning as detailed on page 67, otherwise Egon Zehnder has no other connection with the Group.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 63 Progress against the 2017 internal Board effectiveness evaluation During the year, work focused particularly on Board papers and presentations.
A summary of the Boards progress against the actions arising from the 2017 evaluation are set out below.
Recommendations from the 2017 evaluation Actions taken during 2018 Reduction in volume of Board papers.
A review of the schedule of Board and Committee meetings took Board More concise reports, highlighting important place, and a number of meetings have been removed after being papers and points and avoiding unnecessary volume and considered unnecessary.
Instructions have been given to all those who produce Board papers to the Board Fewer and shorter presentations.
to avoid repetition between presentations and briefing papers.
Bespoke training has also been provided by the CompanySecretary.
In order to allow more time for discussion, challenge and debate, certain items of the agenda at Board meetings had no presentations although the responsible executives were available at the meeting to respond to queries from the Board.
Enhanced video conferencing facilities have been installed in various Group locations to improve the quality of remote participation in meetings when attendance in person is not possible.
Increased feedback from stakeholders other The Groups brokers attended the Board meeting in April to provide Stakeholder than regulators and customers, including investor feedback on the results and strategy announcements.
The bi-annual presentation to the Board on reputation contained information on shareholder sentiment and was attended by the Group Director of Investor Relations.
A governance lunch was held in November with key institutional shareholders.
This was hosted by the Chairman and the Chairmen of the Board Committees, and feedback was reported to the Board.
As part of the monthly report to the Board, the CFO now reports on the Bank of Englands minimum requirements for own funds and eligible liabilities and will continue to highlight significant developments related to the Groups debt funding.
Terms of Reference to be reviewed and The Terms of Reference were reviewed, and considered by the Responsible updated to avoid duplication of effort in Nomination and Governance Committee in April, and approved by Business areas covered by other Committees.
Committee Terms of Reference Major change management: finance: These areas of experience will continue to be considered.
Nonaccounting and data experience to be Amanda Mackenzie, appointed in October 2018 has a substantial Executive considered for future recruitment of amount of experience in respect of change management.
Recruitment P rofessional development and training programme at a glance In addition to the existing methods of training for the Directors, the Board agreed in 2017 that the Non-Executive Directors should be provided with a mandatory training programme.
This was trialled by members of the Nomination and Governance Committee and has since been rolled out to the rest of the Directors.
Training modules were identified from a list of the topics used by Group colleagues, and following discussions between Group Secretariat, Risk and Group Learning, the following themes were identified as being the most relevant for Non-Executive Directors: Anti-Bribery Competition Law Information Security Whistleblowing Senior Manager and Certification Regime SMCR has also been included as an additional theme for all Non-Executive Directors.
Delivery of training The training is delivered via an online training platform on the Groups intranet.
The Directors can access this at any time, and once the training is completed, it is recorded on the system to provide a full audit trail.
The Directors have completed the modules for 2018.
64 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 How our Board works Internal control Board responsibility Control Effectiveness Review The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management and internal An annual Control Effectiveness Review CER is undertaken to evaluate control systems, which are designed to facilitate effective and efficient the effectiveness of the Groups control framework with regard to operations and to ensure the quality of internal and external reporting its material risks, and to ensure management actions are in place to and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
The Directors address key gaps or weaknesses in the control framework.
Business and senior management are committed to maintaining a robust areas and head office functions assess the controls in place to address control framework as the foundation for the delivery of effective risk all material risk exposures across all risk types.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibilities in all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance relation to the Groups risk management and internal control systems controls.
Senior management approve the CER findings which are and for reviewing their effectiveness.
reviewed and independently challenged by the Risk Division and Group Internal Audit and reported to the Board.
Action plans are implemented In establishing and reviewing the risk management and internal control to address any control deficiencies.
systems, the Directors carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its Reviews by the Board business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, the likelihood of a risk event occurring and the costs of control.
The process for The effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems identification, evaluation and management of the principal risks faced is reviewed regularly by the Board and the Audit Committee, which by the Group is integrated into the Groups overall framework for risk also receives reports of reviews undertaken by the Risk Division and governance.
The Group is forward-looking in its risk identification Group Internal Audit.
The Audit Committee receives reports from the processes to ensure emerging risks are identified.
The risk identification, Companys auditor,  LLP which include details evaluation and management process also identifies whether the of significant internal control matters that they have identified, and has controls in place result in an acceptable level of risk.
At Group level, a discussion with the auditor at least once a year without executives a consolidated risk report and risk appetite dashboard are reviewed present, to ensure that there are no unresolved issues of concern.
and regularly debated by the executive Group Risk Committee, Board The Groups risk management and internal control systems are regularly Risk Committee and the Board to ensure that they are satisfied with reviewed by the Board and are consistent with the guidance on Risk the overall risk profile, risk accountabilities and mitigating actions.
The Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business report and dashboard provide a monthly view of the Groups overall risk Reporting issued by the Financial Reporting Council and compliant profile, key risks and management actions, together with performance with the requirements of CRD IV.
They have been in place for the year against risk appetite and an assessment of emerging risks which could under review and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report.
affect the Groups performance over the life of the operating plan.
TheGroup has determined a pathway to compliance with BCBS 239 Information regarding the main features of the internal control and risk risk data aggregation and risk reporting requirements and continues to management systems in relation to the financial reporting process is actively manage enhancements.
provided within the risk management report on pages 105 to 159.
The Board concluded that the Groups risk management arrangements are adequate to provide assurance that the risk management systems put in place are suitable with regard to the Groups profile and strategy.
employees, contingent workers and thirddiscussion and debate to encourage a Workforce engagement party suppliers that work on the Groups meaningful dialogue between the Board and During the year, the Nomination and premises delivering services to our customers the workforce.
Governance Committee made a and supporting key business operations.
From the second quarter of 2019, the Board recommendation to the Board as to how will receive a report on a quarterly basis to the Board would engage with the wider Engagement activity and developing provide further oversight and insight into workforce as a key stakeholder following dialogue workforce related activity and support with the Financial Reporting Councils recent Board members already participate in a key decision making.
The Board has discussed and number of key engagement activities such agreed the approach to engagement For details of Board engagement with as site visits, Q&A sessions, colleague during 2019, methods of gathering and colleagues during 2018, please see page 17. feedback sessions, Chairmans breakfasts, documenting workforce views, and and the Helping Britain Prosper Live events.
Raising concerns in confidence considering how feedback provided by Enhancements to current engagement the workforce would be presented to and The Groups existing whistleblowing channel activities have been agreed to provide the provides an opportunity for both colleagues considered by the Board on a timely basis.
opportunity for feedback, themes and and the wider workforce to raise concerns in The definition of the Groups workforce was viewpoints of the wider workforce to be confidence.
considered and agreed as our permanent brought to the attention of the Board for Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 65 Complying with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code applied to the Lloyds Banking Group 2018 financial year.
The Group confirms that it applied the main principles and complied with all the provisions of the Code throughout the year.
The Group has been subject to the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 since January 2019, and will report on this next year.
The Code is publicly available at www.
The following two pages explain how we have applied the Main Principles and the provisions of the Code during the year.
The Group has adopted the UK Finance Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure and its 2018 financial statements have been prepared in compliance with its principles.
The Boards Role The Group is led by an effective, committed unitary Board, which is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Group.
The Groups Corporate Governance Framework, which is reviewed annually by the Board, sets out a number of key decisions and matters that are reserved for the Boards approval.
Further details can be found online at www.
Independent Responsibilities Chairman Lord Blackwell leads the Board and promotes the highest standards of corporate governance.
He sets the Lord Blackwell Boards agenda and builds an effective and complementary Board.
The Chairman leads Board succession planning and ensures effective communication with shareholders.
Executive Directors Antnio Horta-Osrio manages and leads the Group on a day-to-day basis and makes decisions on Group Chief Executive matters affecting the operation, performance and strategy of the Groups business.
He delegates aspects Antnio Horta-Osrio of his own authority, as permitted under the Corporate Governance Framework, to other members of the GroupExecutive Committee.
Chief Financial Officer Under the leadership of the Group Chief Executive, George Culmer and Juan Colombs make and George Culmer implement decisions in all matters affecting operations, performance and strategy.
They provide specialist knowledge and experience to the Board.
Together with Antnio Horta-Osrio, George Culmer and Chief Operating Officer JuanColombs design, develop and implement strategic plans and deal with day-to-day operations of Juan Colombs theGroup.
Non-Executive Directors As Deputy Chairman, Anita Frew would ensure continuity of chairmanship during any change of Deputy Chairman and chairmanship.
She supports the Chairman in representing the Board and acts as a spokesperson.
Senior Independent Shedeputises for the Chairman and is available to the Board for consultation and advice.
Director TheDeputyChairman may represent the Groups interests to official enquiries and review bodies.
Anita Frew As Senior Independent Director, Anita Frew is also a sounding board for the Chairman and Chief Executive.
She acts as a conduit for the views of other Non-Executive Directors and conducts the Chairmans annual performance appraisal.
She is available to help resolve shareholders concerns and attend meetings with major shareholders and financial analysts to understand issues and concerns.
Alan Dickinson Simon Henry Lord Lupton The Non-Executive Directors challenge management constructively and help develop and set the Groups strategy.
They actively participate in Board decision-making and scrutinise management performance.
Amanda Mackenzie The Non-Executive Directors satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information and review the 2 Deborah McWhinney Groups risk exposures and controls.
The Non-Executive Directors, through the Remuneration Committee, determine the remuneration of Executive Directors.
Nick Prettejohn Stuart Sinclair Sara Weller Company Secretary The Company Secretary advises the Board on various matters including governance and ensures good Malcolm Wood information flows and comprehensive practical support is provided to Directors.
He maintains the Groups Corporate Governance Framework and organises Directors induction and training.
The Company Secretary communicates with shareholders as appropriate and ensures due regard is paid to their interests.
Both the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
1 Amanda Mackenzie joined the Board with effect from 1 October 2018.
2 Deborah McWhinney left the Board with effect from 31 December 2018.
Division of responsibilities There is clear division of responsibility at the head of the Company, as noted above.
As documented in the Groups Corporate Governance Framework there is clear separation between the role of the Chairman, who is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the Board, and the Chief Executive, who is responsible for the running of the Companys business.
Role of the Chairman The Chairman has overall responsibility for the leadership of the Board and for ensuring its effectiveness.
The responsibilities of the Chairman and his fellow Directors are set out above.
Lord Blackwell was independent on appointment.
66 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Complying with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 continued A4.
Role of the Non-Executive Directors The Senior Independent All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary in Director SID, Anita Frew, acts as a sounding board for the Chairman relation to the discharge of their duties.
She can be contacted by shareholders and B6.
Board and Committee performance and evaluation An other Directors as required.
externally facilitated performance evaluation was completed in 2018, The Non-Executive Directors challenge management constructively with internally facilitated evaluations having taken place in 2016 and and help develop and set the Groups strategy.
More information can be found on pages 62 to 63, along with the findings, actions, and progress made during the year.
Meetings are held between the Non-Executive Directors in the absence of the Executive Directors, and at least once a year in the absence of the B7.
Re-election of Directors At the 2019 AGM all Directors will seek Chairman.
Being the first AGM following her appointment, Amanda Mackenzie will stand for election, with all other Directors Further information on meeting arrangements and the responsibilities standing for re-election.
The Board believes that all Directors continue of the Directors are given on pages 59 to 61 and 65 respectively.
to be effective and committed to their roles.
The Boards composition The balance of skills, experience, C1.
Financial and business reporting The Code requirement independence, and knowledge on the Board is the responsibility of that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable is the Nomination and Governance Committee, and is reviewed annually considered throughout the drafting and reviewing process and the or whenever appointments are considered.
Having the right balance Board has concluded that the 2018 Annual Report is fair balanced on the Board and its Committees helps to ensure that those bodies and understandable.
The Directors and Auditors Statements discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
of Responsibility can be found on pages 81 and 161 respectively.
In particular, the Nomination and Governance Committee monitors Information on the Companys business model and strategy can be whether there are any relationships or circumstances which may found on pages1 to 35. affect a Directors independence.
Following the most recent review C2.
Risk management and internal control systems The Board is of independence the Committee concluded that all Non-Executive responsible for the Groups risk management and internal controls Directors are independent in character and judgement as shown on systems: see page 64 for more detail regarding internal control.
Audit Committee is responsible for the effectiveness of internal controls More information on the annual Board effectiveness review can be and the Risk Management Framework.
Further information can be found on pages 62 to 63 and information on the Board Diversity Policy found on pages 70 to 73. can be found on page 69.
The Board Risk Committee is responsible for the review of the risk B2.
Board appointments The process for Board appointments is led culture of the Group, setting the tone from the top in respect of risk by the Nomination and Governance Committee, which then makes a management.
Further information can be found on pages 74 to 77. recommendation to the Board.
TheDirectors viability statement and confirmation that the business is a More details about succession planning can be found on page 67. going concern can be found on page 80.
More information about the work and focus of the Nomination and C3.
Role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee The Board Governance Committee can be found on pages 67 to 69. has delegated a number of responsibilities to the Audit Committee, B3.
Time commitments Non-Executive Directors are advised of time including oversight of financial reporting processes, the effectiveness commitments prior to their appointment and they are required to of the internal controls and the risk management framework, devote such time as necessary to discharge their duties effectively.
whistleblowing arrangements and the work undertaken by the external Thetime commitments of the Directors are considered by the Board on and internal auditors.
The Audit Committee Report which can be found appointment and annually, and following the most recent review, the on pages70 to 73, sets out how the Committee has discharged its Board is satisfied that there are no Directors whose time commitments duties and areas of focus during the year.
are considered to be a matter for concern.
External appointments, which may affect existing time commitments for the Boards business, D. Remuneration must be agreed with the Chairman, and prior Board approval must be D1.
Level and elements of remuneration The Group is committed obtained before taking on any new external appointments.
to offering all colleagues a reward package that is competitive, No Executive Director has either taken up more than one performance-driven and fair and its Remuneration Policy is designed Non-Executive Director role at a FTSE100 company or taken up to promote the long term success of the Company.
The Directors theChairmanship of such a company.
Remuneration Report on pages 82 to 99 provides full details regarding More information on Directors attendance at Board and Committee the remuneration of Directors.
The Remuneration Policy can be found in meetings can be found on page 56. the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts and remains unchanged since last approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
Training and development The Chairman leads the training and development of Directors and the Board generally and regularly reviews D2.
Procedure The work of the Remuneration Committee and its focus and agrees with each Director their individual and combined training during the year can be found on page 96. and development needs.
Ample opportunities, support and resources for learning are provided E. Relations with Shareholders through a comprehensive programme, which is in place throughout the year and comprises both formal and informal training and information E1.
Shareholder engagement The Board actively engages with all sessions.
stakeholders including shareholders and more information on our The Chairman personally ensures that on appointment each Director approach to relations with shareholders can be found on pages 16 to 17. receives a full, formal and tailored induction.
Use of General Meetings The Board values the AGM as a key ensuring the induction brings the business and its issues alive for opportunity to meet shareholders.
The 2019 AGM will be held on the new Director, taking account of the specific role they have been 16May 2019.
The whole Board is expected to attend and will be appointed to fulfil and the skills experience of the Director to date.
available to answer shareholders questions.
Directors who take on or change roles during the year attend induction To facilitate shareholder participation, electronic proxy voting and meetings in respect of those new roles.
The Company Secretary voting through the CREST proxy appointment service are available.
maintains a training and development log for each Director.
Allvotes are taken by way of a poll to include all shareholder votes cast.
Provision of information and support The Chairman, supported A webcast of the AGM is carried out to allow shareholders who cannot by the Company Secretary, ensures that Board members receive attend in person to view the meeting live.
The Group provides access, at its expense, to the services of independent Key professional advisers in order to assist Directors in their role.
Fully Compliant Board Committees are also provided with sufficient resources to discharge their duties.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 67 Nomination and Governance Committee report The Committee has overseen further development of the Groups senior management succession planning programme.
capability, aspiration and adequacy of knowledge base required to enable robust Dear Shareholder current development plans.
Personal characteristics characteristics are designed to represent around values, judgement and drive are Board and GEC changes the particular leadership requirements of aligned with the Groups target culture.
As reported in my introduction to the those undertaking GEC-level roles within the Governance Report on page 51, there have Group as we build the Bank of the Future.
UK Corporate Governance been a number of changes to the Board Our ambition is to ensure an Executive Code during the year, all of which have been team that embraces the diverse strengths of overseen by the Nomination and Governance The Financial Reporting Council published in individual leaders and collectively exhibits the Committee the Committee.
The Committee July an amended UK Corporate Governance characteristics expected of a team leading conducted a rigorous process for identifying Code the New Code, which is applicable the Group to succeed in a digital world.
The and assessing candidates to recruit both from 1 January 2019, with requirements GEC characteristics align to the leadership the Ring-Fenced Bank only Non-Executive relating to the annual report applicable behaviours: inspire delivery: encourage Directors and an additional Group Nonto the report and accounts for the year simplicity: develop confidence: and build Executive Director.
Details of this selection ending 31December 2019.
Additional emphasis is placed upon process can be found on page69.
The be reporting against this New Code in next key capabilities required to lead cultural Committee has also overseen the transition years annual report, but the requirements transformation, including innovative strategic from Anita Frew to Stuart Sinclair as the Chair have been considered by the Committee and thinking: agile change management: digital of the Remuneration Committee Chairman, the Board during the year under review and technology: collaborative team working and and as part of the succession plan which is in work has been done to implement changes to insightful customer perspectives.
place for senior management, have approved procedures, governance, culture and practice The GEC characteristics will become the the appointment of Kate Cheetham as in line with the New Code.
benchmark for the assessment of, and Company Secretary to replace Malcolm Wood development planning for, GEC members when he retires from the Group in June 2019.
The Groups Corporate and attendees as well as successors into those Following the announcement in October Governance Framework roles.
The characteristics will be considered that George Culmer would be retiring from in addition to knowledge and experience The Corporate Governance Framework was the Group in the third quarter of 2019, the criteria around breadth of banking financial updated in 2017 to anticipate the governance Nomination and Governance Committee services and governance experience.
Work requirements of ring-fencing on the basis conducted a rigorous search process for his was undertaken in September 2018 to of discussions at that time.
This led to the announcement support identified successors in reviewing and the Corporate Governance Framework in February 2019 that, subject to customary refreshing their development plans to ensure was further updated to include additional regulatory approvals, William Chalmers would that these directly support their succession amendments to reflect commitments made to join the Group in June 2019, becoming an readiness in line with the characteristics.
These amendments included Executive Director and Chief Finance Officer wording to reflect the role of Risk Officer During the year GEC members and when George steps down.
for the Ring-Fenced Banks, particularly in attendees have been assessed against the relation to the Risk Committees, additional GEC characteristics, with both a desktop Board effectiveness review detail on the conduct of aligned Board and assessment and self-assessments by GEC As highlighted in my letter on page 51, an Committee meetings, and clarification of members and attendees.
These have been the management of conflict issues.
More externally facilitated Board effectiveness reviewed by the Group Chief Executive and review was conducted during the year.
This information on the aligned meetings can be me, and formed the basis for discussion found on page58.
was overseen by the Committee, and full with the Committee and other Board details are provided on pages 62 to 63. members about executive capabilities and The Committee has also overseen successionplans.
amendments to the Corporate Governance Succession planning Framework to reflect the requirements of the Individual assessment scores against the GEC New Code ahead of implementation in 2019.
The Committee continued its work on characteristics have been shared with each succession planning during the year, focusing GEC member and attendee for discussion Lord Blackwell on the level below the Group Executive with their line manager.
Additional personal Chairman, Nomination and Committee GEC.
This has included working development interventions have been agreed Governance Committee with Egon Zehnder to review the changing as appropriate, with individual development role requirements and characteristics for plans continuing to be owned and driven by bankleadership in the context of the Bank of each Executive.
Overall, the results of the assessment evidence The outcome of this review provided that the GEC collectively exhibit strong a comprehensive view of the GEC role capabilities in the leadership characteristics characteristics against which the current required to deliver the Bank of the Future.
senior management layer below GEC As a team, their breadth of banking and can be assessed to ensure alignment of governance experience provides the 68 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Nomination and Governance Committee report continued Activities during the year Key issues Committee review and conclusion 1 Recruitment of a new NonThe external search firm Russell Reynolds Associates provided a shortlist of candidates Board Executive Director for consideration.
Interviews with various members of the Board were held, and the composition process resulted in the appointment of Amanda Mackenzie in October.
Change in Chairman of the Following Anita Frews decision to step down as the Remuneration Committee Chair, Remuneration Committee the Committee recommended to the Board that Stuart Sinclair replace her in this role.
This recommendation was based on Board succession planning and the fact that Stuart is an experienced Non-Executive Director, has been a member of the Remuneration Committee since he joined the Company in January 2016, and has external experience of chairing Board committees.
Structure and composition of the From the ongoing assessment of the Board members, the Chairman creates a skills Board matrix which the Committee uses to track the Boards strengths and identify gaps in the desired collective skills profile of the Board, giving due weight to diversity in its broadest sense.
Recommendations are made to the Board as appropriate.
The skills matrix was considered in the appointment of Amanda Mackenzie, and the appointment of the Ring-Fenced Bank only Directors.
Establishing the GEC During the year, the Committee, led by the Chairman, reviewed the succession plans Executive characteristics and identifying and development plans for key senior management roles, and established the GEC succession and supporting potential characteristics as described on page 67. planning successors into GEC-level roles This included updating the ongoing development plans for potential successors into Executive Director roles, including Group Chief Executive.
Recruitment of the Ring-Fenced Russell Reynolds Associates was engaged to shortlist candidates for the positions of Ring-Fenced Bank only Directors three Ring-Fenced Bank only Non-Executive Directors.
The recruitment process, led by Bank the Chairman, included interviews with various members of the Board and resulted in the appointment of Nigel Hinshelwood, Sarah Bentley and Brendan Gilligan with effect from 1 January 2019.
Annual effectiveness review of During the year the Committee selected Egon Zehnder to facilitate the review by the Annual Board the Board and its Committees Board and its Committees of their effectiveness and provided oversight for the process.
effectiveness The Committee also reviewed its own effectiveness and found that it met its key review objectives and carried out its responsibilities effectively.
Full details of the review can be found on pages 62 to 63.
The Committee provides Annual review of the Corporate Governance Framework, amendments which took Governance oversight for various aspects into account the Groups approach to compliance with the PRAs Ring Fenced Banks of corporate governance, and Governance Principles, and the requirements of recent regulatory developments during the year key activities including the terms of the revised UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our application of included the following: the New Code will be reported upon next year: Continuing oversight of the governance structure for the Ring-Fenced Banks: A review of the Board Committee responsibilities and the matters reserved for the Board to assess any instances of overlap or gaps in coverage or escalation: In the light of the increasing importance of IT in the Groups GSR3 strategy, a review of the governance and oversight of the IT Programme: Considering correspondence with shareholders: Approval of the appointment of Trustees to the Banks Foundations.
A review of the Diversity Policy The Board considered and approved the adoption of a public goal to increase ethnic Diversity was undertaken diversity in the senior management population, a first for a FTSE-100 company.
This has now been incorporated into the Board Diversity Policy which was approved by theBoard in January 2019.
The Board Diversity Policy is available at www.
Please see pages 22 to 23 and 69 for further information regarding diversity.
The Diversity Policy was a Diversity, in its broadest sense as detailed in the Policy, was taken into consideration as consideration in recruitment part of the recruitment of Amanda Mackenzie and the Ring-Fenced Bank only Directors during the year during the year.
Reviewing whether NonIn recommending Directors for re-election the Committee reviews the performance of Independence Executive Directors were each Non-Executive Director and their ability to continue meeting the time commitments and time demonstrably independent and required.
It also takes account of any relationships that had been disclosed.
Details commitments free from relationships and other of conflicts of interest can be found on page 79.
A particularly rigorous review of circumstances that could affect LordBlackwell, Anita Frew and Sara Weller was undertaken as a result of having held the their judgement position of Non-Executive Director for longer than six years.
Based on its assessment for 2018, the Committee is satisfied that, throughout the year, all Non-Executive Directors 2 remained independent as to both character and judgement.
All Directors were considered to have appropriate roles, including capabilities and time commitments.
Overseeing the roll out of In addition to existing methods of training for the Non-Executive Directors, at the end Training trainingto all Non-Executive of 2017, members of the Committee trialled an online mandatory training programme.
Directors This was subsequently rolled out to the rest of the Board.
Full details can be found on page63.
1 Aside from assisting with senior recruitment and benchmarking, Russell Reynolds Associates have no other connection to the Company.
2 The Chairman was independent on appointment.
Under the Code, thereafter the test of independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 69 Committee purpose and responsibilities Committee composition, skills and experience The purpose of the Committee is to keep the Boards governance, To ensure a broad representation of experienced and independent composition, skills, experience, knowledge, independence and Directors, membership of the Committee comprises the Chairman, succession arrangements under review and to make appropriate the Deputy Chairman, who is also the Senior Independent Director, recommendations to the Board to ensure the Companys arrangements the Chairman of the Board Risk Committee and the Chairman of the are consistent with the highest corporate governance standards.
The Group Chief Executive attends meetings as appropriate.
The Committee reports to the Board on how it discharges its responsibilities and makes recommendations to the Board, Details of Committee memberships and meeting attendance can be all of which have been accepted during the year.
Committees terms of reference can be found at www.
The Board diversity policy Process for new Group and Ring-Fenced Bank The Board Diversity Policy the Policy sets out the Board of Lloyds Banking Non-Executive Directorappointments Groups approach to diversity and provides a high level indication of the Boards approach to diversity in senior management roles which is governed in greater Step 1 detail, through the Groups policies, a summary of which is provided below.
Russell Reynolds Associates was appointed by the Committee and The Board places great emphasis on ensuring that its membership reflects provided with a remit of what skills and experience the candidates diversity in its broadest sense.
A combination of demographics, skills, experience, should have, based on the existing skills matrix of the Board, and race, age, gender, educational and professional background and cognitive and taking into account diversity in its broadest sense.
personal strengths on the Board is important in providing a range of perspectives, insights and challenge needed to support good decision making.
Step 2 New appointments are made on merit, taking account of the specific skills Interviews were held between the Chairman and a shortlist of and experience, independence and knowledge needed to ensure a rounded candidates.
Board and the diversity benefits each candidate can bring to the overall Board composition.
Amanda Mackenzie was the only Director to be appointed to Step 3 Lloyds Banking Group plc during the year, and as part of her appointment The Committee considered the shortlisted candidates, having been diversity was considered in its broadest sense.
Amanda brings experience of provided with an extensive report from Russell Reynolds Associates customer focus and leadership of Business in the Community, which will be a which was based on interviews with the candidates and included major asset in supporting our mission of Helping Britain Prosper.
details of their background, skills, experience and a full evaluation.
Objectives for achieving Board diversity may be set on a regular basis.
Interviews took place with various members of the Committee.
The On gender diversity the Board has a specific objective to maintain at least Committee recommended the appointments to the Board, which three female Board members and, recognising the target referred to in the subsequently approved them, subject to regulatory approval where Hampton-Alexander Review for FTSE companies to move towards 33per cent required.
female representation by 2020, to take opportunities to increase the number of female Board Members over time where that is consistent with other skills Step 4 and diversity requirements.
Female representation on the Board is currently Formal offer letters were sent.
25 per cent based on three female Directors and nine male Directors.
The Board also places high emphasis on ensuring the development of diversity Step 5 in the senior management roles within the Group and supports and oversees the Groups objectives of achieving 40per cent of senior roles held by female Regulatory applications were made to the PRA and the FCA in executives by 2020, and of 8per cent of senior roles being held by Black, Asian respect of the relevant Directors, and approval was obtained.
and Minority Ethnic BAME executives by 2020.
This is underpinned by a range Step 6 of policies within the Group to help provide mentoring and development opportunities for female and BAME executives and to ensure unbiased career Formal appointment of the Directors took place.
Progress on this objective is monitored by the Board and built into its assessment of executive performance.
A copy of the Policy is available on our website at www.
com responsible-business and information on Board diversity can be found on pages 22, 23 and 56.
Q&A with Amanda Mackenzie OBE, deliver on its purpose.
The induction process has been wholehearted, Independent Director open, thorough and interesting.
Given my background there are clearly some areas in which I am not an expert and never will be, but I do need to know enough and the induction process has not made me feel foolish for the need to ask basic questions and by contrast has been very welcoming of my knowledge where it is greatest and can help.
Q: What are your first impressions of how the Board functions and the Groups governance framework?
A: I left the first Board strategy away day I attended with one overarching thought: the combined Board and Group Executive are an incredible group of people and Lloyds Banking Group is an amazing company.
Of course theres much to be done, but, with the right approach, it will be.
And no I wouldnt say that if I didnt believe it Q: What did you think of the appointment and induction process?
or if I hadnt seen some comparisons.
So far I feel the Board functions A: Exceedingly thorough!
It gave ample opportunity for Lloyds extremely well and the governance framework is clear, as simple as it Banking Group to learn about me and vice versa.
A Non-Executive can be and the various lines of defence operate the way one should Director role today comes with a much greater amount of obligation expect they do.
and scrutiny, rightly so, but it does mean you have to be assured Q: What are you looking to bring to the Board What excites you of the company you are joining and of course they of you.
I have to about your role with Lloyds?
say the Groups very clear purpose of Helping Britain Prosper and the determination of everyone I met to make that a reality was very A: I certainly hope I can bring my expertise to the Board.
The Group is prepared to make some tough decisions to thrilled to be part of it and play my part in Helping Britain Prosper.
70 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Audit Committee report The Committee has delivered on its responsibilities of ensuring the integrity of the financial statements and effectiveness of internal and external audit services.
Committee will continue to pay close attention Dear Shareholder Committee composition, to how the underlying models perform in The past year has been another busy one skills and experience potentially volatile economic scenarios.
for the Audit Committee the Committee.
The Committee acts independently of the The wider external environment as we head Inaddition to continuing focus on issues executive to ensure that the interests of into 2019 continues to be challenging, with an relevant to the Companys financial the shareholders are properly protected ongoing focus on regulation in the financial reporting and its internal control framework, in relation to financial reporting and sector, and recent proposals for change in considerable time has been spent on other internal control.
I am nonetheless key areas, including implementation of IFRS 9 All members of the Committee are pleased to report that in the opinion of the and oversight of the process for the selection independent Non-Executive Directors with Committee, the Company continues to meet of a new external auditor.
competence in the financial sector and their its obligations in respect of financial reporting A number of firms were invited by the biographies can be found on pages52to53.
and disclosure, and continues to operate an Committee to tender for the external audit Simon Henry is a Chartered Global effective internal control framework.
Our current auditor, PwC, did Management Accountant and has extensive Simon Henry not participate.
The process, overseen in knowledge of financial markets, treasury, risk Chairman, Audit Committee the first instance by a Selection Committee management and international accounting comprised of members of the Committee, standards.
He is a member having recent and involved representatives meeting with senior Committee purpose relevant financial experience for the purposes management from across the Group.
After and responsibilities of the UK Corporate Governance Code and careful consideration by the Committee, a is the Audit Committee financial expert for The purpose of the Committee is to monitor recommendation was made to the Board for SECpurposes.
and review the Groups financial and narrative the appointment of Deloitte LLP, which the reporting arrangements, the effectiveness During the course of the year, the Committee Board accepted.
Subject to shareholders of the internal controls including over held separate sessions with the internal and approval at the 2021 AGM, Deloitte LLP will financial reporting and the risk management external audit teams, without members of the therefore be appointed as external auditor in framework, whistleblowing arrangements executive management present.
For details of place of PwC, with effect from the year ending and each of the internal and external audit how the Committee was run, see page 60.
Ensuring in the interim processes, including the statutory audit of Annually the Committee undertakes an the continued effectiveness of the external the consolidated financial statements and the effectiveness review.
The review forms auditor has also been a focus, with the independence of the statutory auditor.
part of the Board evaluation process with Committee reviewing the plan for the external The Committee reports to the Board on Directors being asked to complete parts of audit, and considering reports from the how it discharges its responsibilities and the questionnaire relating to the Committees auditor on accounting and control matters.
makes recommendations to the Board, all of of which they were members.
The findings of Whilst the regulator has confirmed a 2019 which have been accepted during the year.
the review were considered by the Committee deadline for claims relating to payment A full list of responsibilities is detailed in the at its January 2019 meeting.
On the basis protection insurance PPI, provisioning for Committees terms of reference, which can be of the evaluation the feedback was that the other conduct matters in addition to PPI has found at www.
com ourperformance of the Committee continues to continued to form part of the Committees group corporate-governance.
Preparations for the implementation its purpose, the Committee undertakes the Whilst the Committees membership of the ring-fencing regime have also been functions detailed within Disclosure Guidance comprises the Non-Executive Directors noted an important area of consideration, with and Transparency Rule 7.1.
on page 56, all Non-Executive Directors may the Committee reviewing the control and During the year the Committee considered attend meetings as agreed with the Chairman accounting aspects of the establishment of a number of issues relating to the Groups of the Committee.
The Group Financial the Groups non ring-fenced bank, which financial reporting.
These issues are Controller, Chief Internal Auditor, the external was successfully made operational during summarised on the next page, including auditor, the Group Chief Executive, the Chief the second half of 2018.
The Committee discussion of the conclusions the Committee Financial Officer, the Chief Risk Officer and the has in addition considered other key areas reached, and the key factors considered by Chief Operating Officer also attend meetings of judgement and complexity relevant to the Committee in reaching its conclusions.
of the Committee as appropriate.
Details the financial statements, including review of Committee membership and meeting of significant one-off transactions, assisting In addition, the Committee considered a attendance can be found on page 56. in determining the appropriate accounting number of other significant issues not related treatment in the sale of the Companys directly to financial reporting, including c. 3percent stake in Standard Life Aberdeen, internal controls, internal audit and external and the sale of c. 4billion of Irish mortgage audit.
These issues are also discussed in detail assets.
in the next section, including insight into the key factors considered by the Committee in The Committee considered the style and format reaching its conclusions.
of external disclosure for quarters one and three of 2018, and agreed a significant simplification of information provided.
IFRS 9 was successfully implemented during the year, although the Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 71 Financial reporting During the year, the Committee considered the following issues in relation to the Groups financial statements and disclosures, with input from management, Risk Division, Group Internal Audit and the external auditor: Activities for the year Key issues Committee review and conclusion Management judgement is used to The Committee continued to challenge managements assumptions used to calculate Payment determine the assumptions used to the Groups provision for PPI redress and associated administration costs.
The overall Protection calculate the Groups PPI provision.
cost remains uncertain and the Committee reviewed managements use of sensitivities Insurance The principal assumptions used used to evaluate this uncertainty.
PPI in the calculation are the number The Committee reviewed managements assessment of future customer claims of future complaints, the extent volumes considering, inter alia, the potential impact of regulatory changes: the to which they will be upheld, the FCA media campaign: claims management company and customer activity: and average redress to be paid and the additional remediation arising from the continual improvement of the Groups expected future administration operational practices.
The Committee concluded that the provision for PPI redress and the Groups external During the year the Group disclosures were appropriate.
The disclosures relating to PPI are set out in note 37: provided a further 750 million Other provisions of the financial statements.
for further operating costs and redress as claims volumes were higher than previously expected.
In 2018, the Group made The Committee has monitored developments on the Groups secured and unsecured Other provisions totalling 600 million arrears handling activities, including the impact of the Groups enhanced data conduct in respect of other conduct capabilities and the risks emerging around operational costs.
provisions matters, including 151 million for The Committee has also reviewed managements assessment of the provision secured and unsecured arrears required for packaged bank accounts, including estimates made in respect of future handling activities: and 45 million complaint volumes and uphold rates.
in respect of packaged bank The Committee was satisfied that the provisions for other conduct matters were accounts.
The disclosures relating to other conduct provisions are set out in note 37: There were relatively few new Other provisions of the financial statements.
conduct matters in 2018 and the majority of the provisions raised in 2018 related to issues caused prior to the implementation of the Groups Conduct Strategy in 2013.
The Group adopted IFRS 9 on The Committee reviewed the Groups transition document and was satisfied that it was Allowance for 1January2018 and issued a appropriate.
impairment transition document setting out Throughout 2018, the Committee challenged both the level of provision held by the losses on the impact on the Group.
IFRS9 Group, and the judgements and estimates used to calculate the provision.
It reviewed loans and differs significantly from the on a regular basis the Groups analysis by stage of its drawn and undrawn balances and advances previous impairment standard its coverage ratios for the Groups lending portfolios.
The Committee was satisfied that IAS 39 as it requires impairment the impairment provisions, and associated disclosures, were appropriate.
losses to be recognised on Management has designed its disclosures so that they comply with the requirements an expected loss rather than of the accounting standard, provide relevant information to users to gain an incurred loss basis.
As a result, understanding of the new concepts and include sensitivities of assumptions the Groups impairment provision whereappropriate.
is dependent on managements The disclosures relating to impairment provisions are set out in note 20: Allowance forward looking judgements on for impairment losses and note 52: Financial risk management of the financial matters such as interest rates, statements.
The allowance for impairment losses on loans and advances to customers house prices and unemployment at 31December 2018 was 3,150 million 1 January 2018: 3,223 million.
rates, as well as its assessment of a customers current financial position and whether it has suffered a significant increase in creditrisk.
In readiness for the ring-fencing The Committee discussed the controls and accounting aspects of the Groups Ring-fencing regime, which came into force activities to establish its non ring-fenced bank, including the intra-group transfers on 1 January 2019, the Group has made to ensure that the Groups activities were appropriately separated.
transferred certain businesses, and Twoexamples of these transfers included the transfer of Scottish Widows from Lloyds assets and liabilities out of Lloyds Bank plc to Lloyds Banking Group plc and the migration of a number of businesses and Bank plc and Bank of Scotland plc customer assets from Lloyds Bank plc to LBCM.
together, the ring-fenced bank The Committee was satisfied that the control framework established by management and their subsidiaries to other parts to mitigate the financial control risks associated with the transfers was adequate of the Group, including the Groups and that the judgements used to determine the accounting for the transfers were non ring-fenced bank, Lloyds Bank appropriate.
For each transfer, the principal accounting judgement considered by management was whether it involved the transfer of a business or a transfer of assets and liabilities.
72 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Audit Committee report continued Key issues Committee review and conclusion The value of the Groups defined The Committee considered the most critical assumptions underlying the calculation of Retirement benefit pension plan obligations the defined benefit liabilities, including those in respect of the discount rate, inflation benefit is determined by making financial and mortality.
obligations and demographic assumptions, The Committee was satisfied that management had used appropriate assumptions both of which are significant that reflected the Groups most recent experience and were consistent with market estimates made by management.
The Committee was satisfied that the Groups quantitative and qualitative disclosures made in respect of retirement benefit obligations are appropriate.
Therelevant disclosures are set out in note 35: Retirement benefit obligations of the financial statements.
The defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2018 was 41,092 million 31December 2017: 44,384 million.
A deferred tax asset can be The Committee has reviewed managements assessment of forecast taxable profits Recoverability recognised only to the extent based on the Groups operating plan, the split of these forecasts by legal entity and of the that it is more likely than not to be the Groups long-term financial and strategic plans.
Managements forecasts included deferred recoverable.
The recoverability of estimates of the impact of the changes in the Groups structure made to comply with tax asset the deferred tax asset in respect ring-fencing requirements.
of carry forward losses requires The Committee agreed with managements judgement that the deferred tax assets consideration of the future levels were appropriately supported by forecast taxable profits, taking into account the of the Groups taxable profit and Groups long-term financial and strategic plans.
The disclosures relating to deferred tax the legal entities in which the profit are set out in note 36: Deferred tax of the financial statements.
The Groups net deferred will arise.
tax asset at 31 December 2018 was 2,453million 31 December 2017: 2,284 million.
The Group has open tax The Committee took account of the respective views of both management and the Uncertain matters which require it to make relevant tax authorities when considering the uncertain tax positions of the Group.
The tax positions judgements about the most likely Committee also understood the external advice obtained by management to support outcome for the purposes of the views taken.
The Committee was satisfied that the provisions and disclosures made in respect of uncertain tax positions were appropriate.
The relevant disclosures are set out in note47: Contingent liabilities and commitments of the financial statements.
Determining the value of the VIF The Committee received a paper from the Groups Insurance Audit Committee Value-Inasset and insurance liabilities summarising its activities, which included a review of the economic and non-economic Force VIF requires management to make assumptions made by management to determine the Groups VIF asset and insurance asset and significant estimates for both liabilities.
The Committee reviewed this paper and discussed the assumptions made by insurance economic and non-economic management.
The Committee was satisfied that the value and associated disclosures of the VIF asset 2018: 4,762 million: 2017: 4,839million and liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts 2018: 98,874 million: 2017:103,413million were appropriate.
Determining the appropriate During the first half of 2018, the Group sold its Irish residential mortgage portfolio One-off accounting for certain onefor approximately 4 billion of cash consideration.
The Committee reviewed the transactions off transactions requires accounting proposed by management, including the recognition of a 105million loss management to assess the facts on disposal and the derecognition of the assets from the Groups balance sheet, and and circumstances specific to each was satisfied that it was appropriate.
During June 2018, the Group sold its 3.3 per cent stake in Standard Life Aberdeen for 344 million.
The Committee reviewed managements proposed accounting, which had no impact on the Groups income statement as the investment was classified as at fair value through other comprehensive income.
The Committee was satisfied that the accounting was appropriate.
The Committee has discussed The Committee discussed the Groups approach to the new leasing standard IFRS 16 Future the requirements of IFRS 16 noting that the principal impact of the standard on the Group was to bring its property accounting Leases, which the Group leases on-balance sheet.
The impact on the Groups balance sheet at 1 January 2019 standards adopted on 1 January 2019: and was to recognise a right of use asset and a corresponding liability of approximately IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts, 1.8billion.
which is expected to come It also discussed the Groups approach to the changes required by IFRS 17 noting into force for the year ending that this standard will fundamentally change the accounting for insurance products, 31December2022.
requiring that the profit be recognised over the life of the contract rather than permitting immediate up-front profit recognition.
The Committee was satisfied with the Groups disclosure included in its Future accounting developments note to the financial statements setting out the impact of accounting standards that were not effective for the Group at 31 December 2018.
The Directors are required to The Committee assisted the Board in performing its assessment of the viability of the Viability confirm whether they have a Company and the Group with input from management.
The viability assessment, which statement reasonable expectation that the was based on the Groups operating, capital and funding plans, included consideration Company and the Group will be of the principal and emerging risks which could impact the performance of the Group, able to continue to operate and and the liquidity and capital projections over the period.
meet their liabilities as they fall due The Committee was satisfied that the viability statement could be provided and advised for a specified period.
Theviability the Board that three years was a suitable period of review.
The viability statement is statement must also disclose the disclosed within the Directors report on page 80. basis for the Directors conclusions and explain why the period chosen is appropriate.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 73 Auditor independence and remuneration Other significant issues Both the Board and the external auditor have policies and procedures The following matters were also considered by the Committee during designed to protect the independence and objectivity of the external the year: auditor.
In 2018, the Committee amended its policy on business recovery services provided by the auditor in respect of the Groups Risk management and internal control systems customers to reflect revisions made by the Financial Reporting Council Full details of the internal control and risk management systems in FRC to its rules.
To ensure that there is an appropriate level of oversight relation to the financial reporting process are given within the risk by the Committee, the policy sets a financial threshold above which all management section on pages 105 to 159.
Specific matters that the non-audit services provided by the external auditor must be approved Committee considered for the year included: in advance by the Committee: the policy permits senior management the effectiveness of systems for internal control, financial reporting to approve certain engagements with fees for amounts below the and risk management threshold.
The policy also details those services that the Committee prohibits the external auditor from providing to the Group: these are the extent of the work undertaken by the Finance teams across the consistent with the non-audit services which the FRC considers to be Group to ensure that the control environment continued to operate prohibited.
The total amount of fees paid to the auditor for both audit effectively and non-audit related services in 2018 is disclosed in note 12 to the the major findings of internal investigations into control weaknesses, financial statements.
fraud or misconduct and managements response along with any control deficiencies identified through the assessment of the External auditor effectiveness of the internal controls over financial reporting under The Committee oversees the relationship with the external auditor theUS Sarbanes-Oxley Act PwC including its terms of engagement and remuneration, and monitors its independence and objectivity.
Mark Hannam has been The Committee was satisfied that internal controls over financial PwCs senior statutory audit partner for the Group and the Company reporting were appropriately designed and operating effectively.
since the beginning of 2016, and attends all meetings of the Committee.
During 2018, the Committee reviewed PwCs audit plan, including the Group Internal Audit underlying methodology, and PwCs risk identification processes.
In its In monitoring the activity, role and effectiveness of the internal audit assessment of PwCs performance and effectiveness, the Committee function and their audit programme the Committee: has considered: PwCs interactions with the Committee: the responses monitored the effectiveness of Group Internal Audit and their audit to a questionnaire issued to the Groups businesses, Finance, Risk and programme through quarterly reports on the activities undertaken Internal Audit: and the FRCs Audit Quality Inspection Report published and a report from the Quality Assurance function within Group in June 2018.
In addition, the FRCs Audit Quality Review team reviewed Internal Audit PwCs audit of the Groups 2017 financial statements as part of its latest annual inspection of audit firms.
The Chairman and the Committee approved the annual audit plan and budget, including resource and received a copy of the findings and discussed them with PwC.
Whilst reviewed progress against the plan through the year there were no significant findings, some areas of PwCs audit procedures assessed Group Internal Audits resources and skills supplemented were identified as needing limited improvements only.
The Committee by externally sourced subject matter experts as required as adequate concluded that it was satisfied with the auditors performance and to fulfil its mandate recommended to the Board a proposal for the re-appointment of the auditor at the Companys AGM.
oversaw Group Internal Audits progress against the 2017 External Quality Assessment Statutory Audit Services compliance considered the major findings of significant internal audits, and The Company and the Group confirm compliance with the provisions managements response of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Speak Up the Groups whistleblowing service Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 the Order for the The Committee received and considered reports from management on year to 31December2018.
PwC has been auditor to the Company and the Groups whistleblowing arrangements.
The Committee reviewed the Group since 1995, having previously been auditor to certain of the the reports to ensure there are arrangements in place which colleagues Groups constituent companies.
can use in confidence to report concerns about possible improprieties PwC was re-appointed as auditor with effect from 1 January 2016 in financial reporting or other matters, and that there is proportionate following a tender process conducted in 2014 in respect of the audit and independent investigation of such matters or appropriate follow up.
contract for the 2016, and subsequent, financial years.
Of the reports submitted, the Committee was satisfied with the actions During 2018 the Group carried out a formal review to choose its which had been taken.
auditor for the year ended 31 December 2021.
In accordance with the Order, PwC was excluded from this review.
In October 2018, the Board following the recommendation of the Audit Committee approved the proposed appointment of Deloitte LLP.
A recommendation for approval of this appointment will be made to the shareholders at the 2021 Annual General Meeting and subject to shareholder approval, Deloitte LLP will undertake the Group audit for the year ending 31 December 2021.
74 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Board Risk Committee report The environment within which the Group operates is increasingly subject to considerable change.
help support the Group in achieving its core full access to the Committee and attends Dear Shareholder aim of operating as a digitised, simple, low risk all meetings.
The Chief Internal Auditor I am pleased to report on how the Board Risk financial services provider.
and members of the Executive also attend Committee the Committee has discharged meetings, as appropriate.
Alan Dickinson its responsibilities throughout 2018.
Chairman, Board Risk Committee Annually the Committee undertakes an During the year, the Committee gave detailed effectiveness review.
The review forms consideration to a wide range of existing part of the Board evaluation process with Committee purpose and emerging risks, recognising that the Directors being asked to complete parts of and responsibilities environment within which the Group operates the questionnaire relating to the Committees is increasingly subject to considerable change.
The purpose of the Committee is to review of which they were members.
The findings of This is achieved through effective planning of the risk culture of the Group, setting the tone the review were considered by the Committee the agenda which ensures specific attention from the top in respect of risk management.
On the basis of is given to those emerging risks which are The Committee is also responsible for the evaluation, the feedback was that the considered to be of ongoing importance to the ensuring the risk culture is fully embedded performance of the Committee continues Group and its customers, alongside standing and supports at all times the Groups agreed to be effective.
Details of Committee areas of risk management.
The Committee risk appetite, covering the extent and membership and meeting attendance can be continues to make use of dedicated categories of risk which the Board considers found on page 56. subcommittees to provide additional focus on as acceptable for the Group.
As the most senior risk committee in the particular areas of significance.
In seeking to achieve this, the Committee Group, the Committee interacts with other The Committee considered delivery of key assumes responsibility for monitoring the related risk committees, including the regulatory change programmes such as Groups Risk Management Framework, executive Group Risk Committee.
Such ringfenced banking, together with other which embraces risk principles, policies, interaction assists with the agenda planning areas of regulatory attention such as data methodologies, systems, processes, process, where in addition to annual agenda governance and operational resilience, procedures and people.
It also includes the planning, matters considered by the Group where the Group continues to strengthen its review of new, or material amendments to Risk Committee are reviewed to ensure control environment.
Focus was also given risk principles and policies, and overseeing escalation of all relevant matters to the to management of customer rectifications, any action resulting from material breaches of Committee.
where good progress continued to be made such policy.
with reduction of the volume of rectification More details on the Groups wider approach Matters considered by programmes and customers impacted.
to risk management can be found in the risk the Committee Stress testing undertaken by the Group, management section on pages 105 to 159. which included the impacts of IFRS 9 for Over the course of the year the Committee Full details of the Committees responsibilities the first time and considered the potential considered a wide range of risks facing the are set out in its terms of reference, which can impacts of severe economic scenarios on the Group, both standing and emerging, across all be found at www.
com Groups business model, also continued to be key areas of risk management, in addition to ourgroup corporategovernance reviewed and challenged by the Committee.
risk culture and risk appetite, as notedabove.
Each of these areas will be subject to ongoing As part of this review, certain risks were Committee composition, skills, focus in 2019. identified which required further detailed experience and operation Looking ahead, other areas of focus will consideration.
Set out on the following pages include continued improvements in the Alan Dickinson, Chairman of the Committee, is a summary of these risks, with an outline is a highly regarded retail and commercial Groups treatment of customers in financial of the material factors considered by the difficulty, and consumer indebtedness more banker, having spent 37 years with the Committee, and the conclusions which were Royal Bank of Scotland, most notably as generally, operational resilience and ever ultimately reached.
evolving cyber risks, together with risks Chief Executive of RBS UK, overseeing the During 2018, the Committee continued to groups Retail and Commercial operations associated with delivery of the Groups overall utilise established subcommittees to provide strategy and change portfolio.
The Committee is composed additional focus on areas such as IT resilience of NonExecutive Directors, who provide particularly around the EU Exit, inevitably and cyber, and stress testing and recovery continue to provide challenges and potential core banking and risk knowledge, together planning.
These subcommittees enable with breadth of experience which brings impacts for the Groups risk profile: the members of the Committee to dedicate Committee continues to closely monitor knowledge from other sectors, and a clear additional time and resource to achieving a awareness of the importance of putting developments in these areas.
more indepth understanding of the topics the customer at the centre of all that the The Committee has concluded that the Group covered, and enable further review and Groupdoes.
continues to have strong discipline in the challenge of the associated risks.
All NonExecutive Directors are members of management of both emerging and existing the Committee.
The Chief Risk Officer has risks, and the Committees work continues to Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 75 Activities during the year Key issues Committee review and conclusion Conduct risk The Committee continues Throughout 2018 the Committee has considered reports on the Groups rectifications portfolio Rectifications to focus closely on the performance, particularly the initiatives to reduce the number of customers with outstanding Groups management of remediation.
The Committee has noted substantial progress in the pace and quality of customer rectifications.
remediation in delivering a reduction in the number of customers awaiting redress and expect improvements in the time taken to deliver the right customer outcomes.
TheCommittee has remained close to progress on material rectifications, including HBOSReading.
Conclusion: Root cause analysis and read-across activities continue to improve and embed across the Group with good progress in reducing the volume of rectification programmes and customers impacted.
This will remain a key focus for the Committee.
The Committee continues In 2018 the Committee considered reports on the progress of resolution of conduct issues CiFD to focus closely on the affecting customers in financial difficulty.
Key focus areas included pace and quality of Groups management of remediation and analysis of lessons learned to prevent similar issues from arising in the future.
conduct risks and issues The Committee also considered the progress made in transforming our approach to helping associated with customers customers in financial difficulty and improving customer outcomes.
Conclusion: Whilst good progress had been made, ongoing improvement in the Groups treatment of customers in financial difficulty will continue to be an area of focus.
Financial risk covering Credit and Market risk Reviews were undertaken A detailed review of the portfolio was conducted, which considered the quality of the overall Commercial of the Commercial Banking portfolio as well as newly originated business.
The Committee reviewed sectors that have been credit quality credit portfolio with a impacted by slower economic growth or structural change, notably those that are linked to focus on sectors that have discretionary consumer spending, for example, retail, as well as areas such as commercial real been impacted by slower estate, agriculture and leveraged finance.
Credit exposure and risk levels were monitored with reference to management information and risk appetite limits which included overall portfolio information as well as material individual exposures.
The Committee also considered the Groups approach to credit policies and individual transaction limits, and reviewed summary details of transactions and portfolio reviews that were assessed at the Groups most senior credit committee.
Conclusion: Overall Commercial Banking credit quality remained stable.
Origination quality has been maintained, supported by a consistent through-the-cycle approach to risk appetite.
The portfolio continues to be monitored closely with consideration given to the macroeconomic outlook and emerging trends.
The Committee reviewed Consideration was given to regulatory feedback, the Groups lending controls and risk appetite Customer the risks relating to monitoring, new consumer lending indebtedness risk and the residual value risk profile in the indebtedness consumer lending Motor Finance portfolio.
indebtedness, PRA The Committee noted that lending controls and risk appetite metrics for both indebtedness guidance on managing and affordability assessment are in place, and acknowledged the Groups actions to closely affordability risk, new FCA monitor and control higher risk and marginal indebtedness segments and reduce exposure rules on Persistent Debt for over time.
The Committee reviewed progress against implementation of new FCA rules on credit cards, and residual Persistent Debt in the cards portfolio.
Persistent Debt has decreased and further treatments are value risk in Motor Finance.
being tested to encourage higher levels of repayment.
The Committee reviewed the progress being made to strengthen risk appetite limits and controls on residual value risk in the Motor Finance portfolio.
Conclusion: The Committee was satisfied that appropriate lending controls and monitoring are in place for affordability and indebtedness and noted progress made to strengthen these and improve visibility of customers debt positions, as well as ensure resilience in Motor Finance.
The Committee reviewed Consideration was given to the appropriateness of the Groups credit risk appetite for new Retail risks associated with the mortgage lending, risks inherent in the portfolio and comparative benchmarks of business mix secured Groups UK mortgage and performance.
portfolio including interest The Committee noted the credit quality of new business and reductions in the level of arrears only and buy-to-let lending.
In line with our Helping Britain Prosper Plan, the Group participates more fully in lending to first time buyers and the buy-to-let market than our peer group.
The Committee reviewed the additional credit controls that have been introduced to further reduce exposure to more marginal customers in these segments.
The Committee also reviewed plans to address the risks associated with maturing interest only mortgages and noted progress made.
Conclusion: The Committee was satisfied that appropriate credit controls were in place to support continued market participation in line with the Groups risk appetite limits, and that progress has been made on controls to address the risk of interest only lending.
The Committee continues During the year the Committee has increased consideration of macroeconomic risks impacting Economic to consider key economic the Groups central economics forecast incorporated into the Groups Four-Year Operating update risks, particularly given Plan.
The Committee has focused on economic and geo-political risks such as EU Exit and the increasingly uncertain wider global economic risks, including US monetary policy, the impact of the US currency on outlook.
emerging markets, trade wars, UK property markets and UK productivity.
Conclusion: The Committee will continue to closely monitor economic uncertainties, particularly arising from EU Exit.
The Committee will also focus on risks emerging from the EU due to slower growth and political challenges, as well as risks from wider global events.
76 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Board Risk Committee report continued Key issues Committee review and conclusion The Committee continues The Committee has reviewed the stress testing outputs from both the internal and regulatory Stress testing to review the key exercises.
This year, PRA stress testing included the impact of IFRS 9 for the first time, which vulnerabilities of the Group requires us to recognise expected lifetime losses rather than reflecting incurred losses and to adverse changes in the accelerates loss recognition.
This was a key area of focus and challenge at the Committee, economic environment, which reviewed the evolution of balances through IFRS 9 stages under stress, and associated ensuring that there impairment impact.
In addition the Committee assessed the usage and governance of models are adequate financial in the stress testing process to ensure the results were satisfactorily produced.
resources in the event Conclusion: The Group continues to review the impact of severe economic scenarios on our of a severe yet plausible business model, whilst the Committee ensures the necessary risk oversight via review and downturn.
challenge of the internal and regulatory stress tests.
Operational risk Operational resilience is Key areas of focus for the Committee have included updates on the Groups cloud strategy, review Operational one of the Groups most of the updated operational resilience strategy and response to the Bank of Englands discussion resilience important non-financial paper.
In addition, the Committee has reviewed papers relating to key risk reduction programmes risks.
Key focus in 2018 including Identity and Access Management, insider risk and updates to the Groups approach to has been to enhance managing its third-party suppliers.
the existing approach to Given the significance of the risk to the Group, the Committee has a sub-committee specifically operational resilience and focused on IT and cyber risks.
strengthen the control Conclusion: The Committee takes the operational resilience of its services very seriously and has environment, to improve taken valuable insight from having independent advice and guidance.
It has agreed risk appetite the Groups ability to statements for critical services and has strengthened these over the last period to reflect the respond to incidents and increased focus on resilience.
The Committee considers that governance of operational resilience continue delivering key risk is robust and that activities in plan will ensure the ongoing resilience of key services to the services to ourcustomers.
The Committee continues Data risk continues to be an area of significant regulatory and media attention and the Data risk to focus on data Committee has overseen the implementation of robust governance, to ensure compliance governance and privacy with GDPR.
Clear accountabilities have been established by the creation of Divisional Data risks including oversight of Privacy Accountable Persons, driving a culture of compliance.
A Group Data Protection Office the Groups compliance GDPO has been established to independently oversee compliance.
The Group continues with the General Data to drive enhancements to the control environment to ensure value is harnessed from the data Protection Regulation that we hold, enabling delivery against key strategic priorities, whilst ensuring transparency and GDPR, and the associated trustworthiness to our customers and colleagues.
Conclusion: The Group continues to heighten the controls required to manage data risk.
In 2019 data risk has been classified as a primary risk type.
The Committee recognises The Committee continued to focus on the People risk profile, recognising the challenges People risk the importance of People faced in successfully delivering the Group strategic and extensive regulatory change agenda.
risk management to ensure The Group recognises the increasing demands on colleagues and is monitoring colleague the Group has the right wellbeing and engagement as well as developing colleague skills to achieve capability capabilities and culture as enhancement for a digital era.
Particular consideration is given to critical and high performing we build the Bank of the individuals.
The Group has made significant progress in evolving and refining the compliance Future.
control environment for the Senior Manager and Certification Regime SMCR.
The delivery of the SMCR extension will remain a focus for 2019.
Conclusion: The Committee provides oversight of People risk, which will remain a key focus as the Group delivers simplified colleague processes and maximises colleague skills and capability to achieve the workforce of the future.
The Committee Recognising the extent of our transformation agenda, the Committee has received regular Change and continues to recognise monitoring of key change and execution risk indicators.
Metrics have been developed and execution risk risks associated with an refined throughout the year, alongside regular reporting.
extensive strategic change The effectiveness and model for change oversight has been reviewed and refreshed to ensure agenda, incorporating that there is risk-based assessment of strategic change activity.
Similarly, the risk governance with both discretionary and respect to strategic change has been reviewed.
Conclusion: There is significant work needed to transform how change is delivered, impacting Focus areas include new both capacity and required change capability.
This reorganisation is happening concurrently execution risk metrics, with change delivery.
Further focus is required to manage dependencies and associated risks effective change oversight alongside refinement of execution risk metrics, and change execution risk reporting.
Negotiations continue to The key risks for the Group include volatility and possible discontinuities in financial markets, EU Exit determine the final terms of impact on our customers trading performance, financial position and credit profile, and ability planning the UKs exit from the EU.
When reviewing the possible impacts of the EU Exit, the Committee has given particular consideration to the Groups strong UK focus and UK-centric strategy.
The The ongoing uncertainty Committee continues to closely monitor developments, with specific focus on the trading, financial regarding the options, and operational impacts for the Group, and the continued support of ourcustomers.
timing and the process itself could affect the Conclusion: The EU exit plans continue to be closely monitored by the Committee via specific outlook for the UK and regular updates, a suite of early warning indicators and corresponding risk mitigation plans.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 77 Key issues Committee review and conclusion Financial crime is a The Committee considered the unprecedented volume of regulatory and legislative change, Money priority for the UK noting the Groups response to the updated Money Laundering Regulations and UK Criminal laundering Government, law Finances Act.
Accordingly, the Committee reviewed the Annual Group Money Laundering enforcement and Officers Report MLRO report and was satisfied with the standard of compliance detailed regulators.
Additionally, the Committee acknowledged the strategic plans in place to continually Committee continues improve the Groups Financial Crime control framework.
to monitor the Groups The Committee noted the positive outcome of the FCA Systematic Anti-Money Laundering management of financial Programme review, recognising the Groups largely effective Financial Crime control framework crime risk in light of and strong tone from the top.
Additionally, theCommittee noted the progress in the Groups significant regulatory money mules strategy which has resulted in a significant improvement in the identification and change.
prevention of illicit funds being laundered through Group accounts.
Conclusion: The Committee noted satisfaction with the standard of compliance documented in the MLRO report, and acknowledged the action plans in place across the Group to further enhance the Groups position.
The Committee The Committee considered the challenging and evolving nature of the fraud risk environment Fraud continues to closely influenced by factors such as an increasing sophistication of fraud typologies, third-party data monitor the Groups breaches, and an uplift in social engineering fraud.
The Group continues to invest in new and management of fraud innovative controls, as well as working in collaboration with the public sector to prevent, detect, risk, whilst minimising and respond to fraud risks.
As such, the Committee was updated on strategic plans which will the impact of controls deliver enhanced controls enabling the Group to continue to manage fraud risk within appetite.
on genuine customer Additionally, the Committee acknowledged the leading role the Group has played in the journeys.
development of an industry code for authorised push payment fraud.
The code will be agreed in early 2019 and the Group is well positioned to manage the impact.
Conclusion: The Committee noted the positive work undertaken in the detection and prevention of fraud: acknowledged the need to maintain momentum, and therefore parity, with our peers: and, recognised the continuing efforts of the Group to protect the integrity of genuine customer journeys.
Regular reporting categories Managing regulatory The Committee has continued focus on ensuring effective controls and oversight to comply with Regulatory risk continues to be a existing regulatory obligations, as well as receiving regular updates on emerging legal trends.
and legal risk key focus within the There have been ongoing significant regulatory change programmes in which the Board has placed Group due to the increased focus in order to ensure successful execution, including the Basel Committee on Banking significant amount Supervision BCBS 239 and Markets in Financial Instruments DirectiveII.
Due consideration to the of highly complex governance and compliance of the ring-fenced bank has also been considered by the Committee, and interdependent including monthly programme reporting until the ring-fencing legislation took effect.
regulatory reform that Conclusion: The Group continues to place significant focus on complex regulatory changes, as well we have managed in as ensuring effective horizon scanning of upcoming trends.
Regulatory risk will remain a priority 2018, and will continue to area of focus for the Committee in 2019. manage in2019.
The Committee During the year the Committee discussed the current model risk profile, with specific focus on Model risk continues to recognise the new IFRS 9 Impairment models, trends in performance and actions being taken to resolve the importance of the material model issues.
The Committee considered wider model issues such as the increase in Group Executive and automation and analytics required to support the Banks strategic aims, regulatory issues and the Board holding a the action being taken by the Group to address these, as wellas benchmarking the Groups strong understanding approach to model risk management compared to theindustry.
of the Groups models, Conclusion: Whilst good progress was made in 2018, the demand for models and model related their associated risks and activity is expected to continue to increase, with key drivers being the Group strategy, and the performance.
need to meet new regulatory requirements in the longer-term.
The Committee The Committee continues to focus on ensuring the Group has an effective framework for Complaints continues to focus on managing complaints including root cause analysis to establish lessons learned and help prevent ensuring the Group similar issues in the future.
Consideration has been given to complaint metric performance and is resolving customer quality as measured by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
complaints in a timely Conclusion: The Group continues to make good progress however focus needs to remain on manner and eradicating reducing the reasons for customers to complain in 2019 and to learn from root cause analysis.
Vulnerable customers The Committee considered progress on implementing the Groups strategy for vulnerable Vulnerability represent a significant customers which is aligned to UK Finance Vulnerability Taskforce Principles.
proportion of the The Committee noted the actions in train, including enhanced guidance, more detailed evidencing Groups customer base of embedding, enhancement of the control framework and developing improvedmanagement and continue to be an information.
The Groups signature actions for 2019 will focus on Mental Health, Critical Illness, Financial Abuse, Age Vulnerability and Access to Service.
Conclusion: The Committee recognise the ongoing activity and the progress made, coupled with the significant focus required to deliver effectively on both the Groups aspirations and external expectations.
78 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Responsible Business Committee report Doing business in a responsible way is key to the successful delivery of our purpose to Help Britain Prosper Business: the approach to communicating the Dear Shareholder How the Committee Companys role as a responsible business: the spent its time in 2018 I am pleased to report on the activity of Companys policies relating to responsible the Responsible Business Committee the business including the Code of Responsibility During the year, the Committee undertook a Committee in 2018. and the Statement on compliance with the detailed exercise to consider how its role and Modern Slavery Act.
During the year, as well as overseeing remit would develop to ensure it remained progress against the Helping Britain Prosper best placed to assist with the delivery of the At each meeting, updates have been Plan as a whole, the Committee focused Companys strategy by concentrating on provided on the performance against the on some major and emerging Responsible overseeing the key initiatives to deliver the metrics of the Helping Britain Prosper Plan Business themes.
on which a report is provided on page20.
The four Lloyds Banking Group charitable The Committee agreed that its approach should focus on three material areas aligned Foundations do critical work to tackle Committee purpose disadvantage across the UK.
The Committee to the Bank of the Future with the aim of andoperation enabling people, businesses and communities met with Baroness Fritchie, chair of the Lloyds The Committees role is to support the Board Bank Foundation for England and Wales, to be ready for the future.
in overseeing the Groups performance as a to discuss how we could jointly do more to Digital Skills has been a significant area responsible business by providing oversight support activity in key areas such as domestic for review and debate during the year, with of, and support for, the Groups strategy abuse or homelessness.
regular updates provided on the direction of and plans for delivering the aspiration, to The Committee took a comprehensive deep and progress with the establishment of the be seen as a trusted, responsible business, Lloyds Bank Academy.
The Committee has dive to review the Companys emerging as part of the Companys purpose to Help sustainability strategy.
The Group committed provided input and challenge to the team Britain Prosper.
This role is fulfilled by working on the Academy programme and to supporting the countrys transition to a lower providing oversight and challenge on those carbon economy, in line with the Governments supported the pilot programmes undertaken activities which impact on the Companys in Manchester.
Clean Growth Plan, and directors from all behaviour and reputation as a trusted, business areas described how their activity The development of the Companys responsible business and by considering and contributed to the overall plan.
Sustainability strategy was considered with recommending to the Board for approval the input from external advisers.
The Committee I had great pleasure in attending the regional Responsible Business Report and Helping launch of our Digital Academy in Manchester engaged with the leaders of business Britain Prosper Plan.
areas on the application of the approach in December.
Improving digital skills, is a key The Chairman of the Committee reviews plank of Britains plan to increase productivity, to helping customers in a sustainable way.
the forward agenda regularly to ensure that These included the assistance provided for and the Academy works with local the focus of the Committees work is on its organisations and national partners to deliver customers who are victims of flooding, work key priorities and members have sufficient to support the transition to a low carbon a range of training, including basic skills like time at meetings to raise issues of concern preparing a CV as well as more advanced economy and the development of green and to engage in constructive dialogue with loans.
The Companys sustainability strategy activity, and is accessible to all members of colleagues.
was recommended to the Board for approval in September 2018 and published on the Further information on the activities which the Committee composition, Companys website www.
Committee keeps under review are set out attendance at meetings com our-group responsible-business in the 2019 Helping Britain Prosper Plan on .
The Plan sets out how the Company The alignment of the working relationship Representatives from Group Internal Audit seeks to help people, communities and businesses prosper.
between the Company and the charitable and the Chief Operating Office are invited to Foundations was a key area of focus.
In conclusion, I would like to thank the many Committee considered and supported the colleagues across the Group for their hard During the year, the Committee met development of plans to work in partnership work and extraordinary commitment to its key objectives and carried out its with the Foundations to support the supporting Responsible Business activity responsibilities effectively, as confirmed Charitable Sector through strengthening in their day jobs, as well as by volunteering by the annual effectiveness review.
The skills-based volunteering across Foundationsover 235,000 hours of their time and helping Committee will consider the output from supported charities.
to raise 3.8million for our charity of the year, the 2018 effectiveness review and whether Mental Health UK.
In other activities, the Committee amendments could be made to its current considered reports on: an outline for an working arrangements.
The report that follows gives more examples assurance process on responsible business of our activity to Help Britain Prosper in 2018, Details of committee membership and activities within business areas: colleague and I hope you find it both interesting and meeting attendance can be found on engagement in responsible business informative.
activities: the partnership with the University Sara Weller of Birminghams Centre for Responsible Chairman, Responsible Business Committee
