Report of the Audit Committee During the year, as part of its key priorities, the Committee: Continued to monitor the tax and accounting implications and the integration of the acquisitions of The Yield Book and Citi Fixed Income Indices divisions of Citigroup: Received and discussed the external audit management letter from Ernst & Young LLP EY.
The letter highlighted a number of areas for improvement, in particular regarding contract management and debtor risk management and reporting and Paul Heiden the US tax function.
These were noted by the Committee for follow-up: Chairman of the Audit Committee Reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditor based on their qualifications, expertise, resources, level of independence, execution of their audit plan and the quality of their conclusions and recommendations.
On the basis of their own The Audit Committee members as at 31 December 2018 were: interaction with EY and that of management, the Audit Committee confirmed Paul Heiden Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Jacques that the services provided by EY were appropriate and in compliance with Aigrain, Ruth Wandhfer and Stephen OConnor.
We believe that the relevant auditor independence and integrity rules: Committee as a whole continues to have competence relevant to the sector in which the Group operates.
Received and discussed reports from Executives on the key business and infrastructure initiatives of the Group including the growth of the FTSE business, This report is intended to give an overview of the role and activities IT operations and the cybersecurity programme: of the Audit Committee in assisting the Board to fulfil its oversight Had in depth conversations with the local executives in Italy at the June meeting responsibilities relating to the monitoring of the effectiveness of the held in Milan and with US executives at the December meeting held in New York: system of internal control and risk management, the independence and effectiveness of the external auditor and the integrity of the Reviewed the impact of multiple increases in equity interest in the LCH group to Groups financial statements.
It details the activities, discussions a stake of 82.6% in the LCH Group as of 31 December 2018: and decisions that enabled the Audit Committee to fulfil its Reviewed the financial impact of the disposal of Exactpro: responsibilities effectively during 2018.
Reviewed the updated Group Treasury Policy and recommended it for approval by the full Board: Noted the response from the Financial Reporting Council FRC in relation to LSEGs reply to its review of the annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The FRC had communicated that the Groups responses and explanations to the matters it had raised were acceptable and understood: Discussed a number of internal audit reports during the year and satisfied itself that management action plans were in place to address the recommended improvements within reasonable deadlines.
The Audit Committee also reviewed an external independent report on the internal audit methodology and satisfied itself of the adequacy of the internal audit function: 74 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Governance Report of the Audit Committee Approved the 2019 internal audit universe, internal audit plan, internal audit Priorities in the forthcoming year will include: risk appetite and budget and resources for the Internal Audit function.
Receiving assurance that the control environment remains robust to support the The Committee also approved the updated internal audit charter and continued growth and diversification of the Groups activities: including all major discussed alternatives to improve the coordination of all assurance functions: projects, as well as key processes such as business continuity planning and Continued to monitor the alignment of the control environment of recent disaster recovery and cybersecurity programmes: acquisitions with the Group internal control framework.
It satisfied itself Monitoring the progress of the alignment of assurance activities across the that these acquisitions were being integrated according to plan and were internal audit, third party assurance providers and the risk function: meeting the financial objectives of the Group.
Where gaps were identified, the Committee requested remediation plans to be put in place: Monitoring the progress of the integration of newly acquired businesses: Continued to monitor the status of the implementation of the new Group-wide Monitoring the progress of management actions recommended within the financial reporting system throughout the year and satisfied itself that the external audit management letter from EY: project continues to improve the process for financial reporting: Receiving early and continuous understanding of the impact of the Groups Discussed the implementation of the new UK Payment Practices and acquisitions and divestitures on financial and tax accounting: Performance regulation: Continuing to assess the impact of developments in accounting standards and Discussed the implications and impact of the implementation of the new the related implementation: and accounting standards: IFRS 15 on revenue recognition, IFRS 9 on the recognition Continuing to monitor progress on the key IT and infrastructure projects and impairment of financial assets and IFRS 16 on the accounting of leases and of the Group.
IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 became effective starting 1 January 2018 while IFRS 16 became effective on 1 January 2019 : Reviewed the impact of the implementation of the GMP Guaranteed Minimum Pension equalisation on the Groups defined benefit pension scheme: Approved a parent guarantee from LSEG The Group for a selection of direct Paul Heiden and indirect subsidiaries in order to obtain audit exemption for the subsidiaries Chairman of the Audit Committee under section 479A-479C of the Companies Act 2006: 1 March 2019 Reviewed the enhanced whistleblowing arrangements of the Group including the appointment of the Chair of the Audit Committee as the independent whistleblowing champion, an upgraded external whistleblowing line and new internal policies and procedures.
A Speak Up campaign was conducted across the Group in November 2018 to increase the awareness of the organisation about whistleblowing: and Following a review of the Audit Committees terms of reference, responsibility for oversight of treasury matters was transferred to the Risk Committee.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 75 Report of the Audit Committee continued Role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee Composition and meetings 1.
Financial reporting The Committee meets the requirements of the Code.
It is comprised of 4 The Committee recommends the financial statements of the Group to the Board, independent Non-Executive Directors.
It is chaired by Paul Heiden who is a including the annual and half-yearly reports, preliminary results announcements qualified chartered accountant with a career in a variety of senior finance roles.
and any other formal announcement relating to its financial performance, The skills and experience of each Committee member are provided in the Board reviewing the significant financial reporting judgements that they contain.
of Directors section on pages 59 61.
Internal controls and Risk Management systems The Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, Group Head of Internal The Committee keeps under review the effectiveness of the Groups system of Audit, Group Chief Risk Officer and the external auditor are standing invitees to all Internal Control and Risk Management.
The Audit Committee makes Audit Committee meetings.
In addition, various other members of management recommendations to the Board regarding the effectiveness of the Groups Internal are invited from time to time to present specific matters relevant to the Control and Risk Management systems and recommends to the Board the Committees remit.
The Chairman of the Board also attends the Committee statements to be included in the Annual Report concerning internal controls and on a regular basis.
Risk Management in collaboration with the Risk Committee.
The Committee also monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function, Further details on the functions and responsibilities of the Audit Committee can ensuring that it has adequate resources and appropriate access to information to be found in the Committees Terms of Reference dated 1 January 2019 which are perform its function independently from executive management.
reviewed annually and available from the Group Company Secretary or in the corporate governance section of the Groups website at: www.
The Committee oversees the relationship with the external auditor.
The Committee reviews and approves the annual audit plan, ensures that it is Activities in 2018 consistent with the Committees view of the scope of the audit engagement and The Committee met 4 times during the year.
The Committee maintains a formal reviews the findings of the audit with the external auditor.
The Committee agenda which ensures that all matters for which the Committee is responsible are monitors and reviews the objectivity and independence of the external auditors considered at the appropriate meeting.
The agenda for each meeting was including the non-audit activities performed by the auditors for the Group see determined by the key events of the annual financial reporting cycle, the risks the external auditors fees section below for more details.
The Committee ensures identified by the Committee and the standing items under its Terms of Reference.
that the external audit services contract is put out to tender on a periodic basis in The following provides details on how the Committee discharged its responsibilities line with existing best practices and regulation the current external auditor was during the year as set out in its Terms of Reference: appointed in 2014 following a tender process overseen by the Audit Committee.
The Committee oversees the selection process for new auditors and if an auditor Financial matters: resigns the Committee investigates the issues leading to this and decides With regards to financial matters, the Committee reviewed, discussed and whether any action is required.
approved the half-year and full-year financial results.
It reviewed, discussed and approved key accounting judgements, the annual review for goodwill impairment 4.
Other matters and assessment of indicators of impairment on purchased intangible assets, Whistleblowing and fraud managements view of commitments and contingencies and the adequacy of the The Committee reviews the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise proposed disclosures.
For more details on the main discussions and decisions concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other reached by the Committee on financial matters, see the section below entitled matters.
The Committee ensures that these arrangements allow proportionate Significant matters impacting the financial statements and Other topics of and independent investigation of such matters and appropriate follow up action.
discussion in respect to the financial statements.
The Committee also reviews annually the Groups procedures for detecting fraud and for the prevention of bribery.
76 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Governance Report of the Audit Committee Internal controls: Based on all evidence presented, the Audit Committee satisfied itself that the The Committee continued to exercise disciplined oversight of the effectiveness of external audit has been conducted independently and effectively with the the Groups internal controls throughout the year.
It fulfilled its responsibilities by appropriate rigor and level of testing.
reviewing and discussing regular reports from the external auditor, the Internal Audit and Risk Management functions as well as from external experts, including: Having considered the performance of EY for the past 4 years, the Audit Committee recommended to the Board in 2018 that a resolution for the Reports on compliance with the Code internal controls including reappointment of EY as the Companys external auditor for the year ending whistleblowing at half year and year end 31 December 2019 be proposed to shareholders at the AGM in May 2019.
Quarterly updates on internal audit plans including internal control issues raised and management actions to remedy the deficiencies EY were appointed as our external auditors in 2014.
The Group intends to put the external audit out to tender every 10 years and no later than 2023.
The lead audit Annual report on the performance of the Internal Audit function at the first partner and other key partners identified are required to rotate every 5 years.
Audit Committee of the year Other partners are required to rotate every 7 years.
Maurice McCormick took over as lead audit partner in 2018 from David Canning Jones.
The Committee obtained additional comfort by meeting with the Group Head of Internal Audit at each Audit Committee meeting without executive The Committee approved the EY audit plan, the methodology used, the scope of the management present.
audit by location, the risks and areas of focus as well as the materiality threshold for the Group and the threshold for reporting unadjusted audit differences.
The activities of the Committee related to internal controls enabled it to satisfy itself that the Internal Audit function is independent, objective and The Committee has complied with the relevant parts of the Competition and adequately staffed to perform its duties.
In addition, the Committee assessed Markets Authority Final Order on the statutory audit market for the year ended the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function throughout the year using 31 December 2018. qualitative and quantitative indicators including: Completeness of the audit universe and the audit plan Report on external auditors fees and safeguards on non-audit services The Committee has a formal policy governing the engagement of the auditors to Quality of the methodology updated at least once a year provide non-audit services which is reviewed on an annual basis.
Quality of the audit reports and the issues raised This policy prohibits certain activities from being undertaken by the auditors Consistency of the audit issues raised and their ratings such as: accounting bookkeeping services, internal auditing, certain tax and Feedback from executive management on specific audits payroll services, executive recruitment and remuneration services and more generally any work where a mutuality of interest could compromise the Key performance indicators such as percentage of the audit plan completed, independence of the auditors.
The policy also places restrictions on the duration of audits, distribution of audit ratings, percentage of past due actions employment of former employees of the auditors.
Recognising however that and percentage of self-identified issues the auditors are best placed to undertake certain work of a non-audit nature, the policy permits the provision of audit-related services and permitted The Committee relied on the assurance process throughout the year to non-audit services with the prior approval of the Committee.
recommend to the full Board that it could report to shareholders on the effectiveness of the Groups internal control system.
The Board statement A breakdown of audit and non-audit service fees paid and payable to the external can be found on page 105. auditor for the year ended 31 December 2018 and prior year is provided below and in Note 38 to the financial statements.
Oversight of the external auditor: Year ended Year ended The Committee assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process 31 December 31 December including the independence and quality of the Groups external auditor EY 2018 2017 m m throughout the year.
The Committee relied on its own judgment supported by the following evidence: Audit services Audit of parent and consolidated The Committee received a report from management on their own evaluation financial statements 1 1 of the effectiveness of the external auditor Audit of subsidiary companies 2 2 It received reports from EY on the status of their 2018 plan and the results of their Non-audit services 1 1 work.
The external auditors reports were discussed at each Committee meeting Total 4 4 and their views and opinions used to challenge decisions by Group Finance Note: Ernst and Young LLP provided non-audit services of 0.6m: 15% of total fees 2017: 0.6m: 15% of total fees.
This comprised of audit related assurance services of 0.5m 2017: 0.5m and Evidence of matters referred for specialist review, technical review, other non-audit services of 0.1m 2017: 0.1m and quality control The Committee also held separate meetings with EY at each Committee meeting without management being present London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 77 Report of the Audit Committee continued The Committee reviewed each of these individual appointments on their merits.
Other matters: Prior to EY being engaged, the review process involved considering As part of its regular annual activities, the Committee assessed its own managements assessment of: effectiveness and reviewed and updated its Terms of Reference to reflect the division of responsibilities with the Group Risk Committee, the changes in the the threats to independence and objectivity resulting from the provision Group and the corporate governance context.
The resulting modifications to the of such services functioning of the Committee resulting from these activities have been reflected which accounting firms had the appropriate experience and expertise in the Committees Terms of Reference effective 1 January 2019 available at to undertake the work www.
whether there were any conflicts of interest for EY whether the conflicts of interest that existed for other potential firms, who Significant matters impacting the financial statements were either advising other parties to the transactions or were auditors of Significant matters How the Committee reviewed the other company, could be appropriately managed for January these matters and what December 2018 decisions were taken the quantum of non-audit fees in the context of the overall audit fee and relative significance to EY in the context of its total client fees Revenue recognition The Audit Committee reviewed the external auditors comments on the recognition of revenues in the secondary capital markets trading area, fees or revenue In each case, the Audit Committee concluded, on the balance of risks, that the share clearing arrangements and information services appointment of EY to perform certain non-audit services represented the most revenue accruals see EY audit opinion on pages effective, secure and efficient way of obtaining the necessary advice and services, 106114.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that sufficient analysis had been performed in this area to given their knowledge of our business and the Groups structure and accounting demonstrate that there was no evidence that any and tax affairs, together with their wider knowledge of our industry sector.
manipulation of revenues had taken place.
Expenses related to The activity of the Group in relation to the internal internally developed development of software has expanded significantly software over time.
The capitalisation of software development expenses involves management judgment against criteria set out in IFRS.
Where indicators of impairment are identified or where an asset has not been brought into use, a full impairment assessment is performed at the reporting date.
The Audit Committee reviewed the methodology used by Group Finance to capitalise software development expenses and satisfied itself that it was adequate and in conformity with IFRS.
The Audit Committee also considered possible indicators of impairment for the significant internally developed software and came to the conclusion that no impairment should be recorded.
Goodwill and acquired The Audit Committee considered the approach and intangibles impairment methodology applied to performing the detailed assessment annual goodwill impairment assessment as well as the assessment for indicators of impairment of other purchased intangible assets as required under IAS 36, including the key assumptions for short and long-term growth rates, cash flow expectations and the discount rates used for the Groups cost of capital as well as key business indicators.
The impairment review was also an area of focus for the external auditors, who reported their findings to the Committee.
Details of the impairment review can be found in Note 1 to the financial statements on pages 122128.
78 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Governance Report to the Audit Committee Other topics of discussion in respect to the financial statements: The Audit Committee satisfied itself that the Board of Directors was in a position Increase in equity interest in LCH Group to make the statement using the Group Stress testing methodology.
During 2018, LSEG has increased its equity interest in LCH Group from 65.9% at the end of 2017 to 82.6% at 31 December 2018.
The Audit Committee reviewed The Financial viability statement can be found within the Directors Report the accounting entries of the transaction to satisfy itself that the impact of the on page 104. transaction was correctly reflected in the Group accounts.
Fair, balanced and understandable Annual Report Receivables The Audit Committee satisfied itself that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and The Audit Committee discussed the quality and profile of the Groups debtors understandable and has presented its conclusions to the Board.
In order to reach across all its businesses as well as the provisioning methodology for bad debtors.
its conclusions, the Committee examined the following criteria: The Committee recognised that the client billing structure is complex, but the Fair: implementation of the Oracle accounting system has enabled a much improved standardisation of the analysis and reporting processes on receivables.
The Audit The Annual Report does not omit important or sensitive elements necessary Committee agreed with the new proposed provisioning methodology using a to understand the strategy, performance and business model of the Group simplified approach as per IFRS 9.
Segmental reporting accurately describes the various activities of the Group and their relative contributions to the strategy, performance and business IFRS 15 treatment for admission and listing services fees model of the Group The Audit Committee discussed the clarification guidance from the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC regarding the impact of adopting IFRS 15 on The messages in the Strategic Report and the CEO and Chairmans reports admission and listing services provided by the Capital Markets Primary Markets are consistent with the financial reporting section business.
The IFRIC recommended that a stock exchange admission fees should Balanced: be deferred under IFRS 15 and recognised as revenue in the income statement over the period in which the Group provides the listing services.
The Audit There is an appropriate balance between the required statutory accounting Committee satisfied itself that it understood the implications of IFRS 15 on the metrics and Group-specific adjusted measures Groups financial statements.
The messages in all sections appropriately balance the favourable and less favourable events and trends affecting the strategy and performance Commitments and contingencies: of the Group The Audit Committee considered the facts and circumstances surrounding commitments and contingencies for the Group.
The Committee agreed that no The principal risks presented in the Strategic Report on pages 4857 provision is needed to be recorded in the financial statements.
See Note 32 to accurately reflect the risk registers which are used to set the risk appetite and the financial statements on page 166. the strategy of the Group, including those risks which would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity Non-underlying items: Understandable: The Committee discussed and agreed on the classification of non-underlying items in the financial statements for the year.
These are presented in Note 8 There is a clear and comprehensive framework for the Annual Report to the financial statements on page 142.
The key messages are adequately highlighted in simple language avoiding specialised terms and acronyms wherever possible Financial viability statement In order to meet the requirements of the UK Governance Code, the Board needs There is a glossary of technical terms and acronyms used frequently to explain how it has assessed the prospects of the Group taking into account the across the report current position and principal risks, and over what period they have done so along The relevant information for shareholders is easy to find and appropriately with why they consider that period to be appropriate.
cross-referenced where necessary without additional clutter the 2018 Annual Report comprises 180 pages compared to the 170 pages of the 2017 report The Audit Committee discussed the key elements required to make the statement, i. e. : The various sections taken together present a consistent and easy to comprehend overview of the strategy, performance and business Deciding on the appropriate period to cover model of the Group Identifying and describing the relevant evidence and assumptions and ensuring that the various planning scenarios were realistic, taking into account the business, industry and macro-economic factors Making an assessment that is appropriate to the Companys circumstances Applying appropriate stress testing and reverse stress testing London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 79
