Report of the Nomination Committee Appointment of a new Group Chief Executive Following a comprehensive global search supported by a recruitment consultant Egon Zehnder, David Schwimmer was appointed as the Groups new Chief Executive Officer.
A thorough process was followed prior to Davids appointment which was inclusive of all Non-Executive Directors and the Interim Chief Executive Officer and included: Sir Donald A role description was developed with Board input and approval Brydon CBE An initial long list was prepared and candidates interviewed by the Chairman.
Chairman of the Notes of all interviews at all stages of the process were shared with all Nomination Committee Non-Executive Directors and the Interim Chief Executive Officer The Nomination Committee, Non-Executive Directors and the Interim Chief The Nomination Committee members as at 31 December 2018 were: Executive Officer interviewed a short list of candidates with a selection of Sir Donald Brydon CBE, Paul Heiden, Stephen OConnor, Marshall Bailey candidates then interviewed by all non-executive directors OBE with effect from 18 October 2018, and Andrea Sironi with effect The results of these interviews were then considered alongside references from 18 October 2018.
Don Robert was appointed to the Committee with and a third-party assessment of each candidate effect from 1 January 2019.
Andrea Sironi and Jacques Aigrain were asked to participate in the Committee for the search for a new Chairman.
A final recommendation was endorsed by the Board Mary Schapiro was a member of the Committee until 11 October 2018.
In making the appointment the Board considered that David brings a strategic The Group Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee perspective on the drivers of growth and innovation in financial markets and attends all meetings.
The Group Chief Executive, Officer, Head infrastructure.
He has extensive experience leading diverse and high performing of Human Resources and external advisers attend where requested teams in dynamic markets.
He also brings deep experience in capital markets by the Committee.
combined with an understanding of and commitment to the collaborative culture desired by the Board.
Purpose Chairman Succession The Committee is responsible for monitoring the balance of skills, knowledge and As announced in November 2017 I said that I would not stand for re-election in experience, and diversity of the Board, making recommendations to the Board of 2019.
During the year, the Nomination Committee, led by Senior Independent new appointments to the Board and overseeing executive succession planning Director Paul Heiden and joined by Jacques Aigrain and Andrea Sironi managed and talent development.
the process to identify a successor.
Search consultants, MWM were engaged to 2018 priorities support the recruitment process.
I did not participate in the Nomination At the start of 2018, the Committee identified 3 key priorities: Committee for the purpose of identifying my successor.
Identify a new CEO for recommendation to the Board A role description was developed with input from all board directors.
This was then used to identify a long list of candidates.
A thorough process was conducted Commence a search for a new Chairman involving the extended Nomination Committee interviewing a wide selection of Review succession plans for the Executive team and the Board candidates before making a recommendation to the Board.
The recommended candidate met with all directors before the Board confirmed the appointment of The Committee met 10 times during the year and, in addition, Committee Don Robert in December 2018.
The Board considered that Dons proven track members also met with director candidates.
I am pleased to confirm that these record as a FTSE100 Chair and Board director combined with a deep efforts have resulted in the priorities being met, as described in this report.
understanding of technology, data and analytics would benefit the Board and the Group.
Don joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2019 and will assume the role of Chairman following the Companys Annual General Meeting, on 1 May 2019.
72 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Governance Report to the Nomination Committee Succession Planning Executive Succession Planning Non-Executive Directors During the year the Committee reviewed succession plans and evaluated During the year, the Board reviewed the skills, experience and length of tenure immediate, emergency and pipeline succession for Executive Directors and and diversity of the Board.
A skills-map was used to help identify gaps and make Executive Committee roles.
The Committee discussed the plans with the Group recommendations to the Board on future succession requirements.
Chief Executive and including, where there were gaps in succession readiness, agreeing development requirements.
During the year the Board appointed Ruth Wandhfer, who has a background in banking, regulatory and emerging technologies, and Professor Kathleen DeRose, Oversight of the development of a diverse executive talent pipeline will remain a who has a background in both asset management and financial technology.
The key priority for the Committee during 2019.
Committee was assisted in its search resulting in those appointments by 11fs, a Use of External Consultancies specialist digital technology advisory business and search consultants Inzito MWM, Inzito and 11fs do not have any additional connection with LSEG.
The process involved interviews with Committee members and the Zehnder also provides general recruitment services to London Stock Exchange Group.
Diversity Marshall Bailey OBE was appointed as Chairman of LCH Group and also joined the The Board is committed to diversity on the Board and throughout the Group and a Board of LSEG following the decision of Professor Lex Hoogduin to focus his copy of its diversity policy can be found at www.
com  on the LCH subsidiary boards in response to regulatory governance exchange-group  governance.
Marshall was appointed following a selection and interview process conducted jointly with the Nomination Committee of LCH Group.
Egon Zehnder We support the proposals of the Hampton Alexander Review to achieve 33% were also engaged to assist in this process.
At the executive level, the Group is as a signatory to the UK Treasury Women in Finance Charter.
com aboutLex Hoogduin, David Nish and Mary Schapiro stepped down from the Board   women-financeduring the year.
charter for further details The Board also refreshed membership of each of its committees during the year.
During the year, the Boards gender diversity increased with the appointment of David Nish was chair of the Audit Committee and Paul Heiden agreed to resume 2 additional female directors: Ruth Wandhfer and Professor Kathleen DeRose that role until a successor is appointed as Audit Committee Chair.
taking the number of female Board directors to 3.
The Boards membership reflects a wide range of skills and business experience, drawn from a number of industries, which is critical for bringing both the expertise required and to enable different perspectives to be brought to Board discussions.
The combination of these factors means that the Board benefits from a diverse range of competencies, perspectives and thoughts, providing an ability to challenge on strategic issues and a dynamic environment for decision making.
Sir Donald Brydon CBE Chairman 1 March 2019 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 73
