Report of the Risk Committee The Committee closely monitored the continued strengthening of the Group Risk Framework during the year including enhancements made to the cyber security framework and the Economic Capital measure.
The monitoring of the Groups risk culture, which represents the foundation of the strong risk management capabilities within the Group, is considered at each meeting.
In order to avoid potential duplication of coverage and, more importantly, to reduce the potential for non-coverage of important risk matters, by either Stephen the Audit or the Risk Committees, there is a cross membership of both OConnor chairmen of the Audit and of the Risk Committees.
Chairman of the Risk Committee Priorities in the forthcoming year will involve the continued monitoring of geopolitical risks, cyber security threats, operational resilience, behaviour and The Risk Committee members as at 31 December 2018 were Stephen culture throughout the Group and the monitoring and delivery of the Groups OConnor, Paul Heiden, Ruth Wandhfer, Val Rahmani and Andrea Brexit plans as the UK defines its future relationship with its key partners.
Stuart Lewis Chief Risk Officer, Deutsche Bank AG acts as a special adviser to the Committee and is a standing invitee to The Committee will continue to review, on a rotational basis, the risk profile and meetings of the Risk Committee.
execution risks of each of the Groups main lines of business and key subsidiaries.
This report is intended to give an overview of the role of the Risk The Committee will also continue to oversee the evolution of the Groups risk Committee in assisting the Board to fulfil its oversight responsibilities culture across the Group and its subsidiaries to ensure the Board maintains relating to risk management and the adequacy of the systems of effective risk management oversight and control.
internal controls in place to mitigate key risks.
During the year ended 31 December 2018, the Committee met 5 times.
In addition to its regular reviews of the Groups risk profile, risk appetite, and emerging risks, the Committee focused on programmes to further embed the Stephen OConnor information security framework.
The Committee also monitored specific Chairman of the Risk Committee operational incidents and resilience programmes in place.
It also monitored the 1 March 2019 FTSE Russell indices to comply with the new EU Benchmarks Regulations BMR.
80 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Governance Report of the Risk Committee Composition and responsibilities Monitoring of the cyber security framework and enhancement The Committee is chaired by Stephen OConnor who provides recent and relevant programmes and approval of related policies financial and risk management experience developed during a career in a variety Monitoring the delivery of actions to manage risks within risk appetite of senior executive roles in the financial services industry.
In addition, the Board is satisfied that each member of the Committee has the skills and experience Monitoring the Mergent and The Yield Book post-acquisition business necessary to enable the Committee to discharge its responsibilities effectively.
integration within the Information Services Division The names, skill and experience of the members of the Risk Committee are Reviewing and monitoring matters relating to operational resilience provided on pages 5961.
Reviewing regulatory compliance reports and the actions in place to The Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Risk Officer and the Group Head of Internal ensure ongoing compliance Audit are standing invitees to all Risk Committee meetings.
The Committees Reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the systems of the internal terms of reference, which are approved by the Board and reviewed on an ongoing controls in place to manage key risks including the review of managements basis, are available from the Group Company Secretary or in the corporate assessment of information security, financial crime, cyber-crime and data governance section of the Groups website at www.
com  risks as well as managements mitigating actions stock-exchange-group  governance.
Ensuring the effectiveness of the Groups Enterprise-wide Risk Management The Committee maintains non-executive responsibility for high level risk-related Framework and of the Risk function matters and risk governance.
As part of its mandate, the Committee reviews the Reviewing the pension plan strategy risk profile of the Group on a regular basis and comments on the adequacy of the processes in place to identify and report on key risks.
It also reviews the risk profile Overseeing the adequacy of the counterparty limits and ad hoc counterparty of the major Group subsidiaries divisions on an individual basis.
It advises the credit risk analysis performed as required Board on the Companys overall risk appetite, tolerance and strategy and keeps Reviewing detailed reports of the risk profiles of the Groups material under review the adequacy of the Enterprise-wide Risk Management Framework businesses including the Information Services Division and GTS and its use in the decision-making process, which includes the review of parameters used in the models and methodology adopted.
It sets the standards Monitoring compliance with the Group risk management procedures as for the accurate and timely reporting of key risks and risks of critical importance, described in the section on internal controls on page 67 such as risks relating to technology, cyber security, business continuity and Reviewing the adequacy of the Groups Business Continuity Management disaster recovery, CCP operations, counterparty and reputational risks.
It also plans and management programme receives reports on compliance with relevant regulatory requirements for each regulated entity of the Group.
Approving and recommending for approval key policies relating to risk and the terms of reference for the Risk Committee Activities Monitoring the Executive performance report on risk culture awareness, The Committee maintains a formal agenda which ensures that all matters for transparency and accountability which is also shared with the which the Committee is responsible are considered at the appropriate meeting.
Remuneration Committee During the year, the Committee discharged its responsibilities as set out in its terms of reference by: Monitoring the roll out of the mandatory training programme on ethics, risks, controls and compliance Providing robust reviews of principal risks Monitoring strategy, planning and preparations for Brexit Risk Management function The Risk Management function is headed by the Chief Risk Officer who oversees Reviewing risk exposures of the Company and emerging risks all aspects of risk management in the Group.
She reports to the Chief Executive Reviewing and recommending to the Board the Group Risk Appetite, Officer and, for independence purposes, to the Chairman of the Risk Committee.
including stress tests and challenging the scenario results The Committee approves the remit of the Risk Management function and ensures it has adequate independence to perform its duty.
The Committee must be Reviewing of the Groups Economic Capital model consulted on the appointment or the dismissal of the Chief Risk Officer.
Monitoring the implementation of the MiFID II compliance programme across all our relevant businesses Monitoring the implementation of the EU-BMR compliance programme in FTSE Russell London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 81
