Corporate governance Good governance is about helping to ensure the Company is well run Sir Donald Brydon CBE Chairman Dear Shareholders, Good corporate governance is not about adhering to codes of practice although The Board of the Group is committed to ensuring that it provides effective adherence may constitute a part of the evidence of good governance but rather leadership and promotes uncompromising ethical standards.
One of the ways in about the exercise of a mind set to do what is right.
One of the challenges facing which the Board achieves this is by requiring that good governance principles any Board is the way in which the Non-Executive and the Executive Directors and practices are adhered to throughout the Company.
The Board has determined interact.
It is clear that they each have the same legal responsibility, but it is that the following is a helpful summary of its role.
generally unrealistic to expect Executive Directors to speak individually with the same freedom as the Non-Executive Directors.
Equally, Executive Directors who Good governance is about helping to ensure the Company is well run.
It involves just toe the executive line in contradiction to their own views may not be being satisfied that an effective internal framework of systems and controls is put effectively contributing to good governance.
A well-functioning Board needs to in place which clearly defines authority and accountability and promotes success find the right balance between hearing the collective executive view, being aware while permitting the management of risk to appropriate levels.
of the natural internal tensions in an executive team and allowing independent input from the Non-Executive Directors.
It also involves the exercise of judgement as to the definitions of success for the Group, the levels of risk we are willing to take to achieve that success and the levels of One of the consequences of both increasing the watchdog role of the Board and delegation to the Executive.
The exercise of this judgement is the responsibility of the finding this balance between individuality and team behaviour is driving more Board and involves consideration of processes and assumptions as well as outcomes.
and more Boards to have fewer and fewer Executive Directors.
In our circumstances, the consequent Board construction works effectively and an It also involves the creation of a sensitive interface for the views of shareholders appropriate balance is struck.
and other stakeholders to be given appropriate consideration when reaching these judgements.
Notwithstanding the tensions created by many external expectations, which may be wholly or in part unrealistic, a successful Board should, ideally, be composed The Board plays the central role in the appointment of the right Chief Executive of a diverse group of respected, experienced and competent people who coalesce and encouraging the development of the appropriate culture in the Company.
around the common purpose of promoting the long-term success of the Company, provide a unified vision of the definitions of success and appropriate The Executive team is required to provide such information to the Board as the risk, endeavour to support management i. e. honestly criticise at times but Board needs to enable it to exercise its judgement over these matters.
It must also encourage all the time and create confidence in all stakeholders in the integrity evidence appropriate process.
There is a very fine distinction between the approval of the business.
of processes and their definition.
Only exceptionally would the Board intervene to initiate or define.
The Board also sets the tone for the Group.
The way in which it conducts itself, its attitude to ethical matters, its definition of success and the assessment of Sir Donald Brydon CBE appropriate risk, all define the atmosphere and culture within which the Chairman Executive Team and all employees work.
1 March 2019 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code This report is intended to give shareholders a clear and comprehensive picture of and its statement requirements the Groups governance arrangements and how they operated during the year.
Throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2018 and to the date of this report, London Stock Exchange Group plc has complied with the provisions of the Pages 6268 set out details of the areas of our focus during the year, followed by Code.
The Code is publicly available at the website of the UK Financial Reporting the Committee Reports.
Descriptions of how we complied with the main principles Council at www.
This corporate governance section of the Annual Report of the Code are set out on pages 6971. and Accounts describes how we have applied the principles of the Code.
A new UK Corporate Governance Code applies to financial periods starting on or after 1 January 2019.
As is required by the law we will begin reporting under that Code in our next annual report.
62 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Governance Corporate governance Board responsibilities Our Committees The LSEG Board is collectively responsible for the long-term sustainable The Board has delegated to its Committees responsibility for maintaining success of LSEG and the delivery of sustainable value to its shareholders and effective governance in relation to: Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Risk.
Full details of the Committees responsibilities are detailed within the respective Committee reports on pages 72100.
The Board: provides leadership of the Company within a framework of prudent and Board and Standing Committee meetings 2018 effective controls: The Board held 10 Board meetings of which 6 were scheduled meetings and 4 were additional meetings.
sets strategic aims of LSEG and its subsidiaries and ensures necessary resources are in place for these to be met: A table of attendance at Board and standing Committee meetings is set out reviews financial and business performance: and below.
In addition, 2 meetings of committees were convened to consider transactions during the year.
leads the development of the Companys culture, values and standards, ensuring that its obligations to shareholders and others are met.
The table shows the number of meetings attended against the number of meetings each Director was eligible to attend.
Name of Director Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Risk 4 Sir Donald Brydon CBE 10 10 7 10 7 8 5 Jacques Aigrain 10 10 4 4 3 3 8 8 6 Marshall Bailey OBE 1 3 0 1 2 3 7 Professor Kathleen DeRose 0 0 Paul Heiden 8 10 4 4 10 10 7 8 4 5 Raffaele Jerusalmi 10 10 Stephen OConnor 10 10 4 4 10 10 5 5 Val Rahmani 10 10 3 3 5 5 David Schwimmer 4 4 5 Andrea Sironi 9 10 3 4 4 5 8 Ruth Wandhfer 1 1 1 1 1 1 David Warren 10 10 Directors who left during the year 1 Professor Lex Hoogduin 6 6 2 Mary Schapiro 8 8 8 8 5 5 3 David Nish 9 9 3 3 4 4 1.
Professor Lex Hoogduin stepped down from the Board on 25 September 2018 2.
Mary Schapiro stepped down from the Board on 11 October 2018 3.
David Nish stepped down from the Board on 30 November 2018 4.
Sir Donald Brydon CBE did not attend meetings of the Nomination Committee relating to Chairman Succession 5.
Jacques Aigrain and Andrea Sironi were co-opted to the Nomination Committee for meetings relating to Chairman Succession 6.
Marshall Bailey OBE was appointed to the Board on 25 September 2018 and was unable to attend some eligible meetings due to a commitment made prior to joining the Board, the Board was notified of the commitment in advance of his appointment 7.
Professor Kathleen DeRose was appointed to the Board on 28 December 2018 8.
Ruth Wandhfer was appointed to the Board on 22 October 2018 Attendance at Board Meetings During its visit to New York, the Board spent time with local management and When Directors have not been able to attend meetings, they received and members of the workforce from a number of the Groups business divisions reviewed the relevant meeting papers.
Where they had comments or concerns on receiving updates on key business and strategic initiatives.
The Board uses these the matters to be discussed, they provided these to the Chairman of the Board or events to engage with a wide cross section of employees to better understand Committee in advance of the meeting.
The Chairman of the Board engages with their perspective on the business.
The Board will continue to develop ways of Directors between Board meetings to discuss business and strategic issues.
engaging with the workforce in 2019.
When arranging meetings at short notice, every attempt is made to On a number of occasions throughout the year, the Chairman met Non-Executive accommodate Directors diaries: however, inevitably, not all Directors are able to Directors without Executive Directors present in particular to discuss succession attend all such meetings.
The majority of meetings where Directors have been planning in relation to the Chief Executive Officer and other Non-Executive unable to attend were additional meetings.
The Board also met without the presence of the Chairman in particular to discuss succession planning in relation to the Chairman.
Throughout the year, Many Directors also attended Committee Meetings where they were not members of the Chairman also met with Non-Executive Directors individually to discuss other the relevant Committee.
These attendances are not recorded in the above table.
Board believes this assists in developing understanding of all issues by the Directors.
Comprehensive Board and Committee papers, comprising an agenda and formal As part of its ongoing development the Board visits the Groups overseas sites.
reports and briefing papers are sent to Directors in advance of each formal In 2018, it visited the Groups businesses and met with members of the workforce meeting.
Directors are continually updated with written and verbal reports, from in Milan and New York.
senior executives and external advisors.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 63 Corporate governance continued Matters considered by the Board Each of the regular meetings includes a wide-ranging report from the Chief Executive Officer and a report from the Chief Financial Officer on the Groups financial performance.
Reports from the Committee Chairmen, updates on major projects and certain administrative matters are also reported at each Board meeting.
A table of the principal matters considered by the Board during the year is provided below.
How the Board spent its time during the year Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Strategy and Business Updates LSEG CEO Update LSEG CFO Update 2018 Strategic Objectives M&A Update Technology Strategy LSEG Strategy Acquisition of FTSE TMX Update on US Business and ISD Italian Business Update Acquisition of additional holding in LCH Report from Committee Chairs Audit Nomination Remuneration Risk Financial reporting and dividends Final Dividend Preliminary Results Audit Exemption for LSEG Subs Q1 Trading Statement Treasury Policy Interim Dividend Interim Results Intercompany financing arrangements Euro Medium Term Notes 2019 Budget and Business Plan Risk, regulatory and compliance MiFID II Brexit Contingency planning Risk Report Risk Appetite Cyber Security Update 64 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Governance Corporate governance Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Governance and stakeholders Share Issuance and Hedging approach for employee share schemes Notice of AGM Authorisation of Directors Interests Directors Independence Modern Slavery Act Corporate Governance Code 2018 RAG and TAG Updates Pensions Long Term Strategy Culture Subsidiary Policy Workforce Engagement Committee Terms of Reference Board Composition and Succession Planning Board and Executive Succession Planning Board Independence The Board considers that an individuals independence cannot be determined The Board has concluded that all Non-Executive Directors are independent in solely on the basis of a particular period of service and the Board believes that character and judgement.
In assessing each director, the Board considers whether Mr Heiden continues to demonstrate independence of character and judgement.
there are relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect or could appear The Board is also mindful that Mr Heiden has not served on the Board concurrently to affect a Directors judgement.
for a period of 9 years with the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
The Board will continue to benefit from his experience and knowledge resulting In evaluating Directors independence the Board has taken into consideration the from the length of service, particularly as the Board has undergone a period of guidance provided by the Code including the requirement for a Company to state change, as well as his wider business experience.
More information around the its reasons that a director has served on the Board for more than 9 years from the Boards succession planning process can be found in the Report of the Nomination date of their first election.
Paul Heiden has served on the Board since June 2010 and will offer himself for In line with the Code all directors are subject to annual re-election.
re-election at the AGM but then intends to retire from the Board when a successor as Chair of the Audit Committee has been appointed.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 65 Corporate governance continued BOARD EFFECTIVENESS AND LEADERSHIP 2018 Effectiveness Review The Board carried out an internal review of its own effectiveness and that of its Committees and Directors.
The evaluation process was conducted by the Group Company Secretary using a detailed questionnaire.
The results of the review will be used to assist the Board in the future development of the Board, its Committees and its individual Directors.
The Board identified that the key areas for Board development were: Knowledge of the business for all directors and training for new directors Board members wanted to increase their understanding and knowledge of the Group particularly as a number of new directors joined the Board in 2018 Rotation of Non-Executive Directors 2018 was an unusual year with 3 NEDs leaving and 5 directors appointed.
The Nomination Committee met early in 2019 to further consider this topic and the new Chairman and the Board in 2019 will continue to focus on this topic during 2019 2017 Effectiveness Review The 2017 Effectiveness Review which was externally facilitated identified areas for the Board to focus on in 2018.
These are summarised below, together with the resulting actions taken in 2018.
Area Description Summary of actions identified and taken Engagement Greater engagement with the business outside Greater engagement between Non-Executive Directors and of Board meetings to improve understanding of the business including: business activity and depth of executive talent.
Sessions meeting with employees from LCH Group and receiving presentations on the business: A session meeting with the US business including employees from the Information Services Division, LCH and corporate functions, receiving presentations on the business: and Non-Executive Directors held meetings outside of Board meetings including with staff from: the Information Services Division, Risk and Technology.
Induction and Training Strengthening of Induction and Training.
Expansion of the Induction Programme and the introduction of more business led training sessions.
Board Composition Review of Board membership and balance to The Nomination Committee and Board have reviewed the Boards and Interaction ensure that it is equipped to meet the competitive composition and changes to membership are detailed in the landscape and technological changes faced by Nomination Committee Report on pages 7273. the Group.
Further strengthen relationships between directors.
Structural Fine Tuning of Improve impact of the Regulatory Advisory Group The Board received presentations from the chair of TAG and the new Advisory Committees RAG and the Technology Advisory Group TAG.
chair of the RAG which during the year has been reconstituted under the chairmanship of Baroness Bowles and has undertaken a review of its terms of reference.
In 2018 the Board engaged Simon Collins a former UK Chairman and Senior Partner of KPMG LLP to carry out a review of the CEO Succession Process.
The Board shared a summary of key conclusions with shareholders at last years AGM.
The Board has taken a number of steps in 2018 to address the conclusions and themes of the review.
These are described throughout this years Annual Report and include: Monitoring behaviour Monitoring behaviour a 360 feedback process to understand Executive leadership and culture has been implemented for Executive Directors and the Executive Committee and a balanced scorecard approach will be implemented in 2019.
All aspects of this scorecard will be taken into account by the Remuneration Committee Culture During 2018 the Board sought to deepen its understanding of employees perceptions of the Groups culture through feedback via leadership and employee engagement surveys.
This has helped the Board and Executive to develop measures to support the development of the desired behaviours and culture throughout the Group.
This will continue to be a focus in 2019.
More detail can be found in Our Wider Responsibility section on pages 3640 Workforce Engagement More opportunities have been developed for Non-Executive Directors to engage with management and employees to understand their perspectives and views and this will continue to be an area of focus in 2019 Succession Planning More detail on the Boards approach to this can be found in the Report of the Nomination Committee on page 73 66 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Governance Corporate governance Relations with shareholders Indemnities We believe that regular and ongoing engagement with our key stakeholders Directors have the benefit of indemnity arrangements from the Company in and, in particular, our shareholders is extremely important for good corporate respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office and execution of their governance.
The Groups Investor Relations IR function, reporting to the powers, duties and responsibilities.
The Company maintained a Directors and Chief Financial Officer, manages an ongoing shareholder engagement Officers liability insurance policy throughout the year.
This policy covers the programme throughout the year.
Executive management and the IR team Directors for any such liabilities in respect of which they are not indemnified by engage with investors through meetings and presentations to discuss the Company and, to the extent to which it has indemnified the Directors, also strategy, performance and other matters.
This insurance cover has been renewed.
Neither the Companys indemnity nor insurance provides cover for a Director in the event that The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Chairmen of each Board the Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Committee are also available to meet major investors, typically to discuss corporate governance matters.
Risk Management and Internal Control The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management framework and In 2018, senior executive management and the IR team met with over 500 maintaining an appropriate system of internal controls.
A Board approved institutional debt and equity investors through one-to-one and group meetings or Enterprise-wide Risk Management Framework and Group Risk Appetite Statement calls.
In addition the Chairman and Senior Independent Director met a small are central to the Groups Risk Management process.
The Risk Management number of investors, principally on general corporate governance matters, and Framework is updated on an ongoing basis in response to changes in the Groups the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee consulted with a number of business and associated risks.
The Group Risk Appetite statement is approved shareholders on remuneration matters.
annually as part of the Groups strategic planning process.
The Board receives a report on IR matters at each of its scheduled meetings, The Audit Committee and Risk Committee assist the Board in discharging its including feedback from investors, market expectations of financial performance responsibilities by reviewing and assessing the Groups Risk Management and updates on share register composition.
Sell-side analyst research notes are Framework, system of internal controls and risk management process on a circulated to the Board following publication.
The Groups corporate brokers and a regular basis.
Refer to the reports of the Audit Committee on pages 7479 and the specialist IR advisory firm also provide the Board with advice on market Risk Committee on pages 8081 for further detail on their oversight activities sentiment, input on market communications and share register analysis.
In addition to information on financial and operational performance, the Group The system of internal controls is designed to facilitate the management of the engages with shareholders and relevant shareholder advisory agencies on Group and its businesses within the Boards risk appetite rather than eliminate the environmental, social and governance ESG matters.
The Group produces an risk of failure to achieve the Groups objectives, and can only provide reasonable, annual Corporate Sustainability report that details its approach to ESG matters: but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, fraud or www.
breaches of laws and regulations.
The Groups AGM provides the opportunity for all shareholders to meet and to put Executive management is accountable for risk identification, evaluation, questions to the Board Directors.
Procedures for the AGM and any General mitigation, monitoring and reporting in accordance with the framework.
Meeting are compliant with the Code, with voting by way of a poll to ensure all A divisional internal control and Risk Management self-certification process is shareholders views are taken into account.
Each business unit is required to confirm that it is in compliance with the Groups policies and governance procedures and The IR section of the Groups website www.
com investor-relations managing its risk within appetite: exceptions are reported to the Audit is a primary source of regularly updated information about the Group.
All financial reports and statements, news releases, presentations and other documents including regulatory news service disclosures are available on the Further Information website together with a list of analysts producing research on the Company and Further detail on the Groups risk management oversight can be found on: a summary of analysts forecasts of performance.
Recognising that joining our www.
com   and interim results calls is not always possible not least for our oversight.
An overview of the Principal Risks and Uncertainties of the Group is non-UK shareholders recordings of these calls are accessible to all provided on pages 4857. shareholders via the Group website.
Conflicts of interest The Companys Articles of Association allow the Board to authorise conflicts of interest that may arise and to impose such limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
The Group has established procedures whereby actual and potential conflicts of interest are regularly reviewed, appropriate authorisation is sought prior to the appointment of any new Director and new conflicts are addressed appropriately.
The decision to authorise a conflict of interest can only be made by non-conflicted Directors and, in making such decisions, the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the Companys success.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 67 Corporate governance continued Internal Controls Internal Audit Management structure The Internal Audit function provides independent assurance to the Board and The Group operates a matrix structure designed to optimise resource allocation other key stakeholders over the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups system and organisational capacity.
The Board has delegated the day-to-day running of of internal controls, the governance model and the Enterprise-wide Risk the Group to the Group Chief Executive Officer and he is supported in this role by Management Framework.
The function is the third line of defence in the Groups the Group Executive Committee, which he chairs.
Each Executive Committee risk control structure and has no operational responsibilities over the entities or member is responsible for one of the Groups operating divisions or a major area processes which it reviews.
The Executive Committee meets regularly to review business and financial performance, risk exposure and to approve key decisions.
The independence of the Internal Audit function from Executive Management is Each legal entity is responsible for engaging with its local regulators and ensured through the following measures: monitoring and ensuring regulatory compliance.
The Group Head of Internal Audit reports directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and has direct access to the Chairman of the Board.
Policies and Procedures For administrative matters the Group Head of Internal Audit has a secondary A framework of Group-wide policies establish the principles, minimum standards reporting line to the Chief Financial Officer and risk management activities LSEG requires the Groups businesses and functions to follow to manage their business within risk appetite.
All Group-level The Chairman of the Audit Committee and Chief Financial Officer jointly policies are approved by the Executive Committee, and may also require approval assess the performance of the Group Head of Internal Audit or ratification from the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee and the Board.
The Audit Committee approves the Internal Audit annual budget The Group runs a rolling programme of mandatory online training courses for all employees covering matters including ethical conduct, risk and control Further details on the Internal Audit function can be found in the internal audit management, regulatory requirements and the group policies.
charter which is available on the Groups website at www.
Financial Control The Group has a robust system of financial control which has been enhanced Conclusion during 2018 by the continued roll-out and implementation of the Group wide The Board confirms that, through the Audit Committee and the Risk Committee, financial system in response to the increased size and footprint of the group.
it has reviewed the operation and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal An appropriate framework of delegated authorities is in place.
controls throughout 2018 and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board has satisfied itself that a robust assessment of the Comprehensive financial planning, reporting and review procedures are in place, principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its with an annual budget and 3-year business plan approved by the Board.
Financial business model, future performance and liquidity, have been carried out during and key performance indicators are reviewed against operational budgets on a the year.
Necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any monthly basis at a group, divisional and business unit level.
The Chief Financial significant failings or weaknesses identified during these reviews.
The Board is Officers management reports are shared with the Board and any key issues are satisfied that the Risk Management process and system of internal controls reviewed at each Board meeting.
conform with the FRCs 2014 Risk management, internal control and related financial and business reporting.
The Executive Investment Committee monitors capital expenditures across the Group and helps the Executive Committee approve and prioritise projects.
FURTHER INFORMATION The Executive Financial Risk Committee oversees risks related to capital, Further detail on the Groups risk management investments, tax, counterparties and through its Treasury Committee the oversight can be found on: www.
com activities of the Groups Treasury function.
An overview of the The Treasury Committee operates within a Board approved policy framework Principal Risks and Uncertainties of the Group is and meets regularly to review the management of the Groups credit, market provided on pages 4857. and liquidity risks.
Material group counterparty exposures are assessed regularly including through a Group-wide centralised counterparty risk Value at Risk model.
Further details on financial risk management are provided in Note 3 to the accounts.
68 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018
