CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairmans Q&A Ian Livingston talks about what Man Groups Board brings to the business Lord Livingston of Parkhead Chairman What are the strengths of the What did the Board do to engage extensive career in global financial Q B oard?
Q w ith Man Groups people and institutions, in depth knowledge of culture?
investment management and a strong Man Groups Board is a committed group US perspective, has brought us significant of individuals who are proud to serve the The Board continued its discussions on the value.
We have amended our diversity policy business and willing to invest substantial time embedding of Man Groups business values to include a target of at least 25% for women in preparing for meetings and engaging with and culture.
In addition, an in depth representation on the Board over the next management between Board meetings.
Our presentation on the 2018 staff engagement 12 months and a target of 33% in the directors have diverse backgrounds, outlook survey gave us a clear picture of employee medium term.
They all bring strong financial sentiment, highlighting many strengths and services and other sector experience, many some areas for improvement.
We have Against the challenging market having occupied leading positions in other discussed with management the most Q backdrop, how did the Board help corporate, Government and policy making effective ways in which the Board can develop strengthen the business in 2018?
Our non-executive directors are its future engagement with staff in line with The Boards key role is helping to create a independent and willing to probe and the 2018 Corporate Governance Code sustainable business for the long-term.
challenge business strategy and requirements and will be implementing our Optimising revenue growth, ensuring efficient performance where necessary.
plans for this in 2019. product development and delivery aligned How does the Board keep abreast We continue to engage with Man Groups with client needs, and overseeing business Q o f the business context and Man management, including those at Executive risk are also crucial to long-term success.
Committee level and below, both when As part of this we explored a range of topics, they are presenting to the Board and in from the further use of technology, including The Board recognises the importance of subsequent follow up discussions.
We also artificial intelligence, in both Man Groups being responsive to the rapidly changing meet with Executive Committee members quant and discretionary strategies, to the investment management industry and collectively on an annual basis as part development of top client relationships and wider macroeconomic, social, political and of the Board strategy review.
With the broad financial technology background.
It invites leading interactions help our knowledge of Man services experience of its non-executives, the industry experts to share and discuss their Groups people and our focus on promoting Board provided challenge in discussion of views on longer term industry trends and the development of a talent pool of market and operational risk.
We maintained the implications for the development of appropriate breadth and depth.
a focus on the identification of emerging risks Man Groups business.
As part of this focus, which could disrupt the business.
the Board has discussed with Man Groups What has the Board done to Responsible Investment RI team our Q p romote diversity?
What are the Boards priorities development of an RI framework to meet Q f or 2019?
We recognise that Man Group operates in a our own and our clients increasing sector in which diversity, particularly gender Our priority will be to continue to ensure the appetite for RI.
and ethnic diversity, is poor.
We, therefore, business is well positioned in the face of a Man Groups role in the communities in which welcome and encourage the considerable and particularly uncertain political environment.
it operates is very important.
The Board broad ranging initiatives which management We will oversee the implementation of our receives updates on a range of issues from are taking to promote and support diversity proposed corporate restructure to provide diversity through to the impact of grants made of all kinds.
These are detailed in the people more flexibility and aid growth.
We will continue and employee volunteering activities organised and culture section of this Annual Report to support management to respond to the by Man Groups UK Charitable Trust.
In 2018 and Board members have supported and long-term challenges of the industry and keep the Board approved a further increase in its participated in a number of diversity events.
the business aligned with the values of our commitment to Man Groups UK and US shareholders, clients and other stakeholders.
There is the same need for diversity at Board Charitable Trusts and supported greater We will strengthen our oversight of level.
As noted in the Nomination Committee employee involvement in charitable initiatives.
ManGroups culture and people, testing report, we continued to seek new nonconsistency and alignment with business executive Board members who could bring purpose across the firm, and drive forward additional skills and capabilities to the Board.
the talent and diversity agenda.
The appointment of Zoe Cruz, with her MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 44
