CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit and Risk Committee report I am pleased to present my first report as Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee the ARCom.
I would like to thank my predecessor, Matthew Lester, for his excellent chairmanship and for his support in ensuring a smooth transition.
Andrew Horton Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee The ARCom has continued to support the Board in its assessment of the integrity of the Groups financial reporting, monitoring the How the ARCom operates effectiveness of the Groups systems of risk management and internal controls, and overseeing the activities of the Groups Internal Forward agenda Covers key events in the financial Audit function and its external auditor.
reporting cycle, specific risk matters and standing items set out in the The ARCom has also dedicated significant time to considering terms of reference regulatory developments impacting the Group, the effectiveness of Reviewed and updated in response the channels available to Man Groups workforce to raise concerns to changing business risks and and the Groups cyber security arrangements.
In addition, the priorities ARCom has continued to focus on the oversight and governance arrangements that exist in Man Groups overseas offices and has Held in advance of each ARCom Agenda setting developed its understanding of the risk and control environment meeting meeting to identify key issues impacting the business that may within Man GPM.
require consideration by the ARCom Andrew Horton Attended by ARCom Chair, CFO, Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee CAO, Head of Internal Audit and representatives from Deloitte Membership and meeting attendance There have been a number of changes to the composition of the Committee meetings At each meeting, the ARCom ARCom during the year.
In addition to my appointment as Chair, considers: we welcomed Richard Berliand and John Cryan to the ARCom Standing governance items in May and August respectively.
The members of the ARCom and Dashboards which highlight and their meeting attendance during 2018 are set out below.
monitor changes in the key risks impacting the business, compliance The ARCom as a whole has competence relevant to the sector matters, the financial controls in which the Group operates and I am considered to have recent framework, internal controls and cyber security arrangements and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the 2016 UK Reports and presentations on key Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Further details of the financial reporting, risk, compliance ARCom members experience and areas of expertise are provided and audit matters from on pages 4647. management Meeting Committee member attendance Board reporting Board updated on the key areas of Andrew Horton 6 6 discussion with recommendations 1 Richard Berliand 5 5 made as appropriate 2 John Cryan 2 2 3 Matthew Lester 6 6 Dev Sanyal 6 6 Roles and responsibilities The ARCom is integral to Man Groups governance framework 1 Appointed 1 May 2018 2 Appointed 1 August 2018 through its oversight of the Groups financial reporting, risk 3 Stepped down as Chair on 30 June 2018 but continued to remain as an ARCom member management and internal controls, and internal and external audit.
The ARComs roles and responsibilities are outlined on page 59, The Board Chairman, CEO and CFO are invited to attend Committee together with an explanation of how it has discharged its meetings along with the Head of Internal Audit and representatives responsibilities during the year.
Full terms of reference for the from Deloitte LLP Deloitte, the Groups external auditor.
Other ARCom, which are reviewed on an annual basis and referred to members of the senior management team attend for those items that the Board for approval, are available on the Companys website.
At the end of each meeting, the ARCom meet with the Head of Internal Audit and representatives from Deloitte in the absence of management.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 58 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION How the ARCom has discharged its roles and Roles and responsibilities of the ARCom responsibilities Monitor the integrity of the financial information Financial reporting Financial contained in the interim and annual financial Key accounting judgements and estimates Reporting statements with particular focus on key accounting As part of the process for monitoring the integrity of the financial policies, judgements and estimates and the financial information contained in the interim and annual financial statements, controls framework the ARCom reviewed the key accounting policies, judgements and Review the viability and going concern statements estimates adopted by management and confirmed that these were and recommend their approval to the Board Advise the Board on whether the ARCom believes appropriate.
The significant areas of judgement and estimation the Interim and Annual Reports to be fair, balanced identified by the ARCom, in conjunction with management and the and understandable external auditor, are set out in the table on page 60.
Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups Risk Viability and going concern systems of risk management, capital adequacy and Management, The ARCom reviewed the viability statement as set out on page 28 internal controls please refer to page 29 for further ICAAP, and the processes supporting the viability assessment.
After details Internal significant discussion and having considered the Groups prospects, Ensure that a robust assessment of the emerging Controls & and principal risks facing the Group has been emerging and principal risks, forecast regulatory capital surplus and Compliance undertaken and advise the Board on the liquidity resources and requirements, the ARCom concluded that management and mitigation of these risks the three-year assessment period, in line with the Groups business Review the Groups Internal Capital Adequacy planning horizon, continued to be appropriate and recommended Assessment Process ICAAP including regulatory the draft viability statement to the Board for approval.
and economic capital, downside forecasts, and the wind down cost The ARCom also reviewed the going concern disclosure as set out Review the effectiveness of the Groups regulatory on page 105 and concluded that the Group and the Company had reporting activities, Compliance function and adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the arrangements for Man Groups workforce to raise concerns in confidence and if they wish foreseeable future and confirmed to the Board that it was appropriate anonymously, with any such concerns and resulting for the Groups financial statements to be prepared on a going follow-up actions being reported to the Board concern basis.
Report to the Remuneration Committee any findings in relation to risk matters which may impact its Fair, balanced and understandable assessment decision on discretionary remuneration payments At the request of the Board, the ARCom reviewed the interim and annual financial statements in conjunction with the narrative Approve the annual Internal Audit Plan and Charter Internal sections of the interim and annual reports to ensure that there and monitor Internal Audit activities Audit was consistency in the information reported, that sufficient weight Review the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function Review all significant Internal Audit had been given to both positive and negative aspects of business recommendations and oversee progress in performance, that there was an appropriate balance between addressing these statutory and adjusted performance measures, and that key messages had been presented coherently.
The ARCom concluded that, taken as a whole, the Interim and Annual Reports were fair, balanced and understandable and provided the information Recommend to the Board the appointment, and External necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, determine the remuneration, of the external auditor, Audit business model and strategy.
including reviewing the external auditors effectiveness and independence Review and approve the external audit plan and the external auditors control procedures Review the findings of the external audit and the external auditors management letter and oversee management action to address the findings where necessary Approve and monitor the policies relating to the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor and the hiring of personnel from the external auditor Ensure that the tendering, selection and rotation of the external audit services contract are carried out in accordance with applicable law, regulation and best practice MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit and Risk Committee report continued Key accounting judgements and estimates Matter considered Action Outcome Impairment assessment of goodwill and The ARCom considered reports from management After debate and challenge, the ARCom acquired intangibles outlining the methodology for the impairment concluded that no impairment expense was Goodwill and acquired intangibles for each assessment and challenged the assumptions required to be recorded for the year ended of the Groups cash generating units Man AHL, underpinning the goodwill valuation model including 31December 2018.
ManGLG, Man FRM, Man Numeric and Man discount rates, the cost allocation methodology, GPM are tested for impairment at least annually flow projections and headroom availability.
through the application of a value in use model.
This requires estimates concerning future cash flows, growth rates and associated discount rates to be taken into account.
Please refer to Note 10 in the Group financial statements for further details.
Fair value of contingent consideration The ARCom considered managements fair value After a full discussion, the ARCom confirmed The valuation of the contingent consideration is assessment of the contingent consideration that it was comfortable with the proposed dependent on estimates concerning the projected creditors of the Numeric, Aalto, Pine Grove, BAML, accounting treatment and that the decrease future growth rates and cash flows based upon FRM, Silvermine and NewSmith earn-outs.
The in the fair value of the contingent consideration managements view of future business prospects $31milllion credit to the income statement was appropriate.
A fair value adjustment of and associated discount rates.
represented a decrease in the fair value of the $31milllion has been recognised in the income contingent consideration creditors, largely driven statement.
Please refer to Notes 15 and 25 in the Group by a decrease in the Numeric and Aalto earn-outs.
financial statements for further details.
Consolidation of investment in funds The ARCom reviewed managements assessment The ARCom concluded that it was satisfied with The Group holds seeding investments in a of the investments which the Group is deemed to managements assessment of the entities which number of funds which it manages.
Judgement control in accordance with IFRS 10. are deemed to be controlled by the Group and is required to be exercised in terms of assessing the associated accounting treatment.
Three whether these investments are controlled by the funds have been classified as held for sale Group and therefore need to be consolidated and ten investments have been consolidated into the Groups financial statements.
on a line by line basis with a grossing up impact on the balance sheet of $100million.
Please refer to Note 13 in the Group financial statements for further details.
Deferred tax assets DTA The ARCom discussed the methodology The ARCom confirmed that it was satisfied The Group has unrecognised deferred tax underpinning the valuation of the DTA and that the existing methodology continued assets in the US which largely represent challenged managements assessment that this to be appropriate.
A movement in the DTA historical tax losses and future deductions for methodology continues to remain appropriate and of $20million has been recognised in the amortisation of goodwill and other intangible represents their best estimate of probable future income statement.
assets that will reduce the tax payable in the taxable profits.
The value of the DTA recognised requires judgement regarding the assessment of probable future profits.
Please refer to Note 7 in the Group financial statements for further details.
Alternative performance measures APMs The ARCom reviewed and discussed the APMs The ARCom noted that adjusted profit over the Man Group assesses the performance of contained in the Interim and Annual Reports having last five years was broadly consistent with cash the Group using a variety of APMs, most considered a paper prepared by management inflows from operating activities and therefore significantly adjusted profit before tax.
The which compared adjusted profit to operating cash concluded that the APMs were appropriate, directors focus on adjusted profit as this flows for the last five years in aggregate.
provided a fair assessment of the underlying reflects the underlying trends in the business profitability of the business and were appropriately and the revenue and costs that drive the defined and reconciled to statutory measures as Groups cash flow.
Please refer to pages 142145 for further details.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 60 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Compliance Risk management, internal controls and During the year, the Head of Compliance & Regulatory presented compliance the 2018 Compliance overview.
Particular focus was given to Oversight of risk and control environment key business areas developments in financial regulation and their impact on the business The ARCom continued to develop its understanding of the and the industry in general.
Consideration was also given to governance arrangements that exist within Man Groups overseas resourcing levels across the Compliance function, global themes offices, as well as the risk and control environment within the Man around regulatory risk, current priorities of key regulators and GPM business.
Senior representatives from the Chinese, Guernsey Compliance initiatives.
The ARCom also dedicated significant time and Man GPM businesses were invited to present on the risk and to understanding the extent to which the steps taken by the control profile of their respective areas.
These presentations provided management team to improve awareness of the channels available the ARCom with real insight into the significant risks perceived by to Man Groups workforce to raise concerns had been embedded each business and the controls that exist to manage and mitigate across the organisation and received supporting data on any matters these risks as appropriate.
Key areas of discussion are set out below.
In addition, the Money Laundering and Reporting Officer MLRO China presented his 2017 annual report in the first half of 2018 and The ARCom was provided with an overview of the structure confirmed that Man had established and maintained an effective and activities of the Chinese business.
Particular focus was AML CTF programme with proportionate systems and controls.
given to the interaction with Man Groups global functions, the Finance control environment and future plans for the Chinese business.
The ARCom received a presentation from the Group Financial Guernsey Controller on the Finance functions governance arrangements and The ARCom considered the principal activities undertaken by the key areas of focus during 2018.
The ARCom discussed the Guernsey office, reporting lines and the level of oversight upcoming personnel changes in the Finance team, resourcing levels exercised at a Group level.
Discussion focused on the key and priorities for 2019.
During the year, the Committee also received risks facing the Guernsey business and the controls in place several updates on the implementation of Man Groups new general to mitigate these risks with particular focus on the role of the ledger, consolidation and HR system which came into effect on Board of Man Group Japan Limited based in Guernsey in 1January 2019.
At the December meeting, the Head of Tax was overseeing the activities of its Japanese branch.
invited to present on the Groups tax position and highlight the key projects undertaken by the tax team during 2018.
Man GPM The ARCom considered the extent to which Man GPMs Technology infrastructure and governance framework had been The Groups Chief Operating Officer updated the ARCom on the embedded, the development of client relationships and key technology initiatives for 2018, together with the associated risks resourcing plans to support the growth of the business.
Regular updates were provided throughout the year Consideration was also given to the challenges and risks on the implementation of a new order management platform and associated with operating from multiple locations and the managements plans to upgrade existing technology systems.
mitigation of such risks through the centralisation of controls.
The Director of Trading was also invited to update the ARCom on the implementation of Man Groups Central Trading programme.
Particular focus was given to the benefits that this initiative would Oversight of risk and control environment key functional areas bring and the resulting impact on resourcing levels and technology.
The ARCom also considered presentations from each of the Groups Cyber security key functional areas.
Cyber security continued to be a key area of focus for the ARCom Risk during the year.
One of the key developments in 2018 was the The ARCom received an update on the Group Risk function and introduction of enhanced metrics around the Groups cyber security discussed its role in supporting the Groups governance processes, arrangements via a new dashboard which had been developed in primarily through the maintenance of the Groups Authorities response to feedback from the Board and ARCom.
The ARCom Summary please see page 49 for further details and the operation also reviewed the output of a cyber security maturity assessment of the Risk Governance and Appetite Framework the Framework.
undertaken by an external security consultancy and considered During the year, the ARCom discussed and challenged a number ManGroups positioning compared with peers.
of proposed amendments to the Framework including a change to one of the quantitative risk metrics and the associated loss tolerance.
The ARCom endorsed the revised Framework and recommended it to the Board for approval.
The ARCom also received an update on the Groups pension arrangements.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 61 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit and Risk Committee report continued Ongoing monitoring of the Groups systems of risk External Audit management and internal control 2018 external audit plan The ARCom is satisfied that, through its regular review of At the October meeting, Deloittes 2018 external audit plan was dashboards, its in-depth assessment of key business areas and presented by David Barnes, who has been the lead engagement functions, its consideration of changes to the Risk Governance partner since 2017.
The plan, which was discussed and approved and Appetite Framework and its ongoing review of progress against by the ARCom, set out the proposed materiality threshold, the scope the Internal Audit Plan as described below, it is monitoring the of the audit and the significant audit risks that had been identified.
effectiveness of the Groups systems of risk management and Auditor independence and the provision of non-audit services internal control on an ongoing basis.
Further details can be found In order to safeguard the independence and objectivity of the in the Risk Management section on page 29. external auditor, the ARCom is responsible for the development, During the year, a number of operational and regulatory matters that implementation and monitoring of the Groups policies on the had occurred were reported to the ARCom.
A paper summarising provision of non-audit services and the hiring of personnel from the these matters was considered by the ARCom at its December 2018 external auditor.
The ARCom reviewed and approved these policies and February 2019 meetings.
Whilst Man Group sought to improve during the year.
its processes in response to the matters identified, they were not considered sufficiently material in number or nature either to require separate disclosure in the financial statements or to indicate that the Summary of non-audit policy control environment had not been operating effectively.
In accordance with the non-audit services policy, any potential services to be provided by the external auditor, which are not Internal Audit excluded under the non-audit services policy but which have 2018 Internal Audit Plan an expected value of $75,000 or more, must be approved by The Groups Internal Audit function continues to be performed by the ARCom in advance.
The non-audit services fees in KPMG.
During the year, the ARCom reviewed and approved the aggregate must not exceed 70% of the statutory audit fee, 2019 Internal Audit Plan the Plan which included details of the currently set at $1.4million.
Further details can be found on planned audit reviews for 2019 and the team responsible for the Companys website.
The ARCom received and discussed Internal Audit reports presented The table below shows the remuneration paid to Deloitte in 2017 by the Head of Internal Audit at each meeting and monitored and 2018. progress against the 2018 Plan.
The ARCom was particularly 2018 2017 keen to understand the root causes of overdue items and the $000 $000 actions taken by management to close these.
Whilst no significant Fees payable to the external auditor for the weaknesses were identified in any of the Internal Audit reports, a audit of the Company and the consolidated number of improvements to certain processes and controls were financial statements 458 456 implemented in response to the recommendations put forward.
Other services: Towards the end of the year, the Internal Audit function undertook an assessment of the maturity of Man Groups control environment The audit of the Companys subsidiaries across a number of thematic areas using the experience of the pursuant to legislation 1,608 1,572 internal audit work performed and knowledge obtained across other Audit-related assurance services 345 341 organisations, the output of which was discussed by the ARCom.
All other services 59 54 In response to feedback from the ARCom, the Head of Internal Audit also set out specific observations on the US control environment with Total auditors remuneration 2,470 2,423 discussion focusing on how this would evolve in light of the proposed changes to the corporate structure.
Following a formal assessment of the external auditors independence and objectivity at its meeting in February 2019, the ARCom concluded Effectiveness of Internal Audit function that Deloitte continued to be independent and objective.
During the year, an external review of the Internal Audit function was undertaken in order to assess its effectiveness.
The review, which involved interviews with key stakeholders and auditee surveys, focused on the Internal Audit functions conformance with various internal auditing standards and its positioning compared to peers in the asset management industry.
The output of the review indicated that, overall, the Internal Audit function continued to be effective and provided an independent perspective on Man Groups control environment.
The ARCom noted the findings and discussed the suggested areas for improvements which had been identified in the review, together with the Head of Internal Audits response to these points.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 62 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Effectiveness of external audit process How the ARCom has assessed its effectiveness At the May 2018 meeting, the ARCom considered responses to a Outlined in the table below are the three key areas that were questionnaire which had been completed by ARCom members and identified in the ARComs 2017 evaluation as requiring further various members of the management team in order to facilitate the consideration and development during 2018, together with progress ARComs formal assessment of the effectiveness of the external that has been achieved in 2018. audit process.
The questionnaire focused on several components of the external audit process including the quality of the audit partner 2018 progress on 2017 actions and team, planning and execution of the audit, communication with the ARCom and the external auditors independence and objectivity.
2017 evaluation 2018 progress The responses indicated that, overall, Deloitte was performing in Introduction Thematic risk-focused reviews around line with expectations with the audit team demonstrating appropriate of thematic technology and regulatory risks and challenge and a strong understanding of Man Groups business.
risk-focused resourcing levels across the organisation The output of the review also highlighted that certain areas that reviews were undertaken during 2018 with further had been identified as requiring improvement in the previous years reviews scheduled for 2019. assessment, particularly around the use of specialists and the communication and escalation of potential issues, had been Streamline the Given that ARCom meetings were held in addressed in the 2017 audit.
A number of areas, primarily around agenda for three consecutive months in May, June and transitional issues that may arise following the key audit partners certain meetings July, a decision was taken to dispense with rotation off the Man Group audit and the coordination of the work the June meeting and increase the length undertaken by the internal and external auditors, were identified as of time allocated to remaining meetings to requiring further consideration and Deloittes plans to address these ensure there was sufficient time to discuss issues were set out in the 2018 audit plan.
After extensive discussion, all agenda items.
the ARCom concluded that the external audit process in respect of the 2017 financial statements had been effective.
Organise further Board training sessions took place during targeted training 2018 covering the 2018 UK Corporate Reappointment of Deloitte as external auditor Governance Code, the Senior Managers Deloitte was appointed as the Groups external auditor in 2014, and Certification Regime, Brexit and the following a tender process led by the ARCom in 2013.
In accordance proposed corporate restructure.
Further with the Code and the Competition and Markets Authoritys Order details are set out on page 55.
2014 the Order, the Company will be required to put its external audit out to tender again in 2023 at the latest.
The ARCom will During the year, the effectiveness of the ARCom was reviewed by continue to assess the external audit process annually and, on an external consultant as part of the wider Board evaluation process.
the basis that it remains effective and the audit fee represents good Interviews were conducted with all ARCom members and regular value to shareholders, it is expected that the next tender process attendees, the results of which confirmed that ARCom was operating will be undertaken at that time with mandatory rotation of the external effectively.
Responses indicated that there had been a smooth auditors required by 2033 pursuant to the EU Audit Regulation.
transition between the ARCom Chairs and that the ARCom meetings The ARCom confirms that the Company has complied with the continued to be well structured with agendas covering a wider range provisions of the Order for the financial year under review.
Areas identified for focus in 2019 included continuing to Following the ARComs review of the effectiveness of the external audit review meeting attendance, increasing the length of meetings to process and its assessment of the external auditors independence allow time for freeform risk discussions and reviewing the structure and objectivity, it has recommended the reappointment of Deloitte and format of certain ARCom papers.
as the Groups external auditor to the Board for recommendation Andrew Horton and approval by shareholders at the 2019 Annual General Meeting.
Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 63
