CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Nomination Committee report The Committees main focus during 2018 was to seek further non-executive experience and expertise to bring additional skills and diversity to the Board.
Lord Livingston of Parkhead Chairman Committee activity during the year Appointment of Zoe Cruz With a streamlined membership, the Committee was able to expedite The Committees main focus in the early part of the year was discussions and decision making on non-executive director search progressing the search for a new non-executive director which had and selection without always requiring formal meetings.
It maintained been started in 2017.
This was successfully completed in June 2018 its focus on executive management development and succession with the appointment of Zoe Cruz to the Board.
Zoe brings extensive through twice yearly discussions, with input from the CEO, in which expertise in asset allocation, a broad understanding of the global all the non-executive directors participated.
One formal scheduled macro context for investment management and a strong US meeting, attended by all members, reviewed the current composition perspective to the development of Man Groups strategy and risk of the Board, confirmed its continuing push to increase Board management.
The governance, search and selection processes diversity, reviewed the feedback from the 2018 evaluation and agreed followed for her appointment are outlined below.
More detail on all the Committees activities during the year are provided below.
Q2 2017 Committee agrees the skills to be targeted: direct fund management expertise, regulatory Role of the Committee experience and international, particularly US, Keep the Boards composition in terms of size, structure, exposure.
skills, experience and diversity under regular review in Q3 2017 Independent search firm, The Zygos Partnership response to changing business needs and opportunities now Russell Reynolds which has no other Identify the particular skills, knowledge and experience connection with the Company, briefed on required for a specific Board appointment and conduct the candidate specification, including an emphasis search and selection process on diversity of background and outlook.
Recommend the appointment of new candidates to the Board and the renewal, where appropriate, of existing non-executive Q4 2017 Committee reviews search firms long list of director appointments names and agrees a short list.
Possible Review plans for executive director and senior management candidates interviewed by the Chairman and development and succession CEO.
The Committees full terms of reference, which are reviewed by the Q1 2018 Zoe Cruz considered to be the preferred Committee and submitted to the Board for approval on an annual candidate and is interviewed by other Committee basis, are available on the Companys website.
Following formal Committee recommendation, the Board considers and Membership and meeting attendance approves Zoes appointment subject to Committee member Formal meetings regulatory approval.
Ian Livingston Chairman 1 1 Q2 2018 Zoes appointment confirmed with effect from Richard Berliand 1 1 1June.
Zoe commences her induction Andrew Horton 1 1 programme and participates in the Boards full day strategy review in early June.
Matthew Lester was a member of the Committee from 1 January until 30 June 2018 but no formal meetings were held during this period.
Luke Ellis attends meetings by invitation of the Chairman.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 64 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Review of Board composition Committee evaluation and priorities for 2019 At the end of the year the Committee formally reviewed the current The Committee reviewed progress on the actions agreed by the composition of the Board, including skills and experience, length of Committee for 2018 and the feedback on the 2018 Committee tenure and gender, and discussed the tension between its relatively evaluation as summarised below.
large size and the value of additional appointments to bring new skills and diversity.
Further deep exposure to asset management or related 2018 action: Bring further direct fund management, businesses, technology or international experience were identified as regulatory experience and US exposure to some of the priorities for strengthening the Boards existing skill set.
Review of diversity Progress Zoe Cruz appointed mid year bringing her achieved experience of a 25 year career at Morgan Board diversity Stanley.
The Committee reviewed progress on the implementation of the Boards diversity policy and the specific gender diversity of its 2018 action Increase Board diversity.
It was noted that the two most recently appointed non-executive directors had been female.
The Committee agreed that, Progress Zoes appointment has increased the cultural in line with the 2018 Hampton-Alexander review recommendations achieved and gender diversity of the Board.
and its drive to improve diversity, it should recommend to the Board the amendment of its diversity policy to include a target of at least 2018 action Create more opportunity to discuss senior 25% for women representation on the Board over the next management talent and executive succession.
12months and a target of 33% in the medium term.
The updated Progress Twice yearly private discussions held outside policy incorporating this target, which has been approved by the achieved formal meetings with all non-executive Board Board, is set out on page 66. members and the CEO.
Diversity and Inclusion D&I in the business The Committee reviewed and welcomed the considerable progress The following areas were agreed as priority areas of focus for the made by the management team in promoting and celebrating Committee in 2019: diversity within the business and creating a consciously inclusive working environment.
A full account of the activities and Additional Conduct a search for a non-executive director achievements of ManGroups D&I global networks and the firms non-executive with deep exposure to asset management or engagement with external organisations on shared objectives is skills related businesses, technology or international given in People and Culture on pages 3637.
detail on the progress of gender balance within Man as a whole and the Companys support for the Women in Finance Charter.
Diversity Focus on diversity, including gender diversity, as part of the above search by seeking totally Renewal of existing NED appointments or largely diverse shortlists.
The Committee reviewed the profile of Board tenure of Man Groups Board Enable full Board engagement in the non-executive directors in the light of its future needs.
As part of this engagement discussion of possible non-executive it considered the renewal of my appointment as Chairman and of appointments.
Richard Berliand and Andrew Horton whose current three year terms were due to expire in the first half of 2019.
It agreed, taking account Succession Strengthen focus on succession planning for of the current cycle of Board development and succession and the planning the top executive roles supported by more feedback on our contributions in the 2018 Board evaluation, to formal review of the available talent pool.
recommend the renewal of each appointment for approval by the Board for a further three years.
None of the Committee members took any part in the consideration Lord Livingston of Parkhead of the renewal of their own appointment.
Chairman MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 65 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Nomination Committee report continued Oversight of recruitment, development and inclusion Board diversity policy The Board continues to encourage and oversee the output from Overview a wide range of recruitment and people development policies and The Board embraces and seeks to promote diversity in its broadest initiatives led by the executive management which aim to grow sense, both in terms of its own composition and within Man Groups the diversity of Man Groups talent pool, provide development senior management and employee base as a whole.
It sees diversity opportunities for all and embed an inclusive culture.
While we cannot as the combination and interaction of people with different lead such initiatives directly, our role is to monitor and challenge knowledge, skills, experience, backgrounds and outlooks and the impact they are having on the firm.
As part of this oversight we believes that this creates greater value and leads to better decision review the level of gender diversity introduced through our summer making and performance at all levels of the organisation.
The Board internship and graduate programmes and womens progression over is aware of the recommendations for the adoption of voluntary targets time through mentoring, retention and Returner initiatives.
We also for building gender and ethnic diversity into FTSE company boards keep updated on Man Groups relationships with partners who can and senior management and is conscious of the long standing help source talent from more diverse backgrounds and undergender diversity challenge within the financial services sector.
It has, represented groups and Man Groups sponsorship of events which therefore, adopted a target of at least 25% for women representation encourage more diverse talent into financial careers.
on the Board over the next 12 months and a target of 33% in the medium term.
Set out below are three main areas on which we In addition, a key role of the Nomination Committee is to monitor are focusing in pursuing our policy objectives.
and discuss with the CEO the career development and succession plans for senior management across the firm, including the progress Board appointments of any under-represented groups.
This enables us to promote the When seeking to make a new appointment, the Board will focus development of a strong and diverse pipeline of talent for future first on identifying an individual with the capability, expertise and executive leadership and Board positions.
experience which are required to discharge the specific role and will select the best candidate on that basis.
Within this remit, it Review and reporting recognises and will pursue the added value to be derived from The Board is committed to the development of diversity on the Board diversity, including diversity of gender, social and ethnic backgrounds and among Man Groups employees.
It will seek feedback on Board and cognitive and personal strengths.
To support this objective, we balance and any missing skills and experience in its annual Board adopt a formal approach to Board search which includes insisting on evaluation and will keep the review and challenge of Man Groups strong representation of under-represented groups on search firms people development, inclusion and diversity programmes firmly on long and short lists and remaining conscious of any potential for bias the Board agenda.
An account of the Boards activities and progress in the interview and selection process.
We will also consider and against its objectives in these areas will be given in the Annual Report explore alternative routes to the supply of appropriate candidates.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 66
