30 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE HOW WE ENGAGE & RESPOND SHAREHOLDERS COLLEAGUES Our rich network of stakeholder relationships upholds the values on which M&S was founded.
These relationships are even more vital during this period of change.
While the Annual General Meeting has We are committed to making M&S a great traditionally been seen as the highlight place to work.
To do this, it is vital that of the shareholder calendar, we believe colleagues are engaged with the OUR APPROACH that engagement with our private business, especially now, at the start shareholders and institutional investors of this period of change.
Engaging with our stakeholders is should be an ongoing process, not fundamental to the way we do business at M&S.
We have over 160,000 registered something we think about once a year.
BUSINESS INVOLVEMENT GROUP BIG Engagement with our 81,000 colleagues is facilitated shareholders, 81,000 colleagues and 32 We connect with shareholders on an through BIG, a network of c. 3,400 elected ongoing basis through a variety of million customers.
We source our products representatives from across all parts of the business.
channels including face-to-face from suppliers in over 70 countries.
These Local BIG teams regularly feed back to National BIG, whose chairman in turn represents the collective individuals, businesses and communities meetings, webcasts, and an increasing colleague voice through regular meetings with are all integral to our business.
We will only amount of online content.
This year, BIG attended a Board meeting and going forward will also attend a be able to successfully transform M&S Remuneration Committee meeting each year.
with their input, cooperation and trust.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AGM BIG played a key role in the store closure programme Our 2017 AGM was well attended and all our proposed in 2017 18, helping to mitigate personal impact to As a Board, stakeholder considerations are resolutions were passed, with votes in favour ranging colleagues while supporting the business objective from 89.57% to 99.99%.
We have been providing live woven throughout our discussions and of rationalising the UK store estate.
webcasts of our AGMs and preliminary and interim decisions.
Like any business, sometimes we announcements for over a decade, bringing these COLLEAGUE UPDATES events to thousands of shareholders all over the world.
have to take decisions that adversely affect Colleagues are kept informed of performance and one or more of these groups and, in such strategy through regular business area huddles as ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS well as email, Skype and social media updates from cases, we always ensure that those We go beyond our statutory obligations to provide members of the Board and senior management.
Store impacted are treated fairly.
what we hope is a holistic and engaging view of the colleagues also share their views with directors and business in a language that everybody can understand.
senior managers through listening groups, in-store We have invested in the development Added to this is a wealth of online content which is roundtables and online forums.
Dedicated information publicly available on our corporate website.
and involvement of our stakeholder is also provided on our pension schemes.
communities as we believe it is the right ONGOING ENGAGEMENT A DIVERSITY & INCLUSION thing to do, not only for our stakeholders Members of our senior management and Investor This year we were again recognised in The Times but for our business.
These pages provide Relations teams held 450 meetings with 272 different Top 50 Employers for women eight years running.
In addition, Archie Norman We ran four employee-led networks on gender, a snapshot of just some of the ways in met with a number of our shareholders prior to his ethnicity BAME, sexual orientation LGBT and which we do this.
appointment as Chairman and continues to meet health conditions.
These networks give a voice to with institutional investors to discuss key issues.
under-represented groups, provide peer-to-peer support and help to influence the Company to INVESTOR PERCEPTION STUDY become more inclusive.
We also held our second Diversity & Inclusion festival, engaging thousands Each year the Board receives an independent report of colleagues across M&S.
from Makinson Cowell on our major investors views on our management and performance.
This enables us to monitor what were doing right and where we TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT need to increase our focus.
A wide number of initiatives and programmes are available to colleagues across the business, including PRIVATE SHAREHOLDER PANEL subject-specific courses, inspirational talks, and mentoring programmes.
Following a successful trial last year, we have now formalised these regular meetings with groups of A private shareholders.
These are typically attended by VOLUNTEERING COLLEAGUE ENGAGEMENT SCORE either the CEO or a member of senior management During 2017 18, thousands of colleagues volunteered and give private shareholders the rare opportunity over 30,500 hours of work time to help hundreds of to share their views in an informal setting.
Our stores raised over 1m for charity and distributed over one million meals to ASSET REUNIFICATION local organisations.
Through search programmes and changes to how 82% we pay dividends, we proactively seek to unite YOUR SAY SURVEY shareholders promptly with their shares and Our annual Your Say survey gives us an informed dividend payments.
picture of how colleagues feel about the business.
Over 70,000 of our colleagues choose to participate and share their feedback.
The engagement score this year was strong at 82%.
31 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 Key A Link to Plan A CUSTOMERS COMMUNITY SUPPLIERS Our Insight team constantly gathers and At the heart of M&Ss engagement with As one of the most trusted brands in analyses feedback from our customers the community is Plan A, our social and the high street, we believe we have a to understand what they want from M&S.
environmental sustainability responsibility to be a fair partner to our In addition to sharing key findings with programme.
Building on ten successful suppliers.
This covers the prices we pay the directors, we focused in 2017 18 on years of this initiative, we launched Plan A our suppliers to the support we provide making our wealth of insight available 2025 in June last year, with three main to the communities where we trade.
throughout all levels of the business to goals: to help 10 million people live It also means ensuring good working ensure decisions are based on facts.
This happier and healthier lives, to help conditions throughout our supply chains has enabled us to improve the shopping transform 1,000 communities, and to and sourcing our products with integrity.
experience and to better understand become a zero-waste business.
Find out how we need to position the business.
PREVENTING MODERN SLAVERY We have continued to increase the depth and breadth of our work in the area of modern slavery, ensuring we A DIRECT FEEDBACK COMMUNITY TRANSFORMATION have in place the most effective responses to potential We get direct feedback from our customers through a We aim to secure meaningful economic, social and risk.
Further details of our efforts to eradicate modern variety of channels including surveys, face-to-face environmental benefits to 1,000 communities around slavery throughout our supply chains and operations interviews, and online input.
During the year we our stores and beyond by 2025.
We held face-to-face are available in our 2018 Modern Slavery statement launched a new initiative which gives customers the consultations with representatives from ten pilot which is available online.
opportunity to feed back, either online or by telephone, communities this year to find out what they want us on every transaction using information from their to achieve, and now have detailed action plans and A GLOBAL COMMUNITY PROGRAMME online or store receipt.
This information is collated measurement systems in place for these.
The M&S Global Community Programme aims to centrally and allows us to spot common themes improve the lives of one million people in our suppliers quickly.
Insight is then routed to the relevant teams A TOWN CENTRE REGENERATION communities by 2025.
During the year, the programme within M&S so that action can be taken.
Building on the Business in the Community-backed included projects across nine countries on issues Healthy High Streets programme, 58 of our retail including health, finance, farming and gender equality.
CURVE managers have played hands-on, lead roles in Engaging with our plus-sized customers to better collaborations to improve town and city centres GLOBAL SOURCING PRINCIPLES understand their clothing needs identified that they during the year, including a wide range of activities All our suppliers of goods and services are required often felt ignored in the clothing market and were to support the development of Business Improvement to comply with our Global Sourcing Principles which unable to find stylish clothes that fit well.
We worked Districts BIDs across the UK.
require them to provide good working conditions, directly with these customers to craft a range respect workers human rights, and be subject to specifically designed for shapely figures, engineered A WORK EXPERIENCE appropriate ethical monitoring.
Food suppliers are to fit and flatter, with designs that are right on trend.
Through Marks & Start we provide work experience also considered as part of our annual GSCOP report.
for thousands of disadvantaged people across the RETAILER CHOICE UK and internationally.
This year we offered over 3,600 SUPPLIER COLLABORATION 52,000 people took part in our comprehensive study work placements worldwide, with over 60% of those Through collaborative workshops and toolkits, we work into why customers choose one retailer over another.
completing a placement in the UK or Republic of Ireland with suppliers to streamline processes and optimise Critically, this ensured that the gap between M&S and going on to find work.
The resultant savings are reinvested in price key competitors was well understood and has informed and quality and shared with suppliers to help them our decisions about where to invest our resources.
A LOCAL FUNDRAISING create further efficiencies.
This year, 502 of our stores in the UK and the QUICK TO COOK Republic of Ireland adopted a charity of the year TRAINING AND SUPPORT Insight about our customers led us to develop a new and helped to raise over 1m.
514 of our stores We offer our suppliers and partners a range of range of part-prepared meal solutions that satisfy our donated surplus food to local charities.
M&S stores training and development opportunities, including customers need for ultra-fast, protein-packed meals.
in India also raised in excess of 40,000 in aid of conferences and practical workshops.
These cover a two Indian charities.
range of topics including local laws and sharing best FOOTWEAR NAVIGATION practice examples to accelerate embedding respect M&S COMPANY ARCHIVE Customers told us that we should simplify how for human rights into their businesses.
we display our footwear and arrange it by end use Over 43,000 people enjoyed discovering the M&S e. g. work, occasion, sport.
We took their feedback story through our Marks in Time Exhibition and the DAIRY FARM INITIATIVES on board and customers now find it easier to find Archives exciting programme of events in 2017 18.
We continue to guarantee our pool of dedicated dairy what they want.
farmers a set price for fresh milk under our Milk Pledge Our award-winning programme now has a network Plus programme.
During the year we also became the A of 50 specially trained Heritage Ambassadors in SPARKS CARD first major food retailer to have all its milk producing stores across the UK, delivering inspiring 6.6 million Sparks card holders currently receive dairy farms assured by the RSPCA for animal welfare.
heritage-based sessions in local schools.
tailored offers plus the chance to engage with a Plan A Weve expanded the Archives support for people with charity partner of their choice.
Over 4m has been SUPPLIER SATISFACTION dementia by extending our range of archive-based raised to date.
memory boxes, which are free to borrow for care Measuring supplier satisfaction is critical to our homes and day centres across the UK.
understanding of how well we are engaging with them.
In March 2018, the Archive was successful in attaining We use the independent Advantage Report Mirror accredited status from National Archives, the first to survey a proportion of our own brand M&S Brand ever retail archive to do so.
In 2017 we were ranked second overall out of the seven participating retailers.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
