28 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS BOARD ACTIVITIES The following pages summarise the Boards make far-reaching changes to restore the The Board is responsible activities over the course of the year.
With the for the stewardship of Although by no means exhaustive, the table executive team it has overseen significant below provides a flavour of the discussions changes in structure, people and the Company, overseeing and debates that take place within the organisation to enable the first phase its strategy, conduct Boardroom and details some of the ways in of transformation.
which the directors have discharged their and affairs to create The Board has debated the Groups key risks, duty to promote the success of the Company.
sustainable value growth along with external market risks, including During the year, the Board reviewed in the implications of Brexit and mitigating for its stakeholders.
depth the challenges facing each of actions based on our understanding of the businesses and agreed with the the potential impact on the market, retail executive team to embark on a five-year environment, our customers, our people transformation programme designed to and communities and our supply base.
STRATEGY & TRANSFORMATION GOVERNANCE & RISK BOARD DISCUSSIONS, TOPIC BOARD DISCUSSIONS, DECISIONS AND ACTIONS TOPIC DECISIONS AND ACTIONS Regulatory Strategic Discussed the ongoing transformation strategy with a continued focus Discussed developments in the UK regulatory priorities on driving sustainable, profitable growth, addressing extant structural environment environment and the internal governance challenges and restoring the basics.
processes that support key projects.
Agreed the next phase of our transformation, focusing on establishing Received regular updates on meetings of the Boards principal committees and discussed M&S as the UKs essential clothing retailer, repositioning our Food business, growing International and substantially reducing our cost-base.
the key issues and topics raised.
Discussed business performance and the key strategic priorities for Board Reviewed the Boards composition, diversity Food, Clothing & Home and International with a focus on making our succession and succession plans.
shopping experience special, improving store service and simplifying & diversity Facilitated the transition for the new Chairman, our head office structure.
Agreed our strategic objective to become a Digital First organisation, Agreed the appointment of Humphrey Singer with a third of our Clothing & Home sales online.
Store estate Discussed the store estate programme, including criteria for further Board Reviewed progress against the 2017 18 openings, redevelopments and closures, and the critical need to adapt Action Plan Board Action Plan and set the Action Plan for our portfolio in a rapidly evolving market.
and review 2018 19, with a clear process for monitoring Reviewed the necessary actions and costs associated with delivering the ongoing progress.
strategic plan for the UK store estate.
Conducted an internally facilitated Board Agreed the acceleration of the Clothing & Home space rationalisation review covering the Boards effectiveness, plan and slowing of the Simply Food store opening plan.
processes and ways of working.
International Re-affirmed our commitment to retaining our position as an international Risk Conducted half-yearly reviews of the Group operations retailer, and working with our key international franchise partners to build a Risk Profile covering core internal and external growing, profitable international business in our chosen markets.
risks, risks driven by business Discussed the evolution of the franchise model in International, including change and areas of emerging risk.
pricing, risks and the longer-term structure of the international business.
Agreed the Group-level risks and appropriate Agreed the sale of our wholly-owned retail business in Hong Kong to an mitigating activities and reviewed the existing franchise partner.
processes and policies supporting these.
Ongoing robust debate around risk, including Supply chain Discussed the end-to-end supply chain in Food and impact on availability, risk tolerance and factors contributing to any waste and potential cost efficiencies.
re-evaluation of the severity of particular risks.
Discussed our digital fulfilment capability and the need to continue to Data invest in modernising our supply chain to enable rapid growth and help Discussed the Groups cyber security us match increasingly fast competitor fulfilment rates.
governance infrastructure in light of perpetually and cyber evolving threats.
Technological Discussed the ongoing transformation of our technological capabilities security Received regular updates on the Companys capabilities and its impact on business culture and our suppliers.
preparations for compliance with GDPR Reviewed and agreed the next stage of the technology strategy with further ahead of May 2018, when the regulations debate around future requirements and areas for further development.
Ongoing progress made with strategic initiatives focused on simplification Modern Approved the Companys Modern and reduction of costs.
Slavery Slavery Statement for publication on the corporate website.
Finance Discussed the Groups capital structure and assessed the Groups ongoing funding requirements under the transformation strategy.
Reviewed Group performance versus budget and the agreed targets for the year and approved the budget and targets for the year ahead.
Reviewed cash flow, dividend cover and shareholder returns, agreeing a full-year dividend of 18.7p.
29 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 For more information on the role of the Board, see p33 OUTSIDE THE BOARDROOM PRIVATE SHAREHOLDER PANELS Outside of their scheduled Board meetings, the Chief Executive, Chairman and members of the Operating Committee attended meetings of our Private Shareholder Panels held throughout the year, strengthening links between the Company and our retail investors.
The panel discussed a range of topics important to our retail investors and feedback from these meetings has been extremely positive.
For more information on how we engage with investors and our other stakeholders, see pages 30-31.
CUSTOMERS, INVESTORS PEOPLE & CULTURE & SUPPLIERS BOARD DISCUSSIONS, TOPIC BOARD DISCUSSIONS, DECISIONS AND ACTIONS TOPIC DECISIONS AND ACTIONS People Reviewed the people strategy and current priorities in terms of succession, Retail Discussed the challenging retail market, strategy & talent development and diversity across the business.
environment market share, store footfall, competition capabilities and market dynamics.
Discussed changes during the year in key roles and appointments and organisational structure to support the strategy.
Discussed the announced store closure programme and impact on customer, Culture & Discussed the necessary shift required in the culture and values of investor and colleague sentiment.
ways of the business to drive our transformation strategy and become a Discussed the key drivers for consumer working high-performance organisation.
sentiment, impact on consumer confidence, Approved the consolidation and reconfiguration of our office space to spending intentions and the economy.
better align with our Smarter Working principles.
Brand and Discussed the viability of an M&S online Employee Continued to encourage strong engagement between leadership and customer food delivery offer and approved a limited engagement colleagues across the business.
proposition trial to run over the course of the year.
Reviewed and evaluated the results of the annual Your Say survey Evaluated the customer insight research completed by colleagues from across the business and identified areas conducted during the year and assessed of improvement.
resulting recommendations, including those in respect of our brand positioning, store Discussed colleague sentiment, key areas of concern and the employee environments and customer offer.
perspective of M&Ss future opportunities and risks.
Invited the Chair of the Business Involvement Group BIG, our employee Investors Reviewed independent study of major representative body, to attend a Board meeting to discuss the Companys investors views on our management strategy and future plans from the perspective of colleagues from and performance, conducted by KPMG across the Companys stores and offices.
Reviewed the Companys financial results Communities & Reflected on the impact and achievements of Plan A over the ten years and press releases and approved the Plan A since launch, and discussed how Plan A can be shaped to benefit our Annual Report and year-end disclosures.
customers and the communities in which we operate over the next decade.
Reviewed the progress made towards our Plan A commitments in 2017 18.
Suppliers Continued to increase the breadth and depth of our work in the area of modern slavery.
Gender pay Discussed the Companys gender pay gap in the context of the Reviewed codes of practice in relation to wider market.
Diversity & Discussed our agenda to address the pipeline of women into senior AGM Reviewed specific issues raised by inclusion roles and to drive greater diversity and inclusion, in terms of gender, shareholders to be addressed in the ethnicity and social background, within the business.
Agreed the key topics raised by shareholders to be communicated together with an update on the Companys progress in these areas.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
