26 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS OUR BOARD CHAIRMAN Key strengths and experience Extensive retail and business leadership experience.
Archie Norman Chairman Long-term track record of value creation and change in major British companies.
Archie is an experienced Chairman and former Chief Executive having Appointed: September 2017 led major transformation programmes at ITV, Lazard UK, Asda, Energis and Hobbycraft and Deputy Chairman of Coles Limited.
In 2016 he was appointed as Lead Director at the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy.
N R EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Key strengths and experience Steve Rowe Very extensive in-depth commercial and retail experience.
Chief Executive Extensive knowledge of M&S having worked in all major areas of the business.
Steve joined M&S in 1989 and worked in senior roles across all important Appointed: areas of the business prior to his appointment as CEO, including Chief Executive in April 2016 Director of Home, Director of Retail, Director of Retail and E-commerce, Executive Director, Food and Executive Director, General Merchandise.
N Strong financial background and extensive retail expertise.
Humphrey Singer Chief Finance Officer Significant experience in delivering the transformational strategies Designate of large listed businesses.
Humphrey will join M&S in July from Dixons Carphone, where he is currently Group Finance Director.
He was previously Group Finance Appointed: Director of Dixons Retail prior to its merger with Carphone Warehouse Incoming July 2018 Group, and has also held senior finance roles at Cadbury Schweppes and Coca-Cola Enterprises UK.
Humphrey is a non-executive director of Taylor Wimpey plc.
BOARD DIVERSITY NON-EXECUTIVE DEPARTURES SINCE GENDER DIVERSITY SECTOR EXPERIENCE DIRECTOR TENURE 1 APRIL 2017 Robert Swannell Chairman 31 March 2018 0-3 years 33% 6-7 years 17% Retired: 1 September 2017 as at year end 3-6 years 50% 86% 100% Miranda Curtis Non-Executive 78% 0-3 years 33% 6-7 years 17% Male Director 3-6 years 50% Retired: 1 February 2018 22% Retail Consumer Female Helen Weir Chief Finance Officer Resigned: 31 March 2018 22 May 2018 as at date of Annual Report 57% 43% Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne Executive Director, Customer, 86% Male Marketing & M&S.
com Finance E-commerce Resigned: 18 April 2018 14% & technology Female 0-3 years 33% 6-7 years 17% 3-6 years 50% UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code is the standard against which we measured ourselves in 2017 18.
A copy of the Code is available from the Financial Reporting Councils website.
We are pleased to confirm that we complied with all of the provisions set out in the Code for the period under review.
To keep this report concise, we have focused on the key governance issues only.
Further detail on how we comply with the Code, including full biographies of our directors and our corporate governance statement, is available on our corporate website, marksandspencer.
More information is available on page 64.
27 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 KEY TO COMMITTEES A Audit N Nomination R Remuneration Committee Chair Full biographical details of each director are available on marksandspencer.
com thecompany INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Key strengths and experience Extensive consumer brand knowledge and global business experience.
Vindi Banga Strong listed company board experience.
Senior Independent Director Vindis in-depth knowledge of both UK and international trade and Appointed: industry was gained over 33 years spent with Unilever, where he held a Non-Executive Director in number of senior positions and was a member of the Executive Board.
September 2011 Senior Independent Director in He has been a non-executive director at M&S since September 2011.
March 2015 R N Andy Halford Significant recent and relevant financial experience.
Non-Executive Director International, consumer and digital experience.
Andys strong finance background and broad knowledge of the UK and international consumer market was gained from CFO positions Appointed: held in global listed companies.
He is Chief Financial Officer of Standard January 2013 Chartered, which he joined after 15 years at Vodafone, nine of which were spent as Chief Financial Officer.
Alison Brittain Non-Executive Director Considerable knowledge of running large-scale consumer businesses.
Alison is CEO of Whitbread, an international organisation with a broad portfolio of hospitality brands, and was previously Group Director at Appointed: January 2014 the Retail Division of Lloyds Banking Group, with responsibility for its retail branch networks as well as its Retail Business Banking and UK Wealth businesses.
Richard Solomons Non-Executive Director Extensive financial and branding experience.
Richards breadth of consumer experience and considerable knowledge of global businesses was acquired from numerous senior roles held Appointed: April 2015 at IHG, where he was CEO until June 2017 and served as CFO prior to that, as well as in investment banking earlier in his career.
N R Andrew Fisher International consumer and technology sector experience.
Non-Executive Director Extensive knowledge of high-growth digital businesses.
Andrew is Executive Chairman of Shazam, where he has been instrumental in developing and executing a growth strategy to establish Appointed: one of the worlds leading mobile consumer brands, and brings over December 2015 20 years experience leading and growing numerous technologyfocused enterprises.
A N Extensive experience of retail transformation With strong experience of finance and Katie Bickerstaffe Pip McCrostie from a career in a variety of functions in transactions from a career at Ernst & Young Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director leading UK retailers and consumer companies.
where she transformed and led the Katie will bring deep understanding of Global Corporate Finance business, Pips Appointed: Appointed: retail and operations, as well as experience understanding of global businesses, M&A, Incoming July 2018 Incoming July 2018 in marketing, people, property, and as a corporate transactions, and as a nonnon-executive director, to M&S.
executive director, will bring financial and analytical discipline and skills to our Board.
GROUP SECRETARY Amanda Mellor Group Secretary and Head of Corporate Governance Appointed: July 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
