34 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT INTRODUCTION In my introduction to the Governance pages This year the Committees activities covered of this report on page 25, I referenced the director capabilities and succession importance to the business of an engaged planning.
The Board has long believed that Board that offers both support and robust diversity, together with the right blend of challenge to our executive management, skills and experience, is an essential element an approach that underpinned the work of an effective board.
This was a key undertaken by the Nomination Committee consideration of the Committee in its the Committee in light of the numerous search for additions to our team.
changes to the Board over the past year.
In May 2018, we announced that In September 2017, my predecessor, Katie Bickerstaffe and Pip McCrostie Robert Swannell, retired after almost would join the Board, subject to their The Committee is seven years as Chairman.
Miranda Curtis, election at the Annual General Meeting focused on supporting a non-executive director since 2012, in July 2018.
Following these appointments, stepped down in February 2018.
Helen Weir female directors will comprise 30% of the development of and Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne left the our Board.
capabilities and talent Board in March and April 2018 respectively.
The Committee also continues to take Helen will be replaced by Humphrey Singer across the business an active interest in the quality and when he joins the business in the summer.
development of talent and capabilities ARCHIE NORMAN CHAIRMAN OF THE On behalf of the Board, I would like to NOMINATION COMMITTEE below board level, ensuring that appropriate thank Robert, Helen, Patrick and Miranda opportunities are in place to develop for their significant contributions during high-performing individuals and to build their tenures.
diversity in senior roles across the business.
EFFECTIVENESS OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REVIEW NOMINATION COMMITTEE ACTIVITY Archie Norman met with colleagues from stores, distribution centres and offices, The Committees performance was During the year, the Committee held along with shareholders and other reviewed within the framework of the numerous unscheduled meetings stakeholders as part of his induction.
The in support of the search for senior Committee is regarded as engaged and appointments and continued to support ACTION PLAN 2018 19 challenging.
It was particularly noted the ongoing quality, development for the additional time provided by its and capabilities of our senior talent.
For 2018 19, the Committee plans to: members for a number of unscheduled The Committee recommended the Continue to review succession plans meetings to support key Board and appointment of the Chairman, two for the Board and key roles across senior management appointments non-executive directors and the the business.
appointment of Humphrey Singer as CFO to the Board.
Continue to review future talent pipeline.
Review development initiatives for directors.
MEMBER NUMBER OF MAXIMUM % OF MEETINGS SINCE MEETINGS POSSIBLE ATTENDED ATTENDED MEETINGS MEMBER ATTENDANCE Robert Swannell 4 Oct 2010 1 1 100% Archie Norman 1 Sept 2017 2 2 100% Vindi Banga 3 Sept 2011 5 5 100% Alison Brittain 1 Jan 2014 5 5 100% Miranda Curtis 3 Feb 2012 4 4 100% Andrew Fisher 1 Dec 2015 5 5 100% Andy Halford 1 Jan 2013 5 5 100% Steve Rowe 2 Apr 2016 5 5 100% Richard Solomons 13 Apr 2015 5 5 100% 35 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 BOARD DIVERSITY POLICY Our objective of driving the benefits of Ensure long lists of potential Initiatives for high potential talent to a diverse Board, senior management non-executive directors include identify and partner key senior talent team and wider workforce is 50% female candidates.
across the business, broadening their underpinned by our Board Diversity All long lists for potential future skill-sets and experience to prepare Policy the Policy, which can be non-executive director appointments them for future opportunities.
This viewed on our corporate website.
include at least 50% female candidates.
has been supported through greater The Board keeps the Policy under Boardroom exposure, non-executive Consider candidates for appointment review to ensure it remains an effective and Trustee roles outside of M&S, as non-executive directors from a wider driver of diversity in its broadest involvement in senior pipeline pool, including those with experience sense, having due regard to gender, programmes and participation in outside of traditional listed boards.
ethnicity, background, skill-set and mentoring schemes.
During the year, the Nomination breadth of experience.
Committee discussed non-executive Access to business school training.
BOARD DIVERSITY: PROGRESS UPDATE director appointments and succession.
Senior management mentoring It worked closely with executive search and coaching schemes and Maintain a level of at least 30% agencies in compiling long and short lists female directors on the Board executive director-sponsored of candidates from various backgrounds over the shortto medium-term.
Candidates were identified, Following the departures of Helen Weir interviewed and measured against Report annually against these and Miranda Curtis during the year, the pre-determined criteria.
Although we objectives and other initiatives level of female representation on our do not currently openly advertise our taking place within the Company Board reduced from 30% in February non-executive director positions, we which promote gender and other 2018 to 14% in May 2018.
In May 2018, keep this under review.
we announced that Katie Bickerstaffe Diversity and inclusion have continued and Pip McCrostie would join the Board, Only engage executive search firms who to be promoted across the business subject to their election at the Annual have signed up to the Voluntary Code with a number of initiatives: of Conduct for Executive Search Firms General Meeting in July 2018.
Following on gender diversity and best practice.
Employee-led networks on gender, these appointments, female directors will comprise 30% of our Board.
The Board supports the provisions of the ethnicity BAME, sexual orientation Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive LGBT and health conditions.
This year, The Board is committed to its target for Search Firms and only engages executive we held our second Diversity & Inclusion female representation and is mindful of the search firms who are signatories to festival, engaging thousands of target set out in the Hampton-Alexander this code.
During the year, our work on colleagues across M&S.
Review of 33% female representation by succession was supported by Russell Continued involvement in the 30% Club, 2020.
The Committee will continue to make Reynolds and JCA.
Neither firm has any an organisation committed to increasing recommendations for new appointments other connection with the Company aside female representation on UK boards.
to the Board based on merit, with from the provision of recruitment services.
candidates measured against objective Active involvement in key campaigns Assist the development of a pipeline of criteria and with regard to the skills and including LGBT Pride celebrations, high-calibre candidates by encouraging experience they would bring to the Board.
International Womens Day, Black a broad range of senior individuals History Month, National Inclusion Our principles for board diversity also within the business to take on additional apply to our Operating Committee where Week, Mental Health Awareness Week roles to gain valuable board experience.
and World Disability Day, raising female representation currently stands The Board continues to support and awareness and our profile as an at 33%.
The Board continues to strengthen encourage initiatives that strengthen inclusive place to work.
the pipeline of senior female executives the pipeline of executive talent in the within the business, and ensure that there Company.
It continues to learn from Our programmes to help people in our are no barriers to women succeeding at the existing programmes, while introducing communities, including Marks & Start highest levels within M&S.
We are pleased new initiatives to provide development and Marks & Start International, continue that M&S was listed in The Times Top 50 opportunities to drive the quality of to support young people, the homeless, Employers for Women in 2018 for the talent throughout the business.
lone parents and those with disabilities eighth year running.
Key activities include: in finding work in our stores and distribution centres.
A comprehensive talent review presented to the Board, mapping successional candidates and opportunities across all senior roles within the business.
See p20 of our Plan A Report for further information on diversity across M&S, available at marksandspencer.
com plana2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
