33 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 GOVERNANCE RESPONSIBILITIES & OVERSIGHT ROLE OF THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES The Board is responsible for the The Board agrees, and has collective Companys business.
Much of this work stewardship of the Company, overseeing responsibility for, the strategy of the is delegated to the Audit Committee its strategy, conduct and affairs to create Company, which is outlined on pages 1 see pages 36-41 : and sustainable value for the benefit of its to 24.
The Board delegates the execution Effective succession planning at Board shareholders.
The Board recognises that, of the Companys strategy, day-to-day level and for assessing the processes in to be successful over the long term, it has management and operation of the place to ensure that there is appropriate a wider duty to a broader stakeholder Companys business to the Operating succession planning amongst senior community whose support is required to Committee, and is responsible for management.
Much of this work is create sustainable value.
It is therefore overseeing, guiding and holding to delegated to the Nomination essential that the Board considers the account management in carrying out Committee see pages 34-35. impact of the business and its decisions on these responsibilities.
our colleagues, customers, shareholders, In addition to the other matters referred to The Board is responsible for: suppliers and the communities in which in its framework, the Board is responsible the Company operates.
Pages 30 and 31 Ensuring leadership through effective for specific matters relating to strategy, highlight how we consider and engage oversight and review.
Supported by its finance, risk management, culture, ethics with our stakeholders.
Board Committees, the Board sets the and behaviours, legal, reputation and strategic direction and aims to deliver public company management, internal The Board discharges some of its sustainable shareholder value over control and audit.
These matters, along responsibilities directly and others through the longer term: with the individual roles of the Board its Board Committees and management.
members, are covered by the Schedule Board and Committee Terms of Reference Overseeing the implementation of of Matters Reserved to the Board in our are included in our Governance Framework, appropriate risk assessment systems Governance Framework, which is available published on our corporate website.
and processes to identify, manage on our corporate website.
and mitigate the principal risks of the BOARD REVIEW Our annual Board Review gives us the Corporate governance, regulatory of the issues covered, with better opportunity to reflect on the effectiveness compliance and associated support: discussion and debate with the additional of our activities, the range of our involvement of the Operating Committee Evaluation of individual performance discussions, quality of our decisions and other colleagues.
The quality of papers and areas for improvement: and and for each member to consider their along with comprehensive pre-reads to own performance and contribution.
Committee effectiveness and support discussions were substantially communications to the Board.
Talent and This year our review was facilitated succession was considered well managed internally by our Group Secretary and Head Following the Board review, the Senior during the year.
Continued exposure to of Corporate Governance, Amanda Mellor.
Independent Director meets with directors colleagues across the business is Amanda was considered a suitable and to review the Chairmans performance.
This considered essential to ensure greater independent sounding board for this review is then shared with the Chairman.
insight on talent development and process, given her insight into the dayAll recommendations are based on capabilities.
Governance knowledge, to-day workings of the Board and its best practice as described in the UK information and engagement with Committees and the support and advice Corporate Governance Code and stakeholders was considered good and provided to Board members throughout other current guidelines.
Board members felt well supported.
In line with previous years, focused one-to-one discussions were held with Overall the Board is considered a high Board Committees were all considered to each director around the following topics: calibre team, with a breadth of skills and work well with thorough debate, a clear experience contributing a wide range of grasp of issues and subject knowledge.
Composition, skills, balance, experience perspectives and challenge.
There is a Committees are considered to be well and diversity of the Board: deep sense of commitment to M&S.
Culture and quality of contributions: The Chairmanship of Archie Norman is The Board has agreed an action plan for Strategic and risk debate: viewed highly positively in focusing the the year ahead, with actions addressing business agenda and purpose.
Board the key areas of board oversight and focus Succession planning: discussions are generally considered on driving the transformation, reviewing Effectiveness of decision making: open and challenging, with participation key performance indicators and ensuring of members actively encouraged.
these are linked to the business objectives.
Resourcing of meetings, agenda The Board awayday was much improved Further initiatives to drive Board planning, quality of information: and considered more productive in terms involvement in the business are in progress.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
