36 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTABILITY AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT INTRODUCTION As Chairman of the Audit Committee this independent oversight, the Committee the Committee, I am pleased to present continued to ensure that shareholder the Committees report for the year ended interests in relation to the Companys 31 March 2018.
The following pages financial reporting and systems of provide an insight into how the Committee internal control are protected.
discharged its responsibilities during the This year, preparations for the year and the key topics that it considered implementation of GDPR necessitated in doing so.
the Committees increased focus on the There were no significant changes to the interrelated issues of data governance, Committees primary functions this year, cyber security and business continuity, which included monitoring the integrity of with one or more of these subjects The Committee plays the Companys financial statements and considered at each of our meetings.
an essential role in maintaining an appropriate relationship Another major area of consideration was with Deloitte, the Companys Auditor.
Also the UK store estate and in particular the safeguarding the interests core was reviewing the Companys internal accounting judgements in relation to of shareholders through controls and systems of internal control store closures.
Further information on and risk management, which included these and other key areas considered continual review, the alignment of risk and strategy in the by the Committee during the year can challenge and debate.
In providing be found within this report.
ANDY HALFORD CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS MEMBERSHIP MEETINGS The Committee is comprised solely of The Board has confirmed that it is satisfied The Committee held five meetings during independent non-executive directors, that Committee members possess an the year.
Members of senior management whose names are set out below.
Miranda appropriate level of independence and were invited to attend these meetings as Curtis retired from the Board and the offer a depth of financial and commercial and when their specialist technical Committee on 1 February 2018.
Detailed experience across various industries, knowledge was required.
information on the experience, skills and including the sector in which the Company The Committee also met without qualifications of all Committee members operates.
The Board has also confirmed management present before each full can be found on pages 26 and 27. that it is satisfied that Andy Halford meeting.
We also met privately with the possesses recent and relevant financial lead Audit partners, and separately with experience and the requisite competence the Head of Internal Audit & Risk, after in accounting.
As Committee Chairman, it is important MEMBER ATTENDANCE MEMBER NUMBER OF MAXIMUM % OF MEETINGS that I fully understand any key areas of SINCE MEETINGS POSSIBLE ATTENDED ATTENDED MEETINGS concern so that I can facilitate a meaningful dialogue during Committee meetings.
To support this, I meet regularly on a Andy Halford 1 Jan 2013 5 5 100% one-to-one basis with the Chief Finance Alison Brittain 11 Mar 2014 5 5 100% Officer, Director of Group Finance, Head 1 Miranda Curtis 4 Mar 2015 3 4 75% of Internal Audit & Risk, other members of senior management, and the lead Andrew Fisher 3 Feb 2016 5 5 100% Audit partners.
Miranda Curtis was unable to attend the meeting on 14 September 2017 due to an external business commitment.
She retired from the Board and the Committee on 1 February 2018 so was not eligible to attend the meeting on 13 March.
37 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS EFFECTIVENESS REVIEW 2018 19 ACTION PLAN The Committees performance was It continues to provide the Board with a Continue to monitor the reviewed within the framework of the high level of assurance that audit matters recommendations of the Internal 2017 18 internal Board review discussed are dealt with appropriately.
Audit effectiveness review undertaken on page 33.
Feedback on the breadth of in 2017 18.
The Committee made good progress on oversight, level of challenge and quality of the 2017 18 action plan, particularly in Continue to oversee the company-wide Board updates provided by the Committee relation to the Internal Audit effectiveness risk and assurance mapping.
The Committee is review and implementation of the key considered to function well, with structured Continue to monitor oversight of data findings.
The Committee was also meetings and good engagement and governance and cyber security controls.
commended for its review and challenge challenge provided across its remit by all in relation to GDPR preparedness and members.
It continues to be regarded as cyber security protocols.
The Committee thorough and effective, although mindful of will build on this in 2018 19. the time implications of its expanding brief.
COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES CORE ACTIVITIES The Committee also monitors those Discussed key initiatives undertaken elements of the control framework that, during the year, including a number The Committee undertook the following by necessity, are subject to regular review, of wide-reaching crisis management core activities during the year: challenge and update, most notably exercises and the successful in relation to cyber security.
As part of introduction of increased incident Monitored the integrity of the annual the annual review of internal control, reporting capability.
and interim financial statements, the Committee revisits these matters with a focus on key accounting Endorsed the priorities for 2018 19, policies and judgements.
to ensure agreed actions are being including a review of the Companys implemented to support a programme of top 30 critical suppliers, ongoing Reviewed the Companys internal maintaining and improving internal control.
assessment and testing of global controls and risk management The Committee noted the findings terrorism and cyber security processes.
highlighted in the External Auditor Report preparedness, and continued Maintained the relationship with the and confirms that it is satisfied that there enhancements to the My Safety app.
external auditor, including monitoring is no material misstatement and that Fire, Health and Safety their independence and effectiveness.
relevant actions are being taken to resolve the control matters raised.
Monitored and reviewed the Updated on performance across all aspects of trading safely and legally effectiveness and independence MANAGEMENT UPDATES and progress made in driving of the Companys Internal Audit compliance standards.
The Committee receives detailed updates Discussed recent enhancements Reviewed the effectiveness of the from one or more business areas at each to international reporting lines Companys whistleblowing procedures.
These presentations are and procedures.
scheduled on a rolling 12-month basis, with Reviewed and approved the Companys additional matters identified by Internal statement of compliance with the Updated on the approach to Fire, Audit added throughout the year as they Health and Safety at the Castle Groceries Supply Code of Practice.
The following is an overview of some Donington distribution centre.
Reviewed the Boards approach of the updates presented during 2017 18. to assessing the Companys Following the identification of a Data Governance and Cyber Security masonry issue at one store, discussed long-term viability.
action taken to review and monitor Received regular updates on the Assessed whether the Annual Report, the condition of a number of buildings Companys extensive programme taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and of work towards GDPR compliance: of similar age and construction.
challenged assumptions and Food Safety and Integrity methodologies in relation to INTERNAL CONTROL UPDATES Received an update on enhancements readiness and milestones.
to the Companys approach to food The Committee receives updates on Received updates on initiatives to drive safety governance and discussed the internal control matters at each meeting.
data and cyber security awareness and expected outcomes and practical This regular monitoring of the internal cultural change across the business.
control framework allows timely Discussed and challenged the identification of issues and formal tracking Discussed the Companys approach Companys Cyber Operations of remediation plans.
Instances where the in the context of the wider food market, Crisis Escalation Processes and effectiveness of internal controls was rapidly evolving regulatory backdrop considered insufficient were discussed the communications policies and and inflationary pressures.
procedures to be invoked in the during the year, either by the Audit Discussed the actions intended to event of an incident.
Committee or the full Board.
These have preserve the frictionless import and included controls in relation to furniture Business Continuity export of goods post-Brexit.
returns, fixed asset classification, corporate Received updates on the continued gift cards, and UK store estate strategy.
Discussed the Companys continued strengthening of crisis management efforts to invest in the development and business recovery capability across of technical staff.
all retail and distribution operations.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 38 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED SIGNIFICANT ISSUES The Audit Committee has assessed aggregate values 514.1m charge and the future performance of the business are whether suitable accounting policies recent guidelines on the use of alternative board approved.
The Committee is satisfied have been adopted and whether performance measures issued by the that appropriate impairment of tangible and management has made appropriate European Securities and Markets Authority.
intangible assets has been recognised.
See note 5 on p89-90 See notes 5, 14 and 15 on p89-90 Throughout the year, the Finance team and p101-104 has worked to ensure that the business is transparent and provides the required PROPERTY MATTERS INCLUDING level of disclosure regarding significant INVENTORY VALUATION AND ASSET WRITE-OFFS, ONEROUS issues considered by the Committee in PROVISIONING LEASE CHARGES AND USEFUL relation to the financial statements, as well ECONOMIC LIVES as how these issues were addressed, while Inventory provisions include obsolete being mindful of matters that may be stock, net realisable value below cost and The Committee has considered the business-sensitive.
The Committee assessments made in relation to the has examined management papers accounting associated with the Groups This section outlines the main areas of outlining the judgements made regarding UK store estate strategy.
The Committee judgement that have been considered by provisioning for inventory balances and is received detailed reports from the Committee to ensure that appropriate satisfied that a sufficiently robust process management outlining the accounting rigour has been applied.
All accounting was followed to confirm quantities of treatment of the relevant charges including policies can be found in note 1 to the inventory and that net realisable of impairment, accelerated depreciation, strips financial statements.
Where further inventory exceeds its cost at year end.
and dilapidations, redundancy and onerous information is provided in the notes to lease costs including void periods.
The the financial statements, we have RETIREMENT BENEFITS Committee has reviewed the basis for the included the note reference.
key assumptions used in the estimation of The Committee has reviewed the actuarial Each of the areas of judgement has been charges most notably in relation to the assumptions such as discount rate, inflation identified as an area of focus and therefore costs associated with property exit sub-let rate, expected return of scheme assets and the Committee has also received detailed costs, the sale proceeds expected to be mortality, which determine the pension reporting from Deloitte.
recovered on exit, where relevant, and the cost and the UK defined benefit scheme cash flows to be generated by each CGU in valuation, and has concluded that they are PRESENTATION OF THE the period to closure.
The assumptions have been FINANCIAL STATEMENTS challenged management and is satisfied disclosed in the financial statements.
The that these are appropriate.
The Committee The Committee gave consideration to the Committee has considered the accounting is satisfied that appropriate costs and presentation of the financial statements for the annuity buy-ins as disclosed on associated provisions have been recognised and, in particular, the use of alternative page 83 and considers it to be appropriate.
in the current financial year.
The Committee performance measures and the has considered the controls findings raised presentation of adjusting items in See note 11 on p95-98 in the Independent Auditors Report on accordance with the Group accounting page 68 to 76. policy.
This policy states that adjustments are only made to reported profit before REVENUE RECOGNITION IN RELATION tax where income and charges are See notes 1, 5, 15 and 22 on p81-86, TO REFUNDS, GIFT CARDS AND p89-90, p103-104 and p111 significant in value and or nature.
The LOYALTY SCHEMES Committee received detailed reports from management outlining the judgements Revenue accruals for sales returns and applied in relation to the disclosure of IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL, BRANDS, deferred income in relation to loyalty TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS adjusting items.
In the current year, scheme redemptions and gift card management has included in this category: and credit voucher redemptions are The Committee has considered the the reduction in M&S Bank income for estimated based on historical returns assessments made in relation to the the impact of the M&S Bank provision for and redemptions.
The Committee has impairment of goodwill, brands, tangible financial product mis-selling: net costs considered the basis of these accruals, and intangible fixed assets including land associated with the implementation of along with the analysis of historical returns and buildings, store assets and software strategic programmes in relation to UK and redemption rates and has agreed with assets.
The Committee received detailed store estate, UK organisation, UK logistics, the judgements reached by management.
reports from management outlining the IT transformational change and the closure treatment of impairments, valuation of International owned businesses: SUPPLIER INCOME methodology, the basis for key assumptions impairments and write-off of the carrying e. g. discount rate and long-term growth The Committee is satisfied that this value of UK stores including associated rate and the key drivers of the cash flow continues to be monitored closely by onerous leases : charges arising in relation forecasts.
The Committee has challenged management and robust controls are in to changes to pay and pensions: potential management and is satisfied that these place to ensure appropriate recognition in claims legal settlements: and the net profit are appropriate.
The Committee has the correct period.
The financial statements on disposal of the Hong Kong retail also understood the sensitivity analysis include specific disclosures in relation to business.
This was an area of major focus for used by management in its review of the accounting policy and of the effect the Committee, which was cognisant of the impairments.
In addition, the business plans of supplier income on certain balance need to ensure external disclosures are detailing managements expectations of sheet accounts.
fulsome given the significance of the 39 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE At the request of the Board, the When forming its opinion, the Committee Are the key judgements referred to in the Committee has considered whether, reflected on the information it had received narrative reporting and the significant in its opinion, the 2018 Annual Report and its discussions throughout the year.
issues reported in this Audit Committee and Financial Statements are fair, In particular, the Committee considered: Report consistent with the disclosures balanced and understandable, and of key estimation uncertainties and whether they provide the information IS THE REPORT FAIR?
critical judgements set out in the necessary for shareholders to assess financial statements?
Is the whole story presented and has the Groups position and performance, any sensitive material been omitted How do the significant issues identified business model and strategy.
compare with the risks that Deloitte that should have been included?
The structure of the report continues plans to include in its report?
Is the reporting on the business to focus strongly on the key strategic performance in the narrative messages in the Strategic Report.
It was IS THE REPORT UNDERSTANDABLE?
reporting consistent with those therefore important for the Committee used for the financial reporting in Is there a clear and understandable to ensure that this emphasis did not dilute the financial statements?
the overall transparency in the disclosures made throughout the report, which we Are the key messages in the narrative Are the important messages highlighted know our stakeholders find useful, and that reflected in the financial reporting?
the messages presented by the business Are the KPIs disclosed at an appropriate Is the layout clear with good linkage are both clear and reflective of the level based on the financial reporting?
throughout in a manner that reflects Company as a whole.
The Committee received a full draft of IS THE REPORT BALANCED?
Feedback was provided by the CONCLUSION Is there a good level of consistency Committee, highlighting the areas it was felt between the narrative reporting in Following its review, the Committee would benefit from further clarity.
The draft the front and the financial reporting was of the opinion that the 2018 Annual report was then amended to incorporate in the back of the report, and does the Report and Financial Statements are this feedback ahead of final approval.
messaging presented within each representative of the year and present The Committee was provided with a list of remain consistent when one is read a fair, balanced and understandable the key messages included in the Annual independently of the other?
overview, providing the necessary Report, highlighting which were positive information for shareholders to assess Is the Annual Report properly a and which were reflective of the challenges the Groups position, performance, document for shareholders?
A supporting document was business model and strategy.
also provided, specifically addressing the Are the statutory and adjusted following listed points, highlighting where measures explained clearly with these could be evidenced within the report.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 40 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED EXTERNAL AUDITOR TENURE 2.
Chief Finance Officer and Director All non-audit work performed by Deloitte of Group Finance: Longer questionnaire was put to the Audit Committee for Deloitte was appointed by shareholders covering all areas of the audit process and consideration and approval, regardless of as the Groups statutory auditor in taking into account the questionnaires size.
Further details on non-audit services 2014 following a formal tender process.
completed by the Heads of Finance.
provided by Deloitte can be found in note 4 The lead audit partner, Ian Waller, has to the financial statements.
Audit Committee: A high-level set held the position for four years.
Following of questions with specific focus on The non-audit fees to audit fees ratio for the 2018 19 audit his fifth year as lead audit partner a new lead audit partner planning, execution, value, communication the financial year ended 31 March 2018 was and challenge.
The Committee was 0.11:1, compared with the previous years will be put in place.
The external audit provided with a summary of the Chief ratio of 0.16:1.
The majority of the 0.2m in contract will be put out to tender at Finance Officer and Director of Group non-audit fees paid in total to Deloitte least every ten years.
Finance responses and had access to during 2017 18 was incurred for assurance The Committee recommends that Deloitte copies of the completed management services provided during the year.
These be reappointed as the Companys statutory questionnaires sections 1 and 2 above comprised fees in respect of the Half Year auditor for the 2018 19 financial year.
We to assist with its own considerations.
review, turnover certificates, the annual believe the independence and objectivity of Euro Medium Term Note EMTN Feedback from each of the target groups the external auditor and the effectiveness programme renewal, reviews of quarterly was positive overall.
It was agreed that the of the audit process are safeguarded and trading statements and assurance services audit partners have a good understanding remain strong.
The Company has complied for overseas entities.
It is normal practice for with the Statutory Audit Services Order for of our business as well as our values and such assurance services to be provided by culture, with an increased awareness of the financial year under review.
property issues for which specialists within The FRCs Audit Quality Review AQR Deloitte have been leveraged.
Areas of No additional recurring or one-off non-audit team selected to review the audit of the focus for the year ahead will be on driving services were provided during the year.
Companys 2016 17 financial statements analysis and challenge around finance, risk Business Consulting Services BCS, as part of their 2017 annual inspection of management and internal controls findings.
part of BDO Bangladesh, have been audit firms.
The focus of the review and their Adding a further Director to the team has providing employee payroll services to reporting is on identifying areas where improvements are required rather than addressed previous issues with availability our Bangladesh regional office since 2008, and the team now appears to be well acting as a sub-contractor of Ceridian highlighting areas performed to or above resourced.
It was also widely agreed that a UK until March 2012 and subsequently the expected level.
The Chairman of the more critical lens was now being applied, under a payroll service agreement agreed Audit Committee received a full copy of the findings of the AQR team and has discussed with increased evidence of challenge in directly between M&S and BCS.
2018, Deloitte UK were informed of their these with Deloitte.
The findings have also Indian firms intention to acquire BCS been discussed by the Audit Committee.
NON-AUDIT FEES on 1 June 2018, at which point BCS Some matters were identified as requiring improvement and we have agreed an action would become subject to the global To safeguard the independence and independence restrictions for M&S which plan with Deloitte to ensure the matters objectivity of the external auditor, the are applied across the Deloitte network.
identified by the AQR have been addressed Committee has put in place a robust As a result, the payroll service will not be in the audit of the Companys 2017 18 auditor engagement policy which it financial statements.
The policy is disclosed immediately reported to M&S and the on marksandspencer.
Bangladesh regional office have confirmed EFFECTIVENESS that these services will be transitioned to a The Committee is satisfied that the The effectiveness of our external auditor Company was compliant during the year new provider before 1 June 2018. is assessed in accordance with a process with both the UK Corporate Governance agreed by the Audit Committee, which Code and the FRCs Ethical and Auditing involves gathering information through a Standards in respect of the scope and series of questionnaires tailored to the maximum permitted level of fees incurred following target groups: for non-audit services provided by Deloitte.
Where non-audit work is performed by 1.
Heads of Finance: Food, Clothing & Home and International: Short Deloitte, both the Company and Deloitte ensure adherence to robust processes to questionnaire focusing on the audit team, prevent the objectivity and independence planning, challenge and interaction with of the auditor from being compromised.
41 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 ASSURANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL ENVIRONMENT The Board assumes ultimate 2.
Management updates Focusing GOVERNANCE responsibility for the effective primarily on the key risks identified in the The Group was compliant throughout the management of risk across the Group, Group Risk Profile, management provide year with the provisions of the UK Corporate determining its risk appetite as well updates to the Committee on how these Governance Code relating to internal as ensuring that each business area risks are managed in individual business controls and the FRCs revised Guidance implements appropriate internal controls.
These updates are complemented on Audit Committees and Guidance on Risk The Groups risk management systems by independent reviews conducted by Management, Internal Control and Related are designed to manage rather than Internal Audit.
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve 3.
Functional assurance Responsible for business objectives, and can only provide The Committee has considered the controls maintaining control over critical areas of reasonable and not absolute assurance findings raised in the Independent Auditors risk, the processes and controls of these against material misstatement or loss.
No other significant functions are tested by Internal Audit & Risk failings or weaknesses were identified during relevant audits.
during the Committees review in respect See p22-24 of the Strategic Report for 4.
Committees Relevant committees within of the year ended 31 March 2018 and up to more information on our material risks the organisation provide regular updates to the date of this Annual Report.
the Audit Committee, including the Plan A Where the Committee has identified areas Committee, which also reports directly to See p20-21 for further information on our requiring improvement, processes are in the Board.
risk management processes place to ensure that the necessary action is taken and that progress is monitored.
The key features of the Groups internal Further details of these processes can control and risk management systems be found within our detailed Corporate that ensure the accuracy and reliability of Governance Statement which is available to financial reporting include clearly defined view in the Corporate Governance section lines of accountability and delegation of our website.
of authority, policies and procedures that cover financial planning and reporting, preparing consolidated accounts, capital expenditure, project governance and INTERNAL ASSURANCE FRAMEWORK information security, and the Groups Code of Ethics and Behaviours.
Source of information Frequency nature of reporting Internal Audit Plan Formal updates presented Internal SOURCES OF ASSURANCE to the Committee at Audit Regular reports against Plan each meeting The Board has delegated responsibility Follow up of remediation Updates to Audit for reviewing the effectiveness of the Updates on fraud, whistleblowing Committee Chairman Groups systems of internal control to the and other irregularity Audit Committee.
This covers all material Papers submitted on a range of Formal updates presented controls including financial, operational and issues including: to the Committee annually Management compliance controls and risk management and as appropriate updates Information Security systems.
The Committee is supported by Bribery a number of sources of internal assurance Code of Ethics and Behaviours from within the Group in order to complete AUDIT GSCOP Grocery Supplier COMMITTEE these reviews, in particular: Code of Practice 1.
Internal Audit The Groups primary Functional audit activities Updates provided to the Functional source of internal assurance remains undertaken, including: Committee as requested assurance or appropriate delivery of the Internal Audit Plan, which Food Safety & Integrity is structured to align with the Groups Ethical Audits strategic priorities and key risks and is Trading Safely & Legally developed by Internal Audit with input from Fire, Health & Safety Committee Direct reporting lines management.
Recommendations from Committees to the Committee, with Plan A Committee Internal Audit are communicated to the annual updates from relevant business area for implementation Business Continuity Committee the relevant executive of appropriate corrective measures, with Note: also reports directly to the Board.
results reported to the Committee.
During the year, the Internal Audit function was subject to an effectiveness review by the Committee to ensure appropriate ways of working.
Resultant actions continue to be closely monitored by the Committee.
The work completed by Internal Audit during the year has been directed towards key areas including information and data security and cross-business risks mitigation such as management of third parties.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
