Corporate governance Nomination Committee Report Dear Shareholder A well-managed I am pleased to report to shareholders on the main activities of the Committee and transition how it has performed its duties during 2018.
I chair Nomination Committee meetings, 2018 highlights but would not do so where the Committee Successful recruitment of new Chair to succeed was dealing with my own re-appointment Andrew Allner or replacement as Chair.
Formal succession plan adopted and tested against the Groups strategic plans for the next 5 years The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of Terms of Reference reviewed and updated to reflect the Board evaluation process in 2018 described on page 43.
2018 Code The Committee Terms of Reference were reviewed and updated to take account of the UK Corporate Governance Code published 2019 priorities in July 2018 the 2018 Code, which applies from 1 January 2019.
Refresh Board membership in line with strategic needs During the year the Nomination Committee held 2 scheduled through recruitment of an additional Non-Executive meetings.
Additional meetings and discussions in connection with Director to succeed Tim Pile succession planning and recruitment were held by telephone.
As both meetings were held before my appointment, I did not attend.
Maintain policies for recruitment and succession Janet Ashdown was conflicted from attending these meetings.
planning that are designed to reinforce the Companys desired values and culture Recruitment and succession planning The Committee maintains a formal succession plan and in accordance with this plan the Boards membership is reviewed at least on an annual basis.
The policy of the Committee is that Members and attendance Meetings recruitment and succession should reflect the changing strategic needs and objectives of the Group, both now and into the future, Vanda Murray OBE Chair and that its composition should contribute to the Companys Janet Ashdown SID desired values and culture.
In this context, we are wholly committed to achieving diversity in its widest sense in the Graham Prothero composition of the Board and senior management.
The Tim Pile Committees Terms of Reference incorporate the 2018 Code principles in promoting diversity of gender, social and ethnic Andrew Allner was a member of the Nomination Committee backgrounds, and cognitive and personal strengths in the selection until 9 May 2018 but did not attend any meetings as they of candidates.
Our Nomination Policy sets out how these principles related to his successors appointment.
will be applied for Board appointments.
Link to TOR and Nomination Policy www.
co. uk investor corporate-governance Our Board composition supports our strategy.
Marshalls plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance The Nomination Committees main task during 2018 was Before any Director is proposed for re-election, or has their completing the recruitment of a Chair to replace Andrew Allner, appointment renewed, the Committee considers the outcome who retired as Chairman in May 2018.
This process was led by of the reviews to ensure that the Director continues to be effective Tim Pile supported by The Inzito Partnership, an independent and demonstrates commitment to the role.
The Chair provides search consultant not otherwise connected with the Company.
an explanation to shareholders as to why the Director should be The selection criteria were objective and detailed and took re-elected and confirming that a formal performance evaluation account of the Committees policies and recruitment philosophy.
has taken place when the resolution to re-elect is circulated.
I was pleased to be invited to join the Board in early 2018, and It is the Companys policy that Executive Directors can only my appointment was confirmed on Andrew Allners retirement hold 1 external company non-executive directorship.
Voluntary following the Companys Annual General Meeting in May 2018. service on the governing board of a social, trade or charitable On joining, I received full induction training and have followed organisation is also permitted.
Details of the external appointments a programme of site visits to familiarise myself with the business.
held by the Executive Directors are included in the biographical I have also met many of our major shareholders and will continue notes on pages 40 and 41. to seek opportunities to develop the shareholder dialogue.
I am grateful to Andrew Allner and my fellow Directors for their My other commitments were reported on joining the Companys welcoming support during the handover.
Board, and I retired from the Board of Fenner plc in May 2018.
There have been no other changes to my other commitments Non-Executive Directors, including the Chair, are appointed for during the year, which are listed on page 40. specific terms, subject to re-appointment and the Companys Articles of Association and subject to the Companies Act provisions Governance relating to the removal of a Director.
Our framework for succession The Committee has acted throughout 2018 in accordance with planning is designed to phase future recruitment so that the the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued in composition of the Board can be refreshed whilst ensuring continuity.
April 2016 the 2016 Code in the application of its succession With this in mind, it is proposed to extend Tim Piles appointment plans and policies.
In addition, the Committee has assessed its which would normally expire in October 2019 to May 2020, to effectiveness during 2018 against both the 2016 Code and the give sufficient time for the Committee to complete the recruitment 2018 Code, and measured its performance against the of a successor and to provide continuity for a further period while governance principles of both Codes as part of the annual they familiarise themselves with the business.
The Committee Board evaluation process.
The evaluation concluded that the considers that Tim Pile remains a highly effective member of the Committee had been successful in securing a good mix of skills Board who brings valuable insights, skills and experience and and experience in the composition of the current Board.
The whose independence of thought and judgement is not at risk framework for the refreshment of skills, experience and diversity of being affected by the extension of his term of appointment to support the needs of the business and its stakeholders in the for an additional 7 months.
future is transparent and well understood.
The Committee also keeps under review the leadership needs of the Company and works with management to ensure that Vanda Murray OBE the Company has strong succession planning processes below Chair of the Nomination Committee Board level for the development of internal talent and potential 14 March 2019 succession to the Board that are fully reflective of our policy principles of diversity, gender equality, objectivity and fairness.
Having established a clear policy commitment, the Board will be developing its work to support and monitor progress against the Groups HR diversity and inclusivity objectives.
Evaluation and re-appointment of Directors Each Non-Executive Director was, on joining, provided with a detailed description of his or her role and responsibilities, and received a detailed business induction.
All Directors have an annual one-to-one development review meeting with the Chair to appraise performance, set personal objectives and discuss any development and training needs to enable them to continue to add value to the Board.
These one-to-one assessments were carried out in 2018 by Andrew Allner, and similar one-to-one appraisal meetings are scheduled for early 2019 between the Chair and individual Directors.
Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 49
