Corporate governance Audit Committee Report Dear Shareholder Planning for In this report I set out the Audit Committees objectives and responsibilities and also the future explain the activities undertaken during 2018 and the priorities for 2019.
This report, which 2018 highlights is part of the Directors Report, explains how Review of the significant financial judgements during the year the Audit Committee has discharged its and the preparation of the 2018 Financial Statements.
Areas of focus in 2018 were inventory provisioning, accounting for the responsibilities during 2018. acquisition of Edenhall and revisions to provisional fair value adjustments on the CPM acquisition in 2017 How the Audit Committee operates Provided assurance to the Board on whether the 2018 During the year, the Audit Committee held 4 formal meetings and Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, there were also meetings between the Audit Committee Chair, the is fair, balanced and understandable and reviewed the Group Finance Director and the external auditor.
forecasts and sensitivity analyses underlying the Groups The Committee meets both the external and internal auditor going concern assessment and Viability Statement independently of management, giving the opportunity to ensure Detailed review of the outcomes of cyber security audits that it has full visibility of matters that have been the subject of undertaken by KPMG LLP during 2018 in order to improve particular discussions.
The Committee also reports to the Board in cyber security controls and to ensure that IT controls relation to the going concern statement and the Viability Statement remain appropriate and robust and whether the accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
Commissioned internal audit reviews by KPMG LLP in relation Effectiveness of the Audit Committee to inventory, treasury management, supplier payments and During the year an internal evaluation of the Committees expenses, and the integration of CPM.
Update reviews were performance was undertaken as part of the Board evaluation undertaken in relation to the Groups General Data Protection process.
This is explained in detail in the Corporate Governance Regulation GDPR and anti-bribery compliance, controls Statement on pages 42 to 47.
The review found the Committee to and procedures.
In total, 8 individual internal audit reviews be effective and well run.
No areas of concern were highlighted were undertaken during this review.
The Chair of the Committee is a Chartered Accountant and the 2019 priorities Board is satisfied he is independent and has recent and relevant Continue to oversee the significant financial judgements financial experience as required by the Code.
Other members also made by management have relevant sectoral and financial experience.
Their biographical details are on pages 40 and 41. Review the delivery of the external and internal audit, to monitor progress and to monitor changes in external regulatory environment and best practice Members and attendance Meetings Assess and improve cyber security controls and ensure that Janet Ashdown IT controls remain appropriate and robust.
This will involve further cyber security audits Graham Prothero Review the findings from internal audit reviews undertaken Tim Pile by KPMG LLP and monitor the implementation of recommendations made in these reports and the status Terms of Reference of progress made against previously agreed actions.
co. uk investor corporate-governance are a further 8 individual internal audit reviews planned for 2019, including procurement, rebates, logistics and fleet management, health and safety processes and controls and employee codes of conduct, including specific focus on awareness and monitoring of whistleblowing The Committee continues to ensure the Group has an effective system of risk management and internal control.
Marshalls plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Financial reporting External audit, auditor independence and objectivity The Committee has reviewed, with both management and the The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for making a external auditor, where the more significant judgements have recommendation to the Board on the appointment, re-appointment been made and the quality and appropriateness of the Groups and removal of the external auditor.
It keeps under review the accounting policies.
The Committee has also reviewed the scope and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and the assumptions and provided assurance to support the long-term independence and objectivity of the auditor.
The Groups current Viability Statement.
auditor, Deloitte LLP, has processes in place designed to maintain independence, including regular rotation of the audit partner.
IFRS 16 has been adopted from 1 January 2019 and has required Deloitte LLP was appointed in May 2015 as statutory auditor all leases to be recognised on the Groups balance sheet.
The following a tender process, and Christopher Robertson has acted Group established a project team during 2017 to prepare for as audit partner since the appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditor transition and to assess the impact of the new standard.
The Company has complied with the Competition systems and operating procedures have been introduced and and Markets Authoritys Order for the financial year under review.
a major exercise has been undertaken during 2018 to obtain all the necessary data requirements.
The Committee has been The Committee has adopted policies to safeguard the monitoring the progress of the project during the last year and independence of its external auditor.
It is the policy of the Company has been assessing the financial impact.
Key priorities for the that the external auditor should not provide non-audit services Committee have been system selection, the integration of other than those of a fide minimis value of less than 5,000 in authorisation and data processing procedures and controls aggregate in any financial year.
Any other non-audit services within the Groups core systems and the adequacy of controls require the specific approval of the Committee.
Where the Committee over data accuracy and completeness.
Further information about perceives that the independence of the auditor could be compromised, the financial impact for the Group is included in Note 1 on page 91. the work will not be awarded to the external auditor.
Details of amounts paid to the external auditor for audit and non-audit Risk management and internal control services in 2018 are analysed in Note 3 on page 101.
"Other than The Board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the a specific ""cyber review"" which was approved by the Committee system of risk management and control, and for ensuring that and the auditors half yearly review of Marshalls plc, no amounts it continues to meet the necessary standards."
The systems and were paid for non-audit work.
The aggregate amount paid to controls are also subject to a regular rolling programme of review, other firms of accountants for non-audit services in the same the results of which are periodically reported to the Board.
The Groups Risk Committee, comprising the Executive Directors Internal audit and members of senior management with Executive accountability The Committee has responsibility for monitoring the effectiveness for particular risk areas, meets at least twice yearly to identify, of internal controls and reviews these on an ongoing basis.
evaluate and consider steps to manage any material risks which The internal audit process is carried out by KPMG LLP, appointed might threaten the Groups business objectives.
by the Committee in 2015 to act as internal auditor for the Group.
The annual internal audit programme uses a risk-based assessment The Group has an established internal control framework, which that takes into account the Risk Register and management input.
governs the internal financial reporting process of the business, This risk-based assessment is reviewed and approved by the Audit with checks and balances built into the system that are designed Committee, and the process is overseen by the Group Finance to reduce the likelihood of material error or fraud.
KPMG LLP is independent from the Companys external Within the internal control framework, policies and procedures are auditor and has no other connection with the Group.
reviewed on an ongoing basis.
The Group has a formal process The Company operates a self-certification internal control for the ongoing assessment of operational financial and IT-based process to support the internal audit process throughout the year.
controls, the objective being to gain assurance that the control The internal audit programme includes both regular audit checks framework is complete and that individual controls are operating and assignments to look at areas of critical importance.
A rolling programme of independent internal checking assignments form part of a much wider programme of independently is undertaken focusing on key controls, reconciliations and access audited aspects of the Groups operations.
Any areas of weakness to, and changing permissions on, base data.
that are identified through this process prompt a detailed action The Audit Committee has carried out an assessment of the plan and a follow-up audit check to establish that actions have effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal been completed.
Instances of fraud or attempted fraud if any control system, covering all material controls including its and preventative action plans are also reported to the Committee financial, operational and compliance controls and risk and recorded in a fraud register.
management systems for the year to 31 December 2018.
During the year, in addition to the regular internal control process, The Group maintains a written Risk Register that identifies the KPMG LLP conducted specific reviews on cyber security risk, Groups key risk areas, the probability of these risks occurring inventory, treasury management, supplier payments and expenses and the impact they would have on the Group.
Each risk has a and the integration procedures, processes and controls following designated control owner and, against each risk, the effectiveness the acquisition of CPM.
of the controls that exist to manage and, where possible, minimise The Committee is pleased to report that, although the wider or eliminate those risks are also listed.
The Risk Register process risk of cyber fraud continues to increase, no significant failings identifies areas for action and independent audit assessment in or weaknesses were identified during the year.
There were no order to test the effectiveness of the Groups risk control systems.
incidences of fraud that significantly affected the Groups business Information relating to the management of risks and any changes during 2018.
A rolling programme of cyber security awareness to the assessment of key risks is regularly reported to the Board, training is undertaken and external presentations were made and the Risk Register is updated to reflect changes.
To the extent to selected groups of employees by specialists from the that any failings or weaknesses are identified during the review Groups banking partners.
process, appropriate measures are taken to remedy these.
The key risks affecting the Group, how they relate to strategy and how they changed during the year, together with a description of the controls and mitigation associated with such risks, are highlighted in the Strategic Review on pages 23 to 27.
Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51 Corporate governance Audit Committee Report continued Significant issues related to the Effectiveness of the external audit An annual review of external audit effectiveness was Financial Statements undertaken by the Committee in 2018.
The conclusion of the When reviewing the annual and half yearly results, the review was that the external auditor had conducted a Committee exercises its judgement in relation to matters comprehensive, appropriate and effective audit.
Communication, drawn to its attention by the Group Finance Director from the at all levels, had been open and constructive and areas where internal audit function, the Risk Committee and the Groups the external auditor could work more effectively, in respect of external auditor.
The significant areas considered by the each phase of the audit, were identified.
Committee for 2018 are summarised below.
In each case the Committee considered the findings of the external auditor and concurred with the assessments and conclusions made by management: Effectiveness of the internal audit An annual review of internal audit effectiveness and of the The risk of management override of controls performance of KPMG LLP as independent internal auditor managements assessment of the control framework was undertaken by the Committee in 2018. including authorisation controls and segregation of duties.
The Committee considered those areas where The conclusion was very positive and was that the current management applies judgement in determining the internal audit process continues to be an efficient and appropriate accounting and discussed this with the effective means of managing the internal audit function.
The external auditor presented its findings Committee has considered, with KPMG LLP, how this process and its use of data analytics.
can be developed further and further improvements have been reflected in the 2019 plan.
Inventory provisioning managements assessment of the appropriate level of provisioning against inventory obsolescence.
The gross levels of finished goods inventory held and the provisions recorded against obsolescence and Whistleblowing and bribery in respect of items that might be sold at lower than cost The Audit Committee monitors on behalf of the Board any reported were reviewed by the Committee.
The review included incidents under the Serious Concerns Policy our Whistleblowing meetings with operational management to discuss the Policy, which is available to all employees.
This policy is displayed inventory provisioning strategy.
The external auditor on operating site noticeboards and on the Companys intranet, presented its findings with regard to the audit testing and sets out the procedure for employees to raise legitimate concerns over inventory valuation.
about any wrongdoing without fear of criticism, discrimination or reprisal.
The Committee is satisfied that arrangements are in place Revisions to the provisional fair value adjustments on the for the proportionate and independent investigation of such CPM acquisition in 2017 managements assessment of the matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
No matters of process for identification and revised valuation of fair value serious concern were raised under the policy during 2018. adjustments.
The Committee considered those areas where management judgement was applied.
The external auditor The Company is committed to a zero-tolerance position with tested significant revisions to provisional fair value regard to bribery, made explicit through its Anti-Bribery Code adjustments by reference to supporting evidence.
and supporting guidance on hospitality and gifts.
The policy and procedures are published on the Company website and displayed Acquisition accounting in relation to the acquisition of on operating site noticeboards.
Online training is available to all Edenhall managements assessment of the appropriate employees to reinforce the Anti-Bribery Code and procedures, accounting treatment and the exercise of judgement in the and classroom-based training sessions are also held throughout identification and valuation of intangible assets within the the year.
During 2018, CPM employees received their training as acquired business.
The Committee considered those areas a key part of their integration.
All employees in decision-making where management applied judgement in determining the roles with potential exposure to bribery risk have completed the appropriate accounting treatment and discussed this training and must self-certify annually that they continue to with the external auditor.
The external auditor presented comply.
There is a maintained register of employee interests and its findings with regards to the audit work undertaken a gifts and hospitality record.
The internal audit review programme to assess this area.
included an update review of the adequacy of the Companys procedures in relation to anti-bribery controls and procedures.
The Audit Committee Report has been approved by the Board Fair, balanced and understandable and signed on its behalf by: The Committee has considered whether, in its opinion, the 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements is, taken as a whole, fair, balanced and understandable, and whether Graham Prothero it provides the information necessary for shareholders to Chair of the Audit Committee assess the Groups position, performance, business model 14 March 2019 and strategy.
In making this assessment, the Committee has advised the Board in relation to the statement required by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committee has concluded that the disclosures, and the process and controls underlying their production, were appropriate to enable it to determine that the 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements is fair, balanced and understandable.
Marshalls plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2018
