Corporate governance Corporate Governance Statement Dear Shareholder A clear vision I am pleased to introduce our Corporate Governance Statement, which explains how of purpose Marshalls governance framework supports the principles of integrity, strong ethical and strategy, values and professionalism integral to our business.
The Board recognises that we are aligned with an accountable to shareholders for good corporate governance, and this report, together with the Reports of the Audit, inclusive culture Nomination and Remuneration Committees, seeks to demonstrate our commitment to high standards of governance that are 2018 highlights recognised and understood by all.
Recruitment and induction of new Chair Successful integration of acquisition with positive profit impact Leadership, governance and purpose Good governance depends on good and effective leadership Created framework for greater employee and a healthy corporate culture, supported by robust systems and stakeholder engagement and processes and a good understanding of risk and risk appetite.
Strengthened controls to increase resilience We aim to stay abreast of developments in good governance and practice, and have well-developed plans to ensure that we will meet the standards of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2019 priorities dated July 2018 by the end of 2019.
This includes making sure Setting strategic direction and vision over the next 3 5 our purpose, vision and values are clearly articulated, and that years for long-term sustainable success we have in place effective channels of engagement with our Focus on contribution to wider society and development workforce, shareholders and stakeholders.
The Board is of an inclusive and positive corporate culture involved in setting measurable objectives to promote a healthy corporate culture that is aligned with strategy and delivers on Embedding policies that support our core values and are our commitment to The Marshalls Way and the principles of aligned with strategic priorities sustainability and trust that are the hallmark of our business.
Maintaining resilience while pursuing opportunity Nomination Committee Report on pages 48 - 49 Statement of Directors Responsibilities on pages 75 - 76 Audit Committee Report on pages 50 - 52 Remuneration Committee Report on pages 53 - 72 Our aim is to create strong foundations for sustainable future success, delivering value for our employees, shareholders and wider society.
Marshalls plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance The reports of our Board Committees show how our policies and processes have been applied and developed during the year in a Board evaluation process way that remains consistent with our values and strategy, focusing on engagement, operational improvement, and reward and During the year an internal incentive structures, ensuring progress can be measured and monitored appropriately and promoting a business that is resilient, evaluation was conducted.
responsible and alive to opportunity.
Board evaluation Stage 1 During 2018, the Board conducted an evaluation of its July August 2018 performance led by the Chair and Company Secretary.
This took The Chair and Company Secretary prepared the evaluation into account the 2018 Code principles as well as the 2016 Code in questionnaire based on both 2016 and 2018 Code principles its review of composition, effectiveness, skills and diversity.
The Nomination Committee Report comments on the priorities for 2018 following the 2017 evaluation and the extent to which they were Stage 2 achieved.
The Board continues to have a good balance of skills and experience, and works very effectively incorporating robust September 2018 challenge with a high degree of mutual respect and trust.
The Questionnaire circulated to Board members Boards gender balance has improved.
The outcomes of the 2018 evaluation were discussed and an action plan has been identified for the coming year.
The Board expects to use an external Stage 3 facilitator for its 2019 evaluation.
September October 2018 Detailed one-to-one interviews between the Company Diversity Secretary and each Board member, using the questionnaire Marshalls policy is that no employee or job applicant will be as the framework treated less favourably on the grounds of race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, gender including gender reassignment, pregnancy, marital or civil partner status, sexual orientation, Stage 4 religious belief, age or disability, or on any other grounds which December 2018 cannot be justified on job related terms.
We do not discriminate Consolidated questionnaire results reviewed by the Chair on grounds of age, gender or background, and we are committed and Company Secretary, and the conclusions tabled to the to equality within our business and in our dealings with other Board: the Board reviewed themes and progress against organisations.
These policy principles are supported by our 2018 objectives Code of Conduct.
The Board is committed to achieving diversity in the widest sense.
We ensure that briefs to external recruitment agencies and search Stage 5 consultants are aimed at improving diversity ratios and balance December 2018 January 2019 both at Board and senior management level and more widely Board actions to improve Board effectiveness agreed, within the business, while also reflecting the changing strategic based on the key conclusions of the evaluation process needs of the Group.
We will continue to support positively opportunities for talented individuals regardless of gender, ethnicity, age or social background.
Stage 6 As a Board, we are fully engaged with the initiatives within the January 2019 business in this area, although we recognise that there is more The Senior Independent Director met Non-Executive work to do to achieve true gender balance and greater diversity.
Directors to conduct a separate evaluation of the The Remuneration Report contains details of our gender ratios Chairs performance and gender pay gap data, and this, together with the Nomination Committee Report, explains in more detail how we implement our policy and how we aim to achieve improvements.
The UK Corporate Governance Code Responsibility This Corporate Governance Statement has been prepared in In the opinion of the Directors these Annual Financial Statements accordance with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Code dated April 2016 the 2016 Code, but also recognises the Groups position and prospects and provide the information recommendations in the new UK Corporate Governance Code necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and dated July 2018 which applies to the financial year 2019.
The performance, business model and strategy.
The respective Board has carried out a review of how the 2016 Code principles responsibilities of the Directors and the Auditor in connection have been applied, and considers that the Company has with the Financial Statements are explained in the Statement complied with the relevant provisions of the 2016 Code throughout of Directors Responsibilities and the Auditors Report.
the year in all material respects.
The Company has also made good progress towards implementing the provisions of the 2018 Code and is supportive of the changes that will result from the application of that new Code.
Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 43 Corporate governance Corporate Governance Statement continued The Board delegates specific responsibilities to the Audit, Role of the Board Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The Audit The Board currently comprises an Independent Non-Executive Committee Report provides details of the Boards application Chair, 3 Non-Executive Directors and 2 Executive Directors.
Their of Code principles in relation to financial reporting, audit, risk biographical details are on pages 40 and 41. management and internal controls.
The Nomination Committee There is a written Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board, Report reports how Board and senior management composition, reviewed annually, which is available on the website succession and development are managed to reflect Code www.
The reserved matters include: principles.
The Remuneration Report explains how the Groups Remuneration Policy has been implemented, and shows Directors remuneration for 2018.
The Remuneration Report also provides gender pay and balance information.
Ad hoc Board Committees are established for particular purposes: for example, during 2018 Board Committees were established to approve the allotment of shares under the 2015 Sharesave scheme, Culture, to approve certain acquisition transactions and to approve Overall strategy, governance and business plans remuneration preliminary and half yearly results.
and budgets matters Day-to-day management and the implementation of strategies agreed by the Board are delegated to the Executive Directors.
The Any changes to Groups reporting structure below Board level is designed so that Approving major capital, constitution transactions decisions are made by the most appropriate people in a timely or corporate structure manner.
Management teams report to members of the Executive Committee 9 senior managers, including the 2 Executive Directors.
Board Approval The Executive Directors and other Executive Committee members appointments, of accounts, succession financial give regular briefings to the Board in relation to business issues and planning and reporting, internal developments.
Clear and measurable KPIs are in place to enable Terms of controls and Reference key policies the Board to monitor progress.
These policies and procedures enable the Board to make informed decisions on key issues 17 17 16 17 17 16 including strategy and risk management.
Board meetings and attendance Remuneration Nomination Briefing Key Present Absent Board Audit Committee Committee Committee topics 2018 Andrew Allner Non-Executive Health, safety and environment Vanda Murray OBE Non-Executive Emerging businesses Janet Ashdown Non-Executive Sales and service delivery Market trends Jack Clarke Cyber security and innovation Acquisition integration updates Martyn Coffey Manufacturing operations Graham Prothero Non-Executive HR strategy Tim Pile Non-Executive The Chief Executive and the Finance Director normally attend Audit Committee meetings, and the Non-Executive Directors also meet the Auditor in private.
The Chief Executive attends Remuneration Committee meetings by invitation.
The Company Secretary attends Board Committee meetings as Secretary.
Board members also participate in site visits, training sessions and events such as the Groups annual management conference.
Andrew Allner attended all scheduled meetings prior to his retirement except for Nomination Committee meetings relating to the appointment of his successor.
Janet Ashdown was conflicted and could not attend these Nomination Committee meetings.
Vanda Murray attended all scheduled meetings following her appointment.
Interaction between Board and management bodies Audit Committee Board Nomination Group corporate support Committee Remuneration Executive Committee Directors Operational and functional management Executive Chair, SID and CEO Terms of Reference www.
co. uk investor corporate-governance Committee Committee Terms of Reference www.
co. uk investor corporate-governance Marshalls plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Culture and engagement There has been good progress in defining our desired culture Roles and division of and identifying the key actions designed to promote and embed The Marshalls Way, with the Board being involved in setting responsibilities objectives and reviewing feedback.
Janet Ashdown is the Director There is a clear division of responsibilities between the designated to act as Board representative in relation to our Chair and the Chief Executive, each of whom has annually workforce engagement programme.
The Group has developed reviewed written Terms of Reference.
a framework to improve the way in which employee views are communicated to the Board, how employees engage with values and culture, and how we align strategy with our workforce development The Chair leads the Board and is responsible for its overall and reward policies, which the Board expects to review and monitor effectiveness, ensuring adequate time is available for throughout the year using agreed KPIs.
On joining, the Chair met discussion of all agenda items, in particular strategic issues, major shareholders to canvas views on governance and performance promoting openness and debate, ensuring all Directors, and will continue to seek opportunities to engage with shareholders.
particularly the Non-Executive Directors, are able to During 2018 the Group also engaged with other stakeholders such contribute, and facilitating a constructive relationship as customers and suppliers through its in-depth customer between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
experience review and ethical supply chain initiatives.
Conflicts of interest The Board has adopted procedures for the identification, The Chief Executive has responsibility for all operational authorisation where appropriate and monitoring of situations matters which include the implementation of strategy and which may give rise to a conflict of interest.
Existing situations policies approved by the Board.
The Senior Independent are recorded in a Conflicts Register, reviewed by the Nomination Director provides a sounding board for the Chair and Committee at least annually.
Currently, the only situations also acts as an intermediary for other Directors authorised are the holding by Directors of directorships or similar and shareholders.
offices with companies or organisations not connected with the Company where the Board has not identified any actual conflict of interest.
The Board has reviewed the procedures and is satisfied The Chair and other Non-Executive Directors were that they are operating effectively.
independent on appointment, and the Board has determined each of the Non-Executive Directors to be Board composition, commitment and election independent in character and judgement in accordance of Directors with principle B.
1.1 of the 2016 Code and Section 2 Provision The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board 10 of the 2018 Code.
At least once a year the Chair meets appointments and makes recommendations to the Board.
the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors We believe our Board is well balanced with an appropriate being present.
The Non-Executive Directors also meet combination of skills, experience and knowledge.
The process for annually without the Chair to appraise the appointments, evaluation of the Board and individual Directors, Chairs performance.
succession planning and diversity is commented on further in the Nomination Committee Report.
Any concerns raised by Directors about the running of the On appointment, the expected time commitment for Board Company or a proposed action would be recorded in the members is made clear.
The Chair and other Non-Executive Board minutes.
If a Non-Executive Director did have any Directors disclosed their other commitments prior to appointment such concerns on resignation the Chair would invite that and agreed to allocate sufficient time to the Company to Director to provide a written statement for circulation discharge their duties effectively and ensure that these other to the Board.
commitments do not affect their contribution.
The current commitments of the Chair and other Directors are shown on pages 40 and 41.
The Companys Articles of Association contain powers of removal, appointment, election and re-election of Directors and provide that at least one-third of the Board must retire at each Annual General Meeting and each Director must retire by rotation every 3 years.
In practice, all Non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors stand for re-election at every Annual General Meeting, and all current Directors will stand for re-election or election at the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
The Directors biographical details on pages 40 and 41 show their term of appointment and length of service on the Board.
Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 45 Corporate governance Corporate Governance Statement continued Board induction, development and support There is a full formal induction programme for new Directors.
New Directors receive an induction pack incorporating the Companys constitutional and governance documents, Group policies and We maintain an open other key information.
Induction training to familiarise Directors with the virtual boardroom resource and other Group systems and regular dialogue and programmes is also provided.
On joining, there is a programme of site visits at which the new Director meets sitebased staff, including the Executive Committee and other senior with shareholders and managers.
All Non-Executive Directors are offered training as part of the Groups health and safety programme.
Other tailored training may be arranged, for example to update knowledge of stakeholders.
developments in regulatory compliance and Director responsibilities.
A new Director will meet the Chair and other Non-Executive Directors in one-on-one sessions: they will have At each regular Board meeting the monthly financial results are meetings with key management, and they are also expected to reviewed, taking account of performance indicators and the avail themselves of opportunities to meet external advisers and detailed annual business plan and budget.
The Board also considers shareholders to gain a full understanding of the business.
forward trends and performance against other key indicators, Directors attend external courses and seminars as appropriate including areas where performance departs from forecasts, and to maintain and develop their Board competencies.
The Board reviews medium and long-term meeting programme includes a range of topics of relevance to strategy on a regular basis and meets at least annually with the the business, with opportunities for in-depth questioning and Executive Committee to review strategy.
Details of senior management presentations during senior management meet and present to the Board regularly 2018 are on page 44.
Separate meetings between Non-Executive on current business and strategic issues.
Directors and senior management on matters of particular interest In this way, the Board assesses the prospects of the Group using are arranged: for example, Janet Ashdown and the Group HR all the information at its disposal, and considering historical Director held meetings in relation to employee engagement and performance, forecast performance for the current year and Tim Pile provided expertise in relation to Group digital marketing longer-term forecasts over the 3-year business planning cycle strategy.
Training needs are identified through the Board as appropriate.
In approving these accounts the Board has evaluation process and through individual one-to-one reviews considered these matters in detail in order to be able to give the between the Directors and the Chair.
The Board has adopted the going Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company concern basis in preparing these Financial Statements and has a Secretary and may rely on their being impartial and independent.
reasonable expectation that the Group is able to continue in The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due for at least the procedures are complied with and, through the Chair, advises the next 12 months.
Board on corporate governance matters.
The appointment or removal Risk management and internal control of the Company Secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
The Board has responsibility for determining the nature and extent There is an approved procedure for all Directors to take independent of the principal risks the Company is willing to take to achieve its professional advice at the Companys expense.
Board Committees strategic objectives, and for the Groups internal control framework.
have sufficient resources to undertake their duties, and may appoint The Board has a well-established procedure to identify, monitor external advisers when they deem it appropriate.
and manage risk, and has carried out reviews of the Groups risk management and internal control systems and the effectiveness Indemnities and insurance of all material controls, including financial, operational and The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance compliance controls.
The Strategic Report comments in detail to cover legal proceedings against Directors and Officers acting pages 23 to 27 on the principal risks facing the Group, in in that capacity.
The Group has also granted indemnities to its particular those that would threaten our business model, future Directors to the extent permitted by law which are qualifying third performance, solvency or liquidity and the measures in place to party indemnities within the meaning of Section 236 of the mitigate them.
The Board has conducted a rigorous assessment Companies Act 2006, and these remained in force during the of these risks, particularly operational risks that might affect the year in relation to certain losses and liabilities that the Directors Groups viability.
The Boards risk review also incorporates some may incur to third parties in the course of action as Directors or stress testing, by envisaging scenarios that might arise during the employees of the Company, any subsidiary or associated financial year and or the planning cycle, and considering, with company, or as a Director of the pension scheme trustee board.
financial impact modelling where appropriate, the likely effect on Neither the liability insurance nor the indemnities provide cover the business and its prospects.
The Audit Committee Report on in the event of proven fraudulent or dishonest activity.
pages 50 to 52 describes the internal control system, how the How we assess our performance, prospects and viability Board assures itself of the independence and effectiveness of The Group has a comprehensive financial review process, internal and external audit functions and how they are managed including detailed annual budgets, business plans and regular and monitored.
The Board acknowledges that such systems are forecasting.
There are a range of performance indicators which designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to are tracked by management on a daily, weekly and monthly basis, achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and and addressed through a programme of operational meetings and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
All Directors receive regular and timely information to enable them to perform their duties, including information on the Groups operational and financial performance, customer service, health and safety performance and forward trends.
Marshalls plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Shareholder relations The Board places great emphasis on communication and Investor communications engagement with the Companys shareholders.
The Chief Executive and the Finance Director meet regularly with major strategy throughout shareholders to discuss the Groups performance, strategic issues the year and shareholder investment objectives, arrange site visits for investors, and provide regular and comprehensive feedback to the Board.
The Board also receives copies of analysts and brokers briefings.
During 2018, there were 80 investor meetings, with 752 of 2018 the Groups institutional shareholders having met or engaged with March Executive and or Non-Executive Directors in the past 12 months.
Full year results presentation The Chair met a number of major shareholders following her Full year results roadshows appointment, and expects to establish a programme of regular meetings with shareholders to gain understanding of their views on governance and performance.
The Senior Independent May Director is also available to meet shareholders separately if Annual General Meeting requested.
Chairs of Committees would expect to meet shareholders to consult on significant matters related to their June areas of responsibility, for example in relation to preparation Site visits with key stakeholders of the Groups 2020 Remuneration Policy.
There is a regular reporting and announcement schedule to ensure that matters of importance affecting the Group are August communicated to investors, and the Annual and Half Year Reports, Interim results presentation together with the Marshalls website, are substantial means of Interim results roadshow communication with all shareholders during the year.
There has been no significant voting against recommended resolutions at recent AGMs, and the Board would wherever practicable seek October to ensure that shareholder views on any unusual or potentially Investor roadshow controversial proposals were canvassed and incorporated prior to a vote: however, the Board expects to respond to any significant vote against a recommended resolution, should this arise, in accordance with the 2018 Code principles.
2019 Annual General Meeting January The Notice of Annual General Meeting is despatched to shareholders, Shareholder meetings with explanatory notes or a circular on items of special business, at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Companys practice is to propose separate resolutions on each substantially Throughout year separate issue, including a resolution on the Annual Report and Accounts, and to put all resolutions to an electronic poll at the Regular updates to corporate website Annual General Meeting.
All Directors normally attend the meeting, Liaison with stakeholders including the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committee Chairs, who are available to answer questions.
The Board welcomes questions from shareholders, who have an opportunity to raise issues informally or formally before or at the Annual General Meeting.
For each resolution the proxy appointment form provides 80 meetings shareholders with the option to direct their proxy vote either for or against the resolution or to withhold their vote.
The proxy form and with current or prospective any announcement of the voting results make it clear that a vote shareholders withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for and against the resolution.
All valid proxy appointments are properly recorded and counted.
752 Information on the number of shares represented by proxy, the proxy votes for and against each resolution, and the number of the Groups institutional of shares in respect of which the vote was withheld for each shareholders were represented resolution, together with the voting result, are given at the meeting and made available on the Companys website.
at investor meetings Vanda Murray OBE Chair 14 March 2019 Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 47
