SENIOR MANAGEMENT The Group Chief Executive Offi cer, Mr Danie Meintjes, the current Group Chief Clinical Offi cer, as the Group Chief is supported by an experienced and capable executive Executive Offi cer from 1June 2018. management team, with extensive industry experience and The biographies of Mr Meintjes, Chief Executive Offi cer, and organisational knowledge.
The continued growth of Mediclinic Mr Jurgens Myburgh, Chief Financial Offi cer are provided on AR is testament to the strong management team and its ability page 86 of this Annual Report.
to successfully execute the Groups strategy.
As reported, Mr Meintjes will be succeeded by Dr Ronnie van der Merwe, DR RONNIE VAN DER MERWE DR DIRK LE ROUX MR GERT HATTINGH Chief Clinical Offi cer and CEO Designate Chief Corporate Services Offi cer Chief Information Offi cer Nationality: South African Nationality: South African Nationality: South African Dr Ronnie van der Merwe is a specialist Mr Gert Hattingh joined the Mediclinic Group in Dr Dirk le Roux joined the Mediclinic Group anaesthetist who worked in the medical 1991 as Group Accountant.
He served in various in August 2014 as the Group ICT Executive.
insurance industry before joining the Group in management positions in the Group and was Prior to joining Mediclinic, he served in various 1999 as Clinical Manager.
He established the appointed as the company secretary in 2010 and managerial roles, including as managing director Clinical Information, Advanced Analytics, Health Group Services Executive in 2011.
Subsequent of Think Worx Consulting, Chief Information Information Management and Clinical Services to the combination of the businesses of the Offi cer at Media24, General Manager of IT functions at Mediclinic, and subsequently served Company then Al Noor Hospitals Group Strategy and Risk at Absa Bank Limited, as well as the Mediclinic Groups Chief Clinical Offi cer.
plc and Mediclinic International Limited in as the Head of IT at the Development Bank of He was appointed as an executive director February 2016, he no longer serves as the Southern Africa.
of Mediclinic International Limited in 2010 up company secretary, but holds the position of Quali cations: Dr Le Roux holds a D. Com.
to the combination of the businesses of the Chief Corporate Services Offi cer.
Informatics degree from the University Company then Al Noor Hospitals Group plc and Quali cations: Mr Hattingh holds an Honours of Pretoria: a Masters degree in Business Mediclinic International Limited.
The Board degree in Accountancy from the University of Administration cum laude : a Postgraduate appointed him as an executive director and the Stellenbosch B. Acc.
Hons : completed the Diploma in Data Metrics: and a Bachelors Chief Executive Offi cer of the Company from Advanced Management Program at Harvard degree in Civil Engineering.
1 June 2018, and he will stand for election as a Business School: and is a quali ed Chartered Director at the Companys annual general meeting Accountant with the South African Institute of on Wednesday, 25 July 2018.
As announced by Chartered Accountants.
Spire, he will be appointed as a non-executive director of Spire Healthcare Group plc from 24 May 2018.
Quali cations: Dr Van der Merwe holds a medical degree from the University of Stellenbosch MB, ChB.
: a Diploma in Anaesthetics from the College of Anaesthetists of South Africa DA SA : the Fellowship of the College of Anaesthetists of South Africa FCA SA : and completed the Advanced Management Program at Harvard Business School.
90 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION SENIOR MANAGEMENT MR MAGNUS OETIKER MR KOERT PRETORIUS Chief Human Resources Offi cer Chief Executive Offi cer: Mediclinic Southern Africa Nationality: Swiss Nationality: South African Mr Magnus Oetiker was appointed as Chief Human Resources Offi cer Mr Koert Pretorius joined the Group in 1998 as the regional manager of the of the Company in February 2018.
Prior to joining Mediclinic, he was the central region of Mediclinics operations in South Africa, after which he was Chief Executive Offi cer of a family-owned company in Switzerland with appointed as the Chief Operating Offi cer of the Mediclinic Group in 2003.
He 13 business units in healthcare and in the catering industry from 2016. was appointed as the Chief Executive Offi cer of Mediclinic Southern Africa in Prior to that, he served in various management positions from 2000 2008 and served as an executive director of Mediclinic International Limited in to 2016 within the Hirslanden group, where he was appointed as a 2006 up to the combination of the businesses of the Company then Al Noor member of Hirslandens Executive Committee in 2008 and acted as Hospitals Group plc and Mediclinic International Limited.
Chief Strategy Offi cer, including Human Resources.
Quali cations: Mr Oetiker holds a Bachelor of Science in Business Quali cations: Mr Pretorius holds a Bachelors degree in Accounting Science from the University of the Free State B. Compt.
: and a Masters Administration from the Zurich University of Applied Sciences, Switzerland: and an Executive Master of Business Administration degree of Business Leadership from the University of South Africa MBL.
from the University of Zurich, Switzerland.
DR OLE WIESINGER MR DAVID HADLEY Chief Executive Offi cer: Mediclinic Middle East Chief Executive Offi cer: Hirslanden Nationality: British Nationality: German and Swiss Mr David Hadley joined the Mediclinic Group in 1993, and worked in a variety Dr Ole Wiesinger joined the Hirslanden Private Hospital Group in 2004 as the Hospital Manager of Klinik Hirslanden.
He was appointed of administrative roles in human resources, fi finance, operations and hospital management before being seconded to Dubai in 2007 to oversee the opening as the Chief Executive Offi cer of the Hirslanden group and served as an executive director of Mediclinic International Limited from 2008 up of Mediclinic City Hospital.
He was appointed as the Chief Executive Offi cer of Mediclinic Middle East in 2009 and has served as a member of Mediclinics to the combination of the businesses of the Company then Al Noor Hospitals Group plc and Mediclinic International Limited.
Prior to joining Executive Committee since 2011.
Hirslanden, he served in various management positions of the Euromed Quali cations: Mr Hadley holds a Bachelors degree in Commerce AG in Germany from 1995 and was appointed as the Chief Executive from the University of South Africa: and a Masters degree in Business Offi cer of Euromed AG from 2003 to 2004.
Administration with distinction from the University of Liverpool.
Quali cations: Dr Wiesinger holds a doctorate in medicine from the University of Erlangen, Germany Ph.
D. : and a Postgraduate Diploma in Health Economics from the European Business School, Germany.
MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 91 92 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Relationship Agreement, the Nomination Committee INTRODUCTION leads the process for Board appointments and makes The Board of Directors is accountable to the Companys recommendations to the Board in accordance with the shareholders for ensuring the sound management and longCode.
No new Board appointments were made in terms of term success of the Group.
This can only be achieved if the the Relationship Agreement during the year under review.
Board is supported by appropriate governance processes Provision B.
2.4 an explanation should be given if neither to ensure that the Group is managed responsibly and with an external search consultancy nor open advertising has integrity, fairness, transparency and accountability.
The been used in the appointment of a chairman or a nonBoard is committed to maintaining the highest standards of executive director corporate governance, integrity and ethics.
This Corporate Neither an external search consultancy nor open Governance Statement describes the key elements of advertising was used in the appointment of Mediclinics corporate governance framework.
Dr Muhadditha Al Hashimi in November 2017.
An A Group Corporate Governance Manual, dealing with explanation is given in the report of the Nomination AR Board practices and Group policies, provides guidance to Committee on page 113 regarding external search the company secretaries, boards and management of the consultancies and open advertising of appointments.
Company and its three operating divisions in Switzerland, Provision E. 1.1 regarding the attendance by the Senior Southern Africa and the United Arab Emirates to ensure Independent Director SID of sufficient meetings with that similar corporate governance practices are followed a range of major shareholders throughout the Group.
The Company has not met the requirement that the SID should attend sufficient meetings with a range of COMPLIANCE WITH UK CORPORATE major shareholders to listen to their views in order to help develop a balanced understanding of the issues and GOVERNANCE CODE AND LISTING concerns of major shareholders.
This provision of the Code RULES supports the main principle of the Code requiring dialogue The current UK Corporate Governance Code the UK with shareholders based on a mutual understanding of Corporate Governance Code or the Code, published objectives and that the Chairman should ensure that all by the Financial Reporting Council the FRC in directors are made aware of their major shareholders April 2016 and available on the FRCs website at issues and concerns, with which the Company complies.
uk, contains a series of broad principles and The Board believes that appropriate mechanisms are in specific provisions which embody good practice in relation place to engage with shareholders, without the need for the to five key areas: leadership, effectiveness, accountability, SID to attend meetings with major shareholders.
The SID is, remuneration and relations with shareholders.
This Corporate AR however, available to attend such meetings if requested by Governance Statement, together with the Directors shareholders and did so, along with the Chairman, this year Remuneration Report and the various Board committee as requested by a top five shareholder.
Although the SID reports included in this Annual Report, describes how the and any other non-executive directors have the opportunity Board applied the main principles of the Code and complied to attend analyst presentations hosted by the Company, the with its provisions.
principal engagement with the capital markets lies mainly with CEO, CFO and the Head of Investor Relations, who During the year under review and up to the date of this provide regular feedback to the Board on investor relations report, the Company complied with all the provisions of the matters, including, inter alia, an overview of meetings held UK Corporate Governance Code, other than the exceptions AR with investors.
Refer to page 104 for more information noted below: on the Companys shareholder engagement.
2.1 regarding the Nomination Committee April 2018 the Group commenced a detailed perception leading the process for Board appointments and making study using a third party independent service provider, recommendations to the Board the results of which will be shared with the Board.
Appointments to the Board are recommended by In addition to complying with applicable corporate the Nomination Committee and further details on the governance requirements in the UK in accordance with its Committee and the appointment process can be found AR primary listing on the LSE, the Board is also satisfied that the on pages 112 to 115.
"In accordance with the Companys Company meets all relevant requirements of the JSE Listings relationship agreement with its principal shareholder, Requirements and the NSX Listings Requirements arising Remgro Limited Remgro, further details of which AR from its secondary listings on the JSE securities exchange are provided on pages 108 to 109 the ""Relationship in South Africa and the NSX securities exchange in Namibia."
"Agreement"", Remgro is entitled to appoint up to a maximum of three directors to the Board."
BOARD STRUCTURE AND ROLES Mr Jannie Durand was appointed by Remgro on 15 February 2016 and represents Remgro on the Board The Board has full and effective control of the Company of Directors.
His appointment was therefore not led by and all material resolutions are approved by the Board.
With the exception of this The Board has adopted a robust corporate governance appointment, made in accordance with the terms of the MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 93
