STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CLINICAL PERFORMANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE REPORT FIGURE 1: COMMITTEE COMPOSITION AND MEETING ATTENDANCE NUMBER OF SCHEDULED DATE OF MEETINGS APPOINTMENT 1 2 NAME DESIGNATION as committee member ATTENDED 3 Dr Edwin Hertzog Committee Chair Non-executive director 15 02 2016 4 of 4 3, 4 Dr Felicity Harvey Independent non-executive director 03 10 2017 2 of 2 5 Prof Dr Robert Leu Independent non-executive director 17 03 2017 4 of 4 5 Ms Nandi Mandela Independent non-executive director 15 02 2016 4 of 4 Mr Danie Meintjes Chief Executive Officer 15 02 2016 4 of 4 Notes 1 T he composition of the Committee is shown as at 31 March 2018.
2 The attendance reflects the number of scheduled meetings held during the year under review.
Between the Companys financial year-end and the Last Practicable Date, one Committee meeting was held, which was attended by all Committee members, except Dr Al Hashimi.
3 Dr Hertzog stood down as Chair of the Committee on 1 April 2018, when Dr Harvey assumed the role of Chair of the Committee.
4 Dr Harvey was appointed as a member of the Clinical Performance and Sustainability Committee with effect from 3 October 2017 and attended all subsequent meetings of the Committee.
5 Prof Dr Leu and Ms Mandela will resign from the Committee at the end of the Companys annual general meeting on 25 July 2018.
COMMITTEE INDUSTRY SECTOR EXPERIENCE COMMITTEE COMPOSITION 17% 20% Independent Healthcare non-executive directors Non-executive director Academia 17% 20% 67% 60% Infrastructure Executive director KEY AREAS OF ACTIVITY CLINICAL PERFORMANCE The responsibilities and functions of the Committee are In relation to the Committees clinical performance functions, governed by formal terms of reference, approved by the the Committee is responsible for promoting a culture of Board, which are subject to regular review, at least annually.
excellence in patient safety, quality of care and patient As part of the implementation of the Ward-to-Board clinical experience.
During the year, the Committee focused, inter governance framework, changes were made to the terms alia, on the following: of reference to align the Committees responsibilities more closely to the new framework.
Governance The implementation of a Ward-to-Board clinical governance The Committee increased the frequency of its meetings from framework is designed to support and enhance the Patients three to four meetings a year, to enable more regular and First strategic objective by aligning the interests of patients comprehensive discussions on clinical performance matters and care-providers and building a culture of performance across the Group.
In the year under review it met four times, where the main focus was on the areas set out below.
This approach also ensures MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 117 CLINICAL PERFORMANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED that the information flows up and down the organisation the Group Sustainable Development Policy, Group more effectively and facilitates cross-division alignment Environmental Policy and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, strengthening the Groups position on nonand collaboration.
The framework has been successfully discrimination, respect for patient rights and human implemented in Mediclinic Southern Africa and is in the rights.
These are available on the Companys website at process of being rolled out in Mediclinic Middle East and www.
This includes establishing a Clinical Performance monitoring the sustainable development performance of Committee for each division and replicating this the Group with specific regard to stakeholder engagement appropriately at the hospital level.
The divisional committees which includes the outcomes from the patient experience will also include local independent clinical expert members index and employee engagement index, health and public to provide a different perspective and avoid group think.
safety, broad-based black economic empowerment in The Ward-to-Board framework will drive better quality and South Africa, labour relations and working conditions, more effective outcomes for patients, thereby creating reviewing and recommending to the Board the Companys satisfaction and value for the Company and its stakeholders.
statement on slavery and human trafficking in terms of the Modern Slavery Act available on the Companys website Clinical performance management at www.
com, training and skills development system of employees, management of the Groups environmental Another important area of focus has been the Groups impacts, fraud and ethics, compliance which includes the Clinical Performance Management System, which is governance of advertising and compliance with consumer based on a clinical performance model consisting of protection laws and corporate social investment: four components: patient safety, clinical effectiveness, considering and noting the paper on the Business and clinical cost efficiency and value-based care.
A composite Human Rights Resource Centre in respect of Modern performance indicator dashboard has been implemented Slavery Act statements published by the FTSE 100 and to evaluate the performance of the operating divisions new initiatives being implemented to strengthen the including their individual hospitals against internal and Groups procurement practices and risk management: external benchmarks.
This will enable to the management monitoring incidents of fraud and ethics, as well as team and the Committee to analyse trends and prioritise the compliance throughout the Group, although also a corresponding clinical performance improvements.
function of the Audit and Risk Committee: monitoring the results of the Companys participation in The Committee continued their focus on the following areas: various sustainability indices and assessments, notably monitoring the clinical performance of the Group: the Companys inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index as evaluating patient safety, infection prevention and well as the FTSE JSE Responsible Investment Index, control, and quality improvement performance: which indices recognises Companies with strong ESG environmental, social and governance practices: evaluating compliance with the Companys patient safety and quality clinical care standards, policies and confirming the key sustainability priorities, as AR recommended by management, reported on pages 70 procedures, and regulation and accreditation standards SDR to 84 and the Sustainable Development Report available at the operating divisions: on the Companys website at www.
com: and reviewing clinical effectiveness and cost efficiencies: and AR AR reviewing and approving the annual Sustainable reviewing and approving the annual Clinical Services Development Highlights included in the Annual Report CSR SDR Overview in the Annual Report and the Clinical and the Sustainable Development Report published on Services Report available on the Companys website at the Companys website at www.
AR As referred to on page 119, certain South African subsidiaries SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT of the Company are required to appoint a social and ethics committee in terms of the SA Companies Act, unless such In relation to its sustainability functions, the Committee is companies are subsidiaries of another company that has responsible for ensuring that the Group remains a good a social and ethics committee, and the social and ethics and responsible corporate citizen.
During the year, the committee of that company will perform the functions Committee focused, inter alia, on the following: required by this regulation on behalf of that subsidiary reviewing and further aligning the Groups policies to company.
The Committee also performs the statutory the Groups commitment to governance and reporting functions required of a social and ethics committee in terms of its sustainable development performance, including of the SA Companies Act.
118 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CLINICAL PERFORMANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE REPORT COMPLIANCE PRIORITIES FOR THE COMMITTEE The Committee considered the compliance universe and IN2018 2019 the risk and control self-assessments for the Group and For the coming financial year, the Committee will, among considered in detail new legislation and regulations coming other matters, focus on the following: into force.
A key area of focus has been a review of relevant the implementation of the Ward-to-Board accountability data protection law, including the European Union General framework across the operating divisions: Data Protection Regulation GDPR.
Although a focus the review of the clinical performance indicators and the of the Board directly, the Committee also monitored the identification of trends: and progress made with the project to ensure compliance with the continued monitoring of the Companys sustainable data privacy legislation applicable to each of the operating development.
divisions in view of the volume and sensitivity of patientdata.
Signed on behalf of the Clinical Performance and ASSURANCE Sustainability Committee.
The Committee considered the need for external assurance of the Companys non-financial reporting, particularly in relation to the Companys sustainable development performance.
The Committee is satisfied that the current level of combined assurance provides the necessary independent assurance over the quality and reliability of the information Dr Felicity Harvey presented in relation to the Groups clinical performance and Chairman of the Clinical Performance and sustainable development.
The Committee will continue to Sustainability Committee monitor whether additional forms of assurance are required 23 May 2018 in future.
COMMITTEE EVALUATION An external evaluation of the Committees performance was conducted by Lintstock during the year, which results were considered by the Committee and the Board.
There were no significant issues identified that required improvement and the Committee and the Board concluded that the Committee operated effectively during the year.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING In terms of the SA Companies Act, a social and ethics committee must, through one of its members, report to the shareholders at the companys annual general meeting on the matters within its mandate.
As the Committee is performing the role and function of a social and ethics committee in terms of the SA Companies Act, the Committee will fulfil this function by referring shareholders at the Companys annual general meeting on 25 July 2018 to this report by the Committee, which should be read in conjunction with SDR the Sustainable Development Report available on the Companys website at www.
Any specific questions to the Committee may be sent to the Company Secretary prior to the annual general meeting.
MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 119 AUDIT AND RISK C COMMITTEE REPORT OMMITTEE REPORT Desmond Smith Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Dear Shareholder, As Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee the Committee, it is my pleasure to report on the Committees activities for the year ended 31 March 2018.
This report provides an overview of the functioning of the Committee and the signifi cant matters it addressed during the year, together with its priorities for 2018 19.
The Committees terms of reference are available in the governance section of AR the Companys website at www.
com and are summarised on page 95 in the Corporate Governance Statement.
COMMITTEE COMPOSITION AND MEETING ATTENDANCE The composition of the Committee complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, which provides that all members should be independent non-executive directors.
The Board regards each member of the Committee as having recent and relevant fi financial experience for the purposes of the Code and the Financial Reporting Councils FRC Guidance on Audit Committees.
The Board is satisfi ed that the Committee, as a whole, has the required sector-specifi c competence and that the combined knowledge and experience of its members enables the Committee to exercise its duties in an eff ective, informed and responsible manner.
Figure 1 sets out the Committees composition and meeting attendance during the period under review.
FIGURE 1: COMMITTEE COMPOSITION AND MEETING ATTENDANCE NUMBER OF DATE APPOINTED SCHEDULED AS COMMITTEE MEETINGS 1 2 NAME QUALIFICATIONS MEMBER ATTENDED Mr Desmond Smith Committee Chairman B. Sc.
A. Hons, CA 15 02 2016 4 of 4 Mr Seamus Keating FCMA 05 06 2013 4 of 4 Mr Trevor Petersen B. Comm.
Hons, CA SA 15 02 2016 4 of 4 Notes 1 The composition of the Committee is shown as at 31 March 2018.
2 The attendance refl ects the number of scheduled meetings held during the fi financial year.
One additional ad hoc Committee meeting was held during the fi financial year and two Committee meetings were held between the Companys fi financial year-end and the Last Practicable Date: all these meetings were attended by all Committee members.
