Nominations Committee report Chairmans introduction The Nominations Committee plays a leading role in assessing the balance of skills and experience on the Board and committees.
The Committee identifies the roles and capabilities required to meet the demands of the business and ensures that a succession plan is in place.
The Committee is comprised of the NonExecutive Chairman and the nonexecutive directors.
During the year, the Committee had a detailed session on succession planning for executive management and reviewed and discussed the Board skills matrix.
All Board level appointment decisions were made following search processes using executive search firms The Zygos Partnership and Lygon Group.
Both of these firms assist with other senior executive searches below Board level, but have no other connection with the Group.
Sir Nigel Rudd Responsibilities Chairman, Nominations Committee The Committee reviews the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board and, in consultation with the directors, makes recommendations to the Board on any proposed changes.
Decisions on Board changes are taken by the Board as a whole.
In performing its duties, the Committee has access to the services of the Group HR Director and the Company Secretary and may seek external professional advice at the Groups expense.
2018 Board changes The Committee has run detailed recruitment processes for two nonexecutive directors and the Chief Financial Officer in 2018, with support from our external executive search firms The Zygos Partnership and Lygon Group and the Group HR Director.
For the role of Chief Financial Officer, the Committee reviewed and agreed a detailed role brief, and a long list and short list of diverse candidates were considered and then interviewed, before selecting the final recommended candidate.
Effective succession planning meant that there was a three month handover period between Louisa Burdett and Doug Webb.
For the nonexecutive roles, the Committee took into account the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board.
As a result, the Committee focused on bringing more aerospace and defence and investment banking expertise to the Board.
Effectiveness The Committee reviewed its own effectiveness and was satisfied with the outcome.
The only action related to the continued need to improve succession planning discussions for senior executives.
Succession The Group operates a succession planning process which Committee membership and attendance in 2018 enables the identification and development of employees with the potential to fill key business leadership positions in Sir Nigel Rudd Mrs N L Gioia the Group.
In December 2018, the Board reviewed detailed 5 5 5 5 Committee Chairman executive succession plans for each division and function with the Group HR Director, including plans for the executive Mr G S Berruyer Ms A J P Goligher 5 5 4 5 directors and each member of the Executive Committee and other high potential individuals around the Group.
Each 1 Mr C R Day Mr P Heiden 4 5 5 5 individual on the succession plan has regular performance reviews and individual development plans.
1 On personal leave of absence during one of the scheduled Committee meetings.
Meggitt PLC 90 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Board composition and succession for the Chairman and nonexecutive directors is regularly discussed by the Board diversity Committee, and succession planning for Paul Heiden as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee has been well planned, with Guy Berruyer and By age average By gender ratio Alison Goligher due to assume those roles in April 2019 after a lengthy handover period.
61yrs 7:2 UK Corporate Governance Code At our December Committee meeting, we reviewed the Male | Female changes introduced by the 2018 Code.
The new UK Code emphasises the need to refresh boards and undertake succession planning.
The new nine year independence rule will By nationality ratio By tenure average also be factored in to the Chairmans succession planning.
The 2018 Code also stated that the Committee should focus 7:2 5.4yrs on succession for senior management positions and the development of a diverse pipeline.
To fulfil this, the Committee British | Other will work closely with the Board and HR and take an active role in setting and meeting diversity objectives and strategies Board diversity at 25 April 2019 6:4. for the Group as a whole, and in monitoring the impact of diversity initiatives.
Diversity and Inclusion Policy Diversity and inclusion The Board, our executive leadership team, and management at all levels recognise that a diverse and inclusive workforce is critical to running a sustainable and successful business.
In 2018, the Board approved a Diversity and Inclusion Policy available on www.
The purpose of our Diversity 2018 Board focus and Inclusion Policy is to increase and leverage diversity in all respects, to help build a sustainable business by employing a diverse workforce that reflects the diverse communities within May 2018: The Board received a detailed update from Group HR on which we operate, and fostering an inclusive culture where diversity and inclusion strategy and actions.
people are valued, respected and supported.
The Policy covers August 2018: The Board approved a Diversity and Inclusion Policy.
diversity and inclusion at all levels of the Group, from the Board to the shopfloor.
December 2018: The Board and Nominations Committee reviewed succession planning from a diverse pipeline perspective.
Based on the current size and composition of the Board and December 2018: A separate meeting was held between Nancy taking into account current succession plans, the Board has Gioia, Alison Goligher and Group HR to help guide and direct determined that there should be a minimum of two female diversity and inclusion activities.
From April 2019, there will be four female directors on the Board.
The Board remains committed to ensuring that the directors bring a diverse range of skills, knowledge, experience, backgrounds and perspectives.
See pages 76 to 79 for more details of Board skills and experience.
There are currently no specific targets for the number of diverse candidates on our Executive Committee, but we do have a detailed strategy to improve diversity at all levels of the Group which is disclosed in the Corporate responsibility report.
In Find out more online at terms of policy outcomes, the Corporate responsibility report also provides details of our 2018 gender diversity metrics.
com Sir Nigel Rudd Chairman of the Nominations Committee 25 February 2019 Meggitt PLC 91 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
