STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT The Board is ultimately responsible for overseeing the data protection legislation being introduced in Switzerland effective internal control systems and risk management and South Africa: and new VAT legislation in the UAE.
processes, which facilitate the delivery of and sustain the The Committee examined the Groups plans to address Groups financial, operational and strategic objectives.
the new requirements and monitored progress on their In accordance with its terms of reference, the Committee implementation.
monitors these processes on a regular basis: reviews their The Committee considered the Groups hedging effectiveness: and makes appropriate recommendations to arrangements in respect of interest rate movements and the Board.
supported managements decision to discontinue hedging During the year, the Committee reviewed the ERM Policy, the debt associated with the Hirslanden operating division for framework and processes, including the Groups risk appetite, the time being.
Management maintained the decision under combined assurance model and action plans designed review and presented regular reports to the Committee.
to mitigate risks in line with the Groups risk appetite The Committee's overall conclusion and recommendation to statement.
The Committee concentrated in particular on the Board was that the internal control and risk management actions regarding certain areas highlighted by management: environment was effective in ensuring the consistent centralising and standardising business processes in the achievement of key control objectives and no significant failings or weaknesses had been identified.
Hirslanden operating division: AR integrating Al Noor into the business, operating practices The long-term viability statement on pages 50 to 51 is and finance, and accounting and internal control systems underpinned by the Committees work on the Group's of the Middle East operating segment: financial reporting, internal controls and risk management implementing SAP and supporting policies and systems.
Further details on the Group's internal controls AR procedures: system and risk monitoring are provided on page 48. implementing a standardised financial consolidation and reporting tool: and Internal audit enhancing the assurance processes across the Group, The Committee considered the following key topics relating to including ICT governance and compliance.
internal audit during the year: May 2017: The Committee continued to monitor the standardisation of Reviewed the FY17 internal audit report including annual the internal controls and risk framework across the Group, review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls processes, risk registers and reporting.
The Committee and risk management processes focused on integrating the reports received on financial, Considered an external report on the internal auditors quality assurance processes and reviewed the effectiveness of the operational and compliance internal controls and risk internal auditor management systems, corresponding key performance Conducted a separate meeting between the Committee indicators, internal and external assurances, mitigating members and the internal auditor, without the management team, and between the Committee members and action plans, and progress on the delivery of these plans.
management, without the internal auditor The Committee and management discussed areas for further November 2017: improvement and these were raised in the Committees Reviewed internal audit report and findings, with particular feedback to the Board.
focus on procurement Reviewed progress on appointment of Head of Internal Audit Information and communications technology ICT risks continued to be a key area of focus for the Committee.
January 2018: The top five risks identified were cybersecurity, project Reviewed internal audit processes, including overview of mandate and approved work plan for FY18 delivery, information protection, architecture and quality of Considered outcome of process to appoint Head of Internal IT systems, and application control and change risks.
Senior Audit management held regular presentations to the Committee March 2018: on these risks and their management and mitigation.
The Reviewed the internal audit report, internal audit mandate and presentations included an in-depth review of the governance internal audit function arrangements and status of the most complex IT projects Conducted a separate meeting between the Committee members and the internal auditor, without the management delivered within the Group.
team, and between the Committee members and management, without the internal auditor The Group introduced an enhanced programme to track the Groups compliance with key legislation in the jurisdictions May 2018: Reviewed the internal audit report for FY18 including annual in which it operates.
"The Committee received regular review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls updates on progress regarding the development of the and risk management processes compliance programme and considered the implications Conducted a separate meeting between the Committee members and management, without the external auditor, and of forthcoming legislation, such as the EU General Data between the Committee members and the external auditor, Protection Regulation, effective in the UK from 25 May 2018: without management MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 125 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Remgro Internal Audit ""RIA"" continued to undertake the External audit Group's internal audit function during the year."
RIA regularly attends Committee meetings and reports on the findings of The Committee considered the following key topics relating to the external audit during the year: its internal audit reviews.
RIA is responsible for evaluating the Group's governance processes: assessing the effectiveness of May 2017: Reviewed the external auditor's year-end audit report and opinion the internal financial control framework and risk management Evaluated the external auditors performance, with a focus on processes: analysing and evaluating key business processes their independence, and the objectivity and effectiveness of the and associated controls: and providing information on external audit process identified instances of fraud, corruption, unethical behaviour Considered and recommended the external auditors reappointment and irregularities.
RIAs responsibilities include conducting Reviewed the non-audit services expenditure for FY17 an annual documented review of the key financial reporting Reviewed and approved the non-audit services thresholds controls in identified financial systems and processes, and for FY18 providing an annual written assessment of the effectiveness Conducted a separate meeting between the Committee members and the external auditors, without the management team, and of the system of internal controls and risk management to between the Committee members and management, without the the Board.
external auditor During the year, the Committee regularly received and September 2017: considered internal audit reports from RIA, which focused Reviewed the external auditors interim review plan update particularly on procurement, finance and governance November 2017: processes, and included their annual written assessment Reviewed the external auditor's half-year review report of the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and Reviewed and approved the external audit plan for FY18, and the corresponding engagement letter and fees risk management processes.
As part of this process, the Reviewed and approved the revised non-audit services Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the internal audit thresholds for FY18 function based on discussions with RIA and key members of Held a separate meeting between the Committee members management, supplemented by an external assessment of and the external auditors, without the management team RIAs quality assurance process.
The Committee confirmed March 2018: its satisfaction with the effectiveness and efficiency of the Reviewed the external auditor's pre-year-end report on function, reliability of financial reporting, and compliance with accounting and auditing issues Reviewed and approved the policy on the external auditor's applicable laws and regulations.
independence and non-audit services Reviewed the non-audit services expenditure for FY18 to date The Committee reviewed the internal audit function and Reviewed the non-audit services thresholds for FY19 approved the internal audit plan for the year ending Conducted a separate meeting between the Committee 31 March 2019.
The plan is set on a three-year rolling basis, and members and the external auditors, without the management the areas of focus are determined and updated in line with: team, and between the Committee members and management, without the external auditor the internal audit mandate: May 2018: the Groups risk register: Reviewed the external auditor's year-end audit report and strategic and operational initiatives aimed at growing and opinion preserving value: Evaluated the external auditors performance, focusing on their independence, and the objectivity and effectiveness of the results of previous internal audits and reviews of the the external audit process effectiveness of internal controls and risk management Considered and recommended the external auditors resystems: appointment significant changes in the business, operations, ICT Reviewed the non-audit services expenditure for FY18 Reviewed and approved the non-audit services thresholds programmes, systems and controls: for FY19 requests from management and the Committee: Conducted a separate meeting between the Committee new developments in organisational governance: and members and the external auditors, without the management team, and between the Committee members and emerging risks and trends.
management, without the external auditor During FY19, internal audit will focus on the human resources and payroll cycle, key controls affected by major transformation  LLP PwC has been the initiatives and projects and the internal financial control process Companys external auditor since February 2016, as within each division, as well as governance and risk processes.
approved by the Companys shareholders in December 2015.
As reported in the 2017 Annual Report, the Company is in the The lead audit engagement partner is Giles Hannam, who process of establishing an in-house internal audit function and was appointed in February 2016. transition away from the current outsourcing arrangements The external auditor is invited to all Committee meetings with RIA.
As part of this plan, the Company appointed a Head and receives copies of all relevant Committee papers and of Internal Audit with effect from 1 July 2018.
Plans to ensure a minutes of all Committee meetings.
gradual and smooth transfer of responsibilities from RIA to the new in-house function will be developed further during FY19.
126 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT external auditor, previously provided by PwC.
Deloitte LLP External audit plan was appointed to provide tax advice to the Company and During the year, the Committee reviewed and approved the its Southern African operations, and KPMG was appointed FY18 external audit plan, including the proposed materiality to provide tax advice to the Companys Swiss and Middle threshold, the scope of the audit, the significant audit risks Eastern operations.
The Committee determines the pre-approved monetary Effectiveness and independence thresholds for each category of non-audit services by the The Committee is committed to ensuring the Group external auditor at the beginning of each financial year.
The receives a high-quality and effective statutory audit.
It is nature of the non-audit services, the individual fee levels of responsible for monitoring the performance, objectivity and each category and the aggregate fee amount relative to the independence of the external auditors and undertakes an external audit fee, are taken into account in determining these annual formal evaluation process.
From 1 April 2017, any individual assignment with a fee exceeding 50 000 requires the Committees prior On completion of the FY18 year-end external audit, all approval.
members of the Committee, key members of the senior management team, and those who regularly provide input To help maintain the independence and objectivity of the to the Committee or have regular contact with the external external auditor, the policy requires that a different partner auditors, were asked to complete a questionnaire to assess is appointed to lead any non-audit services.
the performance of the external auditor, with a strong focus Fees on their independence and objectivity.
The questionnaire focused on four key performance areas, namely: The fees paid to PwC in respect of non-audit services robustness of the audit process, quality of delivery, quality amounted to approximately 588 000, or 26% of the of reporting, and quality of people and service.
As part statutory audit fees.
Approximately 350 000 of the of the assessment, separate meetings were held between non-audit services fees were in respect of reviews conducted the Committee members and the external auditor without in relation to the financial statements for the six months to management, and between the Committee members and 30 September 2017.
Therefore, excluding the half-year management without the external auditor.
The feedback reviews, non-audit service fees as a percentage of statutory from the questionnaire and the meetings with the external audit fees amounted to 11%.
auditor and management was discussed by the Committee Refer to note 22 to the consolidated financial statements on AR at the meeting held in May 2018.
The Committee was very page 227 for detail on the fees paid to the Groups auditors satisfied with the overall feedback on PwC and the external for audit and non-audit services during the year.
Re-appointment Under the FRCs Revised Ethical Standard for Auditors, The Committee concluded that the services provided by PwC must inform the Company about any significant facts the external auditor were of a high quality, that the external and matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on audit process in respect of the 2018 financial statements its independence or on the objectivity of the lead partner was effective, and that the auditor remains objective and and the audit team.
The quality review partner, who reviews independent.
Accordingly, it recommended to the Board the judgements of the audit team, rotates every seven that the re-appointment of PwC as the Companys external years and the lead partner and key audit partners at each auditors is proposed to shareholders at the Companys operating division every five years.
The external auditors annual general meeting on 25 July 2018. independence is safeguarded by the non-audit services policy discussed below.
Audit tender Non-audit services As a result of the UKs implementation of the EUs mandatory audit firm rotation requirements, and in accordance with the The Committee believes that it may be appropriate in certain Committees terms of reference, the Company is required circumstances for the Company to engage its external to ensure that the external auditors contract is put out auditors to provide non-audit services.
A policy governing to tender at least every 10 years, with the proviso that no the provision of such services is in place to ensure non-audit single firm may serve as the Companys external auditor services provided by the auditor do not impair, and are not for a period exceeding 20 years.
PwC was appointed as perceived to impair, the external auditors independence or the Companys auditor with effect from February 2016, as objectivity.
The policy was last reviewed and approved by approved by the Companys shareholders in December 2015. the Committee in March 2018.
It is intended that the external audit will be put out to tender With effect from 1 April 2017, the policy was amended no later than for the financial year commencing 1 April 2023, to, inter alia, exclude the provision of tax services by the which is 10 years after the Companys initial listing.
MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 127 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The Group is focused on conducting its business in an Competition and Markets Authority Statutory honest, fair and ethical manner, a principle endorsed by Audit Services Order 2014 CMA Order AR the Board and management.
The Committee oversees the As disclosed on page 127, during the financial year under Groups processes for handling breaches of the Groups Code review, the Company complied with the mandatory of Business Conduct and Ethics and Anti-bribery Policy.
audit processes and the Committee complied with the During the year, the Committee received regular feedback responsibility provisions set out in the CMA Order relating from the Group General Manager: Risk Management on all to a putting the audit services engagement on tender material cases and incidents reported on the ethics lines, every 10 years: and b strengthening the accountability of the external auditor to the Committee, including requiring how these were managed and the effectiveness of the lines.
that only the Committee is permitted to agree to the The Committee adopted a Fraud Risk Management Policy, external auditors fees and scope of services: influence which facilitates developing controls for the prevention of the appointment of the audit engagement partner: make fraud and corruption.
recommendations regarding the appointment of auditors: The Committee is responsible for ensuring Group-wide and authorise the auditors to carry out non-audit services.
compliance with relevant laws and regulations.
During 2017, a compliance consultant was appointed to assist Ethical conduct, governance and the Group with implementing a standardised risk-based compliance compliance monitoring process across all business units.
Under the consultant's guidance, the Group established The Committee considered the following key topics relating to governance and compliance during the year: an enhanced programme to track the Groups compliance May 2017: with key legislation in the jurisdictions in which it operates.
Harmonised operating practices across Mediclinic Middle East The Committee regularly received updates on progress Reviewed the fraud and ethics report regarding the development of the compliance programme Considered relevant statutory, regulatory and good practice and considered the implications of forthcoming legislation, developments Reviewed the non-audit services expenditure for FY17 such as the EU General Data Protection Regulation, data Reviewed and approved non-audit services thresholds for protection legislation being introduced in Switzerland FY18 and South Africa, and new VAT legislation in the UAE.
Reviewed the Group tax report The Committee examined the Groups plans to address Reviewed and approved the Group Tax Strategy and recommended it for approval by the Board the new requirements and monitored progress on their September 2017: implementation.
Reviewed the fraud and ethics report The Clinical Performance and Sustainability Committee Reviewed Group compliance programme report including the EU General Data Protection Regulation is also responsible for assessing the Groups ethics and compliance.
Further details on the Company's policies in November 2017: Reviewed the fraud and ethics report respect of business conduct and ethics, anti-corruption AR Reviewed the Group tax report and anti-bribery matters are provided on page 82 of the Reviewed and approved the revised non-audit services Strategic Report.
Details of the Clinical Performance and thresholds for FY18 AR Sustainability Committee are provided on page 95 of the Considered relevant statutory, regulatory and good practice developments Corporate Governance Statement.
March 2018: Conducted the annual review of policies and procedures: COMMITTEE EVALUATION Terms of Reference of the Committee: Internal Audit Mandate: An external evaluation of the Committees performance was Policy in respect of the Independence and the provision of non-audit services by the External Auditors: ERM Policy and conducted by Lintstock during the year, focused on the Fraud Risk Management Policy Committees composition and time management, processes Reviewed the fraud and ethics report and support, the work undertaken during the financial Considered relevant statutory, regulatory and good practice developments year and any priorities for improving its performance over the coming year.
The Committee reviewed and discussed May 2018: Reviewed the Regulatory Compliance Policy the outcomes of the evaluation and certain actions were Reviewed the non-audit services expenditure for FY18 agreed for implementation, aimed at further enhancing the Reviewed and approved non-audit services thresholds for effectiveness of the Committee.
The results were reported FY19 Reviewed the Group tax report to the Board at the March 2018 meeting.
The Committee Reviewed and approved the Group Tax Strategy and will monitor progress on the agreed actions and their recommended it for approval by the Board outcomes, and these will be incorporated into the following Reviewed the fraud and ethics report performance evaluation.
Considered relevant statutory, regulatory and good practice developments 128 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT PROGRESS ON KEY PRIORITIES FOR THE COMMITTEE IN FY18 PRIORITIES STATUS AR Implementation of new IFRS standards Refer to the financial reporting section on pages 121 to 124 of this Audit and Risk Committee Report.
AR Review various ICT and other significant projects across the Refer to the internal control systems and risk management Group processes section on pages 124 to 125 of this Audit and Risk Committee Report.
Review of ongoing integration of Al Noors operations and systems Monitor Group tax compliance matters Review internal audit work plan for FY18, which will focus on the procurement and payment cycle and division projects and their internal financial control process Monitor progress against the 2018 ERM plan AR Appoint Chief Internal Audit Executive Refer to the internal audit section on pages 125 to 126 of this Audit and Risk Committee Report.
KEY PRIORITIES FOR THE COMMITTEE IN 2018 19 Monitor establishment of in-house internal audit function Monitor progress against the FY19 internal audit plan and overall ERM plan Mature the integration of reporting to the Committee on financial, operational and compliance internal controls and risk management systems Monitor the performance of recently implemented transformational IT projects Monitor the implementation of new IFRS standards Appoint a permanent compliance officer and monitor the entrenchment of compliance management Approved and signed on behalf of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Mr Desmond Smith Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee 23 May 2018 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 129 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Mr Trevor D Petersen Chairman of the Remuneration Committee LETTER FROM THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN Dear Shareholder, On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Mediclinic International Directors' Remuneration Report for 2018.
The Remuneration at a Glance section, which follows this introduction, highlights the key areas that will be of primary focus to the reader, such as pay outcomes for the year and details of how our policy will be implemented in 2019.
Over the past year, the Remuneration Committee kept fully abreast of the evolving views of shareholders on pay and, in particular, the UK Government consultation on corporate governance.
We focused on ensuring that our approach to pay is fair and that pay in the wider workforce is considered and refl ected in the Committees deliberations.
The next UK Corporate Governance Code is expected to increase the remit of the Committee to include a level of oversight for the wider workforce and we are well placed to incorporate this additional responsibility.
The Committee is regularly updated on wider workforce pay and we make our decisions relating to the remuneration of senior executives and key management in the context of relativity of reward practices across each operating division.
Chief Executive Offi cer transition A key part of our work in the year has been supporting the Nomination Committee in the Chief Executive Offi cer succession planning and ensuring that the approach to recruitment remuneration for our incoming CEO was appropriately fair, taking into account our workforce practices and compliance with our policy and relevant share plan rules.
Mr Danie Meintjes will retire from the Company after a tenure of over 30 years of service, the last eight of which have been as its CEO.
Mr Meintjes played a vital role in the transformation of the Mediclinic Group during his tenure.
The Committee is currently considering the treatment of Mr Meintjes outstanding share-based awards when he steps down as an executive director.
Details will be disclosed to shareholders as soon as they have been fi nalised.
Dr Ronnie van der Merwe will take on the role of CEO from 1 June 2018.
Dr Van der Merwe joined the Mediclinic Group in 1999 and the Executive Committee in 2008, where he most recently held the role of Chief Clinical Offi cer.
Dr Van der Merwe is one of Mediclinic's most experienced executives and ideally equipped to build on the foundations Mr Meintjes has left in place.
Dr Ronnie van der Merwes remuneration arrangements as CEO are in line with the Group remuneration policy and in line with the package for Mr Meintjes in his fi final full year as CEO.
Dr Van der Merwes base compensation inclusive of Board fees has therefore been set at 558 198, whilst his maximum short and long-term incentive opportunities have been set at 150% and 200% of base compensation respectively.
Whilst Dr Van der Merwes s base compensation is in line with Mr Meintjes for his fi final full year as CEO, it is recognised this level is positioned towards the bottom end of the market competitive range for the CEO of a company of similar size and complexity to that of Mediclinic.
The Committee therefore intends to keep the remuneration arrangements for the CEO under review.
130 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT of additional non-fi financial performance measures, which Performance and reward over the include clinical performance, patient experience, staff reporting period engagement and patient safety measures.
2017 was the fi first year of operation of our revised In line with the commitment we made to investors ahead of Remuneration Policy, which was approved by shareholders the introduction of our new policy in 2017, we have reviewed at the 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM see chart the performance measures underlying our plans.
The Board below for AGM voting outcomes and applies for three years is confi dent that a focus on adjusted earnings per share from that date.
EPS and total shareholder return TSR within our longAGM VOTING OUTCOME 2017 term incentive plan LTIP remains appropriate for 2018, as it is directly aligned with the value we deliver to shareholders.
Directors The 2018 LTIP awards will therefore continue to be based Remuneration For 95.95% Policy on adjusted EPS and TSR.
Details on the underlying targets AR are set out on page 152.
The Board will continue to keep Against Directors Remuneration 96.25% the performance measures used for the purpose of the LTIP Report under review over the course of 2018.
For the year under review, on an adjusted basis, the Group Base compensation performed slightly ahead of expectations, driven by a In line with South African employment practices, the signifi cant second half improvement from the Middle East Committee reviewed the base compensation for the current division.
The Southern Africa division delivered second CEO, Mr Danie Meintjes, for the coming year and approved half revenue growth ahead of expectations with a stable an increase of 4.7%, which was below the average increase adjusted EBITDA margin for the year.
In Switzerland, for other employees of Mediclinic Southern Africa of 5.6%.
Hirslanden was faced with a number of regulatory changes that came into eff ect during the year, which impacted The Committee also reviewed the base compensation divisional EBITDA performance.
positioning for the Chief Financial Offi cer, Mr Jurgens Myburgh, who was appointed on base compensation of 319 000 in The executive directors short-term incentive STI was August 2016.
On appointment to the role, in line with best calculated on a Group achieved EBITDA measure defi ned practice and in line with the positioning for the CEO, his base as Group adjusted EBITDA performance, calculated at compensation was positioned towards the bottom end of budgeted exchange rates and furtheradjusted to remove the market competitive range to refl ect that this was his fi first the impact of employee bonus accruals and to amend for role as CFO of a UK listed company.
Taking into consideration other specifi c items subject to approval by the Remuneration Mr Myburghs performance since his appointment and the Committee.
This is combined with detailed operating level of input he provides to the Executive Committee and metrics measured at the divisional level, which comprise Board in delivering business performance, the Committee fi financial and operational objectives, including measures of agreed to a salary increase of 9.6%.
Mr Myburghs new clinical excellence.
The bonus framework operates such that salary of 411 486 will remain towards the lower end of the non-achievement of subset performance indicators i. e. the market competitive range.
This marks the fi first salary those measured at a divisional level give rise to a reduction increase awarded to Mr Myburgh since his appointment in in the bonus that is payable.
Based on performance delivered AR August 2016.
Whilst the Committee recognises that such in the year, as described in more detail on pages 150 and 151, salary increases are not common in the current UK climate, the overall bonus for executive directors was approved at given Mr Myburghs performance since appointment and 61.37% of maximum, which is refl ective of the fi financial and taking into account wage increases in the South African operating performance delivered in the year.
business, the Committee believes that the increase is in the No long-term incentive awards were due to vest in the year, best interests of the business.
therefore no such awards are included within the single AR I trust the information presented in this report enables our fi gure tables as set out on page 148. shareholders to understand how we have implemented our remuneration policy over the year, and the rationale for our Proposed remuneration decision-making.
We continue to be committed to an open and implementation 2019 transparent dialogue with our investors and the Committee welcomes any feedback or comments on this report or the Incentives way in which we implement our Remuneration Policy.
In line with the 2018 STI, the 2019 Group STI will continue to be based on Group achieved EBITDA performance and operating divisions subset performance indicators, which include fi financial and operational objectives.
To further support delivery of the Groups Patients First Strategy additional focus has been placed on improving clinical Mr Trevor D Petersen performance through the introduction and or enhancement Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 23 May 2018 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 131 REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE This section summarises the remuneration outcomes for the 2017 18 financial year, including how the Remuneration Policy was implemented during the year and the link between remuneration and our strategy.
OUR REMUNERATION PRINCIPLES Our Remuneration Policy is designed to support our overall objective of generating long-term shareholder value.
By appointing, investing in and retaining competent staff, we strive to be an employer of choice in the local and international markets in which our Company operates.
Our remuneration arrangements are simple in design and seek to balance the need to reward performance appropriately, fairly and competitively while remaining mindful of our responsibility to deliver value to shareholders.
Our remuneration structure comprises of two pay components fixed and variable pay.
To determine the shape, size and variability of each element of pay, the Committee follows key remuneration principles as set out below: KEY PRINCIPLE CHARACTERISTICS PURPOSE External equity Competitive market To attract, retain and motivate the executive talent we need to achieve positioning and opportunity our objectives, remuneration is determined with reference to the location in which the executive director operates and the broader international market.
Internal equity Fair and simple To ensure a coherent approach across the Group, the structure of the executive directors pay policy is in line with the policy for remuneration of management within the Group.
The remuneration package is simple and fair in design so that it is valued by participants.
Affordability Pay aligned with The mix between fixed and variable pay and the balance between sustainable long-term rewarding short versus long-term performance are critical to ensure performance they are appropriately balanced and reward behaviours that will lead to the realisation of our overall objective, without encouraging excessive risk-taking.
The performance measures selected to determine both our short-term and long-term incentive plans have been carefully considered to focus on a simple and effective selection of those key drivers of our strategy and long-term value creation for our shareholders.
Shareholder Alignment of executive and To ensure continued alignment of executive and shareholder interests, alignment shareholder interests the greatest potential pay opportunity for executive directors is via our LTIP.
Executive directors are incentivised and rewarded for the adjusted financial performance of the Group and creating value for shareholders.
This is further reinforced with a requirement to hold shares to facilitate executive directors to build a shareholding in the business and, therefore, align management with shareholders interests and the Groups performance, without encouraging excessive risk-taking.
132 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE SUMMARY OF REMUNERATION FRAMEWORK The overall remuneration framework applicable to the executive directors under the current policy is summarised in the following table.
ELEMENT PURPOSE AND LINK 1 OF PAY TO STRATEGY TERMS NEW CEO CFO Base To attract, retain and motivate With effect 558 198 411 486 compensation talented individuals who are 1April2018 critical to the Groups success Annual STI To encourage and reward Level on-target 90% 150% 80% 133% delivery of the Groups maximum annual financial and opportunity % of operational objectives base compensation To align with shareholder Performance Group achieved EBITDA performance and risk and reward condition other financial and strategic objectives of the three operating divisions Deferral portion 50% compulsory deferral in shares for two years LTIP To balance performance pay Level maximum 200% 150% between achieving financial opportunity % of performance objectives and base compensation delivering sustainable stock Performance Adjusted EPS weight of 60% market out-performance condition Relative TSR weight of 40% To encourage share ownership and align with Deferral portion 50% compulsory deferral in shares for shareholders interests two years Pension To help recruit and retain Contribution 9% retirement high-performing executive % of salary benefits directors To provide employees with long-term savings via pension provisions Benefits To provide a market Private medical Private medical competitive level of benefits insurance, life insurance, life to ensure executive directors insurance of 5x insurance of 7x well-being annual base salary as annual base salary as personally selected personally selected Share Alignment of executive % of salary 225% 200% ownership directors interests with those guidelines of shareholders Note 1 Ne w CEOs arrangements, with effect from 1 June 2018.
The departing CEOs base compensation was set at 585 728 with effect from 1 April 2018.
MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 133 REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE CONTINUED ILLUSTRATION OF REMUNERATION OUTCOMES IN THE PAST YEAR The following chart show the 2017 18 actual remuneration against the maximum policy levels of remuneration for the executive directors.
2 574 Fixed pay 43% STI LTIP 1 467 33% 38% 1 126 45% 715 34% 43% 24% 55% 28% 57% 28% 100% 38% 28% Maximum Actual Maximum Actual Jurgens Myburgh Danie Meintjes Chief Executive O cer Chief Financial O cer Under the policy, the remuneration payable to each executive director is based on salaries at the start of 2017 18.
The elements of remuneration have been categorised into three components: i fixed guaranteed salary: ii STI: and iii LTIP.
In addition, for the purposes of comparison we have included the actual single figure remuneration paid in 2017 18.
