Board of Directors Committee membership 01 02 Tony Wood Sir Nigel Rudd DL Audit Chief Executive Non-Executive Chairman Nominations Appointed as CEO: 2018 | Nationality: Appointed: 2015 | Nationality: British British Remuneration Skills and experience Corporate Responsibility Skills and experience Chartered accountant with extensive Extensive aerospace industry experience board experience spanning multiple Finance gained with RollsRoyce plc where he sectors including aerospace, retail and held a number of senior management Disclosure financial services.
positions, latterly as President, Aerospace.
Previously spent 16 years at Messier Sir Nigel plays a critical role in managing Dowty, now part of Safran Group.
the Board and the Nominations Committee, and brings decades of Tonys significant operational experience executive leadership and chairmanship both in aerospace and defence and other experience, across many industrial industrial sectors, extremely strong companies including aerospace and customer relationships and strategic defence, and other complex sectors.
oversight of the Group are critical to the His commercial, financial and general Board as the business continues to grow.
business acumen and shareholder focus Tonys passion for high performance are extremely valuable to the Board.
culture and diversity and inclusion, and experience of leading cultural change in Current appointments previous roles has also brought the NonExecutive Chairman of BBA Aviation Meggitt culture into focus just as the plc and Sappi Limited.
expectations of the Board are being raised in these areas under the UK Appointments in unlisted companies Corporate Governance Code.
NonExecutive Chairman of BGF PLC.
No current or previous appointments to Previous appointments disclose.
Chairman of Williams Holdings plc, Kidde plc, Heathrow Airport Holdings Limited formerly BAA Limited, The Boots Company, Pilkington PLC, Pendragon PLC, Invensys plc, Aquarius Platinum Limited and Destiny Pharma PLC.
Deputy Chairman of Barclays PLC and Non Executive Director of BAE Systems plc.
Meggitt PLC 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance 03 04 05 Guy Berruyer Louisa Burdett Colin Day Non-Executive Director Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Appointed: 2012 | Nationality: French Appointed: 2019 | Nationality: British Appointed: 2015 | Nationality: British Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Trained as an electrical engineer at Colin, a chartered certified accountant Louisa is a chartered accountant.
the cole Polytechnique Fdrale makes a significant contribution as She has held senior financial positions fide Lausanne and holds a Harvard Chairman of the Audit Committee, in industrial, manufacturing, publishing Business School MBA.
responsible for the interface between and pharmaceutical companies.
the Committee and the auditors and Guy brings his experience as a former internal audit.
He has more than 25 years Louisa brings solid financial, commercial Chief Executive of a FTSE 100 experience in senior roles and non and M&A experience across a broad multinational enterprise software executive positions at bluechip range of sectors, including aerospace, company to the Board.
He is also due to companies across a wide range of to the Board.
become Senior Independent Director in industries, including engineering and April 2019. technology, oil and gas and aerospace, Current appointments he brings significant commercial and NonExecutive Director and Chair of the Appointments in unlisted companies financial expertise to the Board.
Audit Committee of Electrocomponents Chairman of software engineering plc, a global distributor of industrial company Linaro Limited and Director Current appointments and electronic products.
of the French software and services NonExecutive Director of Euromoney company Berger Levrault.
Senior adviser International Investor PLC and Chair of Organisations to the European software team at their Audit Committee.
Member of the Institute of Chartered Warburg Pincus.
Accountants in England and Wales.
Appointments in Previous appointments Previous appointments unlisted companies Group Chief Executive of The Sage Chief Financial Officer of Victrex plc, NonExecutive Director of FM Global.
In Group plc and Chief Executive of Sage which provides innovative composite March 2018, Colin was named Non Group plcs Europe and Asia division.
polymer solutions to a variety of end Executive Director for the Department for Early career spent with software and markets, including aerospace.
CFO roles Environment, Food & Rural Affairs, hardware vendors in France and other with Optos plc, the Financial Times chairing their Audit and Risk Assurance European management roles.
Group, GE Healthcare and Chep Europe.
She also spent time in various roles at GlaxoSmithKline, including Finance Organisations Integration Director.
Independent member of the Council of Cranfield University.
Previous appointments Chief Executive of Essentra PLC, Chief Financial Officer of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, Group Finance Director of Aegis Group plc, NonExecutive Director of WPP plc, Easyjet plc, Imperial Tobacco Group plc, Cadbury plc and Senior Independent Director of Amec Foster Wheeler plc.
Meggitt PLC 77 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Board of Directors continued 06 07 08 Nancy Gioia Alison Goligher OBE Philip Green Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Executive Director, Commercial Appointed: 2017 | Nationality: American Appointed: 2014 | Nationality: British & Corporate Affairs Appointed: 2001 | Nationality: British Skills and experience Skills and experience An electrical engineer, Nancy brings Trained engineer and holds a MEng Skills and experience extensive engineering and operational Petroleum Engineering from HeriotWatt Fellow of the Institute of Chartered experience in manufacturing to the University.
Secretaries and Administrators and the Board.
Her role in the fast paced Institute of Directors.
Philip has nearly automotive manufacturing area gives Alison brings important energy sector 40 years experience across aerospace important perspective in Board experience with her background in oil and defence.
During his time at Meggitt, discussions about strategic initiatives, and gas, and she has a strong operations he has made a significant contribution to and she also has a keen interest in cyber focus and makes an excellent contribution the Group, leading activities relating to security.
Nancys prior roles also mean to strategic discussions.
Alison is commercial, contracts, legal, trade she understands the value of culture, becoming Chairman of the Remuneration compliance, ethics, risk and government diversity and inclusion and the Board Committee in April 2019. relations.
recently appointed her as Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Current appointments Organisations and as NonExecutive Director NonExecutive Director of United Utilities NonExecutive Director and Vice responsible for employee engagement.
Group PLC and United Utilities Water Chairman of Poole Hospital NHS Limited.
Foundation Trust since 25 April 2015 and Current appointments Chairman of their Audit and Governance NonExecutive Director of Brady Appointments in Committee since 1 December 2015.
Corporation and Chair of their Member of the GC100 and the Research unlisted companies Technology Committee.
and Innovation Advisory Board of Executive Chair of Silixa Limited, Leeds University Business School.
a provider of distributed fibre optic Appointments in monitoring solutions.
unlisted companies Previous appointments Executive Chairman of Blue Current, a Meggitts Company Secretary from Organisations privately held startup company focused 1994 to 2006, after 14 years at British Trustee of Edinburgh Business School, on battery technologies.
Principal of Aerospace in company secretarial roles.
Previous appointments Organisations Various roles at Royal Dutch Shell from Member of the University of Michigan 2006 to 2015, most recently, Executive Dearborn Electrical and Computer Vice President, Upstream International Engineering Advisory Council and Unconventionals.
Previously spent Engineering Deans Advisory Board.
17 years at Schlumberger, a supplier of technology, integrated project Previous appointments management and information solutions Held several key executive positions at to oil and gas customers worldwide.
Ford Motor Company during a 33 year career.
NonExecutive Director of Exelon Corporation, Chair of AutomotiveNEXT and Stanford University Alliance for Integrated Manufacturing.
Meggitt PLC 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance 09 10 11 Guy Hachey Paul Heiden Caroline Silver Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: 2019 | Nationality: Canadian Appointed: 2010 | Nationality: British Appointed: 2019 | Nationality: British Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Guy was president and Chief Operating Chartered accountant, with considerable Chartered accountant with significant Officer of Bombardier Aerospace from experience in senior executive and global investment banking experience April 2008 to his retirement in 2014. financial roles in aerospace.
specialising in financial institutions, financial technology and market Paul is retiring from the Board in infrastructure, and capital raising.
Guy is a NonExecutive Director of Hexcel Corporation and operating Current appointments partner at Advent International.
Current appointments Senior Managing Director at Moelis & Paul is Senior Independent Director and Company, a leading global independent Chairman of the Audit Committee of investment bank.
NonExecutive Previous appointments London Stock Exchange Group plc.
Chairman of FTSE 250 consumer Prior to his retirement from Bombardier, products group, PZ Cussons plc.
Guy had significant operational roles at NonExecutive Director of BUPA, the Delphi Corporation and General Motors Previous appointments global healthcare company, where she Corporation.
Chief Executive of FKI Plc, senior serves on their Audit, Remuneration and positions, including Director, Industrial Risk committees.
Business and Finance Director of RollsRoyce plc and senior financial positions with Peat Marwick, Mitchell Organisations and Co, Hanson Plc and Mercury Reappointed as Trustee of the Victoria Communications.
NonExecutive Director & Albert Museum in July 2018. of United Utilities Group PLC, Bunzl plc, Essentra PLC and NonExecutive Previous appointments Chairman of Talaris Topco Limited, Caroline was Vice Chairman of EMEA AGas Orb and LBshell plc.
Investment Banking at Bank of America Merrill Lynch and spent 14 years at Morgan Stanley where she held a number of senior positions including Global Vice Chairman of Investment Banking and European Head of Financial Institutions.
She started her career as a chartered accountant with .
Meggitt PLC 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
