Corporate governance report Leadership Our governance framework : Creating and delivering sustainable shareholder value Board of directors Retains full and effective control of the Group Reviews performance regularly: Membership: Sir Nigel Rudd and collectively responsible for its success: Sets the Groups values and standards: and Chairman, executive and Sets the Groups strategy, ensures appropriate Ensures obligations to shareholders, resources are in place to achieve the Groups employees and other stakeholders are met.
independent nonexecutive objectives: directors Chairman Senior Independent Director Chief Executive Sir Nigel Rudd Paul Heiden Tony Wood Leads the Board and sets the agenda: Makes himself available to shareholders if they Leads executive directors and the senior Ensures the Board is effective: have concerns which cannot be resolved executive team in the day to day running of Facilitates the contribution of nonexecutive through the normal channels: the Groups business: directors and oversees the relationship Chairman of the Nominations Committee when Ensures effective implementation of Board between them and the executive directors: it is considering the Chairman of the Boards decisions: and succession: Regularly reviews the strategic direction and Ensures there is an effective system for Appraises the Chairmans performance operational performance of the Groups communication with shareholders.
annually with the nonexecutive directors: and business: and Acts, if necessary, as a focal point and Keeps the Chairman informed on all important intermediary for the other directors.
Executive Directors Independent Non-Executive Directors Employee Engagement Tony Wood, Louisa Burdett and Philip Guy Berruyer, Colin Day, Nancy Gioia, Non-Executive Director Green Alison Goligher, Guy Hachey and Paul Nancy Gioia Responsible for successful delivery of the Engage with employees through a range of Heiden Groups objectives and strategy: and formal and informal channels: Constructively challenge management and Managing various functions and operations Acts as the conduit for employees to share scrutinise their performance: across the Group.
ideas and concerns with senior management Contribute to the development of the Groups and the Board: strategy: Ensure that employee policies and practices Monitor the Groups performance: Company Secretary are in line with the Groups purpose and Satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial Marina Thomas values and support the desired culture: and information and the effectiveness of financial Acts as secretary to the Board and its Regularly review ethics line reports.
controls and risk management: and Committees: Determine appropriate levels of remuneration Ensures compliance with Board procedures for executive directors and participate in the and advises on governance issues: selection and recruitment of new directors and Facilitates the induction process for new succession planning.
directors: and Ensures good information flow within the Board and between nonexecutive directors and senior management.
Accurate as at the date of signing the accounts.
Board Committees Management Committees Executive Committee Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Chief Executive and his direct reports The independent non-executive Two independent non-executive The most senior decisionmaking and supervisory directors directors and the executive group, responsible for overall management of the Determines the reward strategy for directors Group, driving its vision and strategy and ensuring the the executive directors and senior Oversight of ethics and business conduct, organisational culture leverages diversity, industry management, to align their interests with environmental, stakeholder engagement knowledge, global perspective and customer insight those of the shareholders.
and charity and community activity.
Commercial Committee Audit Finance Executive directors and Group Director, The independent non-executive The executive directors Approves treasuryrelated activity, Engineering & Strategy directors insurance and other matters delegated Reviews and approves bids and proposals of Monitors the integrity of the Groups by the Board.
Group significance and any other significant financial statements, the effectiveness of commercial activity.
the external and internal auditors, risk and internal control processes, tax and Technology Advisory Board treasury.
Group Director, Engineering & Strategy, Chief Technology Officer, between two and Nominations Disclosure four external members with backgrounds in Chairman and the independent The executive directors, Company technology or academia, Meggitt non-executive directors Secretary, and Vice President, engineering fellows and other appropriate Ensures the Board and senior Strategy & Investor Relations employees.
management team have the appropriate Discusses and approves all matters Providing advice on the direction and pace of skills, knowledge and experience to related to inside information under the technology road maps, increasing awareness of operate effectively and to deliver the market abuse regime.
disruptive technologies, business models or business Groups strategy.
trends and providing guidance on new areas and opportunities.
Meggitt PLC 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance 2018 Board activities Strategic priority Key Board activities in 2018 The 2019 budget.
Approve The 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, 2017 fullyear results and 2018 interim results announcement.
The April and October 2018 trading statements and July 2018 upgrade to revenue guidance.
The Groups new organisation structure announced in July 2018 effective 1 January 2019.
Recommendations to shareholders on the final dividend payment for the year ended 31 December 2017 and approval of the interim dividend payment for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Resolutions to be put to shareholders at the 2018 AGM, including that  LLP be reappointed as auditors of the Group for the 2018 financial year.
Terms of Reference for the Board Committees updated to reflect the 2018 Code available on www.
com and Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board.
The Groups risk appetite statement and risk register.
The conflicts of interest register for the Board and the Modern Slavery Statement.
The AntiCorruption Policy, Financial Crime Policy, Diversity and Inclusion Policy and Group Environmental Policy.
The appointment of new directors.
Since the year end, up to the date of the Annual Report, the Board has approved the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts, the 2018 fullyear results announcement and the proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018.
During the year, no unresolved concerns were recorded in the Boards minutes.
Detailed strategy session, including external input on market trends and review of the Reviews and updates Groups strategic plan.
Regular reports and a detailed presentation on health and safety and environment.
Regular reports on ethics and business conduct.
An update from investor relations and the joint corporate brokers.
An update from IT, and a focused review of cyber security.
Update on the Groups insurance arrangements.
Regular review of the Groups financial and nonfinancial dashboard.
Regular updates on the potential impacts of Brexit.
Divisional updates from Polymers & Composites, Control Systems and Services & Support.
Update on Group operations and procurement.
Trade Compliance, environmental and legal updates.
Engineering and technology updates and key programme status reports.
Detailed sessions on succession planning process and the output of that process covered by Nominations Committee.
Regular reports from executive management on operations, financial performance, risk, legal, commercial, ethics and compliance activity.
Detailed postacquisition report for the composites businesses acquired in 2015.
Product safety and regulatory compliance update.
Reports on internal control, viability and going concern and reports from its Committees.
Briefing sessions and planning for the implementation of the 2018 Code.
Governance updates including Modern Slavery, General Data Protection Regulation, supplier payment practices, Hampton AlexanderReview and gender pay.
In May 2018, the Board visited sites in the US including our engine composites site Visits and culture in San Diego, flow control site in North Hollywood and fire and safety systems site in Simi Valley.
In September 2018, the Board visited our Asian facilities in China and Vietnam.
During all of these visits, the Board received presentations about the sites and met a range of employees.
The Board also received a detailed presentation on our China strategy and opened the new expanded facility in Vietnam.
A number of our Board members also visited our Services & Support facility in Singapore, our Fribourg facility in Switzerland and our Meggitt Avionics site in Fareham, UK.
High performance culture, diversity and employee engagement reviews.
Meggitt PLC 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Corporate governance report continued AGM 2018 Sir Nigel Rudd, significant vote against At our AGM in 2018, 32% of shareholders voted against the reelection of Sir Nigel Rudd, our Chairman with 68% voting Chief Financial Officer for.
Immediately prior to the AGM, a voting recommendation against the Chairman was issued by ISS proxy advisors, on the Induction Process basis that he was also a Chairman of three other listed companies: BBA Aviation, Destiny Pharma and Sappi.
The company engaged with a number of leading shareholders to discuss overboarding concerns.
We also contacted shareholders in May 2018 to offer meetings with the Chairman and again in early 2019 to discuss this topic.
Subsequently, the Senior Independent Director has reviewed the position on behalf of the Board.
This review has concluded that Sir Nigel has an excellent track record as the Chairman of Meggitt, reflecting his extensive experience chairing significant and complex global companies.
The Board of Directors is completely satisfied that Sir Nigel has sufficient capacity to dedicate the appropriate amount of time to Meggitt as required.
This was evident to the Board during the seamless transition of Chief Executive in 2018, in which Sir Nigel played Key induction events a critical role.
Sir Nigel continues to provide excellent leadership Comprehensive two month handover with the outgoing of the Board and his skill set, experience and knowledge remain CFO: Tours of sites in Europe and the US including the new of significant value to the Board.
site at Ansty Park: Sir Nigel also reviewed his own portfolio of appointments Individual meetings with the Chairman and other during the year, and subsequently retired from the Board of directors: Destiny Pharma, as announced in September 2018.
Individual meetings with members of the Executive Committee and other senior executives: The Board is on this basis recommending to shareholders that Meetings with brokers and other advisers: and they vote for the reelection of Sir Nigel Rudd at the 2019 AGM.
High performance culture unfreezing briefing.
Louisa was provided with access to our electronic Board Effectiveness paper system and the Group intranet which provided easy Composition and immediate access to the following key documents: The Board considers it has a good balance of executive and nonexecutive directors, is of an appropriate size and has the The Groups risk register: independence, skills, experience and knowledge to enable the Our 2018 budget: directors to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities Strategic priorities including the ten year plan: effectively.
Recent broker reports and feedback from shareholder engagement: and All nonexecutive directors are considered independent under Recent reports from the external auditor, PwC.
the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the 2016 Code.
Find out more online at Board Committee disclosures: All nonexecutive directors are members of the Audit, www.
com Remuneration and Nominations Committees on appointment.
Chairmanship of Committees is considered during discussions on composition and succession.
The letters of appointment for the Chairman and No one other than Committee chairs and members are nonexecutive directors set out the time they are expected entitled to attend the meetings, although others can be to commit to Meggitt.
The Chairman and nonexecutive directors undertake The Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees appointments in other listed and nonlisted companies, which written terms of reference were reviewed and updated in are declared on pages 76 to 79.
The other external 2018 by the Board and are available on the investor section of commitments of the Board members do not impact the time our website.
they can spend on Meggitt, and in fact the experience gained All Committee chairs report verbally on the proceedings of on other company boards is considered of benefit to Board their Committee at the next meeting of the Board when discussions in many areas.
members of the Board are present who were not in Additional appointments by the Chairman require the attendance at the Committee meetings.
Where appropriate, approval of the Board.
Appointments of nonexecutive the Committee chairs make recommendations to the Board directors require the approval of the Chairman.
The Board has reviewed overboarding guidance in the 2018 Code and in guidelines set out by institutional shareholder Further details of the composition and activities of these advisory organisations, and considers these when discussing Committees are set out in the separate Committee reports.
During 2018, the Chairman and nonexecutive directors Appointments and time commitment attended all scheduled Board meetings except for Colin Day There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the who missed a scheduled meeting held in December 2018 appointment of new directors.
Full details of the process for owing to a personal leave of absence.
The Board also visited appointments made during the year are available in the Meggitt sites in China and Vietnam and in the USA in San Nominations Committee report set out on page 90.
The Diego, North Hollywood and Simi Valley.
appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board.
Meggitt PLC 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance The Chairman independently visited our Fribourg site in Switzerland.
The Chairman had regular meetings with the Chief Executive and attended shareholder meetings about Board evaluation governance and represented Meggitt and our interests at other events.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director have reviewed the time commitment of the Chairman and In order to evaluate its own effectiveness, the Board nonexecutive directors in 2018 and consider they have undertakes annual effectiveness reviews using a devoted an appropriate amount of time to Meggitt for the combination of independent externally facilitated and activities and issues that arose during the year.
internally run evaluations over a threeyear cycle.
Development The Chairman agrees a personalised approach to the training November 2018 and development of each director and reviews this regularly.
Internal Board evaluation planning by the Chairman and The Company Secretary, who facilitates the induction of new Company Secretary.
directors and assists with professional development where required, continues to enhance the induction process following The questionnaires were reviewed to take account of the feedback from directors.
Directors are encouraged to update their skills regularly and their training needs are assessed as part of the Board evaluation December 2018 January 2019 process.
Their knowledge and familiarity with the Group is Questionnaires issued to the Board, Committees and facilitated by access to senior management, reports on the other regular attendees.
Resources are available to all directors to develop and update their knowledge and capabilities.
The Board effectiveness questionnaire posed questions in the following areas ranked on a scale of 1 to 3 with space Information and support for comments : The Chairman is responsible for ensuring directors receive How well the strategy process works and the Boards accurate, timely and clear information and is satisfied that understanding of the core business and markets.
effective communication, principally by the Chief Executive To what extent Board meetings are engaging with and Chief Financial Officer, is undertaken with shareholders.
high quality discussion and open debate and whether all Board members contribute to discussions and The Board is supplied with the information it needs to discharge work together well.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring Whether the skills and experience on the Board are good information flows within the Board and Committees and appropriate.
between senior management and nonexecutive directors.
The How the Board responds to challenges.
Board members have regular discussions about their information Whether the Chairmans leadership style and tone is and support requirements and discuss the effectiveness of the effective and how he works with the Chief Executive.
annual Board schedule during the Board evaluation.
Whether the Company Secretary is performing effectively.
All directors have had access to the advice and services of the Whether the Board schedule and papers are Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for advising appropriate.
If the recruitment and induction processes are working well.
The Board allows all directors to take external independent Whether risk management is undertaken appropriately.
professional advice at the Groups expense.
If succession planning is working well.
February 2019 A detailed discussion is held by the Board on their responses to the questionnaire and resulting actions are agreed.
The Senior Independent Director met with the nonexecutive directors to assess the performance of the Chairman and the Chairman held regular meetings with nonexecutive directors without the executive directors present where the performance of executive management was discussed.
Find out more online at www.
com Meggitt PLC 83 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Corporate governance report continued Investor relations activity, 2018 highlights February 2018 August 2018 The preliminary results presentation took place on 27 February and The interim results presentation took place on 7 August and included an overview of the 2017 full year financial performance of included an overview of the first six months financial the business.
This was presented by Tony Wood and Doug Webb.
performance of the business in 2018.
At this presentation, we provided guidance on the outlook for the business in 2018 and covered progress made against strategy Following this, investor roadshows took place in the UK London in 2017 and the mediumterm goals for the Group.
Investor and Edinburgh, Europe Frankfurt and the US East and roadshows took place in the UK London and US East and West West Coast.
Coast immediately following the preliminary results presentation.
April 2018 October 2018 We engaged with our top 20 shareholders and proxy advisors, On 16 October, we further increased our expectation for full ISS Institutional Shareholder Services, IVIS Institutional Voting year revenue growth and reconfirmed guidance for underlying Information Service of the Investment Association and Glass operating margin.
This followed stronger than anticipated Lewis, before and after the AGM.
In particular we discussed growth across the civil aftermarket and defence end markets.
overboarding concerns around the Chairman.
See page 82 for commentary about the 2018 AGM vote result on the reelection of the Chairman.
Following this, investor roadshows took place in Geneva and Zurich.
July 2018 November 2018 On 2 July, we updated the market on our expectation for full In November, we hosted a visit to our site in Fribourg, year revenue following stronger than anticipated growth across Switzerland to give a deeper understanding around the civil aftermarket, defence and energy end markets.
our energy business, and experience what the High Performance Culture programme has enabled the site On the same day, it was announced that the current structure to achieve.
of the business would be replaced by four customeraligned divisions effective from 1 January 2019.
At the Farnborough International Airshow, a number of investors met with management at the Meggitt chalet, showcasing our marketleading technology and discussing the upgrade to revenue guidance and the newly announced organisational structure.
December 2018 On 10 December, we hosted an audio webcast teachin session for the sellside community to learn more about the new organisational structure announced in July.
Following this, we held investor meetings in Paris.
Meggitt PLC 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance published by the UK PreEmption Group.
The Board have Board evaluation in 2018 considered shareholder feedback on this topic but continue to In 2018, the Board evaluated its own effectiveness, together with the effectiveness of the Chairman, individual directors, its believe that, in order for the Board to have full strategic flexibility where acquisitions and capital investments are concerned, Committees, auditors and remuneration advisers.
The process is it continues to be appropriate to request this authority from described on page 83.
The evaluation was carried out by way of shareholders.
In asking shareholders to approve this additional questionnaire with open and closed questions, with follow up authority, the directors confirm that they intend to adhere to the questions asked for clarity if needed.
requirements set out in the Statement of Principles.
to adopt revised articles in order to update Meggitts current Overall, the evaluation was positive, with progress noted in articles.
Full details of the proposed amendments can be found Board succession, including improving the gender diversity of the in the Notice of AGM which, along with a copy of the proposed Board with the appointment of Louisa Burdett as Chief Financial revised articles, are available at the Companys registered office Officer and Caroline Silver as a NonExecutive Director.
Another highlight was the selection of Guy Hachey as NonExecutive prior to the AGM and on the Companys website at www.
Director, increasing the Boards domain knowledge in aerospace and defence.
Areas for improvement in 2019 included making All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM sure that the 2019 agenda planner dedicated sufficient time for after their appointment.
After that, all directors are subject to presentations during Board visits, continuing evolution of the risk management process and increasing the amount of customer reelection annually to comply with the 2016 Code.
All directors in office at the date of the AGM will be subject to reelection.
satisfaction data visible to the Board.
The evaluation also highlighted the importance for Board members to experience high performance culture sessions to add to their existing 2018 Code knowledge of the Meggitt culture gained from site visits.
The Board received detailed briefing sessions on the 2018 Code and has discussed how the 2018 Code will be implemented in Relations with shareholders 2019, the most significant action point being the appointment of Nancy Gioia as NonExecutive Director responsible for The Board communicates with private investors via direct employee engagement for details of 2019 activities see communication with the Company Secretary and the Vice page 62 and ensuring continued focus on stakeholder duties President, Strategy & Investor Relations and content distributed already contained in the Companies Act 2006. or made available on the investor relations section of our website and at the AGM see below.
Statement of compliance Effective communication with fund managers, institutional Throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2018 and to investors and analysts about the Groups strategy, performance the date of this Annual Report, we have complied with the and policies is promoted by meetings involving, principally, the provisions set out in the 2016 Code published by the Financial Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
The Board receives Reporting Council.
The Group has applied all the main and and discusses reports from the Chief Executive and Chief supporting principles set out in the 2016 Code and explanations Financial Officer, the Vice President, Strategy & Investor are included in this report and in the Audit Committee, Relations and the Groups brokers on the views of shareholders.
Nominations Committee and the Directors remuneration The Chairman and other nonexecutive directors are available to reports.
The information required under Rule 7.2.
6 of the attend meetings with shareholders.
Directors understanding of Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules is located in the major shareholders views is enhanced by reports from the Directors report.
Vice President, Strategy & Investor Relations, our brokers and attending analysts briefings.
Analysts notes on the Group are made available to all directors during the year.
By order of the Board Shareholder documents We provide annual reports and other documents to shareholders in their elected format under the electronic communications provisions approved by shareholders at our AGM in 2007.
Electronic copies of this Annual Report and Accounts and the Notice of AGM M L Thomas will be posted on our website, with announcements, press releases Company Secretary and other investor information, including an analysis of ordinary 25 February 2019 shareholders by size of holdings and shareholder type.
Annual General Meeting At the AGM to be held on 25 April 2019, in addition to the routine business, shareholder consent will be sought for resolutions which give the Company authority to: convene general meetings on 14 clear days notice in accordance with the Articles on the terms set out in the Notice of Meeting.
The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine for such meetings, but only where timesensitive matters are to be discussed and where merited in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
The directors also intend to follow other best practice recommendations as regards this authoritys use.
to disapply preemption rights for up to 10% of issued share capital in accordance with the latest guidance from the UK PreEmption Group.
The first resolution will seek authorisation for 5% of the issued share capital to be issued without application of preemption rights.
The second resolution seeks authority for an additional 5% of the issued share capital to be used for an acquisition or a specified capital investment of a kind contemplated by the Statement of Principles most recently Meggitt PLC 85 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
