CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED FIGURE 5: PRINCIPAL BOARD ACTIVITIES STRATEGIC PRINCIPAL STRATEGY AND BUSINESS PLANS GOALS RISKS Monitored progress against the Groups overall strategic objectives and 1 2 3 4 1 2 goals re-affirmed during the financial year, including the long-term business plan and annual budget for each operating division and the Group as a whole AR Refer to Our Strategy, Progress and Aims from page 14.
Considered requests for approval of investments and business 2 3 1 2 3 6 7 development transactions of a size that require Board approval, such as expanding Mediclinic Airport Road and building a hospital in Madinat Zayed both in Abu Dhabi and the acquisition of Hirslanden Klinik Linde Switzerland Considered options regarding the Groups investment in Spire, including the proposed acquisition of Spire Discussed other potential opportunities for growth and cooperation in new jurisdictions AR Refer to the Divisional Reviews from page 52 and the Chief Executive Officer's Review from page 20.
OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE Discussed regular reports from the CEO on the operating performance 1 2 3 4 2 3 4 5 6 7 of the Groups divisions, central functions and the Groups investment in Spire Received in-depth reviews of each division from the divisional CEOs Discussed initiatives being undertaken to counter declines in tariffs and volumes and to drive greater cost efficiencies AR Refer to the Chief Executive Officers Review from page 20, the Divisional Reviews from page 52.
CLINICAL PERFORMANCE Discussed regular reports from the Chief Clinical Officer and the Clinical 1 2 4 5 6 7 Performance and the Sustainability Committee, on matters such as clinical indicators for patient safety, clinical effectiveness and clinical cost efficiency, accreditation of doctors and facilities, implementation of clinical information systems and clinical governance matters across the Group AR Refer to the Clinical Services Overview from page 34.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE, REPORTING, TAX STRATEGY AND DIVIDEND POLICY Discussed regular reports from the CFO on the actual and forecast 2 3 1 2 financial performance of each division and the Group as a whole Reviewed and approved the half-year and full-year trading updates, the interim financial report, the Annual Report and the corresponding results announcement and investor presentations, with support from the Disclosure Committee, as appropriate Considered the capital structure and financing options for Hirslanden and approved the refinancing structure implemented during FY18 Reviewed and adopted a Group tax strategy Considered and approved decisions regarding the interim and final dividends paid during FY18, taking account of the Companys dividend policy and previous dividends paid AR Refer to the Financial Review from page 24.
98 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FIGURE 5: PRINCIPAL BOARD ACTIVITIES continued STRATEGIC PRINCIPAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS GOALS RISKS Reviewed bi-annual feedback provided by the Group Risk Manager on 2 3 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 the Groups risk appetite, risk management framework, internal control systems, and statutory and regulatory compliance Reviewed the going concern and long-term viability statements, based on the principal risks and uncertainties for the Group Conducted a robust assessment of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties and mitigating actions Conducted a robust assessment of the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems and risk management processes Monitored progress on the establishment of an in-house internal audit function, to transition away from the outsourcing arrangement with Remgro, the Companys principal shareholder AR Refer to the report on Risk Management, Principal Risks and Uncertainties from page 44 and the Audit and Risk Committee Report from page 120.
ICT Considered regular reports from the Chief Information Officer 2 3 3 4 Received updates on the Groups ICT infrastructure, strategy, risks, potential impact, existing controls, and mitigants and proposed enhancements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Considered developments in corporate governance and disclosure 1 2 3 1 3 5 requirements resulting from the reviews conducted by the UK Government, the Department of Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy and proposals to update the UK Corporate Governance Code Considered the feedback from the Hampton Alexander and Parker reviews, and enhanced existing policies and succession planning arrangements to improve the diversity of the Board, the senior management team and their direct reports Reviewed and approved the Companys updated Modern Slavery Act statement Considered feedback: from the Audit and Risk Committee in respect of tax and non-audit services disclosures: from the Remuneration Committee in relation to executive remuneration: and from the Nomination Committee in relation to diversity, the appointment of a new CEO and the appointment of new non-executive directors The Board reviewed and approved all Group policies and procedures, including in relation to: Board Charter and committees terms of reference authority levels and matters reserved for the Board business conduct and ethics anti-bribery sustainable development and environment Board diversity EU Market Abuse Regulation code of practice for dealing in the Company securities internal audit mandate treasury policy and procedures tax strategy MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 99 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED FIGURE 5: PRINCIPAL BOARD ACTIVITIES continued STRATEGIC PRINCIPAL SUSTAINABILITY GOALS RISKS Considered the feedback from the Clinical Performance and 2 3 4 1 2 3 6 7 Sustainability Committee on sustainability matters after each committee meeting Monitored the broad-based black economic empowerment initiatives being undertaken by the Group in South Africa AR Refer to the Clinical Performance and Sustainability Committee Report from page 116.
LEADERSHIP Considered the recommendations of the Nomination Committee 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 regarding the composition of the Board and its committees and potential candidates to fill the vacancies identified, and approved: the appointment of two new female independent non-executive directors with different backgrounds, skills and experience to broaden the diversity and refresh the Boards composition: the appointment of Dr Van der Merwe to succeed Mr Meintjes as CEO after a robust selection process: and the proposed continued involvement of Mr Meintjes in the Company as an executive director until 31 July 2018 and as a non-executive director from 1 August 2018, in view of the wealth of knowledge and experience he will continue to offer to the Group Reviewed the outcomes and agreed actions after the externally facilitated evaluation of the composition, structure and functioning of the Board AR Refer to the Nomination Committee Report from page 112 and the section regarding the Board evaluation on page 102.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Mediclinics network of stakeholders is vital to building a successful and sustainable business AR Refer to the Stakeholder Interest and Board Engagement section further below.
The following changes to the Board will take place after the BOARD COMPOSITION AND DIVERSITY publication of this Annual Report: The delivery of the Companys long-term strategy depends Dr Van der Merwe will succeed Mr Meintjes as CEO and on attracting and retaining the right skills across the Group, is appointed a director of the Company with effect from starting with the Board, as well as the executive management 1 June 2018: team, and their direct reports.
A list of the Companys current directors, including their biographies, who were in office subject to his re-election as a director at the Companys during the year and up to the date of signing the financial 2018 AGM, Mr Meintjes will continue to serve as an AR statements, can be found on pages 86 to 89 and page 96. executive director until 31 July 2018 and as a nonexecutive director with effect from 1 August 2018: and As at 31 March 2018 and as at the date of this Annual Ms Mandela and Prof Dr Leu will retire as directors of the Report, the Board comprised the non-executive Chairman, Company at the end of the AGM.
a non-executive director, eight independent non-executive directors, and two executive directors from wide-ranging The Companys Chairman, Dr Hertzog, is not considered backgrounds and with varying industry and professional to be an independent director given his involvement as experience.
The Company complies with the Codes Chief Executive of Mediclinic International Limited until his recommendation that at least half the Board should be appointment as Chairman in 1992 and his position as nonindependent.
executive Deputy Chairman of Remgro Limited, the principal 100 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT shareholder of the Company.
Nonetheless, given his in-depth The Boards diversity policy statement is set out on AR industry knowledge and experience, the Board considers it in page 113 to 114.
For details on the diversity of the Group, the best interests of the Company that he serves as Chairman.
including a breakdown by gender, age and race only for South Africa on the Board and senior management roles, AR Mr Meintjes would also not meet the criteria to be considered see the section on Employees on pages 109 to 110.
Figure an independent non-executive director.
The Board considered 6 provides an overview of the Boards composition and his proposed appointment as a non-executive director diversity in terms of gender and experience.
and, after careful deliberation, concluded his appointment is in the best interests of the Group, its shareholders and FIGURE 6: BOARD COMPOSITION AND DIVERSITY other stakeholders, taking into account the knowledge and experience of the industry and the business that Mr Meintjes Financial services has developed over 30 years in different capacities across the accounting, business, and the overall composition of the Board.
banking, insurance Mediclinic recognises the importance and benefits of having Healthcare 5% a diverse Board, and believes that diversity at Board level is 5% 5% an essential element in maintaining a competitive advantage.
Technology The Board considers that diversity is not limited to gender 11% and that a diverse Board will include and make good use of 32% Academia differences in the skills, geographic and industry experience, 10% background, race, gender and other characteristics of directors.
Infrastructure 32% The Board seeks to construct an effective, robust, well Industrials balanced and complementary Board, whose capability Industry sector experience is appropriate for the nature, complexity and strategic demands of the business.
The Nomination Committee leads Consumer goods the process for Board appointments as further detailed in AR the Nomination Committee Report.
The Board and the Nomination Committee actively consider the structure, size and composition of the Board and its committees when 17% contemplating new appointments and succession planning Independent non-executive for the year ahead.
A range of diversity factors are taken directors into account in determining the optimum composition of the Non-executive directors 17% Board and its committees, together with the need to balance 66% their composition and refresh this progressively over time.
Executive directors The Companys non-executive directors come from a wide range of industries, backgrounds and geographic locations and have appropriate experience of organisations with Composition international reach.
The skills and expertise of the Board have been extended and reinforced through the appointment of Drs Al Hashimi and Harvey.
Nevertheless, the Nomination Committee will continue to consider and develop succession plans for the Board and its committees.
No quota regarding 25% gender balance has been set.
However, the Nomination Committee and Board remain committed to ensuring that the Male business benefits from a diverse Board.
Accordingly, when considering Board appointments and internal promotions at Female senior level, the Company will continue to take account of relevant voluntary guidelines and the performance of peer 75% companies in fulfilling their role regarding diversity, while seeking to ensure that each post is offered strictly on merit Gender to the best available candidate.
MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 101 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED The relationships and dynamics between members of EVALUATION OF THE BOARD, the Board were reviewed, and the atmosphere during COMMITTEES AND CHAIRMAN meetings was assessed.
During the year under review, the Board conducted an The management and focus of the Board meetings were external evaluation to review performance and effectiveness considered, and Board members identified areas which of the Board as a whole, the Board committees and the they felt that either too much or too little time is spent.
The evaluation process was conducted by way of The performance of the Board in overseeing strategy, externally facilitated questionnaires and discussions with the risk, human resources and management succession was Chairman of the Board and each committee.
The results of addressed, and the top strategic issues facing Mediclinic the evaluation of the Board committees were considered by were identified by the directors.
the relevant committee prior to their presentation, together The members of the Board also identified the top with all other evaluations, for discussion at the Board priorities for improving the Boards performance over the meeting held in March 2018. coming year.
The performance of the Chairman and each of the Board The Company will continue to conduct an externally committees was reviewed.
facilitated performance evaluation every three years, and internal self-evaluations in the intervening years.
In addition to these core aspects of Board performance, the review involved a case study on a recent transaction, Mediclinic engaged Lintstock to facilitate an evaluation to enable the Board to draw lessons from the process.
The of the performance of the Board, the Chairman and its output of the review was discussed at a subsequent Board committees.
Lintstock is an advisory firm that specialises meeting in March 2018 and, as a result of the exercise, the in Board reviews, and provides no other services to the Board agreed to prioritise an ongoing focus on clinical quality Company.
The first stage of the review involved Lintstock and outcomes, devote further time to strategic matters and engaging with the Chairmen of the Board and the various continue to support the new CEO in settling into the role.
Board committees and the Company Secretary to set the context for the evaluation and determine the scope of the There was a separate evaluation of the individual performance evaluation, having regard to the specific circumstances of of the directors and their independence undertaken by the Mediclinic.
All Board members were invited to complete a Nomination Committee and discussed by the Board.
set of online surveys addressing the performance of the Board, the Chairman and the committees.
The anonymity STAKEHOLDER INTEREST AND of the respondents was ensured throughout the process in BOARD ENGAGEMENT order to promote an open and frank exchange of views.
Mediclinic recognises its accountability to its stakeholders.
Lintstock subsequently produced a report addressing the Effective communication with stakeholders, not just at Board following areas of performance: level but across the whole Group, is fundamental in maintaining Mediclinics corporate reputation as a trusted and respected The composition of the Board was reviewed and provider of healthcare services, and positioning itself as a directors provided their views on key changes that ought leading international private healthcare group.
The Groups to be made to the Boards profile over the next three to key stakeholders, methods of engagement, topics discussed five years to match the Companys strategy.
SDR or concerns raised are outlined further in the Sustainable The Boards understanding of the shareholders, Development Report, available on the Companys website at employees, doctors and patients was assessed, as was www.
the directors knowledge of the markets in which the Company operates and the regulatory environment.
102 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT WHY THEY ARE IMPORTANT HOW THE BOARD HAS STAKEHOLDERS TO US ENGAGED Patients Patients lie at the heart of Mediclinics Regular reviews of clinical performance core purpose, strategy and objectives.
indicators and their evolution over time The long-term success of the Group is Review of patient experience index built on its ability to understand and serve and implementation of resulting action patients needs.
plans Shareholders Shareholder support and engagement Considered investors views and is critical to the delivery of Mediclinics feedback long-term strategy and the business Through the executive directors, sought sustainability.
to increase the amount and quality of engagement with shareholders, to Mediclinics ownership structure allows continue to develop their understanding management and the Board to adopt a of investors views long-term approach to value creation, Consultation regarding key developments consistent with the nature of the business.
Attendance by Dr Hertzog at annual and half-yearly results presentations People Mediclinics ability to provide Review of annual employee engagement comprehensive, high-quality healthcare surveys and implementation of resulting and be regarded as the most respected action plans and trusted provider of healthcare Monitoring of remuneration services depends on attracting and arrangements across the Group retaining suitably qualified healthcare Regular communications through professionals and other employees.
management briefings, internal announcements Regulators Mediclinic can only operate with the Encourages a constructive dialogue with approval of its regulators, who have a the Groups regulators legitimate interest in how the Group runs Monitors clinical, regulatory and its business and treats its patients.
legal compliance through regular management reports Healthcare funders Government and private sector funders Regularly reviews the clinical of healthcare services are critical to performance indicators across the Mediclinics success.
Group Encourages the development and Mediclinic aims to demonstrate to funders publication of clinical performance that it provides high-quality, effective and information efficient services.
Encourage a constructive dialogue with the Groups healthcare funders Suppliers To deliver its services, Mediclinic depends Review and approval of the Companys on a large and diverse range of suppliers.
arrangements regarding modern slavery Payment practices and performance reporting in the UK MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 103 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED The Group receives regular feedback from investors which is Shareholder engagement appreciated by the Board.
This year the Group formalised the Responsibility for shareholder relations rests with the investor feedback and perception study process.
QuantiFire, Chairman, CEO, CFO, SID and Head of Investor Relations.
on behalf of the Group, collects feedback and confidence Collectively, but mainly through the CEO, CFO and Head of AR measures from investors and presents these results on a Investor Relations, as referred to on page 93, they ensure quarterly basis in addition to carrying out a detailed annual that there is effective, regular and clear communication with perception study exercise that commenced around year-end.
shareholders on matters such as operational performance, Shareholders can access details of the Groups results and regulatory changes, governance and strategy.
In addition, other news releases through the LSEs Regulatory News they are responsible for ensuring that the Board understands Service and the Johannesburg Stock Exchange News the views of shareholders on matters such as governance Service.
In addition, the Group publishes the announcements and strategy.
The Board is supported by the Companys in the Investor Relations section of the Groups website at corporate brokers with whom it is in constant dialogue.
Shareholders and other interested Disclosure Committee assists the Board to ensure the timely parties can subscribe to email news updates by registering and accurate disclosure of all information that is required to on the website.
be so disclosed to meet the legal and regulatory obligations and requirements arising from its listing on the LSE.
The Group continually looks for ways to improve its use During the year, the investor relations programme included of online channels to communicate with our stakeholders regular communication with the capital markets including through the corporate website and webcasting.
Currently investor meetings, attendance at investor conferences, the Group is investing in a new corporate website which will roadshows, presentations, site visits and ad hoc events enhance accessibility to information and user experience.
with investors, sell-side analysts and sales teams.
Members of the Board, senior management and investor relations ACCOUNTABILITY department met with over 200 institutions and participated Internal controls and risk management in some 20 roadshows, investor conferences and ad hoc The Group has comprehensive risk management and internal capital market events across the UK, Continental Europe, control systems in place.
These systems are designed to South Africa and North America.
A breakdown of the fund identify and appropriately mitigate the principal risks of manager style and geographic holdings as at year end are the business and ensure the accuracy and reliability of the provided in Figures 7 and 8 respectively.
Groups financial reporting, while facilitating the delivery In June 2018, the Group will host a Capital Markets Day and sustainability of the Group financial, operational and and site visit for investors and analysts in Switzerland.
Several Executive Committee members will be presenting The Board is responsible for reviewing and confirming the at the event including the Groups newly appointed CEO, effectiveness of risk management and internal controls Dr Van der Merwe, with all presentations available to view operated by the Group.
This includes all material controls, via a live webcast on the Groups website.
FIGURE 7: STYLE OF FUND MANAGER BREAKDOWN FIGURE 8: GEOGRAPHIC HOLDING Corporate Rest of Africa 4% GARP 6% UK 6% Growth 43% 30% 8% North America 45% Retail 13% Western Europe and Nordic Index 14% 24% 10% Other 1% Value and growth 2% Remgro South Africa Other 104 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT including financial, operational and compliance controls.
The Ethics and compliance Board has delegated to the Audit and Risk Committee the Conducting business in an honest, fair and legal manner is a tasks of evaluating the Groups risk management procedures, fundamental guiding principle in Mediclinic, which is actively assessing the effectiveness of the internal controls and endorsed by the Board and management, ensuring that the monitoring the integrity of the Groups reporting, but highest ethical standards are maintained in all our dealings maintains strong and regular oversight of the outcome of with stakeholders.
The Groups commitment to ethical the Audit and Risk Committees work.
standards is set out in the Groups values, and is supported The key features of the Groups internal control systems by the Companys Code of Business Conduct and Ethics include clearly defined delegations of authority and the Ethics Code which is available on the website at lines of accountability: policies and procedures covering www.
The Ethics Code provides a framework the management of the Groups financial resources, the of the standards of business conduct and ethics that are preparation of financial reports, governance of key projects required of all business divisions, directors and employees and security of information and communications technology: within the Group in order to promote and enforce ethical periodic checks conducted by the Internal Audit function: business practices and standards throughout the Group.
The representation letters from the divisional CEOs regarding Ethics Code is available to all staff and communicated to the key risks and mitigating actions for their division: and new employees as part of the on-boarding process.
review of the disclosures within the annual, half-yearly report Compliance with relevant laws, regulations, accepted standards and other price-sensitive reports by the divisional CEOs and or codes is integral to the Groups risk management process CFOs and the Group senior management team as relevant, and is monitored in accordance with the terms of the Groups as well as the Audit and Risk Committee and the Board, to Regulatory Compliance Policy.
ensure that they fulfil the relevant requirements.
Slavery and human trafficking The Groups governance structure for risk management is illustrated in Figure 9 below.
The Board has considered and approved the Companys updated slavery and human trafficking statement FIGURE 9: GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE OF RISK for the year under review, as required in terms of the MANAGEMENT Modern Slavery Act 2015.
The updated statement reflects Board of Responsible for our the steps taken by the Group to enhance its internal Directors system of corporate processes and due diligence of suppliers to prevent slavery governance, strategy, and human trafficking and demonstrate its commitment to risk management and this objective.
A link to the Companys slavery and human financial performance trafficking statement can be found on the home page of the Companys website at www.
Audit Responsible for and Risk reviewing and approving Committee the adequacy and Fraud and corruption effectiveness of our risk The Group adopts a zero-tolerance policy to unethical management and internal business conduct, in particular fraud and corruption, which controls is addressed in the Groups Ethics Code and the Anti-bribery AR Senior Supports the CEO in Policy.
Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report on management managing the Groups page 128 for an overview of the Groups approach to fraud team business and activities and corruption.
Operating Responsible for Competition laws divisions identifying, assessing, implementing and The Group supports and adheres to the relevant competition managing risks within and anti-trust laws applicable in the various countries in their businesses which the Group operates.
These laws are complex and the Group has issued guidelines to its employees on competition law compliance within their relevant jurisdiction, which are A review of the Groups risk management approach and AR reviewed and updated at least annually.
internal control systems is further discussed in the Strategic Report on pages 44 to 49.
For detail on the management The South African Competition Commission is continuing and mitigation of each principal risk see pages 44 to 48.
The its market inquiry into the private healthcare sector in South Groups viability statement is detailed on pages 50 and 51.
Mediclinic is participating in the inquiry, with the Please refer to pages 120 to 129 for further detail in relation assistance of expert competition attorneys and advocates to the Audit and Risk Committees role.
MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 105 Accountability for monitoring Responsibility for implementing CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED who guide Mediclinic through the process, as referred to in the The Groups risk management system is used to capture and AR Divisional Review of Mediclinic Southern Africa on page 58. track all ICT risks, audit findings, actions and responsibilities.
No legal action for anti-competitive, anti-trust or similar Mediclinic employs a wide range of technology capabilities conduct was instituted against the Group during the year to safeguard its ICT installation, its ICT users and connections under review.
to other external ICT systems to ensure business continuity.
Information security policies and controls are in place Information and communications throughout the Group regulating, inter alia, the processing, technology governance use and protection of own, personal and third-party Mediclinic has an extensive information and communications information.
This is further entrenched through ongoing user technology ICT environment that acts as an enabler of training, security awareness programmes and certification its business strategies and operations.
The core business courses in information security.
Flows of personal data across information systems cover clinical processes, revenue cycle country borders are dealt through formal arrangements in management and patient administration.
The SAP ERP backline with country-specific legislation.
There were no material office systems support, inter alia, the finance, accounting, information security or data privacy incidents during the human resources management and procurement functions.
An enterprise data warehouse enables advanced analytics activities, as well as providing data for decision support.
DIRECTORS Lastly, an extensive office automation environment exists Appointment, removal and tenure which enables both on-premise and mobile working, as well The rules relating to the appointment and removal of as collaboration and communication within and across the directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
A global network enables data flows and communication between the Groups operating Non-executive directors are appointed for a term of three divisions.
Major ICT-related projects in the pipeline, which years, subject to earlier termination, including provision for include various SAP projects, an electronic health record early termination by either the Company or the non-executive system and the introduction of a global HR system.
director on three months notice.
All non-executive directors ICT governance is done in context of the Groups overall serve on the basis of letters of appointment, which are available corporate governance and specifically the Groups risk for inspection at the Companys registered office.
The letters of management structures and processes.
Central to ICT appointment set out the time commitment expected of nongovernance is the Groups ICT Steering Committee, and executive directors who, on appointment, undertake that they various ICT architecture management committees at will have sufficient time to meet their requirements.
The ICT Steering Committee is a Induction and training sub-committee of Companys Executive Committee, and membership consists of the Groups Chief Information The Chairman, with the support of the Company Secretary, Officers CIOs, various Group ICT architects, and key is responsible for the induction of new directors and ongoing functions such as risk management, finance and the development of all directors.
This committee Upon appointment, all directors are provided with training in focuses on collaboration, standardisation and synergies respect of their legal, regulatory and governance responsibilities across the various ICT entities in the Group by way of: and obligations in accordance with the UK regulatory regime.
establishing ICT reference architectures and standards: The induction includes face-to-face meetings with executive setting information security-related policies and standards: management and operational site visits to orientate and familiarise the new directors with Mediclinics industry, developing and reviewing ICT risk profiles: and organisation, business, strategy, commercial objectives and key providing assurance regarding information and risks.
Drs Al Hashimi and Harvey were appointed during the cybersecurity, data protection and privacy, as well as year under review and are each undertaking a comprehensive access control, change management and disaster recovery.
Board induction programme tailored to their individual needs The ICT Steering Committee is supported by the Groups and requirements.
Information Security Architecture Committee, consisting The training needs of the directors are periodically of the information security officers of the Group and the discussed at Board meetings and briefings are arranged on operating divisions.
The proceedings of this committee are issues relating to corporate governance and other areas of informed by information security best practices sourced importance.
from Gartner, ISACA, CoBIT 5, ITIL, ISO27001 and the South African King IV Report on Corporate Governance.
106 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The Board is kept up to date on legal, regulatory and favour thereof, in addition to a majority of votes cast by all governance matters at Board meetings.
Additional training shareholders being in favour thereof.
is available on request, where appropriate, so that directors Powers of directors can update their skills and knowledge as applicable.
During the year, the Board received refresher training on The general powers of the directors are contained within the EU Market Abuse Regulation and presentations on relevant UK legislation and the Companys Articles of the data protection legislation being introduced in the UK, Association.
The directors are entitled to exercise all powers Switzerland and South Africa.
of the Company, subject to any limitations imposed by the Articles of Association or applicable legislation.
Independent professional advice Indemnification of directors All directors may seek independent professional advice in connection with their roles as directors.
All directors have The Company has entered into a deed of indemnity with access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary each director who served during the year under identical at the expense of the Company.
The deeds indemnify the directors in accordance with the applicable laws of England against liability incurred as a Election re-election director or employee of the Company, or associated entities In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, in the Group.
In addition, the Company has put into place a director appointed by the Board must stand for election directors and officers indemnity insurance.
The Company at the first annual general meeting subsequent to such has also provided for directors and officers insurance to the appointment, and other directors must retire by rotation and directors in connection with their duties and responsibilities.
seek re-election by shareholders every three years.
However, the UK Corporate Governance Code requires that all directors Directors conflicts of interest of FTSE 350 companies should stand for re-election annually.
In accordance with the UK Companies Act and the Accordingly, Drs Harvey and Al Hashimi appointed on Companys Articles of Association, the Board may authorise 3 October 2017 and 1 November 2017, respectively and any matter that otherwise may involve any director Dr Van der Merwe appointed as a director with effect from breaching his or her duty to avoid conflicts of interest.
The 1 June 2018, will stand for election at the AGM.
All other Board has adopted a procedure to address this requirement, directors will stand for annual re-election at the AGM, including which includes the directors completing a detailed conflict Mr Meintjes, who subject to re-election will continue to of interest questionnaires on appointment and reconfirm serve as an executive director until 31 July 2018 and as a nonthese detailed declarations annually.
The matters disclosed executive director with effect from 1 August 2018. in the questionnaires are reviewed by the Board as part of the directors appointment and annually thereafter and, if Taking into account the result of the Board evaluation carried out during the year and following recommendations from considered appropriate, authorised in accordance with the the Nomination Committee, the Board considers that all the UK Companies Act 2006 and the Articles of Association.
current directors continue to be effective, are committed to Directors are also required to disclose any new conflicts of their roles and have sufficient time available to perform their interest to the Board, as soon as they arise, for consideration.
The Board therefore recommends their election or re-election as directors of the Company and the election of Compensation for loss of office Dr Van der Merwe.
There are no agreements in place with any director or employee that provide for compensation for loss of office Remgro Limited, through wholly-owned subsidiaries, Remgro or employment resulting from a takeover, except that or the Remgro Group, as the context may indicate holds provisions of the Companys share plans may cause options 44.56% of the issued ordinary shares of the Company, and and awards granted under such plans to vest on a takeover.
is therefore regarded as a controlling shareholder of the Further information on directors service contracts and their Company, for the purposes of the Listing Rules.
The Listing AR notice periods can be found in the Directors Remuneration Rules require that independent non-executive directors of Report on pages 143 to 144. a company with a controlling shareholder must be elected by a majority of votes cast by independent shareholders, Remuneration in addition to a majority of votes cast by all shareholders in such company.
The resolutions proposed at the AGM for The Board has established a Remuneration Committee to the election of the independent non-executive directors of assist with discharging its responsibility in relation to Board the Company will therefore be taken on a poll, and the votes and executive remuneration.
A report on the activities of the cast by independent shareholders and all shareholders will be Committee, including its composition and key responsibilities, AR calculated separately.
Such resolutions will be passed only if is included from page 130. a majority of votes cast by independent shareholders are in MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 107 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED CHF0.1bnrevolving facility, priced at Swiss Libor Directors interests plus a margin of 1.25%: The directors shareholding and share interests in the issued AR South African senior bank loan totalling ZAR1.2bn at shares of the Company are provided in the Directors an interest rate of JIBAR 1.69% with a three-year term Remuneration Report on page 155. expiring in June 2019: South African unsecured preference share funding OTHER DISCLOSURES totalling ZAR1.5bn at a rate of 73% of the prime Articles of Association overdraft interest rate, with a four-year term expiring in June 2020: and The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by way of a special resolution of the members.
At United Arab Emirates bank loans of US$54.5m and the annual general meeting of the Company held on US$100.0m at an interest rate of LIBOR 2.75% with 25 July 2017, shareholders approved certain amendments respective four-year and five-year amortising terms, to the Companys Articles of Association by way of a expiring in June 2020 and May 2021, respectively.
special resolution, available in the Governance section Subsequent to the refinancing, the impairment charges at of the Companys website at www.
The Hirslanden affected the calculation of the economic capital amendments approved updated the dividend payment covenant in the finance agreements.
While the Group had an provisions to give the Company greater flexibility to use the unconditional contractual right through an equity cure, any most relevant payment mechanisms for the distribution of potential breach was actually avoided through a contractual dividends, including electronic methods, reflecting guidance amendment agreed with the lending consortium.
published by the ICSA Registrars Group in March 2014.
No changes to the Articles of Association are proposed at the Principal shareholder and relationship 2018 AGM.
agreement In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4 14, the Company Significant agreements has set out below a statement describing the Relationship The following agreements are considered significant in Agreement.
As at 23 May 2018, the Remgro Group held terms of their potential impact on the business of the Group 44.56% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
as a whole, and that could alter or terminate on the change of control of the Company: Under the Relationship Agreement, Remgro undertakes to comply with the following independence provisions, as The Company entered into an agreement with its principal required under the Listing Rules: shareholder, Remgro, on 14 October 2015 the Relationship Agreement, which came into effect on 15 February 2016. transactions and arrangements between the Company This agreement does not include a change of control and Remgro and or its associates are, and will be, at provision, but does terminate if i the Companys ordinary arms length and on normal commercial terms: shares cease to be listed and admitted to trading on the neither Remgro nor any of its associates will take any action LSEs main market for listed securities: or ii the Remgro that would have the effect of preventing the Company from Group, taken together, ceases to hold the minimum interest complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules: and of 10% in the Company.
neither Remgro nor any of its associates will propose, or The various facilities and finance agreements of the Group procure the proposal of, a shareholder resolution that is are regarded as significant and contain change of control intended or appears to be intended to circumvent the provisions.
The various facilities and finance agreements proper application of the Listing Rules.
of the Group are: The Company has complied with the above independence In October 2017, the Group completed the refinancing provisions and, insofar as it is aware, Remgro complied of Hirslandens secured long-term bank loans: with the independence provisions and the procurement CHF1.5bnsenior termloan facility with a partially obligation set out in the Relationship Agreement from the amortising repayment profile oversix years and effective date of the agreement.
In accordance with the priced at Swiss Libor plus a margin of 1.25%: terms of the Relationship Agreement, for every 10% of the CHF0.4bncapex facility, priced at Swiss Libor plus issued ordinary share capital of the Company or an interest a margin of1.25%, but which could increase funding which carries 10% or more of the aggregate voting rights in costs up to a maximum of Swiss Libor plus a margin the Company from time to time held, Remgro is entitled to of 1.65% at the time of drawing, depending on the appoint one director to the Board, up to a maximum of three loan-to-value at that time: and directors, provided that the right to appoint a third director 108 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT is subject to the requirement that the Board will, following Employees such appointment, comprise a majority of independent nonThe Groups employees are a valuable asset.
trust and respect are vital to Mediclinics success.
Listening If Remgros shareholding reduces to below 10% of the and responding to employee needs through effective Companys share capital or 10% of the aggregate voting communication and sound relations are important rights in the Company, the rights and obligations of Remgro components in being regarded as an employer of choice in terms of the Relationship Agreement shall terminate.
The among existing and prospective employees, and vital to ordinary shares owned by Remgro rank pari passu with the maintain an engaged, loyal workforce.
Employee engagement other ordinary shares in all respects.
is conducted through various methods, including leadership video conferences, intranet, periodic employee surveys, Related-party transactions performance reviews, staff magazines, and staff wellness and recognition programmes.
Further details on the Groups Details on all related-party transactions are contained in SDR AR employee engagement are included in the Sustainable note 33 of the Consolidated Financial Statements on Development Report, available on the Companys website at page241.
Political donations Continuous training and development of the Groups Political donations are generally prohibited in terms of employees across all three operating divisions ensures the Companys Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and retention of staff, particularly in areas where the skills Anti-bribery Policy, unless pre-approved by the Executive shortage is most critical, and proper succession planning.
Committee of the operating division and reported to the Further details on the Groups training initiatives can be AR Companys Executive Committee.
During the year, the found in the Sustainable Development Highlights on SDR Company, including its subsidiaries, made no political page73 and the Sustainable Development Report, available payments as contemplated in the UK Companies Act 2006 on the Companys website at www.
Hirslanden has, however, made payments to a The distribution of the Groups employees per operating number of political parties, institutions and associations in AR division is included on page 10, with only one employee Switzerland involved in certain political campaigns which Head of Investor Relations based in the UK.
A breakdown were of interest to the business.
Contributing to political by gender, age and, in respect of Southern Africa only, race campaigns through third-party contributions is a common in Board and senior management roles as at year end is official and standard practice in Switzerland.
Payments of illustrated in Figure 10.
The proportion of female employees this kind made by Hirslanden totalled CHF30 000 2017: in the Group at year end is illustrated in Figure 11.
These contributions are not considered political payments as contemplated in Part 14 of the Act, as they are The Group values diversity and provides equal opportunities not made to the political parties within the scope of the Act.
for its workplace and does not tolerate any form of unfair discrimination, such as access to employment, career It is not the policy of the Company to make political donations development, training or working conditions, based on as contemplated in the Act.
However, as a result of broad gender, religion, nationality, race, language, HIV AIDS status, definitions used in the Act, other normal business activities sexual orientation or other form of differentiation.
Adequate of the Company, which might not be considered political procedures are in place to enable disabled applicants to donations or expenditure in the normal sense, may possibly receive training to perform safely and effectively and to be construed as political expenditure or as a donation to a provide development opportunities to ensure they reach their political party or other political organisation, and fall within full potential.
Where an individual becomes disabled during the restrictions of the Act.
Sponsorships, subscriptions, the course of employment, Mediclinic will seek to provide, payment of expenses, paid leave for employees fulfilling wherever possible, continued employment on normal terms public duties, and support for bodies representing the and conditions.
Adjustments will be made to the environment business community in policy review or reform, may fall and duties or suitable new roles within the Company will be within the scope of these matters.
The Board has therefore secured with additional training where necessary.
decided to propose a resolution, as in the previous year and in line with best practice, to authorise the Company to make political payments up to an aggregate amount of 100 000 for shareholder consideration at the AGM.
MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 109 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED FIGURE 10: RACE, GENDER AND AGE REPRESENTATION ON GOVERNANCE BODIES RACE ONLY IN RESPECT OF SOUTH AGE AFRICA GENDER YEARS TOTAL NUMBER BLACK WHITE MALE FEMALE 30 50 50 OF MEMBERS NUMBER % NUMBER % NUMBER % NUMBER % NUMBER % NUMBER % Mediclinic International 2 Board members Board 12 of colour 17% 9 75% 3 25% 2 17% 10 83% Mediclinic International 1 Executive Committee 9 n a n a n a n a 9 100% 3 33% 6 67% Hirslanden Executive 1 Committee 4 n a n a n a n a 4 100% 2 50% 2 50% Mediclinic Southern Africa 1 Executive Committee 9 2 22% 7 78% 8 89% 1 11% 3 33% 6 67% Mediclinic Middle East 1 Executive Committee 9 n a n a n a n a 7 78% 2 22% 5 56% 4 44% Note 1 SDR T he race, gender and age distribution of the direct reports to the Executive Committees of the Company and the divisions are included in the Sustainable Development Report available on the Companys website at www.
FIGURE 11: WORKFORCE COMPOSITION BY GENDER 2018 2017 NUMBER % NUMBER % Switzerland Female 7 380 76.6% 7 179 76.4% Male 2 255 23.4% 2 223 23.6% Southern Africa Female 12 862 80.0% 13 555 80.5% Male 3 206 20.0% 3 293 19.5% UAE Female 3 271 56.4% 3 593 56.4% Male 2 530 43.6% 2 782 43.6% Directors report AR The information set out in this section of the Annual Report, Financial risk management objectives and policies together with the following disclosures incorporated by refer to pages 44 to 49 and pages 191 to 193 reference, constitute the Directors Report of the Company Research and development activities refer to various for the year ended 31 March 2018, as contemplated in the UK activities discussed in the Strategic Report, such as the Companies Act 2006, and was duly approved by the Board standardised patient experience index on pages 14 to 15: on 23 May 2018: the standardised employee engagement initiatives on pages 16 to 17: and clinical research activities referred Strategic Report refer to pages 3 to 84 CSR to on pages 34 to 43 and the Clinical Services Report Corporate Governance Statement refer to pages available on the Companys website at www.
com 93 to 111 Greenhouse gas emissions refer to pages 77 to 78 and Statement of Directors Responsibilities refer to SDR the Sustainable Development Report available on the page 160 Companys website at www.
com Shareholder Information refer to pages 262 to 265 Corporate social responsibility and corporate social The Strategic Report sets out those matters required to be investment refer to page 68 to 84 and the SDR disclosed in the Directors Report which are considered to Sustainable Development Report available on the be of strategic importance: Companys website at www.
com Strategy and future developments refer to pages 14 to 17 110 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Going concern status AR The Groups consolidated financial statements, as set out on pages 162 to 242 and approved by the Board on 23 May 2018, were prepared on a going concern basis.
The Directors considered the Companys financial position, availability of funding, the principal risks and uncertainties, as well as the viability assessment, and accordingly considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements, further details of which are included in the AR Audit and Risk Committee Report on page 124 and the Viability Assessment on pages 50 to 51.
Events after the reporting period Since year-end, no material events have taken place.
Overseas branches The Company, having secondary listings on the JSE in South Africa and the NSX in Namibia, has established an overseas branch in South Africa.
REQUIREMENTS OF THE LISTING RULES Information required to be disclosed in terms of Listing Rule 9.8.
4R, as applicable, is referenced below: DETAIL LOCATION IN ANNUAL REPORT AR Long-term incentive schemes Pages 130 to 159 Agreements with a controlling shareholder None other than the Relationship Agreement referred to AR on pages 108 to 109 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder None other than the services provided by the Remgro AR Group described in note 33 of the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 241 Interest capitalised Waiver of emoluments by a director Waiver of future emoluments by a director Non-pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Non-pre-emptive issues of equity for cash by any unlisted Not applicable major subsidiary Parent company participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary Shareholder waiver of dividends Shareholder waiver of future dividends For and on behalf of the Board.
Dr Edwin Hertzog Non-executive Chairman 23 May 2018 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 111 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Dr Edwin Hertzog Chairman of the Nomination Committee Dear Shareholder, As Chairman of the Nomination Committee the Committee, it is my pleasure to report on the Committees activities for the year ended 31 March 2018.
The report provides an overview of the key focus areas considered during the year, together with the Committees priorities for the 2019 fi financial year.
The Committee is governed by formal terms of reference, available AR in the governance section of the Companys website at www.
com, and summarised on page 95 in the Corporate Governance Statement.
COMMITTEE COMPOSITION AND MEETING ATTENDANCE The current composition of the Committee meets the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, with the majority of members being independent non-executive directors.
Biographical details of all Committee members are included on AR pages 86 to 89.
The composition and attendance of Committee meetings during the period under review are set out in Figure 1 below.
As announced on 29 March 2018, Prof Dr Robert Leu will retire as a director of the Company, and consequently as a member of the Committee, at the conclusion of the Companys annual general meeting on 25 July 2018 2018 AGM.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee and attends all meetings.
The Company Secretary is available to assist the members of the Committee, as required, ensuring that timely and accurate information is distributed accordingly.
Other attendees of Committee meetings may, from time to time and upon invitation by the Committee, include the CEO, the Chief Human Resources Offi cer and the Talent Management General Manager.
FIGURE 1: COMMITTEE COMPOSITION AND MEETING ATTENDANCE NUMBER OF SCHEDULED DATE OF MEETINGS APPOINTMENT 1 2 NAME DESIGNATION as committee member ATTENDED Dr Edwin Hertzog Committee Chairman Non-executive director 15 02 2016 1 of 1 Mr Desmond Smith Senior Independent Director 15 02 2016 1 of 1 3 Mr Jannie Durand Non-executive director 15 02 2016 0 of 1 4 Prof Dr Robert Leu Independent non-executive director 15 02 2016 1 of 1 Mr Trevor Petersen Independent non-executive director 15 02 2016 1 of 1 Notes 1 The composition of the Committee is shown as at 31 March 2018.
The majority of members are independent non-executive directors.
The Committee Chairman, Dr Hertzog, is the Chairman of the Board.
2 The attendance refl ects the number of scheduled meetings held during the fi financial year.
Two additional ad hoc meetings were held during the fi financial year to deal with urgent matters: the majority of directors made themselves available at short notice for these meetings.
No Committee meetings were held between the Company's fi financial year-end and the Last Practicable Date.
3 Mr Dur and was unable to attend one Committee meeting owing to a prior commitment: Mr Pieter Uys, alternate director to Mr Durand, attended the meeting in his place.
4 Prof Dr Leu will retire as a director of the Company, and consequently as a member of the Committee, at the conclusion of the Companys 2018 AGM.
112 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT networks in the UAE.
Dr Al Hashimi adds her extensive KEY AREAS OF ACTIVITY experience and knowledge of the healthcare and higher Succession planning education sectors in the UAE, and strategic and tactical expertise in operations and fiscal management.
During the year, the Committee primarily focused on the detailed planning for identifying a successor for In early 2018, the Committee conducted its annual review of Mr Danie Meintjes, the Group CEO, following the the structure, size, diversity and composition of the Board announcement made by the Company on 25 July 2017 and its Committees.
As part of this process, the Committee regarding his planned retirement.
The identification of considered a skills matrix for the Board and the outcome of potential candidates followed a rigorous global selection the Board evaluation.
The areas reviewed were the Board process against an agreed set of criteria, and included the members experience, independence, tenure, geographical appointment of Lomond Consulting, a senior management knowledge and knowledge of the Company as whole.
As a and board-level search firm.
Lomond Consulting adheres to result of these reviews, Dr Harvey was appointed as a Chair the Executive Search Firms Voluntary Code of Conduct and of the Clinical Performance and Sustainability Committee: is independent of the Company.
and Dr Al Hashimi was appointed as a member of the Clinical Performance and Sustainability Committee, with effect from The Committee and the Board unanimously supported the 1 April 2018. selection of Dr Ronnie van der Merwe, the current Group Chief Clinical Officer, to succeed Mr Meintjes as CEO, As announced on 29 March 2018, Prof Dr Leu and as announced on 27 November 2017.
This decision reflected Ms Mandela notified the Company that they will retire as Dr Van der Merwes extensive knowledge of the Companys directors of the Company at the 2018 AGM.
Subsequently, international operations and strong track record of driving the Committee has commenced a search for an independent enhancement, especially in the quality and effectiveness non-executive director with knowledge of the Swiss of the Companys clinical services.
As announced on healthcare and political landscape.
29 March 2018, Dr Van der Merwes appointment as CEO and Lastly, the Committee considered the appointment of a director of the Company will take effect from 1 June 2018.
Mr Meintjes as a non-executive director after his retirement Dr Van der Merwe will also become a member of the Clinical as CEO and executive director of the Company.
After careful Performance and Sustainability Committee and Investment consideration, taking into account the wealth of knowledge Committee with effect from 1 June 2018. and experience he has gained in different capacities over 30 years of service to the Group, the Committee concluded The Committee undertook a detailed review of the his appointment would be in the long-term interests of succession plans for other members of the Board and the Group, its shareholders and other stakeholders and senior management team and for the executive committees recommended his continued involvement in the Company of each of the operating divisions, taking into account the as an executive director until 31 July 2018 and as a nonBoard Diversity Policy mentioned below.
The Board considered and agreed with the Committee's recommendation and Board and committee composition agreed to recommend Mr Meintjes re-election at the AGM.
Following a review of the Boards composition and structure, the Committee continued to lead the search for two Diversity additional independent non-executive directors to further During the year, the Committee reviewed the Board Diversity strengthen its Board and its Committees, to support the Policy, which applies to the Board, the Companys Executive pursuit of the Companys strategy in the UAE and enhance Committee and their direct reports, as well as the divisional the clinical expertise on the Board.
During the financial year, executive management committees of the Companys following an extensive and rigorous process, the Board operating divisions.
The Committee also received feedback approved the Committees recommendations regarding the from the operating divisions on progress regarding their appointment of two additional independent non-executive diversity and inclusion goals and plans for continued directors: Dr Felicity Harvey and Dr Muhadditha Al Hashimi.
improvement in the 2019 financial year.
The selection process that led to the appointment of Diversity policy Dr Harvey as an independent non-executive director of the Company and a member of the Clinical Performance The Board believes that diversity is not limited to gender, and and Sustainability Committee from 3 October 2017 was that a diverse Board membership will include and benefit conducted with the assistance of Lomond Consulting.
from the differences in each directors skills: geographical, Dr Harvey brings an in-depth understanding of the educational and professional backgrounds: industry healthcare sector in the UK, as well as over 30 years of clinical experience: age: race: gender: and other characteristics.
Dr Al Hashimi, appointed as an These factors will be considered in determining the independent non-executive director of the Company from optimum composition of the Board and, when possible, will 1 November 2017, was identified through the Companys be balanced appropriately.
When recruiting new directors, MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 113 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED consideration will also be given to ensuring that the size It actively considers these matters regularly at Board and of the Board does not grow unnecessarily, and that all Committee meetings.
The Board believes that maintaining appointments are made on justifiable merit.
The Committee an appropriate balance of skills, knowledge, experience and will continue to take cognisance of relevant prescribed backgrounds is imperative for the long-term success of the guidelines, and the performance of peer companies in Group, and allows the Board to perform its role effectively.
fulfilling their role regarding diversity.
The Boards Diversity Policy contains four objectives to support The Board supports the principles of boardroom diversity the Boards commitment to diversity.
These objectives and in general, and takes boardroom skills diversity seriously.
progress towards their achievement are set out below: Progress against objectives OBJECTIVES PROGRESS The Board will not impose During the year, the Board appointed two female independent non-executive quotas regarding diversity, directors, Dr Harvey and Dr Al Hashimi.
The new directors offer diverse backgrounds although it will remain and experience spanning across the UK and the UAE, including clinical performance, committed to achieving education, strategy, tactical expertise in operations and fiscal management within each diversity in the composition jurisdiction.
of the Board and executive The Group CEO and divisional CEOs annually share their diversity goals and report management including on their progress bi-annually to the Nomination Committee.
The divisions have been aspects such as age, focussed on increasing diversity below Board level by encouraging and strengthening the gender, education and talent pipeline within the divisions through short and long term succession planning and professional backgrounds, where the Company has been unable to promote within, has identified the desired criteria ethnicity and geographical for external candidates.
Both of these activities ultimately have fed into to support the background.
Executive Committee with general diversity featuring as one of its key priorities The Board recognises the importance of having a diverse Board and leadership team.
The Board and executive management continue to be committed to achieving diversity and will continue to recommend appointments based on the skills, experience, independence and knowledge required by the Board and the executive management.
The Committee will The Committee reviewed the Companys Diversity Policy in February 2018 and was annually consider and satisfied that the objectives remained relevant to the Company.
The Committee make recommendations, if continues to be committed to progressing the objectives for the 2019 financial year.
applicable, to the Board on its diversity objectives in respect of the Board and executive management.
In reviewing the The Committee reviewed the composition of the Board and its committees, specifically composition of the Board the balance of skills, experience, independence, knowledge and diversity.
The Board and executive management, appointed two new directors from diverse backgrounds and experience as detailed above.
the Committee will, in To assist with one of these appointments, the Committee engaged an independent external addition to considering the recruitment consultant, Lomond Consulting, which adheres to the UK Executive Search balance of skills, experience, Firms' Voluntary Code of Conduct, based on recommendation of the Davies Report.
The independence and Committee reviewed the progress made in each division and reported on these to the Board.
knowledge of the Board, A detailed review of each divisions talent pipeline strategy was undertaken, including their also consider the diversity diversity focus, the progress made in that regard during the year, and plans for continued of the Board.
As at the date of this report, the Company met the recommendation included in the Parker Review Committees Report into the Ethnic Diversity of UK Boards, issued in October 2017 Parker Report, to have at least one director of colour by 2021.
Good progress has been made in increasing female representation on the Board of the Company, in line with the target of 33% by 2020, as recommended in the report issued by the Hampton-Alexander Review in November 2017 on improving the gender balance in FTSE leadership Hampton-Alexander Report.
As at the date of the report the Company had two directors of colour as defined in the Parker Report and 25% female representation on the Board.
The Groups workforce has 75% female representation overall.
The Board and executive management remain committed to creating a diverse and inclusive workplace.
In identifying suitable The two new non-executive directors were identified from a diverse list of candidates candidates for appointment and were assessed and selected on merit, against an agreed set of criteria, reflecting the to the Board, the role in question and the capabilities required for a particular appointment, while taking Committee will assess into account the benefits of a diverse Board.
The Committee considered each of the candidates on merit against candidates significant commitments, other directorships, skills, experience, knowledge, objective criteria and with gender, race, geographical location and other diversity considerations.
due regard to the benefits of diversity of the Board.
114 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT guidance provided under the UK Corporate Governance Assessment of independence of Code, facilitated by Lintstock.
The evaluation focused on the non-executive directors Board composition, including: The Committee and the Board are satisfied that the diversity: commitments of the Chairman and other non-executive AR the Boards role in setting strategy: directors, as shown in their biographies on pages 86 to 89, do an understanding of the risks facing the Group: not conflict with their duties and commitments as directors of the effectiveness of the Groups key performance the Company.
Any conflicts identified are considered and, as indicators: appropriate, authorised by the Board.
The Company annually succession planning: and reviews the directors conflicts of interests.
the effectiveness of the Board and its committees.
Corporate Governance Code The Board regards the evaluation process as an important developments way to monitor the progress made over the years.
Further detail on the Board effectiveness evaluation is included in The Committee reviewed and considered the Financial AR the Corporate Governance Statement on page 102.
Reporting Councils proposed changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code in preparation for their potential When considering the election or re-election of directors, implementation, insofar as they related to: the Committee pays due regard to the outcome of the Board evaluation process, and considers other factors such as the establishing the preferred method for gathering the views individual directors knowledge, skills and experience, the of the workforce: independent judgement they bring to Board deliberations, reporting on how the Company has engaged with its and their other commitments.
workforce, suppliers and other stakeholders and how the interests of their stakeholders have influenced the Dr Harvey and Dr Al Hashimi will stand for election at Boards decision-making, pursuant to section 172 of the the Companys 2018 AGM, being the first annual general Companies Act 2006: meeting since their appointment as directors by the Board.
the proposed changes to the independence criteria In accordance with the recommendation for FTSE350 for directors, their tenure and the requirement for the companies set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, Chairman of the Company to be independent at all times: all other existing directors other than Prof Dr Leu and Ms Mandela will stand for annual re-election at the meeting.
the continued emphasis on the promotion of diversity AR The biographical details of the directors can be found on through the design of appointment and succession planning practices: and pages 86 to 89. the expansion of the Committees remit to include The terms and conditions of appointment of the nonthe oversight of the development of a diverse pipeline executive directors, which include their expected time for succession planning for the Board and senior commitment, are available for inspection at the Companys management positions and related reporting obligations registered office.
PRIORITIES FOR THE COMMITTEE IN The Committee also took note of the recommendations of the Parker Report on ethnic diversity and the Hampton 2018 19 Alexander Report on gender diversity and adjusted its terms For the coming financial year, the Committee will, among of reference and Board Diversity Policy accordingly.
other matters, focus on the following: The Committee undertakes an annual review of its terms of the continued development of succession plans and the reference.
talent pipeline: the continuous review of the composition of the Board Committee evaluation and its committees in respect of skills, diversity, tenure An external evaluation of the Committees performance and commitments: was conducted during the year by Lintstock, a specialist the development of the Companys diversity strategy: consultancy which undertakes no other business for the and Company.
The results of evaluation were considered by the monitoring the new UK corporate governance the Committee and the Board.
No significant issues were developments.
identified that require improvement, thus the Committee Signed on behalf of the Nomination Committee.
and the Board concluded that the Committee operated effectively during the year.
Evaluation of the composition, structure and functioning of the Board Dr Edwin Hertzog With internal evaluations carried out in the previous Chairman of the Nomination Committee two years, an external evaluation of the Board and its 23 May 2018 committees was conducted this year in keeping with the MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 115 CLINICAL PERFORMANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE REPORT Dr Felicity Harvey Chair of the Clinical Performance and Sustainability Committee As the new Chair of the Clinical Performance and Dr Muhadditha Al Hashimi was also appointed as an Sustainability Committee, it is my pleasure to report on the additional member with eff ect from 1 April 2018, further Committees activities for the year ended 31 March 2018. enriching the Committees breadth, depth and diversity of skills, knowledge and experience: and The report provides an overview of the key areas of focus Dr Ronnie van der Merwe Chief Clinical Offi cer and CEO considered during the year together with the priorities for Designate will succeed Mr Danie Meintjes as the Group 2018 2019.
The Committee is governed by formal terms CEO and a member of the Committee on 1 June 2018. of reference available in the governance section of the Companys website at www.
com and summarised The Chief Clinical Offi cer and the Chief Corporate Services AR on page 95 in the Corporate Governance Statement.
Offi cer who is responsible for the Groups sustainable development management, are invited on a permanent COMMITTEE COMPOSITION AND basis to attend and speak at all Committee meetings.
As part of the Ward-to-Board clinical governance framework MEETING ATTENDANCE detailed below, each of the divisional Chief Clinical Offi cers The composition of the Committee and attendance of will be invited to all meetings as well as the divisional Chief meetings during the period under review are set out in Executive Offi cers as required.
The Committee members are suitably skilled and of management are invited to attend Committee meetings, experienced.
A number of changes to the composition of the Committee The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee have taken place during the year and after the year-end: and attends all meetings.
The Company Secretary is Dr Felicity Harvey was appointed as a member with available to assist the members of the Committee, as eff ect from 3 October 2017 and assumed the role of Chair required, ensuring that timely and accurate information is of the Committee on 1 April 2018.
The appointment of distributed accordingly.
Dr Harvey as a member enhanced the clinical and broader healthcare sector knowledge of the Committee: 116 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018
