Audit Committee report Chairmans introduction I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for 2018.
I chair the Audit Committee and as a Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants, and previous Chief Executive Officer of Essentra plc and Chief Financial Officer of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, I can confirm that I bring recent and relevant financial experience to the Committee.
Committee members throughout 2018 were Guy Berruyer, Nancy Gioia, Alison Goligher and Paul Heiden.
Guy Hachey was appointed in January 2019.
By invitation, there were a number of other regular attendees including the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Financial Controller and the internal and external auditors.
The Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive, Executive Director, Commercial & Corporate Affairs and Chief Financial Officerdesignate also Colin Day attended meetings by invitation.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Responsibilities The Committees key role is to engender confidence in the integrity of our processes and procedures relating to internal financial control and corporate reporting.
The Board relies on the Committee to review financial reporting and to appoint and oversee the work of the internal and external auditors.
The report includes a description of the work of the Committee in 2018.
It included advising the Board on whether these accounts are fair, balanced and understandable, reviewing the work carried out by executive management on the viability statement and oversight of the risk management process.
Effectiveness The Committee reviewed its own effectiveness and was satisfied with the outcome.
There were no significant actions to take as a result of this review.
Committee membership and attendance in 2018 Mr C R Day Ms A J P Goligher 3 3 3 3 Committee Chairman Mr G S Berruyer Mr P Heiden 3 3 2 3 Mrs N L Gioia 3 3 Meggitt PLC 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Committee activities Approved The 2018 external audit fees.
The internal audit plan for 2019.
Reviewed The financial information contained in the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, 2017 full year and 2018 interim results announcements and recommended them to the Board for approval.
Significant estimates and judgements in respect of the Groups financial statements.
The independence and effectiveness of the external auditors, and agreed their terms of engagement.
The adequacy and effectiveness of: i the systems of internal control: ii the risk management process: and iii the process executive management used to enable the Board to make the viability statement.
The effectiveness of the Committee and external audit using the process described on page 89.
There were no specific actions to take and the Committee confirmed it was satisfied with the outcome of the evaluation.
The outcome of the externally facilitated internal audit review see page 89.
The external auditors strategy memorandum and interim audit clearance report for 2018.
A revised Group Treasury Policy which was recommended to the Board for approval.
Terms of Reference for the Committee, which were recommended to the Board for approval.
Since the year end, the Committee has discussed the external auditors final audit clearance report for 2018, reviewed the financial information contained in the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts and full year results announcement and recommended them to the Board for approval.
The Committee also provided advice to the Board that the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committee provided this advice having reviewed managements process and confirmed its output, and provided confirmation to the Board that this process was effective.
The Committee also recommended that the Board approve the viability and going concern statements.
Updates and reports Received reports at every meeting from the Head of Internal Audit on progress with the internal audit plan and internal controls across the Group.
Received an update on the results of the viability statement stress testing.
Received updates on the risk management process.
Received an update from the Head of Treasury & Tax.
Received technical accounting and governance updates provided by the Group Financial Controller, Company Secretary and the external auditors, including the Criminal Finances Act 2017 and financial fraud.
Meggitt PLC 87 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Audit Committee report continued FRC thematic review The Committee received feedback from the Financial Reporting Council FRC following the inclusion of Meggitt in its thematic Review of Interim Disclosures in the First Year of Adoption relating to IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
The FRC included areas of the Groups disclosures as examples of best practice within its final November 2018 report.
Significant estimates and judgements relating to the financial statements The table below summarises the significant estimates and judgements reviewed by the Committee in respect of the Groups financial statements.
Area Action Goodwill The principal judgement is managements determination of the level at which impairment testing should be performed.
The Committee discussed and agreed with managements judgement that the EDAC Advanced Composites business should be tested separately.
Critical accounting estimates arise in determining the value in use for the goodwill balances tested, which require assessments of the achievability of business plans and therefore future cash flows, growth rates beyond the period covered by the fiveyear business plans and appropriateness of the discount rates applied to future cash flows.
The Committee discussed a report from management setting out the basis for the assumptions and confirmation that the cash flows used were derived from the 2019 budget and strategic plan which in their role as members of the Board, Committee members had previously reviewed.
Given the limited headroom when EDAC Advanced Composites goodwill was tested for impairment, additional sensitivities were provided by management and discussed by the Committee.
The Committee agreed with management that no impairment was required but that additional sensitivity disclosures should be provided.
Dassault 5X development Following the Groups selection to provide the wheel and braking system for the Dassault Falcon 6X costs programme, a successor to the previously cancelled Falcon 5X aircraft, the Committee considered whether any element of the impairment recorded in 2017 against previously capitalised Falcon 5X development costs should be reversed.
The Committee discussed a report from management setting out the Falcon 6X contractual position which does not include any recovery of previously incurred 5X costs : the level of redesign and estimated development costs required to meet the 6X specifications, noting that a complete redesign of the braking system was required: and the cost recording system use to record the 5X development activities.
The Committee concluded that no impairment reversal should be recognised.
Development costs The Committee discussed a report from management covering exposure to different aircraft platforms and manufacturers, including a sensitivity analysis on specific programmes.
The Committee focused in particular on the Airbus A220 formerly the Bombardier CSeries, Embraer 450 500, Bombardier Global 7500 8000, Irkut MC21 and Gulfstream G500 G600 in light of the material values capitalised on these platforms.
The Committee concluded assumptions made by management were reasonable and the carrying values and estimated useful lives of the assets were appropriate.
Provision for The Committee discussed a report from management setting out the basis for the estimates made and environmental matters the extent to which these were supported by third party specialist advice.
The Committee focused on relating to historic sites the sensitivity of amounts recorded to increases in cost estimates, including those arising from and related extended periods of operations and maintenance activities.
The sensitivities included the impact on insurance receivables insurance policy limits and insurance policy periods of cover.
The Committee agreed with the estimates made by management.
Retirement benefit The Committee considered a report from management setting out the basis on which assumptions on obligations mortality, inflation and the rates at which scheme liabilities are discounted had been determined, how the Groups assumptions used in its 2017 financial statements benchmarked against those disclosed by other large corporate entities in the UK and US and the sensitivity of amounts recorded in the balance sheet to changes in assumptions.
The Committee also discussed the provisional results from the 2018 triennial valuation of its UK plan and the extent to which, where appropriate, these were reflected in the 2018 assumptions.
The Committee concluded that the assumptions used, which were supported by third party actuarial advice, were appropriate.
Income taxes Estimates have to be made by management on the tax treatment of a number of transactions in advance of the ultimate tax determination being known.
In assessing the appropriateness of the provision recognised in respect of uncertain tax positions, the Committee received a presentation on the Groups tax position from the Head of Treasury & Tax and considered a report from management setting out the basis for the assumptions made.
They discussed the assumptions in light of the current tax environment and the status of tax audits in the main jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The Committee concluded that the position taken on uncertain tax provisions was appropriate.
Treatment of items The Committee discussed the treatment and disclosure of amounts included within exceptional excluded from underlying operating items.
The Committee noted the items reflected the way in which they, as members of the profit measures Board, reviewed the underlying performance of the Group, were treated consistently year on year and disclosed appropriately.
Meggitt PLC 88 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance further discretionary risk based adjustment if there are Key areas of oversight circumstances which suggest a business unit should have an External audit audit accelerated.
Reasons for this can include adverse prior The external auditors are PwC who were first appointed for the audit findings, a change in IT system, site location moves, senior financial year commencing 1 January 2003 after a competitive leadership changes or operational performance issues.
The Committee undertook a further competitive tender in 2017 described in our 2017 Audit Committee report as a result of In 2018, internal audits were carried out for 32 Group locations which it was agreed that PwC should be reappointed.
There are no as part of the rotational audit cycle.
The business unit audit contractual obligations restricting the Committees choice of programmes scope includes finance, programme management, external auditors.
HR payroll, sales agents distributors and commercial bid & proposal activity.
The scope of internal audit continues to The lead audit partner is Mr J Ellis whose appointment in this develop with the business, particularly as a result of any role commenced with the audit for the financial year ended acquisition and disposal activity.
A key role of the Audit 31 December 2018.
Mr Ellis has had no previous involvement Committee is to monitor the level of internal audit resource with the Group in any capacity.
The mandatory rotation of to ensure it remains appropriate as both the Group and auditor under EU rules will take place in 2023. function evolve.
The Committee routinely meets PwC without executive In addition to the sitebased business unit reviews, internal audit management present and no concerns have been raised.
It was has a cosource arrangement with Grant Thornton UK LLP to assist confirmed that the external auditors had been able to offer with resourcing specialist audits, such as IT, treasury and complex rigorous and constructive challenge to executive management legislation such as DFARS and GDPR.
The Audit Committee during the year.
remains cognisant of increasing cyber complexity and associated risks.
The approach for 2018 continued to be delivering these The Committee assessed the effectiveness of PwC and the reviews using Grant Thorntons subject matter experts.
external audit process using a questionnaire and discussion of the responses.
The Committee was satisfied with PwCs The results of the audits are regularly discussed with the Group performance and that PwC had employed an appropriate level Head of Internal Audit & Risk by the Chairman of the Audit of professional challenge in fulfilling their role and there Committee between Audit Committee meetings.
At each were no significant findings from the process.
The Committee meeting, the Committee receives a status update on the internal determined, on the basis of the satisfactory outcome of the audit programme, discusses and challenges any significant issues evaluation, to recommend that the Board submit the arising and monitors implementation by the business of any reappointment of PwC to shareholders for approval at the recommendations made.
AGM in 2019 for the 2019 financial year.
The Audit Committee routinely meets internal audit without Non-audit services executive management present.
No concerns have been raised The Group places great importance on the independence of its and it was confirmed that the internal auditors had been able to external auditors and is careful to ensure their objectivity is not carry out their work and offer constructive challenge to executive compromised.
The Committee agrees fees paid to external management during the year.
auditors for their services as auditors and is required to approve, in advance, any fees to the external auditors for nonaudit The Audit Committee considered the effectiveness of internal services in excess of 0.1 million.
audit in 2018 and confirmed that they continue to be satisfied.
This was supplemented by an independent external effectiveness Details of fees paid for audit services, auditrelated services and review that was commissioned by the Audit Committee and nonaudit services can be found in note 7 to the Groups supported by Group management.
The external review considered consolidated financial statements.
Fees paid for nonaudit that internal audit was effective in its current remit but supported services in 2018 were less than 0.1 million 4% of the total audit managements efforts to continue to broaden its scope.
fee and average fees paid for nonaudit services for the last three years to 2018 were less than 0.1 million 3% of the total Whistleblowing audit fee over that period.
Fees paid for nonaudit services The Corporate Responsibility Committee is responsible for related to services allowed to be provided by PwC under the oversight and review of the process for handling allegations Groups policy on nonaudit services.
Whistleblowing is included in our Ethics and Business Conduct Policy and Code of Conduct, which is The Groups policy on nonaudit services covers services that available on our website.
The Group sponsors an independently can be provided and those which are generally prohibited for operated and monitored Ethics Line, enabling employees to example internal audit services and tax planning and sets out report concerns about possible misconduct, with proportionate the procedures for approving nonaudit services.
The full policy and independent investigation and appropriate followup is available on our website under Audit Committee in the action.
Compliance with Audit Services Order The Committee is satisfied that the overall levels of audit related and nonaudit fees are not material to the PwC office We comply with the Competition and Market Authority Order 2014 relating to audit tendering and the provision of nonaudit conducting the audit, or PwC as a whole, and therefore the services, as discussed further above.
objectivity and independence of the external auditors was not compromised.
On behalf of the Audit Committee Internal audit The Audit Committee agrees the annual internal audit plan which is developed according to a risk assessment process and ensures adequate resources are available to execute the plan.
The risk assessment process initially divides our business units into three Colin Day tiers determined by financial measures.
Tier 1 businesses are Chairman of the Audit Committee visited annually, with Tier 2 businesses visited every other year and Tier 3 businesses every third year.
This is then subject to a 25 February 2019 Meggitt PLC 89 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
