Audit Committee report monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of the internal audit function and approving the internal audit plan and fee: monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of the external audit and approving the external audit plan and fee: reviewing, challenging and reporting to the Board on the going concern assumption and the assessment forming the basis of the longer-term viability statement: focusing and challenging the consistency of accounting policies, methods used to account for significant or unusual transactions and compliance with accounting standards: reviewing the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise concerns in confidence in accordance with the Companys Liz Hewitt whistleblowing policy: Audit Committee Chairman reviewing the Companys procedures for detecting fraud: assessing annually the external auditors independence and The responsibilities of the Audit objectivity, taking into account relevant UK law, regulation, the Ethical Standards and other professional requirements and the Committee the Committee relationship with the auditor as a whole, including the provision of any non-audit services: include overseeing financial developing, implementing and monitoring the Groups policy reporting, risk management and on external audit and for overseeing the objectivity and internal financial controls, in addition effectiveness of the external auditor: reviewing and challenging the provision of non-audit services to making recommendations to the by the external auditor: and Board regarding the appointment reviewing and considering the Annual Report and financial statements to ensure that it is fair, balanced and understandable of the Companys internal and and advising the Board on whether it can state that this is external auditors.
of meetings Following Mr Justin Dowleys appointment as Chairman of the Liz Hewitt Chairman 4 4 Board effective 1 January 2019, Mr Dowley stepped down from David Lis 4 4 the Audit Committee.
Ms Liz Hewitt continues to serve as the 2 Justin Dowley 3 4 Chairman of the Committee and brings her recent and relevant Archie G. Kane 4 4 financial experience to that role, as described in her biography on 3 page 73.
The Board also appointed Ms Charlotte Twyning as Charlotte Twyning 1 1 Non-executive Director and member of the Audit Committee with 1 In addition to the usual scheduled 3 meetings per year, an exceptional meeting was held effect from 1 October 2018.
Ms Twyning serves as a member of shortly after taking control of GKN to review and analyse the GKN financial statements and audit papers with the Companys external audit partners.
the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
2 Stepped down from the Audit Committee with effect from 1 January 2019.
3 Appointed to the Audit Committee with effect from 1 October 2018.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Committee invites the Group Finance Director, the Head of Role and responsibilities Financial Reporting and senior representatives of the external and The Committees role and responsibilities are set out in its terms internal auditors to attend its meetings.
The Committee has the of reference.
These were updated in August 2018 in line with best right to invite any other Directors and or employees to attend practice and are available on the Companys website and from meetings where this is considered appropriate.
In addition, the the Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
Committee meets at least once per year with both the external and In discharging its duties, the Committee embraces its role of internal auditors without management present, and the Chairman protecting the interests of all stakeholders with respect to the of the Committee speaks with both the external and the internal integrity of financial information published by the Company auditors prior to each Committee meeting.
and the effectiveness of the audit.
The responsibilities of the Summary of meetings in the year Committee include: The Committee is expected to meet not less than three times a reviewing and monitoring the integrity of the financial year.
In 2018, the Committee met in February, September and statements of the Group, including the Annual Report and November.
The scheduling of these meetings is designed to be interim report, and reviewing and reporting to the Board on aligned with the financial reporting timetable, thereby enabling the significant financial reporting issues and judgements which Committee to review the Annual Report and financial statements, they contain: the interim financial report and the audit plan ahead of the year-end keeping under review the effectiveness of the Groups audit and to maintain a view of the internal financial controls and financial reporting: processes throughout the year.
reviewing the effectiveness and monitoring and overseeing the In addition to the three scheduled meetings, an exceptional Groups risk management excluding cyber security and fraud meeting was held in June 2018, shortly after taking control of GKN, risk, which are retained by the Board, internal financial control to review, analyse and understand the risks identified from the systems and processes and compliance controls: previous GKN financial statements and audit committee papers.
82 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Governance At this meeting, which included the Companys external and reviewed the GKN financial information, including an extensive internal auditors, the Committee considered the initial scoping of opening balance sheet review and outputs from the fair value the audit in relation to the acquisition of GKN.
A major item that exercise and received presentations from external advisors was discussed during the course of this initial review related to the involved in that work: previous control breakdowns and risks that had been identified considered the Annual Report and financial statements in the at a number of the GKN Aerospace North America businesses.
context of being fair, balanced and understandable and The Committee was briefed on the key issues and risks that had reviewed the content of a paper prepared by management in previously been identified, including the inappropriate recording relation to the 2018 Annual Report and financial statements.
of inventory on the GKN balance sheet which culminated in a The Committee advised the Board that, in its view, the 2018 significant exceptional charge being recorded in GKNs results Annual Report and financial statements when taken as a whole for the year ended 31 December 2017. is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups Significant activities related to the financial statements performance, business model and strategy: As part of its duties the Committee undertook the following reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk management recurring activities that receive annual scrutiny: and internal financial controls and disclosures made in the reviewed the Annual Report and financial statements and Annual Report and financial statements on this matter: interim financial report, including the going concern reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal and external assumption and the assessment forming the basis of the auditors: and longer-term viability statement.
As part of this review, the reviewed and agreed the scope of work to be undertaken in Committee received reports from the external auditor on their respect of the 2018 annual accounts by the external auditor audit of the Annual Report and financial statements and their and the scope of work to be undertaken in 2019 by the review of the interim financial report, as well as a paper on internal auditor.
viability and a presentation from management: In addition to these matters, the Committee considered the following significant issues in relation to the financial statements during the year: The Audit Committees activities during 2018 Significant issue considered by the Audit Committee How the issue was addressed by the Audit Committee GKN Acquisition Accounting The Committee reviewed a paper prepared by management which The GKN acquisition was completed on 19 April 2018, and the explained the methodologies, assumptions and judgements taken in consolidated Group financial statements include the results of the GKN preparing the opening balance sheet.
businesses for the period from acquisition to 31 December 2018.
Specifically, the Committee focused on: Judgement was required in identifying the fair values of certain assets and liabilities acquired.
the inclusion of certain provisions and liabilities, principally in relation to loss-making contracts, which included consideration of potential plans to Due to the size and scale of the GKN businesses, advisors were address the contractual positions on acquisition, ongoing warranty engaged to support the preparation of the opening balance sheet for matters and commercial obligations and unresolved regulatory exposures: the GKN businesses.
A programme of site visits took place between the valuation of intangible assets which involved valuing customer May and October 2018, covering a significant portion of the GKN contracts and relationships, technology assets and brands.
Assumptions businesses with a detailed work plan to identify the fair value of included growth rates, discount rates, royalty rates and the achievement operational assets and liabilities.
In addition, specialist valuers were of operational plans that underpinned future cash flow: and engaged to appraise the land and buildings, intangible assets, valuation and appraisal of property, plant and equipment which involved post-retirement obligations and the value of equity accounted independent evaluation of 81 properties as well as a detailed appraisal investments on acquisition.
of the acquired plant and equipment.
Refer to note 12 of the financial statements The Groups external advisors were invited to Committee meetings to present the results of their work which were discussed in detail.
The Committee discussed with Deloitte the audit work performed by them, including the sites visited, to assess whether the assets and liabilities were properly included at fair value.
Considering all of the above, management responses to challenge and Deloittes views, the Committee was satisfied that the assumptions used were reasonable and that the provisional fair value of assets and liabilities had been established appropriately.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 83 Audit Committee report Continued The Audit Committees activities during 2018 Significant issue considered by the Audit Committee How the issue was addressed by the Audit Committee IFRS 15 In September 2018, the Committee reviewed a management report on The Group adopted IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with the implications of IFRS 15.
The assessment considered areas of the Customers on 1 January 2018 using the modified retrospective new standard that drive changes in the Groups financial statements as approach and for Melrose, at that date, the impact was not material.
well as the estimates and judgement in application, particularly in the However, for the acquired GKN business, IFRS 15 which requires GKN Aerospace division.
Changes impact both the amount and timing revenue to be allocated to performance obligations identified in a of revenue recognition and more details can be found in notes 4 and 16 contract, had a significant impact within the GKN Aerospace division, to the financial statements.
specifically regarding recognition of variable consideration.
The Committee discussed the audit work performed by Deloitte, to assess whether the revenue recognised together with contract assets Refer to note 16 of the financial statements and liabilities recorded in the balance sheet were appropriate.
Considering the judgements made in applying the new accounting standard and Deloittes views, the Committee was satisfied that the approach and assumptions used were reasonable and that judgements made were appropriate.
GKN Aerospace North America financial information in relation During the year, the Committee reviewed a report addressing the concerns relating to GKN Aerospaces North American business.
The assessment to inventory balances considered trends in inventory carrying amounts, scrap values expensed During 2017 GKN made a number of external announcements regarding as well as the overall control environment and progress since the prior year.
its GKN Aerospace North American business.
This culminated in a As a result of the known pre-acquisition issues, Group management had significant charge being recorded in its results for the year ended overseen additional work designed to provide incremental assurance that 31 December 2017.
The majority of the charge related to inventory financial results and the balance sheet were appropriate.
that was assessed as having been inappropriately recorded on the balance sheet.
The Committee discussed the results with management and sought a view from Deloitte following their additional audit work, to assess The Group has reviewed the issues in GKN Aerospace in whether the financial information included in the Group consolidated North America during its fair value process to ensure that inventory financial statements was appropriate.
balances were appropriately valued on acquisition and further evidence that any defective product produced in post-acquisition period has Having considered the matters presented and evidence provided, beenexpensed.
the Committee concluded that managements response to issues was appropriate and balances were reasonably stated.
Refer to note 15 of the financial statements Provisions for loss-making contracts, warranty, legal and The Committee considered managements proposed provisioning in respect of material exposures including the key assumptions and environmental claims estimates used and relevant legal advice.
Amounts recorded at The level of provisioning for loss-making contracts, warranty, legal and 31 December 2018 were materially impacted by the acquisition environmental claims, restructuring and other provisions requires of GKN, which is discussed above.
Deloitte also reported on all provisions in the GKN businesses on Although provisions are reviewed on a regular basis and adjusted for acquisition to the Committee.
managements best views, the inherently subjective nature of these items means that future amounts settled may be different from Having considered the matters presented and responses to challenge, those provided.
the Committee concluded that managements proposed provisioning and the associated disclosures in the financial statement were appropriate Refer to note 20 of the financial statements and the approach taken was consistent with previous years.
84 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Governance The Audit Committees activities during 2018 Significant issue considered by the Audit Committee How the issue was addressed by the Audit Committee Impairment testing of goodwill The Committee challenged the outcome of the impairment review in Impairment testing is inherently subjective as it includes assumptions in respect of the Brush group CGUs and also considered the proposed calculating the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit CGU disclosures in respect of the SST and Ergotron groups of CGUs.
Assumptions include future cash flows of the relevant so the Committee considered the following: CGU, discount rates that reflect the appropriate risk and long-term a paper prepared by management, which included the key outputs of the growth rates which are applicable to the geography of operations.
impairment model: In 2017 there was an impairment of goodwill and other assets in the the trading assumptions, including macroeconomic factors such as trade Brush CGU totalling 145 million, which reduced the value to tariffs applied in the model, in particular those that were key, being 300million.
This was primarily driven by a decline in the generator revenue growth and operating margin: market.
Following any impairment, a CGU is immediately sensitive to the market-based assumptions for the long-term growth rates and the any new decline in operating cash flows not forecast, or changes to discount rate: either the discount rate or long-term growth rate.
risk adjustments that were applied to the model, in particular regarding the extent of market decline and timing of when volume reductions would During 2018, following a new decline in market conditions in generator cease: and services that was not anticipated, as well as announcements by key customers during the second half of the year, management have the appropriateness of the full disclosures in the financial statements in concluded that another impairment charge is required to bring the respect of the impairment review performed and the impact, together with carrying value to 103 million.
The revised carrying amount has been sensitivities that could cause a future impairment.
derived from a value-in-use calculation and as a consequence an The Committee discussed with Deloitte the audit work performed by impairment charge of 123 million has been recognised in the income them and their conclusion regarding the impairment charge recorded.
statement during the second half of 2018.
Considering all of the above, management responses to challenge and Refer to note 11 of the financial statements Deloittes views, the Committee was satisfied that the assumptions used were reasonable and that the impairment charge together with disclosures were appropriately presented.
Classification of adjusting items and use of Alternative The Committee has considered the nature, classification and consistency of adjusting items, whilst addressing the guidance provided by ESMA.
Performance Measures APMs These items are defined and discussed in the Finance Directors review The reporting, classification and consistency of adjusting items and detailed in note 6 to the financial statements together with the continues to be an area of focus for the Committee.
In particular, glossary to this Annual Report and financial statements.
given the guidance on APMs provided by the European Securities and Markets Authority ESMA.
The Committee has reconsidered the Companys accounting policy in light of the material acquisition during the year and evolving reporting The Committee considers this to be a key consideration when practice for adjusting items.
Following review of managements paper reviewing whether the financial statements give a fair, balanced and challenge, the Committee is satisfied that whilst additional items and understandable view of events.
have been included, such as the proportionate share of turnover and Refer to note 6 of the financial statements and the glossary adjusted operating profit from equity accounted investments and to this Annual Report and financial statements changes in fair value of derivative instruments, as a result of the acquisition of GKN, there has not been any change to the policy.
The Committee has determined that disclosures are clear and transparent, thereby assisting shareholders in measuring the operating performance of the Group.
The Committee therefore concluded that these adjusting items were appropriately captured and disclosed.
The Committee also considered disclosure of the Groups APMs with respect to applicable guidelines and noted that these are set out in detail in the glossary to this Annual Report and financial statements together with reconciliations of adjusted performance measures to statutory results in note 6 to the financial statements.
The Committee found disclosures to be clear and transparent.
Non-audit fees The Committee has considered the application of rules to the Group, Under EU and Competition Commission rules, effective from noting in particular the cap on permitted non-audit services of 70% 17June2016, there are restrictions on non-audit services.
of average audit fees over a three-year period, to be first applied in December 2020.
Audit fees in 2018, 2019 and 2020 will be relevant and the average of these three years will be compared to the non-audit fees in 2020.
The Companys non-audit fee of 1 million represents 14% of the audit fees for 2018.
The Committee completed its annual review of the Groups Non-Audit Services Policy, whereby the Committee reviewed the services provided by the audit firm, considered the impact of the services and threats and safeguards to ensure that the auditor remained independent and the services provided were in line with the Groups non-audit services policy.
The Audit Committee Chairman approves all non-audit services in advance of the service being provided and cumulative non-audit fees are reviewed at Committee meetings.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 85 Audit Committee report Continued The Audit Committees activities during 2018 Significant issue considered by the Audit Committee How the issue was addressed by the Audit Committee Risk management and internal control The Committee received updates during the year from senior Monitored the risk management and the internal financial control management on the Companys risk management framework systems and conducted a review of their effectiveness.
and internal financial control systems.
The Committee received a presentation from senior management on the risk management framework and on the financial, operational and compliance controls in place.
In addition, the Committee was presented with the findings of the internal audit visits on a bi-annual basis to assist them with determining the effectiveness of internal financial controls within the Group.
The Committee considered the risk management and internal financial control systems and concluded that they were effective and reported this to the Board.
Going concern and viability The Committee reviewed and supported managements recommendation Assessment of the going concern assumptions and the basis to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
The Committee also considered papers prepared by management in respect of the longer-term viability statement to be included in the 2018 Annual Report.
The Committee concurred with the assumptions and judgements made by management and concluded that the longer-term viability statement was appropriate.
Internal audit The Committee reviewed and approved the new Internal Audit Charter Monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of the internal and committed to annually reviewing the Internal Audit Charter.
The Committee reviewed and assessed the effectiveness of the internal audit process, by use of a questionnaire completed by each member and key representatives of the Company and deemed it to be thorough and effective.
The Committee reviewed the reappointment of BM Howarth as internal auditor and, following an assessment of the services delivered to the Company by BM Howarth in 2018, approved their reappointment.
External audit The Committee reviewed the independence of the external auditor, Monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of the external whilst considering fees in respect of the audit and non-audit services, audit function.
and deemed the external auditor to be independent.
The Committee reviewed the remuneration paid to the external auditor in 2018 in light of the services provided to the Company during 2018 and deemed it fair and reasonable.
The Committee reviewed and assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process.
In doing so the Committee consulted the views of its members, the Group Finance Director, the Chief Executive, the divisional finance directors and the internal auditor.
Following the assessment, the Committee reviewed and approved the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as external auditor.
Committee evaluation In 2017, an externally facilitated review of the Committee was undertaken Monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of the Committee.
by Lintstock Ltd. During 2018 the Company continued its ongoing internal review of the Committee and collected feedback from Committee members within a similar range of focal topics as featured in last years review.
Alongside such formal feedback, the Committee continued to facilitate direct ongoing contact between its members and the Chair about any relevant matters that the members wish to raise as part of the ongoing review.
The Code requires the Company to undertake another externally facilitated Board and Committee evaluation by 2020.
86 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Governance Risk management and internal control External audit During 2018, the Committee monitored the effectiveness of the Assessment of effectiveness and reappointment Groups risk management and internal control systems through The Committee reviews and makes recommendations with regard regular updates from management and a review of the key findings to the reappointment of the external auditor.
In making these presented by the external and internal auditors.
recommendations, the Committee considers auditor effectiveness and independence, partner rotation and any other factors which In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, may impact the external auditors reappointment.
the Board instructed the Committee to undertake a review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control The Committee has reviewed the external auditors performance systems, covering all material controls including financial, and effectiveness.
For 2018, a series of questions covering the key operational and compliance controls.
areas of the audit process that the Committee is expected to have an opinion over were put to the Committee, including: This review took the form of management presentations followed by a Committee discussion.
The Company Secretary briefed the the calibre, experience, resources, leadership and technical Committee on the key elements of the Melrose risk management and industry knowledge of the engagement partner and framework including an updated risk strategy, a best practice risk of the wider external audit team: register with risk mapping and profiling application, an education the planning and execution of the audit process: and training programme and an audit and assurance process, the quality and timeliness of communications from the external as well as a confirmation to the Committee that this has been auditor: and implemented across the Brush and Nortek business units, and the quality of support provided to the Committee by the that changes and adaptations were made to a similar risk external audit partner.
management framework already in place at GKN prior to its acquisition by the Company.
The Committee, together with the Group Finance Director and the divisional finance directors, was requested to complete a Management then reported on the Groups internal control systems questionnaire containing these questions.
The Chairman also supported by the internal audit review.
Samples of both Group sought feedback from the Chief Executive and the internal auditor.
and business unit controls, including financial, operational and The Company Secretary subsequently produced a report compliance controls, were presented and examined.
The Groups summarising the responses.
Based on this report, the Committee risk management and internal financial control systems were concluded that the quality of the external audit team remains very reviewed and the Committee approved the implementation of an high, the external audit process is operating effectively and Deloitte enhanced Enterprise Risk Management programme across all LLP continues to prove effective in its role as external auditor.
Group business units, which build on their pre-existing internal risk management processes, to account for the Groups enlarged size UK Financial Reporting Council FRC Audit Quality Review as a result of the GKN acquisition.
The improvements involved The FRCs Audit Quality Review team selected to review the audit regular input from the senior executives heading the key business of the 2017 Melrose Industries PLC financial statements as part of functions to ensure that a comprehensive view of the Groups risk their 2017 annual inspection of audit firms.
The focus of the review exposure is captured.
The Committee concluded that these and their reporting is on identifying areas where improvements are systems were effective.
The Committee reported its conclusions to required rather than highlighting areas performed to or above the the Board at the next scheduled Board meeting.
The Chairman of the Committee received a full copy of the findings of the Audit Quality Review team and has Following the acquisition of GKN, the Committee reviewed and discussed these with Deloitte.
The Committee confirmed that there assessed the findings of the internal financial controls review were no significant areas for improvement identified within the conducted by the previous GKN group management, paying report and was satisfied that there is nothing within the report particular attention to the issues in respect of inventory which might have a bearing on the audit appointment.
management and related controls, policy application, management review and oversight that led to the GKN inventory adjustment in As detailed below, the Committee regularly monitors the objectivity 2017.
After the acquisition of GKN, the Committee immediately and independence of the external auditor.
Deloitte LLP was began to monitor and oversee the integrity and application of the appointed in 2003 when the Company commenced trading and corrective measures in respect of those issues that were put in the external audit has not been formally tendered since then.
The place by the previous GKN senior management, primarily by way of Committee is satisfied that the effectiveness and independence of reports from the internal auditor to each Committee meeting and the external auditor is not impaired in any way.
There are no legal ongoing Group senior management risk reporting, which or contractual obligations that restrict the Groups capacity to continued throughout 2018. recommend a particular firm for appointment as auditor and therefore a resolution proposing the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as external auditor will be put to the shareholders at the 2019 AGM.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 87 Audit Committee report Continued Audit tendering Despite being well within the CMA guidance, the Committee has The Committee has considered the audit tendering provisions taken into account feedback from institutional shareholder services outlined in the Code.
The Committee has also reviewed the and has been actively migrating non-audit work to other firms and guidance provided by the European Commission and the has recently worked with Ernst & Young and KPMG in respect of Competition and Markets Authority CMA.
It is the Committees corporate finance affairs and risk management and obtained tax understanding that, under the CMA and the EU rules, rotation of advice and advice on remuneration reporting regulations from the external audit firm is required by 2024.
intention to put the external audit out to tender in accordance with An analysis of the fees earned by the external auditor for audit and the CMA and the EU timeframes.
non-audit services can be found in note 7 to the consolidated The current audit engagement partner was appointed in 2015. financial statements.
The Companys audit firm is required to be rotated by 2024, this As in previous years, the Audit Committee specifically considered will be the last partner rotation and the decision was made for the the potential threats that each of these limited non-audit current engagement partner to rotate off the audit team after the engagements may present to the objectivity and independence financial year ended 31 December 2018, such that the new audit of the external auditor.
In each case, the Committee was satisfied engagement partner will serve a full five-year term for the enlarged with the safeguards in place to ensure that the external auditor Group from the financial year ending 31 December 2019 until the remained independent from the Company and its objectivity was firm rotation in 2024. not, and is not, compromised.
Non-audit services Auditor objectivity and independence Under EU and Competition and Markets Authority rules, effective The Committee carries out regular reviews to ensure that auditor from 17 June 2016, restrictions on non-audit services now apply, objectivity and independence are maintained at all times.
which cap the level of permissible non-audit services awarded to No fees were paid to Deloitte LLP on a contingent basis.
Based on the external auditor at 70% of the average audit fee for the previous these strict procedures, the Committee remains confident that three years.
The cap applies prospectively and so will first apply in auditor objectivity and independence have been maintained but respect of the Companys 2020 financial year, audit fees in 2018, accepts that non-audit work should be controlled to ensure that it 2019 and 2020 being relevant.
does not compromise the auditors position.
A policy on the engagement of the external auditor for the supply At each year end, Deloitte LLP submits a letter setting out how it of non-audit services is in place to ensure that the provision of believes its independence and objectivity have been maintained.
non-audit services does not impair the external auditors As noted above, Deloitte LLP is also required to rotate the audit independence or objectivity.
In accordance with best practice partner responsible for the Group audit every five years and FRC guidelines, the Company policy in relation to non-audit significant subsidiary audits every five years.
services is kept under regular review it was revised in 2016.
The policy outlines which non-audit services are pre-approved Internal audit being those which are routine in nature, with a fee that is not Due to the size and complexity of the Group, it is appropriate significant in the context of the audit or audit-related services, for an internal audit programme to be used within the business.
which services require the prior approval of the Committee and BMHowarth Ltd, an external firm, provides internal audit services which services the auditor is excluded from providing.
The general to the Group in accordance with an annually agreed Internal principle is that the audit firm should not be requested to carry out Audit Charter and internal audit plan.
Where additional or specific non-audit services on any activity of the Company where the audit resource is required, additional support is provided by Ernst and firm may, in the future, be required to give an audit opinion.
A rotation programme is in place, such that every business During 2018, the main non-audit services provided by Deloitte LLP unit site will have an internal audit at least once every three years, were in relation to the reporting accountants role for the profit with the largest sites being reviewed at least once every two years.
estimate made by the Company as part of its bid for GKN, Upon acquisition, each site of any new business is promptly visited non-statutory audit of carve out financial statements services as part of the acquisition accounting exercise, which better informs for GKN including assurance reports for government grants or the internal audit rotation process.
The rotation programme allows subsidies and tax compliance in non-EU subsidiaries.
The divisional managements actions and responses to be followed up Company did not use Deloitte for any taxation services and does on a timely basis.
The internal audit programme of planned visits is not intend to during 2019.
The Companys non-audit fee represents discussed and agreed with the Committee during the year.
The Committee closely monitors the amount of non-audit work undertaken by the external auditor and considers using other firms for transaction-related work.
However, there are occasions when it is appropriate, because of background knowledge, to use our auditor for non-audit work, for example on certain advisory and compliance projects.
88 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Governance The internal auditors remit includes assessment of the effectiveness of internal financial control systems, compliance with the Groups Policies and Procedures Manual and a review of the businesses balance sheets.
A report of key findings and recommendations is presented to the Group Finance Director and the Head of Financial Reporting, followed by a meeting to discuss these key findings and to agree on resulting actions.
Internal audit site visits were conducted by BM Howarth across a total of 18sites, in respect of the Nortek and Brush businesses.
In addition to this, BM Howarth visited 67 of GKNs sites to support the acquisition accounting process.
During the previous year deficiencies were found in Nortek Global HVACs internal financial controls at two sites which prompted immediate action by the Group Finance Director and the Melrose accounting function, and resulted in the strengthening of the local accounting functions, implementation of more comprehensive and robust controls and a specific action plan to address the shortcomings identified.
Follow-up visits were performed during the first half of 2018 which identified significant progress in the improvement of financial controls at both sites.
During 2018 some deficiencies in respect of controls relating to inventory balances were identified at one of the North American Brush sites, which resulted in the requirement for an immaterial adjustment.
The control weaknesses were identified following a change in the finance team at the site and plans were immediately put in place to rectify.
The internal auditor has performed two visits to this site in 2018 and have scheduled a further follow-up visit in 2019.
A review of the internal audit process and scope of work covered by the internal auditor is the responsibility of the Committee, to ensure their objectives, level of authority and resources are appropriate for the nature of the businesses under review.
A report of significant findings is presented by the internal auditor to the Committee at each meeting and implementation of recommendations by the Board is followed up at the subsequent Committee meeting.
The Committee also reviews BM Howarths performance against the agreed internal audit programme.
Liz Hewitt Chairman, Audit Committee 7 March 2019 Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 89
