Corporate governance report In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code The Company Secretary is responsible for advising and supporting and the Listing Rules issued by the Financial Conduct Authority, the Chairman and the Board on corporate governance matters as this section of the Annual Report and financial statements details well as ensuring a smooth flow of information to enable effective the ways in which the Company has applied and complied with the decision making.
All Directors have access to the advice and principles and provisions of the Code applicable during the year services of the Company Secretary and, through him, have access ended 31 December 2018. to independent professional advice in respect of their duties, at the Companys expense.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to In July 2018, the Financial Reporting Council FRC the Board, the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and amended the Code, a copy of which is available at the Remuneration Committee.
uk getattachment 88bd8c45-50ea-4841- 95b0-d2f4f48069a2  accordance with its Articles and in compliance with the Act, the Code-FINAL.
This new version of the Code applies to Company has granted a qualifying third-party indemnity to each accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and will Director.
This indemnity is provided both within the Companys form the basis of the Companys 2019 Annual Report and financial Articles and through a separate deed of indemnity between the statements, although the Company notes its voluntary material Company and each of the Directors.
The Company also maintains compliance during 2018.
Directors and Officers liability insurance.
The Audit Committee report, Nomination Committee report, Chairman, Vice-Chairmen and Chief Executive Directors Remuneration report, Statement of Directors The roles of each of the Chairman, the Vice-Chairmen and the responsibilities and the risk management and risks and Chief Executive of the Company are, and will remain, separate uncertainties sections of the Strategic Report also form part in accordance with best practice and Board policy.
of this Corporate governance report.
The Chairman, with the assistance of the Vice-Chairmen, is responsible for leadership of the Board.
The Chairman sets the Statement of compliance Board agenda and ensures that adequate time is given to the Throughout the year ended 31 December 2018, the Company discussion of issues, particularly those of a strategic nature.
has applied and complied with the main principles, the supporting Responsibility for ensuring effective communications are made principles and the respective related provisions of the Code.
to shareholders rests with the Chairman, Vice-Chairmen and the Main principle A: Leadership two other executive Directors.
The Board The Board notes, and confirms, its decision to elect Details of the structure of the Board and its key responsibilities are Mr Justin Dowley to the inaugural position of Non-executive shown on pages 72 to 73.
Chairman of the Board, effective 1 January 2019.
Mr Dowley There were four formally scheduled Board meetings held during was the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the the year and the attendance of each Director at these meetings Remuneration Committee and it was decided that following the is shown on page 80.
A number of unscheduled Board meetings acquisition of GKN, the appointment of Mr Dowley as Chairman were also held during the year in connection with corporate and the retention of Mr Christopher Miller as Vice-Chairman, being transactions, for example in relation to the acquisition of GKN plc.
one of the founding members of Melrose and a Director since its incorporation in 2003, would provide the Board with the necessary In addition, business review meetings are held between scheduled continuity and stability it required.
Mr Miller shall continue to play an Board meetings.
There were three business review meetings held active executive role in identifying and evaluating new opportunities during the year for each non-GKN division and two business for the Group.
review meetings held for each GKN division.
The attendance of each Director at these review meetings is set out on page 80.
The Chief Executive is responsible for strategic direction and These meetings are critical to providing the Directors with a decisions involving the day-to-day management of the Company.
comprehensive understanding of the current performance of, and Non-executive Directors the key issues affecting, the Groups businesses, without the The Companys Non-executive Directors are encouraged to, formality or rigidity of a Board meeting.
Divisional CEOs and other and do, scrutinise the performance of the executive Directors senior management from the Melrose businesses are periodically in all areas, including on strategy, risks and financial information, invited to attend and present to these meetings, providing the through their roles on the Companys Committees, at the Boards Directors with an opportunity to discuss each business directly scheduled meetings and review sessions and on an ad hoc basis.
and to develop relationships with their leadership teams.
Main principle B: Effectiveness A pack of briefing papers and an agenda are provided to each Board composition Director in advance of each Board, Committee or business As at 1 January 2019, the Board comprises a Non-executive review meeting.
The Directors are able to seek further clarification Chairman, four executive Directors and four Non-executive and information on any matter from any other Director, the Directors.
The Board believes that the Directors possess diverse Company Secretary or any other employee of the Group business experience in areas complementary to the activities whenevernecessary.
Biographies of the Directors are shown on Decisions are taken by the Board in conjunction with the pages 72 and 73 and on the Companys corporate website at recommendations of its Committees and advice from external www.
consultants, advisers and senior management.
These biographies identify any other significant appointments held The Board has a fully encrypted electronic board portal system, by the Directors.
enabling Board, Committee and review papers to be delivered The Board and the Nomination Committee undertake an annual securely and efficiently to Directors.
This facilitates a faster and review of the time commitment required from both the executive more secure distribution of information, accessed using electronic and Non-executive Directors.
The consensus view between the tablets and reduced resource usage.
Directors is that the current time commitment is appropriate.
78 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Governance On the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, the Board Outputs of the evaluation decided to increase the number of independent Directors.
External Overall, the Board was satisfied with its performance, and agreed recruitment consultants Stonehaven International were retained that the appointment of a new Non-executive Chairman and to identify suitable candidates for the Boards consideration.
the new Senior Independent Director would further bolster its Stonehaven International provided an initial list of potential effectiveness, whilst the retention of the current Chairman and candidates which the Nomination Committee reviewed and co-founder as an Executive Vice Chairman would retain stability produced a shortlist of candidates, from which several candidates and depth of experience on the Board.
were invited to interview with members of the Committee.
In order to further enhance the Boards effectiveness, the following MsCharlotte Twyning was identified as the Boards preferred areas were designated as the subject of management focus candidate and accepted the offer of appointment subject to during 2019: certain necessary approvals.
Those approvals were granted and MsTwyning was appointed to the Board with effect from continued monitoring of senior management succession 1October 2018. both in Melrose and its Group : further enhancement of Board visibility over the impact of The Board is satisfied that there will be sufficient challenge by principal risks on the business divisions: Non-executive Directors of executive management in meetings of the Board and that no individual or small group of individuals although considerable steps were taken to improve cyber dominates its decision making.
security across all business units in 2018, it was recognised that cyber security is an ongoing risk and will, therefore, be Non-executive Director independence focused on again in 2019: In accordance with the provisions of the Code, consideration has continued improvement and monitoring of the cash been given to the independence of all Non-executive Directors.
management culture within the businesses particularly within The Board considers all of the Non-executive Directors to the GKN businesses and improvement of cash performance: beindependent.
address onerous contracts and contract dispute resolution Under the Code, the Board is required to state its reasons if it trends within the GKN businesses: determines that a Director is independent notwithstanding the continue to impress upon all business divisions that the existence of any circumstances which may appear relevant to health and safety of their workers is of utmost importance and itsdetermination.
ensure that the business divisions senior management teams On Mr Dowleys appointment to the role of Chairman of the Board place a high degree of focus on implementing, monitoring he was considered independent.
Ms Liz Hewitt was concurrently and maintaining high standards of health and safety elected to the role of Senior Independent Director.
These changes awareness, coupled with appropriate protective measures took effect from 1 January 2019.
In accordance with the Code and high performance, with a view to eliminating preventable requirements, at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman of accidents: and the Board, comprises Non-executive Directors determined by the update and implement the Boards overarching corporate Board to be independent.
governance framework to ensure continued alignment The Non-executive Directors are not entitled to any cash bonus or of the Board and Committee members roles and division shares under the Incentive Plan 2017. of responsibilities with the recent changes to the Code, Melroses top-down Board and senior management risk Board induction, training and support oversight, and the business divisions bottom-up risk An induction programme tailored to the needs of individual management responsibilities.
Directors is provided for new Directors joining the Board.
The primary aim of the induction programme is to introduce new In accordance with the provisions of the Code, it is anticipated Directors to, and educate new Directors about, the Groups that externally facilitated Board evaluations will be carried out at businesses, its operations and its governance arrangements.
least once every three years.
The scope for each evaluation is Individual induction requirements are monitored by the Chairman designed to build upon the previous evaluation to ensure that the and the Company Secretary to ensure that new Directors gain recommendations agreed are implemented and that year-on-year sufficient knowledge to enable them to contribute to the Boards progress is measured and reported upon.
deliberations as quickly as possible.
Annual re-election of Directors Pursuant to the Companys Articles and in accordance with the Board evaluation provisions of the Code, all of the Directors with the exception of Evaluation approach and process Ms Twyning who was appointed with effect from 1 October 2018 The Code requires that FTSE 350 companies undertake an stood for re-election at the 2018 AGM.
With the exception of Ms externally facilitated Board and Committee evaluation once every Twyning who is standing for election for the first time, all current three years.
The last external Melrose Board and Committee review Directors of the Company will be standing for re-election by was in 2017, whereby the Company engaged Lintstock Ltd. shareholders at this years AGM.
Whilst the Company is not required to undertake another externally facilitated Board and Committee evaluation until 2020, during 2018 the Company continued its ongoing internal review of the Board and each Committee, both internally within each of those bodies and with the Chairman and Chairs of each Committee respectively.
In previous years, this review has been conducted as a discussion at the Board meeting.
Members were also given the option for direct calls to be scheduled with the Chairman or Chair of the relevant Committee about any relevant matters that the members wish to raise as part of the ongoing review.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 79 Corporate governance report Continued Following performance evaluations of each of the Directors, and The Board is committed to satisfying the internal control guidance having carefully considered the commitments required and the for Directors set out in the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, contributions made by each Director, the Chairman is of the Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
In opinion that each Directors performance continues to be effective accordance with this guidance, the Board assumes ultimate and demonstrates commitment to the role.
Similarly, following responsibility for risk management and internal controls, including performance evaluations of the Chairman, and having carefully determining the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to considered the commitments required and the contributions made take to achieve its strategic objectives its risk appetite and by the Chairman, the Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior ensuring an appropriate culture has been embedded throughout Independent Director, are of the opinion that the Chairmans the organisation.
The establishment of a revised risk management performance continues to be effective and that he continues to and internal control system has been complemented by ongoing demonstrate commitment to the role.
monitoring and review, to ensure the Company is able to adapt to an evolving risk environment.
Attendance of Directors at meetings The following table shows the attendance of each of the Directors A separate Audit Committee report is set out on pages 82 to 89 at the scheduled meetings of the Board and its Committees held and provides details of the role and activities of the Audit Committee during the year.
The quorum necessary for the transaction of and its relationship with the internal and external auditors.
business by the Board and each of its Committees is two.
Briefing Managing and controlling risk papers and meeting agendas are provided to each Director in Since 2016, the Groups approach to risk management has been advance of each meeting.
Decisions are taken by the Board in reviewed and enhanced.
The systems, processes and controls in conjunction with the recommendations of its Committees and place accord with the Code and the FRCs updated guidance.
advice from external advisers and senior management as Details on the Groups risk management strategy are set out on appropriate.
The representations of any Director who is unable to pages 50 to 51. attend a meeting of the Board or a standing Committee are duly considered by those Directors in attendance.
Further information regarding the Groups financial risk objectives and policies can be found in the Finance Directors review on The table also shows attendance at business review meetings pages 40 to 48.
A summary of the principal risks and uncertainties held between scheduled Board meetings.
that could impact upon the Groups performance is set out on Attendance of Directors pages 52 to 58. Business Internal financial controls and reporting Board Audit Nomination Remuneration review The Group has a comprehensive system for assessing the 1 Number of meetings 4 4 2 2 3 effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, including strategic Justin Dowley 3 3 2 2 3 business planning and regular monitoring and reporting of financial Christopher Miller 4 2 3 performance.
A detailed annual budget is prepared by senior David Roper 4 3 management and thereafter is reviewed and formally adopted Simon Peckham 4 3 bythe Board.
2 Geoffrey Martin 4 4 3 The budget and other targets are regularly updated via a rolling Liz Hewitt 4 4 2 2 3 forecast process and regular business review meetings are David Lis 4 4 2 2 3 held with the involvement of senior management to assess Archie G. Kane 4 4 2 2 3 performance.
The results of these reviews are in turn reported to, 3 Charlotte Twyning 1 1 1 1 1 and discussed by, the Board at each meeting.
As discussed in the Audit Committee report on pages 82 to 89, the Group engages 1 In addition to the above scheduled meetings, ad hoc Board and Committee meetings are held from time to time which are attended by a quorum of Directors and are convened BM Howarth as internal auditor.
A total of 18 internal audit visits to deal with specific items of business.
2 Geoffrey Martin attends by invitation.
were completed by BM Howarth during 2018 in respect of the 3 Charlotte Twyning was appointed as a Non-executive Director with effect from Nortek and Brush businesses.
As a result of the GKN acquisition 1 October 2018 and has attended all meetings since that date.
and as part of the process of determining the post-acquisition Main principle C: Accountability opening balance sheet for the GKN businesses BM Howarth, with Objectives and policy support from Ernst & Young, reviewed a significant proportion of The objectives of the Directors and senior management are to the GKN sites.
safeguard and increase the value of the business and assets of the The Directors are pleased to report that there has been progress Group for the benefit of its shareholders.
Achievement of their across the Group following the 2018 internal audit programme and, objectives requires the development of policies and appropriate that the majority of the recommendations presented in the internal internal control frameworks to ensure the Groups resources are audit report have been or are in the process of being implemented.
managed properly and any key risks are identified and mitigated Some deficiencies in respect of controls relating to inventory where possible.
balances were identified at one of the North American Brush sites, The Board is ultimately responsible for the development of the which resulted in the requirement for an immaterial adjustment.
Groups overall risk management policies and system of internal The control weaknesses were identified following a change in the control frameworks and for reviewing their respective effectiveness, finance team at the site and plans were immediately put in place to while the role of senior management is to implement these policies rectify them.
The internal auditor has performed two visits to this and frameworks across the Groups business operations.
The site in 2018 and have scheduled a further follow-up visit in 2019.
Directors recognise that the systems and processes established by the Board are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failing to achieve business objectives and cannot provide absolute assurance against material financial misstatement or loss.
80 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Governance The Audit Committee also monitors the effectiveness of the internal In addition, the Directors Remuneration Policy, which can be found control process implemented across the Group through a review in the circular dated 7 April 2017 available at www.
of the key findings presented by the external and internal auditors.
pdf, subject to the Management are responsible for ensuring that the Audit clarifications on pages 104 to 107, remains unchanged.
Committees recommendations in respect of internal controls Main principle E: Relations with shareholders and risk management are implemented.
Through regular meetings and presentations between the Compliance and ethics executive Directors, analysts and institutional shareholders, The Company takes very seriously its responsibilities under the including those following the announcements of the Companys laws and regulations in the countries and jurisdictions in which the annual and interim results, the Company seeks to build on a mutual Group operates and has in place appropriate measures to ensure understanding of objectives with its shareholders.
A compliance framework is in place comprising a suite addition to the usual disclosure rounds following the release of of policies governing anti-bribery and anti-corruption, anti-money results, the Company continued its programme of engagement laundering, competition, trade compliance, data privacy, with major investors and the governance bodies in respect of its whistleblowing, document retention and joint ventures.
These Directors Remuneration Policy and incentive arrangements policies are in place within each business and apply to all Directors, recognising the votes against the 2017 Directors Remuneration employees whether permanent, fixed-term, or temporary, pension Report at the 2018 AGM.
In particular, the Chairman, the Chairman trustees, consultants and other business advisers, contractors, of the Remuneration Committee and other members of the Board trainees, volunteers, business agents, distributors, joint venture met with major shareholders following the AGM vote in respect of partners or any other person working for or performing a service the 2017 Incentive Plan, further details of which are set out on on behalf of the Company, its subsidiaries and or associated page 95.
Further engagement with key shareholders and companies in which the Company or any of its subsidiaries governance bodies remains a central part of the Companys has a majority interest.
approach to shareholder communication and governance management and has continued in the lead up to the 2019 AGM.
In addition, as part of their internal audit function, BM Howarth include compliance audit questions to identify any areas for The Non-executive Directors are also available to meet institutional improvement across the Group and its businesses.
During 2019 shareholders should there be unresolved matters shareholders the Company is considering engaging an alternative provider to wish to bring to their attention.
The views of key analysts and augment this review.
shareholders are generally reported to the Board directly by individual Directors or via the Companys brokers.
This helps During 2018, the Company completed its roll-out of its online to ensure that all members of the Board develop an understanding compliance training platform to Nortek, covering topics such as of the views and any concerns of shareholders.
antitrust, trade compliance and export controls, data privacy, anti-bribery and anti-corruption and anti-money laundering.
Recognising the recent GKN acquisition, the Company is also The Company has made positive progress in rolling this out within organising a Capital Markets Day on 3 April 2019 so that investors the GKN businesses, to enhance and supplement its existing can hear direct from the operational management in the GKN compliance regime.
businesses about their improvement plans.
The Company produced its first Modern Slavery Statement in June The Board welcomes the attendance of shareholders at the AGM, 2017 which is available at www.
To support the the notice for which can be found on pages 197 to 201.
The AGM Companys belief in the importance of this matter it also produced provides all shareholders with the opportunity to attend and vote a Group-wide policy on the prevention of modern slavery and on the matters put to shareholders, either in person or by proxy.
human trafficking which was rolled out to Nortek and Brush The results of the voting on each of the resolutions proposed will employees along with an online compliance training module.
be announced shortly after the AGM has concluded, via the The Company also rolled out an online whistleblowing training Melrose corporate website at www.
module for all employees to promote awareness of the importance Details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of the of whistleblowing and the Companys externally hosted resolutions to be considered at the 2019 AGM are set out in the whistleblowing portal.
The whistleblowing portal received reports, AGM Notice on pages 197 to 201. the majority of which were identified as employee related matters.
Each report was fully investigated by the Company and all reports were presented to the Audit Committee for theirreview.
Main principle D: Remuneration Details regarding Directors remuneration, both generally and in relation to the requirements of the Code, are set out in the Directors Remuneration report, which is presented in the following three sections: the introduction to the Annual Report on Remuneration which can be found on page 92: the annual statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, which can be found on pages 93 to 95: and the Annual Report on Remuneration, which can be found on pages 96 to 112.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 81
