Nomination Committee report Melrose is a meritocracy and individual performance is the key determinant in any appointment, irrespective of ethnicity, gender or other characteristic, trait or orientation.
approving the diversity policy of the Company: and keeping up to date and fully informed on strategic issues and Archie G. Kane commercial changes affecting the Company and the markets Nomination Committee Chairman in which it operates.
The Committee is expected to meet not less than twice a year and during 2018, the Committee met twice.
The attendance The Nomination Committee of its members at these Committee meetings is shown the Committee has overall in the table opposite.
responsibility for making The Committees terms of reference, which were last revised in December 2018, are available to view on the Companys website recommendations to the Board at: www.
net about-us governance on all new appointments and for nomination-committee.
ensuring that the Board and its Further details regarding the composition, diversity policy and the 2018 activities of the Committee are set out below and overleaf.
Committees have the appropriate Composition balance of skills, experience, The majority of the members of the Committee were independence, diversity and independent Non-executive Directors throughout 2018, with MrChristopher Miller being the only non-independent member.
knowledge of the Company to enable In compliance with amendments to the UK Corporate Governance them to discharge their respective Code, MrJustin Dowley was elected to the inaugural role of Non-executive Chairman of the Board, effective 1 January 2019. duties and responsibilities effectively.
MrDowley brings a wealth of skills and experience to the role garnered over a 35-year career in banking, investment and asset Member No.
It was decided that MrDowley provided the 1 Archie G. Kane Chairman 2 2 necessary continuity and stability that the Company and the Board required following the acquisition of GKN as MrDowley David Lis 2 2 understood intimately the Company model and the key drivers Christopher Miller 2 2 of its success since his appointment in 2011.
MrDowley was the Justin Dowley 2 2 Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Liz Hewitt 2 2 Committee.
His appointment as Non-executive Chairman therefore 2 Charlotte Twyning 1 1 led to a change in the composition of the Board and Committees 1 With effect from 1 January 2019, MrDavid Lis stepped down from his position effective 1 January 2019. as Chairman of the Committee and was replaced by MrArchie G. Kane.
2 MsCharlotte Twyning was appointed as a Non-executive Director with effect from MrMiller, who has served as Chairman since May 2003, stepped 1 October 2018.
MsTwyning attended all Board and Committee meetings held during the period 1 October 2018 to 31 December 2018. down from his role as executive Chairman.
It was decided that MrMiller should continue to serve as an executive Director of the Discharge of responsibilities Board given his exemplary service to date and as such, MrMiller The Committee discharges its responsibilities through: was appointed as executive Vice Chairman to act alongside regularly reviewing the size, structure and composition of the MrDavid Roper.
Board and providing recommendations to the Board of any MsLiz Hewitt, who has served as a Non-executive Director since adjustments that may be necessary from time to time: 2013, was elected to the role of Senior Independent Director of the giving full consideration to succession planning in order to Board in replacement of MrDowley, while continuing to perform ensure an optimum balance of executive and Non-executive her role as the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
MsHewitt Directors in terms of skills, experience and diversity, and in is the longest serving Non-executive Director and brings with her particular formulating plans for succession for the key roles extensive business, financial and investment experience gained of Chairman and Chief Executive: from a number of senior roles in international companies, including reviewing the career planning and talent management as independent member of the House of Lords Commission, and programme related to senior executives of the Company and as non-executive director of Novo Nordisk A S and Savills PLC.
the senior executives of the business units to ensure that it MrDavid Lis stepped down as Chairman of the Nomination meets the needs of the business: Committee and was appointed as Chairman of the Remuneration managing the Board recruitment process and evaluating the Committee in replacement of MrDowley, having served as a skills, knowledge and experience of potential Board candidates member of the Remuneration Committee since joining the Board in order to make appropriate nominations to the Board: 90 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Governance as a Non-executive Director in March 2016.
MrLis brings a wealth Melroses strategic business model and frequent turnover of of experience to the role, including as non-executive director of businesses, Melrose is actively engaged in finding ways to increase Electra Private Equity PLC and BCA Marketplace PLC.
MrArchie G. Kane was appointed as Chairman of the Nomination The charts below show the gender balance of the Board and senior Committee in replacement of MrLis, having served as a member management and their direct reports as at 31 December 2018. of the Nomination Committee since his appointment as a NonSenior management and 1 executive Director in May 2017.
MrKane brings a wealth of Board their direct reports experience to this role, including as non-executive Governor Male 78% Male 59% of the Bank of Ireland and non-executive Chairman of ReAssure Female 22% Female 41% Group Limited.
Following a review by the Committee of the composition of the Board and a subsequent recommendation by the Committee that the number of independent Directors be increased, external recruitment consultants, Stonehaven International, were retained 1 In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, senior management is defined as to identify suitable candidates for the Boards consideration.
the executive committee or the first layer of management below board level, including the Company Secretary.
Stonehaven International provided an initial list of potential candidates which the Committee reviewed and produced a What the Committee did in 2018 shortlist of candidates, from which several candidates were The principal focus of the Committee during 2018 has been to invited to interview with members of the Nomination Committee.
consider the items set out below: MsCharlotte Twyning was identified as the Boards preferred the Committee considered the composition and balance of the candidate and was appointed to the Board with effect from Board and the timing of future Board changes and reviewed 1 October 2018. the succession plans in place in respect of executive Directors MsTwyning brings a diverse range of experience to the Board.
and Non-executive Directors in conjunction with the provisions After a decade specialising in competition and M&A law in the City, of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In particular, action MsTwyning moved to BT in 2007.
Whilst there, she held various was taken to appoint MrDowley as Non-executive Chairman senior roles in legal, policy and customer service strategy.
In 2016, of the Board in replacement of MrMiller as executive MsTwyning joined Abellio as an executive director to establish a Chairman, such change effective from 1 January 2019. policy, communications and strategy function commensurate to its The Committee further recommended the appointment of FTSE 250 size.
MsTwyning is currently Consents Director on the MsTwyning with effect from 1 October 2018 to increase the Heathrow Expansion Programme Board responsible for securing number of Non-executive Directors on the Board: the approvals for its expansion.
In accordance with the Articles, the existing time commitment of the Companys Non-executive MsTwyning will stand for election at the 2019 AGM.
Directors was reviewed and confirmed as appropriate: The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Nomination consideration was given to the reappointment of each of the Committee.
On occasion, the Nomination Committee invites the Directors with the exception of MsTwyning who is standing Chief Executive, the executive Vice-Chairmen to the extent not for election for the first time since her appointment took effect already on the Nomination Committee and the Group Finance on 1 October 2018 before making a recommendation to the Director to attend discussions where their input is required.
Board regarding each Directors re-election at the 2019 AGM: a review of the leadership requirements of Melrose, both Diversity executive and non-executive, was undertaken and this Melrose is a meritocracy and individual performance is the key confirmed that the existing management team are appropriate determinant in any appointment, irrespective of ethnicity, gender for the Group.
This review also demonstrated that appropriate or other characteristic, trait or orientation.
The Board recognises and effective leadership is in place within the businesses and the importance of diversity throughout the workforce, be it that processes are in place to ensure that performance is geographical, cultural or market-aligned and encompassing gender, reviewed regularly against operational and financial criteria: race, sexual orientation and disability, and the Board is committed to equality of opportunity for all employees.
For example, Melrose is the Committee examined the career planning and talent proud to support the Business Disability Forum, a body committed management programmes in operation across the Group to understanding the changes required in the workplace so that and concluded that these were appropriate for the needs disabled people are treated fairly and they can contribute to of the business: business success, to society and to economic growth.
the Committee reviewed and re-affirmed the principles underlying the Companys diversity policy: The Committee currently takes into account a variety of factors before recommending any new appointments to the Board, the Committees terms of reference were reviewed and including relevant skills to perform the role, experience and updated in line with best practice: and knowledge.
The most important priority of the Committee, the Committee participated in an internal evaluation of itself however, has been, and will continue to be, to ensure that to identify areas where performance and procedures might the best candidate is selected to join the Board and this approach be further improved.
will remain in place going forward.
The Committee will endeavour to pursue diversity, including gender and ethnic diversity, throughout the Melrose Group and notes the recommendations of Lord Davies review, Women on Boards Archie G. Kane and Sir John Parkers review Report into Ethnic Diversity of UK Chairman, Nomination Committee Boards and continues to encourage diversity throughout the 7 March 2019 Group.
Although it is not appropriate to set specific diversity targets at Board level and throughout the Groups workforce due to Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 91
