Directors report Insurance and indemnities The Directors of Melrose Industries In accordance with the Articles and the indemnity provisions PLC present their Annual Report of the Act, the Directors have the benefit of an indemnity from the Company in respect of any liabilities incurred as a result of their and financial statements of the Group office.
This indemnity is provided both within the Articles and through a separate deed of indemnity between the Company and for the year ended 31December 2018. each of the Directors.
The Company has taken out an insurance policy in respect of Incorporated information those liabilities for which the Directors may not be indemnified.
The Corporate governance report set out on pages 78 to 81, Neither the indemnities nor the insurance provides cover in the the Finance Directors review on pages 40 to 48 and the event that a Director is proved to have acted dishonestly Corporate Social Responsibility section of the Strategic Report orfraudulently.
on pages 59 to 69 are each incorporated by reference into this Directors report.
Post balance sheet events Disclosures elsewhere in the Annual Report are cross-referenced On 6 March 2019, the Group announced the agreement to sell where appropriate.
Taken together, they fulfil the combined the Walterscheid Powertrain Group to One Equity Partners, a requirements of the Companies Act 2006 the Act and of the US-based private equity firm.
In addition, the Group announced Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules the DTRs the completion of the sale of the minority 43.57% interest in and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
Socit Anonyme Belge fide Constructions Aronautiques SABCA, previously held within the Aerospace reporting AGM segment, to SABCAs majority shareholder, Dassault Belgique The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at Aviation S. A.
The sale of the Walterscheid Powertrain Group is Barber-Surgeons Hall, Monkwell Square, Wood Street, London subject to the customary regulatory conditions and is expected EC2Y 5BL at 11am on 9 May 2019.
The notice convening the to complete in the first half of this year.
The combined net meeting is shown on pages 197 to 201 and includes full details proceeds of the sales are approximately 200 million.
of the resolutions to be proposed, together with explanatory notes in relation to such resolutions the AGM Notice.
Capital structure The Companys shares are admitted to the premium segment Directors of the official list.
The Directors of the Company as at the date of this As at 1 January 2018, the issued share capital of the Company Annual Report, together with their biographical details, was 1.9 billion ordinary shares, following which it made an offer to can be found on pages 72 to 73. buy GKN plc on 17 January 2018 for 1.49 new Melrose shares and Changes to the Board during the year are set out in the Corporate 0.81 for every GKN plc share.
This initial offer was increased to governance report on pages 78 to 81.
Details of Directors service 1.69 new Melrose shares and 0.81 per GKN plc share as part contracts are set out in the Directors Remuneration report ofthe full and final offer of 13 March 2018.
This offer went on page 112. unconditional as to acceptances on 29 March 2018 and the Company took control on 19 April 2018 once all conditions had The Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the been satisfied or waived.
consolidated financial statements is set out on page 113, which is incorporated into this Directors report by reference.
On the basis of authorities obtained at the 2018 AGM, the Directors allotted a number of shares in connection with the Companys Appointment and removal of Directors and their powers acquisition of GKN plc.
Following the various share issuances The Companys articles of association the Articles give the as part of the acquisition of GKN plc the Companys issued Directors the power to appoint and replace other Directors.
share capital now consists of 4,858,254,963 ordinary shares of Under the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, 48 7 pence each, with each ordinary share carrying the right to any appointment must be recommended by the Nomination one vote, and 12,831 Incentive Shares 2017 which do not carry Committee for approval by the Board.
Pursuant to the Articles and in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the Directors of the Company are required to stand for re-election on an annual basis.
With the exception of Ms Charlotte Twyning who will be standing for election for the first time following her appointment on 1 October 2018, all current Directors of the Company will be standing for re-election by the shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
The Directors are responsible for managing the business of the Company and exercise their powers in accordance with the Articles, directions given by special resolution and any relevant statutes and regulations.
74 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Governance The table below shows details of the Companys issued share Articles of association capital as at 31 December 2017 and as at 31 December 2018.
The Articles may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders of the Company.
There are Share class 31 December 2017 31 December 2018 no amendments proposed to be made to the Articles at the 1 Ordinary shares of 48 7 pence each 1,941,200,503 4,858,254,963 forthcoming AGM.
2 Incentive Shares 2017 12,831 12,831 Substantial shareholdings 1 Includes ordinary shares issued in connection with the Companys takeover of GKN plc.
2 The Incentive Plan 2017 was approved by the Companys shareholders at a general As at 31 December 2018, the following voting interests in the meeting of the Company held on 11 May 2017, and these Incentive Shares were issued ordinary share capital of the Company, disclosable under DTR 5, pursuant to the authority granted at such meeting to issue Incentive Shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 50,000. had been notified to the Directors: % of ordinary Shareholders voting rights share capital as Subject to any special rights or restrictions as to voting attached at 31 December toany class of shares by or in accordance with the Articles, at Shareholder Shareholding 2018 ageneral meeting of the Company, each member who holds BlackRock Inc 332,302,037 6.84 ordinary shares in the Company and who is present in person The Capital Group Companies, Inc 238,555,954 4.91 orby proxy at such meeting is entitled to: Aviva Plc 153,648,939 3.16 on a show of hands, one vote: and Between 1 January 2019 and 7 March 2019 no changes to the on a poll, one vote for every ordinary share held by them.
voting interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company, disclosable under DTR 5, were notified to the Directors.
With the exception of the Incentive Shares 2017, which do not carry voting rights, there are currently no special rights or Shareholder dividend restrictions as to voting attached to any class of shares.
The Directors are pleased to recommend the payment of a final dividend of 3.05 pence per share 2017: 2.8 pence to be paid on The Company is not aware of any agreements between 20 May 2019 to ordinary shareholders on the register of members shareholders that restrict voting rights attached to the ordinary of the Company at the close of trading on 5 April 2019.
This shares in the Company.
dividend recommendation will be put to shareholders at the Where any call or other amount due and payable in respect of an forthcoming AGM of the Company, to be held on 9 May 2019. ordinary share remains unpaid, the holder of such shares shall not Subject to shareholder approval being obtained at the AGM be entitled to vote or attend any general meeting of the Company for the final dividend, this will mean a full year 2018 dividend in respect of those shares.
As at 7 March 2019, all ordinary shares of 4.6 pence per share 2017: 4.2 pence.
issued by the Company are fully paid.
For discussions on the Boards intentions with regard to the Details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of the dividend policy, please see the Chairmans statement on resolutions to be considered at the 2019 AGM are set out in the pages 14 to 15, which is incorporated into this report by reference.
The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP, Restrictions on transfer of securities which gives shareholders the opportunity to use their dividend The Articles do not contain any restrictions on the transfer of payments to purchase further ordinary shares in the Company.
ordinary shares in the Company, aside from the usual restrictions Further details about the DRIP and its terms and conditions can applicable where shares are not fully paid up, if entitled to do so be found within the Investors section of the Companys website under the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, where the at www.
transfer instrument does not comply with the requirements of the Historic dividends Articles or, in exceptional circumstances, where approved by the The Company administers the unclaimed dividends of the former UK Listing Authority provided such refusal would not disturb the FKI plc now Brush Holdings Limited.
Pursuant to law and the market in such shares.
Restrictions may also be imposed by laws Articles, the Company is obliged to pay such unclaimed dividends and regulations such as insider trading and market abuse 12 years from the date of the last dividend claim of the particular provisions.
Directors and certain senior employees of the Group shareholder Unclaimed Dividends.
Six months after this time may also be subject to internal approvals before dealing in ordinary period has expired, the Companys policy is to donate the amount shares of the Company and minimum shareholding requirements.
of the Unclaimed Dividend to a charity of the Companys choice.
The Companys incentive shares may only be transferred with the As at 31 December 2018, the amount of such Unclaimed prior written consent of the Board such consent expressly Dividends was 149,687.87.
If the Unclaimed Dividends are not provided in respect of transfers to personal trusts, companies claimed by 30 September 2019, the Company will donate the wholly-owned by the relevant holder and certain of their funds to charity.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that restrict the transfer of ordinary shares in theCompany.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 75 Directors report Continued Ability to purchase own shares Business review and risks Pursuant to sections 693 and 701 of the Act and a special A review of the Groups performance, the key risks and resolution passed at a general meeting of the Company on uncertainties facing the Group and details on the likely development 10May2018, the Company is authorised to make market of the Group can be found in the Chairmans statement on purchases of up to 488,894,454 of its ordinary shares, representing pages 14 to 15 and the Strategic Report on pages 10 to 69 of this approximately 10% of the expected issued ordinary share Annual Report including the longer-term viability statement on capital of the Company following the acquisition of GKN plc.
page 49 and the risks and uncertainties section on pages 52 to 58 The Company has not made any purchases of its own shares which are incorporated into this Directors report by reference.
This authority will expire at the end of this Employees years AGM, at which the Company is seeking approval to make Details in relation to employment policies, employee involvement, market purchases of its ordinary shares up to 485,825,496, being consultation and development, together with details of some approximately 10% of the current issued ordinary share capital, of the human resource improvement initiatives implemented thereby renewing the authority.
The full text of the resolution, during 2018 are shown on pages 59 to 69 of the Corporate together with minimum and maximum price requirements, is set Social Responsibility section of the Strategic Report, which is out in the AGM Notice on pages 197 to 201. incorporated by reference into this Directors report.
Financial instruments Environmental The disclosures required in relation to the use of financial Details of the Groups environmental initiatives, Greenhouse instruments by the Company, including the financial risk gas emissions and the methodology used to calculate such management objectives and policies including in relation to emissions are set out on pages 64 to 65 of the Corporate hedging of the Company and the exposure of the Company to Social Responsibility section of the Strategic Report, which liquidity risk, cash flow risk, exchange rate risk, contract and is incorporated by reference into this Directors report.
warranty risk and commodity cost risk, can be found in the Finance Directors review on pages 40 to 48, the risks and uncertainties Political donations section of the Strategic Report on pages 52 to 58 and in note 24 The Groups policy is not to make any political donations and to the financial statements, which are incorporated by reference there were no political donations made during the year ended into this Directors report.
Research and development activities Branches The industries in which the Melrose Group invests are highly The Melrose Group and its businesses operate across various competitive and the businesses within the Group are encouraged jurisdictions.
The GKN businesses, through their various to research and develop new and innovative product lines and subsidiaries, have established branches in a number of different processes in order to meet customer demands in a continuously countries in which they operate.
Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R As noted in the Divisional reviews on pages 20 to 39, which are Other than the following, no further information is required to be incorporated by reference into this Directors Report, within the disclosed by the Company in respect of Listing Rule 9.8.
4R: GKN businesses investment is being made into research and details of the 2017 Incentive Plan, which are set out on development activities: for example, in 2018 Melrose committed to page 98 of the Directors Remuneration report and note 22 setting up the Melrose Skills Fund, with the ambition to create the tothe financial statements incorporated by reference into next generation of high calibre engineers in the UK, as well as this report : and investing 2.2% of GKN plc sales in R&D over the next five years.
Further details of this are set out in the Corporate Social GKN had historically operated employee share option Responsibility section of this report on page 62.
So far, such plan trusts to satisfy the vesting and exercise of awards of investment has included the development of a new 32 million ordinary shares made under GKNs share-based incentive UK Global Technology Centre for GKN Aerospace near its Filton arrangements.
On the acquisition of GKN, these shares were production facility, GKN Automotives 50 million e-Powertrain converted into Melrose shares.
A dividend waiver is in place on R&D investment strategy, and GKN Powder Metallurgys strategic the shareholdings in respect of relevant trusts in part, or in full, technology partnership with EOS to design a new high-productivity in accordance with the provisions of the relevant trust deeds.
process for laser metal 3D printing and strategic partnership with Significant agreements and change of control Hewlett Packard to deploy the HP Metal Jet within leading With the exception of the Groups banking facilities, the Incentive automotive and industry manufacturers.
Plan 2017 including the options granted under this plan, and the An example of the types of new products being launched within divisional management long-term incentive plans, there are no the Nortek businesses include HVACs Statepoint Technology, other agreements that would have a significant effect upon a an industry leader in data centre cooling, and AQHs Alliance change of control of Melrose Industries PLC as at 7 March 2019. range hood platform, as noted in the Divisional reviews In January 2018, in connection with the Companys acquisition of on pages 20 to 39, which are incorporated by reference GKN plc, the Group entered into a new committed bank facility, into this Directorsreport.
comprising of a multi-currency term loan of 1.5 billion and a multi-currency revolving credit facility denominated 1.1 billion, US$2.0 billion and 0.5 billion.
Details of this facility are provided in the Finance Directors review on pages 44 to 45 and note 24 to the financial statements.
On 29 October 2018, 663 million of the new term loan was surplus to requirements, and therefore cancelled, because potential change of control clauses of the bonds were not exercised by the relevant bondholders.
76 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Governance In the event of a change of control of the Company following Outside of its formal undertakings and commitments, the a takeover bid, the Company and lenders under the facility Company commenced improving the inherited GKN UK pension agreement are obliged to enter into negotiations to determine schemes by setting an improved funding target of Gilts 75bps for whether, and if so how, to continue with the facility.
There is no the GKN 2012 Pension Scheme, and Gilts 25bps for the GKN obligation for the lenders to continue to make the facility available 2016 Pension Scheme.
The Company committed to make an for more than 30 days beyond any change of control.
Failure to initial voluntary contribution to the two pension schemes totalling reach agreement with parties on revised terms could require an 150 million within the first 12 months, annual payments of acquirer to put in place replacement facilities.
60 million, and to pay between 5% and 10% of net proceeds ofany Melrose divestment, or 270 million on the sale of GKN The Companys wholly owned subsidiary, GKN Holdings Limited, Powder Metallurgy, for as long as the schemes remain in deficit.
has in issue 450 million fixed rate notes paying 5.375% p. a.
This is consistent with our aim of ensuring that all UK defined interest and maturing on 19 September 2022 and 300 million benefit schemes end up stronger under Melrose ownership than variable rate notes paying 3.375% p. a. interest and maturing on when they join the Group, with many of them becoming fully- 12 May 2032, in each case issued under Euro medium-term note funded during Melrose ownership.
Pursuant to the terms attaching to the Notes, a holder of the Notes has the option to require GKN The Company agreed with the SoS for BEIS to create the Holdings Limited to redeem or at GKN Holdings Limiteds option Melrose Skills Fund, with the ambition to create a supply chain purchase the holders Notes at their principal amount if there is a of high calibre engineers for the whole of the UK.
Further details change of control of GKN Limited and either i the Notes are of this are set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility section unrated or do not carry an investment grade credit rating from at of this report on page 62. least two ratings agencies: or ii if the Notes carry an investment The Companys offer document in respect of the acquisition of grade credit rating from at least two ratings agencies, the Notes GKN plc published on 1 February 2018 sets out its intentions are downgraded to a non-investment grade rating or that rating relating to its GKN businesses in further detail.
is withdrawn within 90 days of the change of control and such downgrade or withdrawal is cited by the ratings agencies as being Auditor the result of the change of control.
So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information being information that is needed by the Companys In the event of a takeover of the Company, options granted under auditor to prepare its report of which the Companys auditor is the Incentive Plan 2017 would be exercised and any Incentive unaware.
Each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought Shares 2017 resulting from such exercise, or that had previously to have taken as a Director to make him or herself aware of any been issued, would convert into ordinary shares in the Company or relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys an entitlement to a dividend paid in cash.
The rate of conversion is auditor is aware of that information.
based upon the offer price of the Companys ordinary shares as calculated on the date of the change of control of the Company.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Ifthe offer price, or any element of the offer price, is not in cash, with the provisions of section 418 of the Act.
the Remuneration Committee will determine the value of the On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee has reviewed non-cash element, having been advised by a reputable investment the effectiveness, performance, independence and objectivity bank that such valuation is fair and reasonable.
of the existing external auditor, Deloitte LLP, for the year ended Long-term management incentive plans have been put in place 31 December 2018 and concluded that the external auditor was in for our key divisions which would be triggered upon a sale of their all respects effective.
Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to respective business or a takeover of the Company.
The plans continue in office as auditor of the Group.
Accordingly, resolutions provide for the payment of bonuses to certain key managers of will be proposed at this years AGM for the reappointment of these divisions based upon the increase in value of their respective Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Group and to authorise the business.
If a sale of the relevant business has not occurred within AuditCommittee to determine its remuneration.
a certain period, the incentive plan will crystallise and any payment Approval to be made to participants will be based on the increase in value of Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: the business during this period.
Commitments Melrose entered into certain undertakings and other continuing obligations with the UK government and other regulatory bodies in connection with its acquisition of GKN plc.
Some of these are summarised below.
Jonathon Crawford In April 2018, the Company agreed to certain a undertakings and Company Secretary consent requirements with the UK Secretary of State SoS for 7 March 2019 Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy BEIS to preserve the core GKN Aerospace business until April 2023: and b restrictions and consent requirements with the UK SoS for Defence related to GKNs dealing in controlled items and its status as a government contractor.
The Company also provided post offer undertakings to the UK Panel on Takeovers and Mergers, which expire in April 2023.
These include the maintenance of a UK group headquarters, the Companys listing on the LSEs Main Market, maintaining its majority of UK resident board directors, preserving the GKN trademarks and maintaining an agreed R&D spend.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 77
