David Roper Non-executive Chairman Executive Vice-Chairman Year appointed Year appointed Appointed as Chairman on 1 January 2019, Appointed as Executive Vice-Chairman having previously served as a Non-executive on 9 May 2012, having previously served Director from 1 September 2011 and as as Chief Executive from May 2003.
Senior Independent Director from 11 May 2017 Skills and experience to 31December 2018.
From a wide range of roles in corporate finance, Skills and experience private investment and management in Justin Dowley Justin has extensive experience with over manufacturing industries, David brings significant Non-executive Chairman 35years spent within the banking, investment investment, financial and operational expertise.
A Chartered A Chartered Accountant, David qualified with Accountant, Justin qualified with Price Peat Marwick Mitchell, following which he Waterhouse and was latterly Vice Chairman of 2 worked in the corporate finance divisions of S. G. EMEA Investment Banking, a division of Nomura Warburg, BZW and Dillon Read.
He was also a founder partner 1988, David was appointed to the board of of Tricorn Partners, Head of Investment Banking Wassall PLC, before becoming its deputy Chief at Merrill Lynch Europe and a director of Executive in 1993.
David was involved in private investment activities and served as a non-executive director on the 1 Board meetings attended 3 boards of two companies in France.
Business reviews attended 3 1 Board meetings attended 4 Other significant appointments Christopher Miller Business reviews attended 3 Executive Vice-Chairman Non-executive Director of Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC Independent Not applicable Director of a number of private companies Steward of the Jockey Club 3 4.
Simon Peckham Deputy Chairman of The Panel on Takeovers Chief Executive and Mergers Year appointed Committee membership Appointed as Chief Executive on 9 May 2012, Nomination having previously served as Chief Operating Officer from May 2003.
Remuneration Skills and experience Independent Yes Simon provides widespread expertise in corporate finance, mergers and acquisitions, David Roper strategy and operations.
Simon qualified as a Executive Vice-Chairman 2.
Christopher Miller solicitor in 1986, before moving to Wassall PLC Executive Vice-Chairman in 1990, where he became an executive director Year appointed in 1999.
Between October 2000 and May 2003, Appointed as Executive Vice-Chairman on Simon worked for the equity finance division of 4 1 January 2019, having previously served as The Royal Bank of Scotland where he was Executive Chairman from May 2003. involved in several high-profile transactions.
Skills and experience 1 Board meetings attended 4 Christophers longstanding involvement in Business reviews attended 3 manufacturing industries and private investment brings a wealth of experience to the Board.
Independent Not applicable A Chartered Accountant, Christopher qualified with Coopers & Lybrand, following which he was an Associate Director of Hanson PLC.
Geoffrey Martin Simon Peckham Chief Executive InSeptember 1988, Christopher joined the board Group Finance Director of Wassall PLC as its Chief Executive.
Between Year appointed October 2000 and May 2003, Christopher was Appointed as Group Finance Director involved in private investment activities.
5 1 Board meetings attended 4 Skills and experience Geoffrey provides considerable public company Business reviews attended 3 experience and expertise in corporate finance, Other significant appointments raising equity finance and financial strategy.
Trustee of the Prostate Cancer A chartered accountant, Geoffrey qualified Research Centre with Coopers & Lybrand, where he worked within the corporate finance and audit departments.
Committee membership In 1996, Geoffrey joined Royal Doulton PLC, Nomination serving as Group Finance Director from Geoffrey Martin Independent Not applicable October 2000 until June 2005.
Group Finance Director 1 Board meetings attended 4 Business reviews attended 3 Independent Not applicable 72 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Governance 6 6.
Archie G. Kane Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Year appointed Year appointed Appointed as Senior Independent Director on Appointed as a Non-executive Director 1 January 2019, having previously served as on 5 July 2017. a Non-executive Director from 8 October 2013.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Archie qualified as a Chartered Accountant Liz has extensive business, financial and with Mann Judd Gordon and Company.
After a investment experience gained from a number move into the financial services sector as Group Liz Hewitt of senior roles in international companies.
Financial Controller of the TSB subsidiary United Independent Non-executive Director A chartered accountant, Liz qualified with Dominions Trust, Archie became Group Strategy Arthur Andersen & Co. following which she held Director.
Archie later served in senior roles for a variety of positions within Gartmore Investment Lloyds Bank and was CEO of the former mutual Management, CVC and 3i Group PLC.
In 2009 he moved 7 2004 and 2011, Liz was the Group Director tobecome Group Executive Director for all the of Corporate Affairs for Smith & Nephew PLC, groups insurance businesses and for Scotland, following a secondment to the Department until his retirement in May 2011. for Business, Innovation and Skills and the 1 Board meetings attended 4 HM Treasury, where Liz worked to establish The Enterprise Capital Fund.
Business reviews attended 3 1 Other significant appointments Board meetings attended 4 Non-executive Governor of the Board Business reviews attended 3 David Lis of Bank of Ireland Other significant appointments Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Chairman of ReAssure Group Non-executive director of Novo Nordisk A S, Limited with effect from 18 January 2019 Savills PLC, Silverwood Property Ltd, Committee membership St Georges Fields Ltd and St Georges 8 Audit Fields No2 Ltd Nomination Chairman Independent Member of the House of Lords Commission Remuneration Committee membership Independent Yes Audit Chairman Nomination 9.
Charlotte Twyning Remuneration Independent Non-executive Director Independent Yes Archie G. Kane Year appointed Independent Non-executive Director Appointed as a Non-executive Director on 1 October 2018.
David Lis Skills and experience Independent Non-executive Director Charlotte brings a diverse range of experience 9 Year appointed to the Board.
After a decade specialising in Appointed as a Non-executive Director competition and M&A law in the City, Charlotte on 12 May 2016. moved to BT in 2007.
Whilst there, she held Skills and experience various senior roles in legal, policy and customer David has held several senior roles in investment service strategy.
In 2016, she joined Abellio and fund management and brings extensive as an executive Director to establish a policy, financial experience to the Board.
David communications and strategy function commenced his career at NatWest, and commensurate to its FTSE 250 size.
Charlotte held positions at J Rothschild Investment is currently Consents Director on the Heathrow Charlotte Twyning Management and Morgan Grenfell after Expansion Programme Board responsible for Independent Non-executive Director which David founded Windsor Investment securing the approvals for its expansion.
David joined Norwich Union 1 2 Board meetings attended 1 Investment Management in 1997 later merging to form Aviva Investors, before becoming Business reviews attended 1 Head of Equities in 2012 and latterly Chief Committee membership Investment Officer, Equities and Multi Assets, Audit until his retirement in March 2016.
Nomination 1 Board meetings attended 4 Remuneration Business reviews attended 3 Independent Yes Other significant appointments Non-executive director of Electra Private Equity 1 Meetings attended refers to scheduled meetings.
2 Charlotte has attended one meeting, being all meetings PLC and BCA Marketplace PLC that occurred since her appointment.
Committee membership Audit Nomination Remuneration Chairman Independent Yes Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 73
