JPM Mercantile pp19 35. qxp 11 04 2018 11:05 Page 27 Directors Report continued Shareholders who invest through J. P. Morgan savings plans will Approval of dividend policy resolution 14 receive confirmation of their holding in the Company in their next The Directors seek approval of the Companys dividend policy to statement.
continue to pay four quarterly interim dividends, which for the year ended 31st January 2018 have totalled 53.0 pence per share.
The New Ordinary Shares have been allocated new stock identification codes as follows: SEDOL Code BF4JDH5: and ISIN Recommendation Code: GB00BF4JDH58, to be effective from the date of Admission of The Board considers resolutions 10-14 are likely to promote the the New Ordinary Shares to the Official List and to trading on the success of the Company and are in the best interests of the London Stock Exchange, expected to be 25th May 2018.
Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors The share split will not itself give rise to any liability to UK income tax unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the or corporation tax on income for shareholders.
For the purposes of resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial UK capital gains tax and corporation tax on chargeable gains, the holdings which amount in aggregate to 37,782 shares receipt of the New Ordinary Shares from the share split will be representing approximately 0.05% of the existing issued ordinary a reorganisation of the share capital of the Company.
Accordingly, share capital of the Company.
The full text of the resolutions are a shareholders holding of New Ordinary Shares will be treated as the set out in the Notice of Meeting on pages 65 and66.
same asset as a shareholders holding of Existing Ordinary Shares Corporate Governance Statement and as having been acquired at the same time and for the same consideration, as that holding of Existing Ordinary Shares.
Compliance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate Authority to allot new shares and to disapply statutory governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of pre-emption rights resolutions 11 and 12 Directors Responsibilities on page35, indicates how the Company The Directors will seek renewal of the authority at the AGM to issue has applied the principles of good governance of the Financial up to 40,385,519 Ordinary shares for cash up to an aggregate Reporting Council 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the UK nominal amount of 1,009,638, such amount being equivalent to Corporate Governance Code and the AICs Code of Corporate 5% of the issued ordinary share capital as at the last practicable date Governance, the AIC Code, which complements the UK before the publication of this document.
The full text of the Corporate Governance Code and provides a framework of best resolutions is set out in the Notice of Meeting on page65.
This practice for investment trusts.
authority will expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company in The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of 2019 unless renewed at a prior general meeting.
corporate governance and considers that the Company has It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue new shares to complied with the best practice provisions of the UK Corporate participants purchasing shares through the JPMorgan savings Governance Code, insofar as they are relevant to the Companys products and also to other investors when the Directors consider business, and the AIC Code throughout the year under review.
that it is in the best interests of shareholders to do so.
As such issues Role of the Board are only made at prices greater than the net asset value the NAV, they increase the NAV per share and spread the Companys A management agreement between the Company and JPMF sets administrative expenses, other than the management fee which is out the matters which have been delegated to the Manager.
This charged on the value of the Companys market capitalisation, over includes management of the Companys assets and the provision a greater number of shares.
The issue proceeds are available for of accounting, company secretarial, administration and some investment in line with the Companys investment policies.
All other matters are reserved for the approval of the Board.
Authority to repurchase the Companys shares for cancellation A formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision resolution 13 has been approved.
This includes determination and monitoring At the Annual General Meeting held in May 2017, shareholders of the Companys investment objectives and policy and its future gave authority to the Company to purchase up to 14.99% of its strategic direction, gearing policy, management of the capital then issued share capital.
This authority will expire on structure, appointment and removal of third party service 23rd November 2018 unless renewed by shareholders.
The providers, review of key investment and financial data and the Directors consider that the renewing of the authority is in the Companys corporate governance and risk control arrangements.
interests of shareholders as a whole, as the repurchase of shares at a discount to the underlying NAV enhances the NAV of the The Board has procedures in place to deal with potential conflicts remaining shares.
Repurchased shares may be cancelled or held in of interest and following the introduction of The Bribery Act 2010, Treasury.
Any shares held in Treasury will only be reissued at a has adopted appropriate procedures designed to prevent bribery.
It confirms that the procedures have operated effectively during the year under review.
The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely information is The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 27 JPM Mercantile pp19 35. qxp 11 04 2018 11:05 Page 28 Directors Report continued provided to the Board to enable it to function effectively and to training needs are carried out by the Nomination Committee by allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
means of the evaluation process described below.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent Meetings and Committees professional advice if necessary and at the Companys expense.
The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to This is in addition to the access that every Director has to the advice committees.
Details of membership of committees are shown with and services of the Company Secretary, JPMF, which is responsible the Directors profiles on pages23 and24.
Directors who are not to the Board for ensuring that applicable rules and regulations are members of Committees may attend at the invitation of the complied with and that Board procedures are followed.
Board Composition The table below details the number of Board, Audit Committee The Board, chaired by Angus Gordon Lennox, consists of six and Nomination Committee meetings attended by each Director.
non-executive Directors, all of whom are regarded by the Board as During the year there were seven Board meetings, including independent, including the Chairman.
The Directors have a breadth a separate meeting devoted to strategy, three Audit Committee of investment, business and financial skills and experience relevant meetings and one Nomination Committee meeting.
to the Companys business and brief biographical details of each These meetings were supplemented by additional meetings held Director are set out on pages23 and24.
Upon the retirement of to cover procedural matters and formal approvals.
In addition Sandy Nairn the Board will comprise five Directors.
The Board has there is regular contact between the Directors and the Manager commenced the process to recruit a new Director.
and Company Secretary throughout the year.
There have been no changes to the Chairmans other significant Audit Nomination commitments during the year under review.
Board Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings A review of Board composition and balance is included as part of the Director Attended Attended Attended annual performance evaluation of the Board.
The Board appointed 1 Sandy Nairn as its Senior Independent Director with effect from Angus Gordon Lennox 7 3 1 3rd December 2014.
Jeremy Tigue will become Senior Independent Helen James 7 3 1 Director at the conclusion of the 2018 AGM.
2 3 Hamish Leslie Melville 3 1 The Senior Independent Director leads the evaluation of the Harry Morley 7 3 1 performance of the Chairman and may be contacted by Sandy Nairn 5 2 shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved through Ian Russell 7 3 1 discussion with the Chairman.
Jeremy Tigue 7 3 1 Tenure 1 Attended by invitation following appointment as Chairman Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual General 2 Retired from the Board on 24th May 2017.
Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of Association, it is 3 Attended by invitation.
required that they be reappointed by shareholders.
Thereafter, subject to the performance evaluation carried out each year, the Board Committees Board will agree whether it is appropriate for each Director to seek Nomination Committee reappointment.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance The Nomination Committee, chaired by Angus Gordon Lennox, Code, Directors continuing in office seek annual reappointment.
consists of all the Directors and meets at least annually to ensure The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set out in that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills and experience formal letters of appointment, copies of which are available for to carry out its fiduciary duties and to select and propose suitable inspection on request at the Companys registered office and at the candidates for appointment when necessary.
process takes account of the benefits of diversity, including gender.
Sandy Nairn and Ian Russell, having been Directors of the The Boards policy on diversity, including gender, is to take account Company for more than nine years, have retained their of the benefits of these during the appointment process.
However, independence by standing for annual reappointment.
Dr. Nairn will the Board remains committed to appointing the most appropriate retire from the Board at the forthcoming AGM.
Mr. Russell will offer candidate, regardless of gender or other forms of diversity.
himself for reappointment at the AGM but has indicated his Therefore, no targets have been set against which to report.
intention to retire at the 2019 AGM.
The Committee conducts an annual performance evaluation, to Induction and Training ensure that the Board, all members of the Board and its On appointment, the Manager and Company Secretary provide all committees have devoted sufficient time and contributed Directors with induction training.
Thereafter, regular briefings are adequately to the work of the Board.
provided on changes in law and regulatory requirements that The Committee also reviews Directors fees and makes affect the Company and the Directors.
Directors are encouraged to recommendations to the Board as and when appropriate, in attend industry and other seminars covering issues relevant to relation to remuneration policy and implementation.
Regular reviews of the Directors 28 JPM Mercantile pp19 35. qxp 11 04 2018 11:05 Page 29 Directors Report continued An externally facilitated Board evaluation is carried out every published, is reliable.
However, such a system can only be designed to three years.
Such an evaluation was carried out in 2017 by Lintstock, manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business a third party which has no other connection to the Company.
objectives and therefore can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against fraud, material mis-statement or loss.
Audit Committee Since investment management, custody of assets and all The report of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 30 to 31. administrative services are provided to the Company by JPMF and its Terms of Reference associates, the Companys system of risk management and internal Both the Nomination Committee and the Audit Committee have control mainly consists of monitoring the services provided by JPMF written terms of reference which define clearly their respective and its associates, including the operating controls established by responsibilities, copies of which are available for inspection on the them, to ensure they meet the Companys business objectives.
Companys website, on request at the Companys registered office There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and and at the Companys AGM.
managing the significant risks faced by the Company see Principal Risks on pages21 and22.
This process, which was in place during Relations with Shareholders the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the Company.
Report and Accounts, accords with the guidance of the Financial It aims to provide shareholders with a full understanding of the Reporting Council.
As explained above, the Company is not required Companys activities and performance and reports formally to to have an internal audit function of its own, but relies on the shareholders twice a year by way of the Annual Report and Accounts, internal audit department of the Manager.
This arrangement is kept and Half Year Financial Report.
This is supplemented by the daily under review.
The key elements designed to provide effective risk publication, through the London Stock Exchange, of the net asset management and internal control are as follows: value of the Companys shares.
Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by the All shareholders have the opportunity, and are encouraged, to Board of key investment and financial data, including attend the Companys Annual General Meeting at which the management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of Directors and representatives of the Manager are available in person transactions and performance comparisons.
to meet with shareholders and answer questions.
In addition, Management Agreement Appointment of a manager, a presentation is given by the Investment Managers who review the depositary and custodian regulated by the Financial Conduct Companys performance.
During the year the Companys brokers Authority FCA, whose responsibilities are clearly defined in and the Investment Managers hold regular discussions with larger a written agreement.
The Directors are made fully aware of their views.
The Management Systems The Managers system of risk Chairman and Directors conduct visits to larger shareholders when management and internal control includes organisational requested and make themselves available as and when required to agreements which clearly define the lines of responsibility, address shareholder queries.
The Directors may be contacted delegated authority, control procedures and systems.
These are through the Company Secretary whose details are shown on monitored by the Managers Compliance department which page73.
The Chairman can also be contacted via the Companys regularly monitors compliance with FCA rules.
Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is published in time to Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the Board.
give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise questions in The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, keeps advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit questions via the under review the effectiveness of the Companys system of risk Companys website or write to the Company Secretary at the address management and internal control by monitoring the operation of shown on page73.
the key operating controls of the Manager and its associates as follows: Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will be published on the Companys website shortly after the Annual reviews the terms of the management agreement and receives General Meeting.
regular reports from the Managers Compliance department: Risk Management and Internal Control reviews reports on the risk management and internal controls The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Directors, at least and the operations of its Custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, annually, to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of which is itself independently reviewed: risk management and internal control and to report to reviews every six months an independent report on the risk shareholders that they have done so.
This encompasses a review management and internal controls and the operations of the of all controls, which the Board has identified as including Manager: and business, financial, operational, compliance and risk management.
reviews quarterly reports from the Companys depositary.
The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of risk By the means of the procedures set out above, the Board confirms management and internal control which is designed to safeguard that it has carried out a robust assessment of the effectiveness of the the Companys assets, maintain proper accounting records and Companys system of risk management and internal control for the ensure that financial information used within the business, or The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 29 JPM Mercantile pp19 35. qxp 11 04 2018 11:05 Page 30 Directors Report continued year ended 31st January 2018 and to the date of approval of this Significant issue How the issue was addressed Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Compliance with Approval for the Company as an investment trust During the course of its review of the system of risk management Sections 1158 under Sections 1158 and 1159 has been obtained and internal control, the Board has not identified nor been advised of and 1159 and ongoing compliance with the eligibility criteria is any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
Audit Committee Report The Board was made fully aware of any significant financial The Audit Committee, chaired by Harry Morley, consists of all the reporting issues and judgements made in connection with the Directors other than the Chairman and meets on at least three preparation of the financial statements.
The members of the Committee consider that at least one member has recent and relevant financial Having taken all available information into consideration and having experience and that the committee as a whole has competency discussed the content of the annual report and accounts with the relevant to the sector in which the Company operates.
For details Alternative Investment Fund Manager, Investment Managers, of their qualifications see pages 23 and 24.
Angus Gordon Lennox Company Secretary and other third party service providers, the is not a member of the Audit Committee, however, he is invited to Audit Committee has concluded that the Annual Report and attend meetings as a guest.
Accounts for the year ended 31st January 2018, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and Manager in relation to the half year and annual accounts and the performance, business model and strategy and has reported these Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Boards conclusions in this respect are At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee provides set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 35. confirmation to the Board as to how it has discharged its responsibilities so that the Board may ensure that information The Audit Committee examines the effectiveness of the presented to it is fair, balanced and understandable, together with Companys risk management and internal control systems, details of how it has done so.
receives information from the Managers Compliance department and reviews the scope and results of the external audit, its During its review of the Companys financial statements for the effectiveness and cost effectiveness, the balance of audit and year ended 31st January 2018, the Audit Committee considered non-audit services and the independence and objectivity of the the following significant issues, including those communicated by external auditors.
The Audit Committee also receives the Auditors during their reporting: confirmations from the Auditors, as part of their reporting, in Significant issue How the issue was addressed regard to their objectivity and independence.
In the Directors opinion, the Auditors are considered independent.
Valuation and The valuation of investments is undertaken in existence of accordance with the accounting policies, disclosed in The Audit Committee also has primary responsibility for making investments note 1 b to the accounts on page 46.
Controls are in recommendations to the Board on the reappointment and removal place to ensure that valuations are appropriate and of external auditors.
A predecessor firm of  existence is verified through custodian reconciliations.
LLP PwC was appointed on 8th January 1885, shortly after the Companys launch.
The audit engagement partner rotates every Recognition of The recognition of investment income is undertaken investment income in accordance with accounting policy note 1 d to the five years in accordance with ethical guidelines and 2018 is the accounts on page 46.
The Board regularly reviews third year for the current partner.
subjective elements of income such as special As part of its review of the continuing appointment of the Auditors, dividends and agrees their accounting treatment.
the Audit Committee considered the length of tenure of the audit Going concern The Directors have considered the Companys firm, its fee, its independence from JPMF and the Investment investment objective, risk management policies, Managers and any matters raised during the audit.
A formal tender capital management policies and procedures, the exercise was undertaken in 2014, as a result of which PwC was nature of the portfolio and expenditure and cash flow reappointed.
Written submissions were received from five audit projections.
As a result, they have determined that firms.
These were considered in full by Board representatives and the Company has adequate resources, an appropriate a shortlist of three firms was drawn up.
Meetings were held between financial structure and suitable management a Committee of the Board and the shortlisted firms, using arrangements in place to continue in operational a selection checklist.
Following those meetings, PwC were existence for at least twelve months from the date of reappointed by Board resolution.
A further tender review will be approval of these financial statements.
Please refer to the section headed Going Concern on page 31 for conducted in 2019 and a change of Audit firm will be proposed to further details.
shareholders for approval at the 2020 AGM.
The Audit Committee reviews and approves any non-audit services provided by the independent Auditors and assesses the impact of any non-audit work on the ability of the Auditors to remain independent.
PwC reviews debenture loan covenants on an annual 30 JPM Mercantile pp19 35. qxp 11 04 2018 11:05 Page 31 Directors Report continued basis.
Otherwise, no such work was undertaken during the year.
oversight functions and remuneration policy.
These analyses then Details of the fees paid for audit services are included in note 6 on form the basis of our proxy voting and engagement activity.
Proxy Voting Representatives of the Companys Auditors attend the Audit JPMAM manages the voting rights of the shares entrusted to it as it Committee meeting at which the draft Annual Report & Accounts would manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in are considered.
Having conducted the formal tender in 2014, and a prudent and diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable reviewed the performance of the external auditors, including the judgement of what will best serve the financial interests of our quality of work, timing of communications and work with JPMF, the clients.
So far as is practicable, we will vote at all of the meetings Committee considered it appropriate to recommend their called by companies in which we are invested.
The Board supported this recommendation which Stewardship Engagement was put to shareholders at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
JPMAM recognises its wider stewardship responsibilities to its clients In order to safeguard the Auditors objectivity and independence, any as a major asset owner.
To this end, we support the introduction of significant non-audit services are carried out through a partner other the FRC Stewardship Code, which sets out the responsibilities of than the audit engagement partner where appropriate.
Fees paid institutional shareholders in respect of investee companies.
Under for audit services, audit-related services and other non-audit services the Code, managers should: are set out, where relevant, in note 6 on page 49.
There were no significant non-audit engagements during the year under review.
publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge their The Audit Committee has assessed the impact of any non-audit work stewardship responsibilities to their clients: carried out and is content with the Auditors ability to remain disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: independent and objective.
The Directors statement on the monitor their investee companies: Companys system of risk management and internal control is set out below.
establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement: Going Concern be willing to act collectively with other investors where appropriate: The Directors believe that, having considered the Companys investment objective see page 19, risk management policies see have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their voting pages 57 and 61, capital management policies and procedures see record: and page 62, the nature of the portfolio and expenditure and cash flow report to clients.
projections, the Company has adequate resources, an appropriate JPMAM endorses the Stewardship Code for its UK investments and financial structure and suitable management arrangements in place supports the principles as best practice elsewhere.
We believe that to continue in operational existence and they have not identified regular contact with the companies in which we invest is central to any material uncertainties to the Companys ability to continue to our investment process and we also recognise the importance of do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval being an active owner on behalf of our clients.
JPMAMs Voting Policy and Corporate Governance Guidelines are For these reasons, the Directors consider that there is reasonable available on request from the Company Secretary or can be evidence to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing downloaded from JPMAMs website: the Companys financial statements.
This Corporate Governance and Voting Policy also sets out its approach to the seven principles of the FRC The Company delegates responsibility for voting to the Manager.
Stewardship Code, its policy relating to conflicts of interest and its detailed voting record.
The following is a summary of the Managers policy statements on corporate governance, voting policy and social and environmental issues, which has been reviewed and noted by the Board.
Details of By order of the Board social and environmental issues are included in the Strategic Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of Report on page 21.
JPMorgan Funds Limited, Company Secretary Corporate Governance JPMAM believes that corporate governance is integral to our 11th April 2018 investment process.
As part of our commitment to delivering superior investment performance to our clients, we expect and encourage the companies in which we invest to demonstrate the Copies of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the AIC Code may be highest standards of corporate governance and best business found on the respective organisations websites: www.
We examine the share structure and voting structure of www.
co. uk the companies in which we invest, as well as the board balance, The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 31
