62 MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC ANN UAL RE PORT AND ACCOU NTS 2018 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT THE BOARD BOARD COMMITTEES Overseeing strategy, management and Nomination Committee approval of major policies Determining the capital structure Assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities in relation to the composition of the Board Maintaining the system of internal controls and risk management Find out more on pages 66 to 67 Approval of the annual capital expenditure budget, major capital Health, Safety and Security Committee projects and strategic transactions Effective engagement with shareholders Ensures that health, safety and security matters are managed effectively and proactively and other stakeholders Reviewing recommendations from Find out more on pages 68 to 69 Committees on Board membership Audit Committee Board and senior management remuneration Assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting controls, Succession planning risk management and external and internal audit Diversity Financial reports Find out more on pages 70 to 73 Remuneration Committee Assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities in relation to remuneration Find out more on pages 74 to 89 EXECUTIVE NON-BOARD OPERATIONAL COMMITTEES COMMITTEE Commercial and Strategic Risk Management Committee Chaired by the Chief Executive Officer Responsible for day-to-day operations Oversight and guidance on management of commercial and strategic risk and the development of strategic plans for consideration by the Board Development Board Comprises the Chief Executive Officer Appraisal of significant capital expenditure and development projects and senior management Health, Safety and Nomination Security Remuneration The Board Committee Committee Audit Committee Committee Number of meetings held 7 2 4 5 3 Sir John Sunderland 7 2 4 N A 3 Nick Varney 7 N A 4 N A N A Anne-Francoise Nesmes 7 N A 4 N A N A Charles Gurassa 7 2 4 5 3 1 Ken Hydon 3 1 N A 2 1 Fru Hazlitt 7 2 4 N A 3 Trudy Rautio 7 1 N A 5 3 Rachel Chiang 7 N A 4 5 N A 2 Andrew Fisher 3 N A N A 1 2 Sren Thorup Srensen 7 N A N A N A N A 1 Ken Hydon attended each of the Board, Nomination Committee, Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee meetings prior to his retirement from the Board on 27 April 2018.
2 Andrew Fisher, following his appointment on 1 July 2018, attended each of the Board and Remuneration Committee meetings and, due to prior commitments, one Audit Committee meeting only.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC 63 Board composition and meeting attendance Andrew Fisher should be regarded as independent Non-executive Directors.
During the year Ken Hydon resigned from the Board on 27 April 2018.
Although Charles Gurassa previously served on the board of Tragus Group Following Kens resignation, Trudy Rautio was appointed as Chair of the Audit Limited formerly a portfolio company of Blackstone, which was a shareholder Committee and as a member of the Nomination Committee.
Andrew Fisher in the Company until March 2015, the other Directors have concluded that was appointed as a Non-executive Director on 1 July 2018 and on this relationship did not have any effect on the independence of Charles appointment joined the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee.
KIRKBI presently holds 29.64% of the issued share capital of the Company and accordingly the Non-executive Director representing KIRKBI A full list of the Board and Committee Directors who served during the year Sren Thorup Srensen is not regarded as independent for the purposes of and their attendance is set out in the table on the previous page.
Accordingly, the Board considers that, throughout 2018, the the number of meetings individual Directors could have attended and their Company was in full compliance with the recommendation of the Code actual attendance.
Directors are provided with all the papers and information concerning the balance of independent Non-executive Directors on relevant to the meeting even if they are unable to attend and are encouraged the Board.
to discuss any issues directly with the Chairman and Executive Directors.
How we run the Board Board membership and the UK Corporate Governance Code The Board oversees the management of the Groups activities, including the The Code recommends that a UK listed companys Chairman be independent implementation of the Groups commercial strategy and long term plans.
The Chairman was appointed to the Company in October addition, the Board provides leadership to Merlin, setting the key values by 2013, prior to the Companys initial public offering.
The Board considers that which the Group operates.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters the Chairman was independent on appointment and remains so.
The reserved for its approval which includes major expenditure, investments and Chairmans role is to ensure good corporate governance.
The schedule of reserved matters is reviewed regularly to ensure it is kept up to date.
The Code recommends that at least half the members of the Board of Directors excluding the Chairman of a UK listed company should be The majority of meetings of the Board and its Committees are held in London, independent in character and judgement and free from relationships or with the aim to hold one meeting each year at an operating location and one circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their other at Merlins head office in Poole.
The Board meets a minimum of seven judgement.
The Board has concluded that, for the purposes of the Code, times a year and has a well-established programme of meetings.
Charles Gurassa, Ken Hydon, Fru Hazlitt, Trudy Rautio, Rachel Chiang and WHAT THE BOARD HAS DONE DURING THE YEAR The Board has overall responsibility for overseeing the management of the Finance updates Company.
There is a schedule of matters reserved for the Board which At each meeting, the Board discussed the financial performance of the require formal Board approval.
In 2018, the key activities of the Board Group including a review of the management accounts and full year included the following: forecasts.
The 2018 budget of the Company was approved by the Board in January.
The Board also approved and reviewed the 2017 Annual Report Off-site meetings and Accounts and half year results for 2018.
One way in which the Board gains detailed understanding of the business is The Board also assesses long term liquidity needs and viability matters.
by attending meetings at Merlin locations around the Group.
In June, the During 2018, a refinancing of the Group took place including the issue of Board meeting was held in Shanghai and the November meeting was held $400 million US Dollar denominated senior notes.
Major financings are a at Warwick Castle.
During the year meetings of the Health, Safety and matter reserved for the Board so this project was reviewed in detail by the Security Committee took place at THORPE PARK, the London Eye and Audit Committee and the Board during the year.
Post-investment appraisals Productivity Twice in 2018 the Board received and discussed post-investment appraisals Oversight of the Companys Productivity Agenda was a key focus in 2018. on a number of recently completed capital projects.
The purpose of these This included the review and approval of a number of transformational IT reviews is to ensure that the learnings from past projects can be captured projects including the upgrading of the Companys finance and HR systems.
and disseminated for the benefit of future investments.
Major new projects Technical updates Each year, the Board programme includes reviewing and approving The Board received updates during the year from a number of functional significant new rides and attractions.
In 2018, this included the approval of directors in areas such as tax, treasury, legal and investor relations.
the LEGOLAND Korea project, numerous new Midway attractions including a number of new Peppa Pig World of Play formats, new rides and attractions at our theme parks and new hotels at LEGOLAND Florida Fair, balanced and understandable Resort and Gardaland Resort, Italy.
As part of the Companys commitment to maintaining high standards of corporate governance, the Board has put in place a process to ensure that Strategy the Annual Report and Accounts is presented in a way that is fair, balanced and understandable.
This process includes a review of all Board and Each year the Board holds a full day strategy meeting which took place this Committee meetings to identify matters for inclusion and a series of year at Warwick Castle in November.
The meeting was facilitated by a specific reviews undertaken by a dedicated Disclosure Committee of number of internal and external presentations and extensive pre-read senior managers.
The Strategic Report provides more information on the Companys strategy.
64 MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC ANN UAL RE PORT AND ACCOU NTS 2018 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT C O N T I NUE D The Company Secretary prepares the agenda for the Chairmans approval, in iii the presentation of the recommendations from these reports by Prism consultation with the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.
Cosec to the Chairman and Company Secretary: Papers to be presented to the Board for review are prepared by the iv discussions between the Chairman and individual Directors: appropriate member of the Executive Committee or other senior members v the discussion of the results of the evaluation by the full Board and each of of staff.
Board members usually receive Board papers seven days prior to its Committees, and meetings in order to give them adequate time to study and consider vi the agreement of an action plan to address key findings.
The performance of the Chairman was evaluated by the Non-executive The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer attend all Board Directors, led by the Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
meetings, and present the papers on operational and financial matters.
At every meeting, the Board considers the following standing agenda items: The outcome of the evaluations was very positive.
The Board was described as Chief Executives Report strong, with a good mix of skills, experience and culture and with a collegiate, Financial Report including budget and strategic plan once a year supportive and collaborative approach whilst exhibiting an appropriate level of Board Committee Reports constructive challenge during meetings.
Whilst no major concerns were Project approvals identified, a number of areas were identified for further improvement, Risk including the following recommendations: General Counsel Report the Board should hold a session in 2019 focused on customer needs and emerging consumer trends: and In addition to the above, investor relations quarterly and post-investment the increased focus of the Board on strategy, risk and culture should be appraisals half-yearly are considered by the Board.
Updates by each of the maintained by regular dedicated sessions on the agenda on these topics.
Operating Group Managing Directors and heads of function are presented once a year.
The Board also holds a strategy day once a year.
Between Board In addition to the Board results, the outcomes of the individual Committee meetings, Directors are provided with information on important evaluations were also positive and no major areas of concern were raised.
developments and issues such as: An action plan addressing those areas identified for improvement will reports on safety and serious incidents: and be implemented during the year.
Further details can be found in the important developments regarding projects or transactions.
Directors have the right to raise concerns at Board meetings and can ask for In 2018, the Board implemented an action plan to address the findings of the those concerns to be recorded in the Board minutes.
The advice and services Board evaluation review conducted in 2017.
This plan included, amongst other of the Company Secretary whose appointment and removal is a matter things, improvements to the format of the annual strategy day agenda and reserved for the Board are also available to the Directors.
The Group has also follow up on resulting actions, preparing a formal training calendar for 2018 established a procedure which enables, in relevant circumstances, Directors to which included a session on corporate culture and increasing the number of obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
site visits by the Health, Safety and Security Committee.
In addition to these evaluations, the Audit Committee led formal reviews of the internal audit Board evaluations function and external auditors and these concluded that both functions During the year, evaluations were undertaken of the effectiveness of the remain effective.
Board, its Committees, the Chairman and individual Directors.
As has been the case each year since the IPO in 2013, these evaluations were externally Shareholders and share capital facilitated by Prism Cosec, which is independent of the Company.
The Major shareholdings evaluations involved: As at 26 February 2019, the latest practicable date prior to the date of this i the completion of questionnaires by all Directors: Annual Report and Accounts, the Company had been notified pursuant to ii the compilation of reports on the Board and each of its Committees by DTR5 of the following interests in the Companys total voting rights as shown Prism Cosec: in the table below.
Number of % of issued Nature of holding Name of shareholder ordinary shares share capital Direct Indirect KIRKBI Invest A S 302,971,529 29.64 Direct The Wellcome Trust 51,788,240 5.07 Direct ValueAct Capital Management, L. P 54,700,000 5.35 Indirect Marathon Asset Management LLP 59,967,789 5.87 Indirect STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC 65 KIRKBI LEGO relationships A Relationship Agreement was entered into on 30 October 2013 with A Licence and Co-operation Agreement LCA, as amended and restated KIRKBI and remains in force.
Under this agreement, KIRKBI is entitled to from time to time, was entered into on 24 August 2005 with KIRKBI, which appoint one Director to the Board while KIRKBI together with its respective sets out the rights granted to the Group to use the LEGO and LEGOLAND affiliates holds at least 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
KIRKBI may brands in connection with the development, operation and promotion of the appoint an observer with the right to attend and speak but not vote to the Groups present and future LEGOLAND businesses.
It includes certain Board and each of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and requirements for the Group to develop LEGOLAND attractions, certain Nomination Committee.
operational requirements for those attractions, and the nature of royalties due to KIRKBI for the use of the rights.
The LCA includes rights for KIRKBI to terminate the LCA on a change of control of Merlin, but only if this would result in a Licensee as defined in the LCA being controlled by a LEGO competitor or an inappropriate party.
The LCA defines an inappropriate party as any person or entity other than a financial institution where one-third of its revenue is derived from the manufacture and sale of tobacco, armaments and or pornographic material.
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT The Company places considerable importance on communication with shareholders and has a dedicated investor relations team to facilitate the exchange of information and feedback between shareholders and shareholder representative bodies and the Company.
Website and shareholder communications Results and routine announcements The Companys corporate website is regularly updated with news and All our results and routine announcements are uploaded to the London information which set out our strategy, operating model and performance Stock Exchange via the Regulatory News Service system and our together with our plans for future growth.
Our Annual Report and corporate website.
Accounts and investor presentations are also available on the website.
Merlins 2019 financial calendar is set out on page 159.
Annual General Meeting At our AGM, all shareholders have the opportunity to discuss and raise Roadshows, shareholder meetings and feedback questions concerning the performance, trading and development of Merlin The investor relations team manages a programme of regular meetings in and to vote on the resolutions proposed.
which existing and potential investors are provided with information on the financial and trading position of the Group.
Views of investors are shared regularly with the Board, enabling the Non-executive Directors in particular to appreciate and discuss the views of shareholders.
Consultation and engagement During the year the Chairman and the Company Secretary met with a number of our leading shareholders to encourage full and constructive dialogue.
The Senior Independent Non-executive Director was available to meet with any major investors to discuss any concerns that could not be resolved through normal channels.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer also meet with analysts and hold conference calls after the production of reports and participate in roadshows after preliminary and half year results are announced.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT In addition to the shareholder engagement activities described above, the Board recognises that effective engagement with all our other major stakeholders is a key component of long term success.
We balance the needs of these various stakeholders when making decisions and have engagement processes in place with each.
Customers Communities Our customers around the world provide real-time feedback on their Our businesses sit at the heart of communities around the world and our experience at our attractions.
This information, as well as external teams support those communities in a wide variety of ways.
As well as indicators including Trip Advisor, is analysed and addressed by our Product many local initiatives, we harness the influence of our partner charity Excellence team.
Improvement plans are implemented where appropriate Merlins Magic Wand to deliver memorable experiences to children with and discussed regularly by the Board.
serious illnesses or disabilities or who face other adversities.
Our marine conservation charity partner the SEA LIFE Trust helps protect our oceans through campaigns, fundraising and the operation of sanctuaries.
Employees We know that a happy and productive workforce will give our guests a day to remember.
Once again this year The Wizard Wants to Know survey reflects very high levels of employee engagement.
We keep our employees up to date on what is happening in Merlin through the My Merlin intranet and quarterly newsletter, The Wizard.
As described on page 46, this year we launched our employer brand proposition across the business where we encourage all Merlin employees to Love Your Work.
