58 MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC ANN UAL RE PORT AND ACCOU NTS 2018 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Dear Shareholder I am pleased to introduce Merlins 2018 Corporate Governance Report.
Your Board continues to believe that effective corporate governance is the foundation of a well-run company.
It is committed to maintaining the highest The Board recognises the importance standards of governance throughout the Company in line with the core of culture in ensuring Merlins long principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board recognises that a strong governance framework is fundamental to the term success and plays an important execution of Merlins strategic objectives, underpinned by a clear purpose role in establishing Merlins purpose, andwell understood culture and values.
values and strategy and satisfying itself Merlins overriding purpose is to create truly memorable experiences for that these are aligned with its culture.
visitors and value for shareholders.
Our corporate governance framework is designed to safeguard these.
The Board is committed to ensuring that the procedures, policies and practices of the business continue to be effective and compliant with the Code.
I am pleased to confirm that throughout 2018 we complied with its provisions.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC 59 Governance priorities in 2018 General Data Protection Regulation GDPR The key governance activities undertaken by the Board and its Committees GDPR came into force in May 2018, introducing a new data protection are explained in detail throughout this report.
The Board focused on a number framework across Europe, bringing new rights for individuals, extending the of key governance priorities in 2018 and I thought it would assist to summarise responsibilities of data controllers and processors and enhancing the regime these below.
GDPR applies to many areas of the Companys business, including every step of the guest journey.
In 2018 the Board has overseen the Board composition implementation of the Companys compliance programme to address these Following Ken Hydons retirement from the Board last year, Andrew Fisher new requirements including the roll out of policies, procedures and related OBE was appointed to the Board as a Non-executive Director in July 2018. staff training and, most importantly, the creation of a Company-wide culture of Andrew has led the successful growth of a number of technology-focused awareness of privacy and data protection.
enterprises over the past 20 years.
Andrew brings with him a wealth of experience in digital consumer and technology markets which will prove The Board will continue to monitor this programme actively in 2019 to ensure invaluable as Merlin increasingly focuses resources and efforts in this area.
it is fully embedded throughout the business.
Revised UK Corporate Governance Code Cyber security In July 2018 the Financial Reporting Council issued a revised UK Corporate I mentioned in last years report that cyber security was an emerging area of Governance Code designed to reflect the changing business environment and risk and, once again in 2018, the Board carefully considered the potential help UK companies achieve the highest standards of corporate governance.
impact of this threat on Merlin.
Early in 2018, PwC undertook an independent The Code applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. review of the cyber security controls in place across the business and The Company will therefore report on how it applies the principles set out in presented an overall assessment of Merlins cyber security maturity levels to the Code for the first time in the Annual Report and Accounts for 2019 to be the Audit Committee.
The results of this review were reassuring and a number published in 2020.
During the year, the Board, with support from its advisers of actions were agreed to further strengthen Merlins resilience as part of a where appropriate, has carefully considered the requirements of the revised long term cyber security strategy.
Code and determined how the Companys governance arrangements will be adapted to ensure they align with the new Codeprinciples.
Sir John Sunderland Culture Chairman The Board recognises the importance of culture in ensuring Merlins long term 27 February 2019 success.
The Board plays an important role in establishing Merlins purpose, values and strategy and satisfying itself that these are aligned with its culture.
During the year, the Board held a meeting, facilitated by Spencer Stuart, to assess and monitor Merlins culture.
Applying Spencer Stuarts diagnostic framework for defining corporate culture to Merlin as well the results of theWizard Wants to Know employee engagement survey, Merlins culture was described as results-oriented, with fun, customer-centricity and safety at its core.
The Board also discussed a number of areas to be explored to evolve the culture further as the business matures and a follow up Board discussion has been scheduled in 2019 to ensure progress is monitored.
