66 MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC ANN UAL RE PORT AND ACCOU NTS 2018 GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT WE CONTINUED OUR REVIEW OFBOARD AND COMMITTEE COMPOSITION AND DIVERSITY, TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT, TOGETHER WITH SUCCESSION PLANNING FOR EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT.
Chairman Membership Sir John Sunderland Charles Gurassa Trudy Rautio Fru Hazlitt Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the Nomination Committees report for the year Responsibilities ended 29 December 2018.
The Nomination Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities in relation to the composition of the Board as set The main purpose of the Nomination Committee is to ensure Merlin has the outbelow: right people in the right place at the right time across the Group.
Not only is Reviewing the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on this important to each operating division, it is also applicable to the Board itself the Board.
and its ability to deliver shareholder value and safeguard the interests of Reviewing the size, structure and composition of the Board.
Considering and making recommendations to the Board on retirements, re-elections and appointments of additional and Diversity replacement Directors and on membership of Committees.
The Nomination Committee continues to develop and propose Considering succession planning for both Executive and recommendations to the Board regarding its policy on diversity.
The Board Non-executive Directors and the Chairman.
iscommitted to diversity in all its forms, in all aspects of its business and at Considering the time required for Directors to fulfil their roles.
The Board highly values diversity and supports the appointment Developing a policy on diversity and reporting on progress thereon.
ofdiverse candidates to roles at all levels within Merlin, including on the Making appropriate recommendations to the Board on matters Boarditself.
within the remit of the Committee.
The Committee received a report from management during the year The Committees terms of reference are available on the highlighting reassuring progress on gender diversity including the introduction Companys website.
of female talent reviews and the identification of a larger pool of women executives with the potential to progress into senior management roles.
There Effectiveness review has also been a push on encouraging women into mentoring relationships and An external effectiveness review of the Committee took place, based a continued focus on gender-balanced shortlists and interview panels.
In 2018, on a questionnaire sent to Committee members, all other attendees a new inclusion council was established to provide leadership across all strands and the Board.
It covered a broad range of matters including the of diversity and diversity KPIs have been introduced.
There has been some Committees scope: organisation and meetings: the quality of debate progress on the proportion of women in operational roles in Merlin although atCommittee meetings: and leadership.
The results showed the there is still some way to go in this area.
Committee to be effective, with further focus on succession planning to be addressed in 2019.
It is important that the Board sets the tone for the rest of the Group on matters of diversity and I am pleased to confirm that we have 44% female representation on the Board, which exceeds the 2020 target for FTSE 350 companies approved by the UK Government in 2015.
However, the Nomination Committees remit is also to ensure that diversity is not only gender focused but also addresses ethnicity, country of origin and disability.
Noting the requirements in the Hampton-Alexander and Parker reviews, the Committee is committed to making further progress across all strands of diversity and this will be a focus of its work in 2019.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC 67 The Nomination Committee continues to review the composition of the Board and its Committees.
In particular, it must satisfy itself that they benefit from the right balance of skills, knowledge and experience to support and challenge management.
It is also important that Board members are sufficiently independent, demonstrate perspective and understand the governance issues which exist in the operation of a large international company.
The Committee determined in 2018 that the Boards composition benefits from an appropriate level of skills, international and gender diversity.
Succession planning The Committee is also responsible for overseeing succession planning at Board level as well as for the executive management team.
Each of these areas was reviewed by the Committee during 2018 and appropriate short and longer term plans are in place to ensure continuity is maintained.
The Committee also oversees the pipeline of emerging talent within the Company to ensure we are developing the next generation of managers to deliver our long term strategy.
Board training and development The Board recognises that training and development is key to ensuring the skillset of the Board remains current and to help achieve this, at least one Board meeting each year is held at one of the Companys attractions.
In June 2018 we travelled to Shanghai, China.
We were able to visit each of the Companys attractions in the city, including the construction site of the new Shanghai Dungeon, and meet with local management.
These visits provide the Board with very useful insight into local issues and we are able to understand and follow the customer journey first-hand.
As part of the June Board meeting we commissioned presentations from external consultants with significant strategic experience of the Asian consumer market to provide us with their thoughts on operating in China, consumer trends and the Chinese economy.
Selected topics for 2019 include social media strategy, diversity and the potential impact of artificial intelligence on Merlins business.
Board changes During the year, the Committee oversaw the search for a new Non-executive Director.
Following a rigorous search and interview process, Andrew Fisher OBE was appointed as a Non-executive Director of the Company and as a member of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee.
The Committee retained the services of Korn Ferry to assist with this appointment.
During 2018, following the retirement of Ken Hydon, Trudy Rautio became a member of the Committee in his place and there were no other changes to the composition of the Committee.
The external effectiveness review confirmed that the Committee remains effective.
Sir John Sunderland Chairman of the Nomination Committee 27 February 2019
