70 MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC ANN UAL RE PORT AND ACCOU NTS 2018 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT OUR PRIMARY FOCUS CONTINUES TO BE ON THE INTEGRITY OF OUR FINANCIAL REPORTING, IN A PERIOD OF CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING STANDARDS.
WE ALSO APPRAISE THE GROUPS APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT AND Chairman Membership INTERNAL CONTROL AS THE Trudy Rautio Charles Gurassa Rachel Chiang GROUP IMPLEMENTS ITS NEW Andrew Fisher FINANCIAL SYSTEMS.
Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Board, I am presenting the Audit Committee the Responsibilities Committee Report for the financial year ended 29 December 2018.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting, controls and external and internal In this, my fourth year of service, I became Chair of the Committee following audits: Ken Hydons retirement, and was then pleased to welcome Andrew Fisher as Financial reporting, including considering the processes supporting our new Committee member in July.
Andrews experience in digital consumer the assessment of the Groups longer term solvency and liquidity and technology markets adds to the breadth of skills the Committee holds.
which underlie the Viability Statement.
Risk management process and internal controls, including The Committees primary area of focus continues to be on financial reporting whistleblowing and fraud.
and the integrity of the Groups financial statements.
We have therefore spent Internal audit.
time reviewing two key significant focus areas.
Firstly, in regard to asset External audit.
valuation and impairment, we reviewed managements estimates of future trading and the calculations performed, together with the disclosures in the The Committees terms of reference are available on the financial statements.
Secondly, the Group implemented the new accounting Companys website.
standard IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers in the year and we therefore monitored the approach adopted by management, and approved Effectiveness review the Groups new revenue accounting policy.
The other major accounting area During the year an external effectiveness review of the Committee we considered is the Groups upcoming implementation of IFRS 16 Leases, took place.
This was based on a questionnaire sent to Committee together with the transitional disclosures in the financial statements.
members, all other attendees and the Board on a broad range of matters including the Committees scope: organisation and meetings: We considered the Groups risk management environment and are satisfied quality of debate and challenge: and leadership.
The results showed the that the Company has appropriate systems and procedures to identify, Committee to be effective, with a small number of procedural evaluate and manage material risks to the business.
In making this assessment improvements that could be made which the Committee will address the Committee considered the Groups response to ongoing cyber risks as in 2019. well as its response to the new compliance requirements of GDPR.
We also considered risks when reviewing the Viability Statement, agreeing the stress testing parameters together with the period over which the assessment was made.
The Groups internal audit team continues to provide valuable assurance on the operation of controls around the Group: the Committee agreed that this work provides appropriate coverage around the Groups operations and we continued to review the quality of the work performed and managements responses.
Regarding external audit, we are satisfied with KPMGs ongoing performance and their approach to the audit.
We are however concerned by the findings of the recent FRC Audit Quality review of KPMG, and will continue to challenge KPMG as to how they will continue to ensure a quality audit for Merlin going STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC 71 forward.
Merlin is required to retender the audit no later than for the 2023 As set out in note 3.3 to the financial statements, valuations are financial year and the Committee is mindful that the next regular KPMG performed based on forward looking discounted cash flow forecasts and partner rotation is after the 2019 audit.
other market data which are inherently judgemental in nature.
Managements detailed papers to the Committee set out the During 2018 the Groups Productivity Agenda initiatives gathered momentum methodology, judgements and estimations adopted to test the value of and the Committee received regular updates on the new finance system assets, and the disclosures proposed for the Annual Report and Accounts.
projects progress and its governance.
This will be an increasing area of Committee focus as this project develops.
The papers considered the valuation of goodwill at an Operating Group level, individual brands and specific property, plant and equipment.
For I thank my fellow Committee members for their support this year, and I each item, value in use and fair value calculations using an appropriate welcome any comments or questions from shareholders.
Specific focus was given to Resort Theme Parks Operating Group goodwill, where the risk is most significant.
Trudy Rautio For this asset, the Committee focused on how the value in use of assets is Chairman of the Audit Committee calculated, which involves judgements and estimates concerning forecast 27 February 2019 cash flows, discount rates, and long term growth rates that impact an assets terminal value.
The role of the Audit Committee and its membership In reviewing these valuations we considered a range of potential future The Committees responsibilities are as set out in its terms of reference, trading outcomes, taking into account managements growth forecasts available on the Companys website and summarised below.
together with appropriate sensitivity analysis which reflects the risks inherent in these forecasts.
Financial reporting To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and 2.
Revenue report to the Board on significant financial reporting issues and judgements.
The Committee has considered the roll out of the accesso admissions To consider whether the Companys financial statements are fair, balanced system together with existing revenue recording systems.
In both areas the and understandable.
Committee considered the internal controls in place and concluded that they To consider the processes supporting the assessments that underpin the remain effective.
Revenue is generated by high volumes of low value transactions in Risk management and internal control numerous jurisdictions across the world.
Although Merlins revenue To review and report on the effectiveness of the Companys internal accounting policies require limited judgement compared to some other financial controls and the overall risk management framework.
sectors, the accuracy of financial reporting relies on robust internal To review the Companys arrangements for its employees to raise concerns controls over cash reconciliations and accurate cut-off at the reporting through its whistleblowing and fraud policies.
date in respect of advanced sales or payments in arrears by trade customers.
The Company continued its roll out of the accesso Internal and external audit admissions system across the Group under the guidance of a senior To monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit steering group.
This group is chaired by the Groups Chief Digital function.
Marketing and Information Officer, and includes the CFO and other To propose and select the external auditors and then to oversee their members of the Groups senior finance team.
The project roll out team performance and independence.
includes finance resource that is responsible for designing and implementing appropriate financial processes and controls.
The new Membership and meetings system is being used to transact an increasing proportion of the Groups Details of the Committees membership and meetings are outlined on pages admissions revenues by the end of 2018 the project was substantially 60 to 63.
Of the current Committee members, Trudy Rautio and Andrew complete.
During the year the Committee received regular updates on Fisher both have recent and relevant financial experience.
All of the the progress of the project together with the identification and Committee members have relevant experience in relation to the sector or subsequent resolution of issues that arose.
markets the Group operates in and all bring a variety of commercial experience.
The CFO and other key members of management routinely During the year IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers became attend meetings, as do other members of senior management depending on effective.
The Committee reviewed the impact of this new standard and the the matter under discussion.
The Chairman and the CEO attended most of Groups response.
The Committee approved the updated revenue the meetings in the year.
Private meetings are routinely held with internal audit, accounting policy.
KPMG and on a rotational basis with the CFO, General Counsel and other members of management as appropriate.
The Committee also meets privately The Committee considered the impact of this new accounting standard in after each meeting.
Committee meetings usually take place ahead of Board the context of the Companys primarily cash-based business model and meetings with a summary of matters discussed provided to the Board at the the nature of the Companys revenue transactions.
We concluded that the following meeting.
impact of IFRS 15 on the Groups financial results was low.
This conclusion was reached following an assessment of managements diagnostic review Financial reporting of Merlins various revenue streams, together with the sales channels and Significant focus areas commercial relationships through which customers purchase access to 1.
The valuation of assets and impairment Merlins services and products.
As noted on page 108 of the financial The Committee is satisfied that no impairment is required and that the statements, the most significant area of change has been where a third presentation and disclosures in the financial statements are appropriate and party is involved, together with Merlin, in providing visitors to Merlin adequate.
This follows detailed reviews of the basis of managements attractions with admission tickets and or accommodation, or commercial calculations and the findings of the external audit.
offerings such as photos and games services once inside a Merlin attraction.
We reviewed how the impact of this change was recorded in Merlin operates in geographically and politically diverse areas, and the the Groups accounting systems.
Groups acquisitions have resulted in significant balances of goodwill and intangible assets.
In addition, the Groups ongoing strategy includes opening attractions under both existing and new brands, often in locations that are new to the Group and therefore, to some degree, unproven.
While the Group has accumulated experience of opening many attractions around the world, the performance of additional attractions, particularly in new markets, can be difficult to predict.
72 MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC ANN UAL RE PORT AND ACCOU NTS 2018 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT C O N T I NUE D Brexit Other matters The Committee reviewed the work undertaken by management in assessing The Committee also reviewed other matters in relation to the Companys the Groups approach to the risks that exist as a result of Brexit.
More details in financial statements.
In doing so we took into account recent developments in this area can be found in the Principal Risks section on page 36. corporate reporting and particular topical matters.
The reviews covered: The half year and full year financial statements.
Going concern and viability review Disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts in relation to internal In reviewing and approving the going concern and Viability Statements see control, the risk management process and the work of the Committee.
pages 91 and 41 respectively, we focused especially on the appropriateness of The Groups use and description of alternative performance measures the key judgements, assumptions and estimates underlying the Companys APMs and key performance indicators KPIs within its financial reporting.
plans together with a review of compliance with key financial covenants.
This included the categorisation of transactions between underlying trading and exceptional items.
Merlin invests for the long term, with a portfolio of attractions that have Approval of the refinancing plan and its subsequent accounting once the demonstrated their longevity and ability to evolve over time.
The Group is refinancing had occurred.
developing new brands and expanding into new markets and we are therefore Those areas of the Groups financial reporting considered to have required confident as to its long term prospects.
For the viability assessment we then most judgement or the use of estimates.
considered the outlook period in the context of the Groups business plan, its The tax position of the Group, in particular the effective tax rate and the planned capital investment cycles, new business development plans and recognition of deferred tax assets.
This included an assessment of the potential uncommitted capital projects and acquisitions.
We concluded that impact of legislative changes, including US tax reform.
the four year outlook period adopted in our strategic planning processes Key assumptions in relation to defined benefit pension schemes.
The level of materiality used in the preparation of the financial statements.
Technical updates, in particular in relation to the requirements of and We considered the key risks identified by the Group as set out in the Principal changes to the Code.
Risks section on pages 34 to 41 and any mitigating controls.
This process The Audit Committees report in the context of the Codes requirement for enabled the Committee to assess whether any material residual risks remained fair, balanced and understandable reporting.
that could pose a significant threat to the viability of the business as a whole.
Recoverability of the parent Companys investment in and inter-group The risks identified were those relating to safety incidents and the impact of receivable balances with subsidiaries.
acts of terrorism or sabotage.
The Committee then reviewed appropriate sensitivity analyses in severe yet plausible scenarios that were performed to Risk management and internal control assess the possible impact of these risks and the Groups resilience to them Oversight of the overall risk management process through controls and mitigating actions that could be taken.
Merlin separates its oversight of risk management into three risk areas: health, safety and security: commercial and strategic: and financial process.
The New accounting standards internal control and risk management section on pages 34 to 36 provides more The Committee reviewed the impact and disclosures in the Annual Report of information in this area.
The Board has delegated oversight responsibility for new accounting standards.
In addition to IFRS 15, the most significant of these the overall risk management process to the Committee.
During the year the are as follows: Committee therefore reviewed Merlins overall risk management framework.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments became effective in 2018.
The new standard At the end of the year the Companys risk management structure and has not materially changed reported balances due to the nature and processes, together with the methodology by which risk matters raised are quantum of the balances held by the Group.
brought to the attention of the Board, were examined and it was concluded IFRS 16, the new standard on leasing, is effective from 2019.
This will bring that risks were being appropriately addressed.
The Groups risk management on balance sheet substantially all of the Groups property leases and will structure and principal risks are shown on pages 34 to 41. have a significant impact on the Groups financial procedures and reporting.
Accordingly, a specific transition project has been in progress since 2017.
Management of financial process risk Substantially all of Merlins lease commitments are in respect of property The Board has delegated responsibility for financial process risk to the and infrastructure at its attractions and the lease portfolio is of a relatively Committee.
Management remains responsible for establishing and maintaining high value, small volume nature.
Merlin is therefore adopting the fully adequate internal controls that are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, retrospective approach allowed by the standard, having performed the such risks.
Management, the Audit Committee and the Board monitor the more onerous historical analysis required by this transition approach.
The outcomes of the three levels of risk management activity and assurance as set impact of this new standard is discussed more fully in the financial out below.
During the year we received updates from Level 1 documented delegated authority limits and purchasing and sale management on the projects progress that included discussion of relevant price approval levels in place across the Company.
technical accounting areas and judgements, together with the processes by Level 2 frequent and regular review processes of trading performance which lease data would be captured, reviewed and accounted for under the together with detailed capital investment and strategic planning processes.
We also discussed these areas with KPMG.
Level 3 self-assessment including self-certification by business unit finance heads.
Whistleblowing systems and fraud bribery mitigation The Company has a good culture of encouraging its staff to report incidents of poor practice.
This is reinforced through the work of internal audit and local STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC 73 profit protection teams, a summary of whose work is reviewed by the judgements and communication of the same with management and Committee.
The Committee also receives regular updates on whistleblowing, the Committee.
including the quantity, source and nature of incidents reported and how The quality of the formal report to shareholders.
Their reputation and standing, including their independence and objectivity, their internal quality procedures, and reports published by the FRC.
Internal audit The Companys internal audit function, which has dual reporting lines to both Audit quality the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the CFO, comprises in-house The quality of the external audit is a key topic the Committee discusses.
auditors and is led by an appropriately qualified Group Internal Audit and Risk During the year the FRC published the results of its Audit Quality Review of Management Director.
When necessary, external support is used in KPMGs work.
This report noted significant issues within a number of areas of specialist areas.
KPMGs work across a sample of FTSE 350 companies.
In that light, while we are currently satisfied with KPMGs Merlin audit, we are concerned by the Internal audit reviews the Groups risk management and internal controls, findings of the recent FRC report, and will continue to challenge KPMG as to following a risk based internal audit plan developed in conjunction with how they will continue to ensure a quality audit for Merlin going forward.
management, and approved annually by the Committee.
The Committee approved the internal audit plan before the start of the year which included an Appointment and governance assessment of the risk approach taken in formulating audit priorities.
Factors The Committee considered whether a retender during 2018 would be such as size and location of business, history of audit findings, competence and appropriate as part of its annual recommendation on the appointment of the stability of local management, material changes to a business and relevance to external auditors.
Having considered KPMGs performance as set out above, the Groups strategy were factored into this assessment.
the Committee decided to recommend retaining KPMG for 2019.
During the year, audits were undertaken to obtain an appropriate level of In recommending the reappointment of external auditors at the AGM, the coverage across the business which we measure on a rolling two year basis.
In Committee also takes into account EU guidance and the Competition and line with the plan approved by the Committee, internal audits conducted over Markets Authority CMA Order on mandatory audit tendering.
Merlin will be the last two years have been at operations representing approximately 80% of required to retender its audit no later than for the 2023 financial year and we the Groups annual revenue streams.
In addition to revenue generating also note that the next regular KPMG partner rotation will take place after the locations, work was performed over other areas including the site search and 2019 audit.
The Committee has therefore started to consider the factors that project management activities in Merlin Magic Making, and the Groups would be taken into account in performing the tender process and ensuring management of property and leases.
that there would be a good choice of audit firms to consider.
Internal audit results and management responses are then discussed and Remuneration and independence of external auditors challenged at each Committee meeting.
The Committee reviews management Non-audit services are subject to market tenders or tests and are awarded to actions in response to significant findings and looks at the root cause of the most appropriate provider.
The external auditors may provide non-audit consistent themes emerging across the Company.
Deep dive assessments are services only when their skills and experience make them a competitive and performed where necessary and in 2018 these related to tax and treasury most appropriate supplier of these services.
Non-audit services that are matters, the accounting for project costs at new business development awarded to the auditors are normally limited to assignments that are closely locations, GDPR, and the shift to less cash-based operations.
In 2018 related to the annual audit or regulatory reports where the work requires a  PwC continued to be our provider of in-territory detailed understanding of the Group.
In 2018 the more significant support to Merlins internal audit function for certain overseas audits.
matters were: The review of the Groups half year published results.
A review of the effectiveness of internal audit was undertaken during the year.
Assurance procedures required for the partial refinancing in the year.
Members and attendees of the Audit Committee meetings, along with the Other routine statutory services required under local regulatory legislation.
senior finance community of the Company, were questioned on a range of subjects including the governance and organisation of the internal audit The external auditors may not provide a service which: function, their audit approach and the effectiveness of their reports and Places them in a position to audit their own work.
The results showed that the internal audit function is considered Impacts their independence by creating a shared interest.
Results in the auditors developing close personal relationships with Merlin employees.
External audit Results in the auditors functioning as a manager or employee of Merlin.
The Companys external auditors are KPMG LLP, who review the control Puts the auditors in the role of advocate for Merlin.
environment and financial statements, assess and report on key areas of judgement and estimates and provide ongoing advice and training on The Committee has adopted the guidance and related definitions from the technical matters.
Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy and determined that non-audit fees should be no higher than 70% of audit fees from 2019 Assessment of the performance of the external auditors onwards.
We will continue to monitor this ratio.
In 2018 fees for non-audit The Committee has evaluated the performance, independence and objectivity services were 0.4 million 2017: 0.3 million, a ratio of 21% 2017: 19%.
This included an internally facilitated, questionnaire-based, of KPMG fees can be found in note 2.1 to the financial statements.
All effectiveness assessment with feedback provided by Audit Committee non-audit services are approved by the Committee, although they have members, other attendees and senior finance personnel both at Merlins granted the CFO authority to pre-approve the following non-audit services: attractions and at its head office.
The survey covered KPMGs mind-set and Work which a third party requires to be carried out by the culture, skills and knowledge, judgement and quality control of the audit.
survey indicated satisfaction with the quality of the KPMG audit and the Any other work up to a value of 50,000 where the external auditors are Committee accepted KPMGs responses to points raised in the survey.
The best placed to undertake the work.
effectiveness of KPMGs 2017 audit was assessed over the year by reference to the following factors, in line with the FRCs Practice Aid on Audit Quality: To ensure ongoing compliance with the FRCs Ethical Standard and to ensure The performance of Hugh Green in his third year as Audit Partner, including that auditor objectivity and independence is not impaired, the Committee his understanding of our business and the impact on the Annual Report regularly reviews reports on audit, audit-related and non-audit expenditure, and Accounts.
together with proposals of any material non-audit related assignments.
The The robustness and perceptiveness of KPMGs handling of key accounting Committee is satisfied that the overall levels of audit-related and non-audit and audit judgements.
fees, and the nature of services provided, are not such that would compromise The quality of communication with the Committee, including the regular the objectivity and independence of the external auditors.
reports on accounting and governance matters.
The skills and experience of the wider audit team and their execution of the audit, including the way they handled the key accounting and audit
