BOARD OF DIRECTORS These references are to Committee memberships during 2018.
Details of Board roles and committee memberships as of 1 April 2019 can be found on page 79.
1 Vernon W. Hill, II Lenders and the Financial Services Sector Skills Council.
n Chairman and Founder Hewas Special Adviser to the Treasury Select Committee Appointed to the Board 18 August 2008 from 2013 to 2015.
Vernon was the founder and Chairman of Commerce Bancorp, a start-up bank established in 1973 and sold to 5 catherine Brown Toronto-Dominion Bank in 2007 for US$8.5 billion, with Non-Executive Director US$50 billion in assets and 440 branches.
Vernon is involved Appointed to the Board 1 October 2018 in banking and non-banking related businesses and Catherine holds various non-executive roles including: voluntary ventures in the US.
He is a graduate of the Wharton Non-Executive Board Member at the Cabinet Office, NonSchool of the University of Pennsylvania.
Vernon is Chairman Executive Director of FNZ UK Limited, and Chairman and of Republic First Bancorp, Inc. Non-Executive Director of Additive Flow Limited and ThePlastic Economy Limited.
She is a Trustee of Cancer 2 craig Donaldson Research UK, one of the UKs largest charities.
Catherine Chief Executive Officer hasextensive experience in organisational transformation Appointed to the Board 5 March 2010 infinancial services and a wide range of experience in Craig was previously Managing Director, Retail Products and leadership and operations.
Her previous appointments Direct Channels, of RBS UK.
He was also Chairman of the include: Group Strategy Director at Lloyds Banking Group, Retail Asset and Liabilities Committee and Retail Product Executive Director of Human Resources at the Bank of Board and a member of the Retail Board, Retail Risk England and Chief Operating Officer at Apax Partners.
Committee and RBS UK Asset and Liabilities Committee.
Heserves on the Board of Directors at TheCityUK as 6 keith carby a r n Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Non-Executive Director, , Appointed to the Board 5 March 2010 3 David arden Keith was formerly Founder and CEO of the Caerus Capital Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary Group.
He is Co-Founder and Non-Executive Chairman of Appointed to the Board 29 March 2018 both Censeo Ltd and Mill Capital Investment Partners Prior to joining MetroBank, David was CFO at Sainsburys Dubai, and also Joint Founder and Chairman of AdAlpha Bank and interim MD of Argos Financial Services, following Solutions Ltd. Keith was Joint Founder and Managing the successful acquisition of Home Retail Group by Director of J. Rothschild Assurance now St. Jamess Place.
David joined Sainsburys He also co-founded the Financial Services Forum.
Bank from Shop Direct Financial Services, where he was CFO.
In his 28-year career, he has held a number of senior 7 roger Farah r n positions including MD of RBS NatWest credit cards and Non-Executive Director, Finance and Risk Director for Tesco Bank.
Appointed to the Board 1 February 2014 Roger is Chairman of Tiffany & Co.
He is a former Executive 4 Stuart Bernau Vice Chairman of Ralph Lauren Corporation, also its a o Non-Executive Director, President and Chief Operating Officer.
Roger was previously Appointed to the Board 5 March 2010 Chairman and CEO of Footlocker, President and Chief Stuart has specialised in financial services for over 40 years, Operating Officer of Macys, Chairman and CEO of Federated including 13 years as a main Board Director of Nationwide Merchandising Services, and Chairman and CEO of Richs Building Society.
He was Chairman and CEO of Chelsea Department Stores.
Roger is a Director of Aetna and The Building Society and has chaired the Council of Mortgage Progressive Corporation.
a r n o key to committees Audit Remuneration Nomination Risk Oversight 1 2 3 4 5 6 56 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8 lord Flight 11 anna Monique Melis r n o Non-Executive Director, Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board 5 March 2010 Appointed to the Board 20 June 2017 Howard was Conservative MP for Arundel and South Downs, Monique is a Managing Director and the Global Head of West Sussex, from 1997 to 2005, when he held Shadow Regulatory Consulting at Duff & Phelps and is a member of posts, including Shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury.
Duff and Phelps Luxembourg Management Company Board.
Hewas a member of the Shadow Cabinet from 2002 to With extensive financial services and regulatory experience 2004.
He was appointed to the House of Lords in 2011. across established and growth markets, her appointments Heco-founded Guinness Flight Global Asset Management, have included Executive Board member at Kinetic Partners and is Chairman of Aurora Investment Trust, Downing Four and roles at the Cayman Islands Regulator and Stock VCT, and Flight and Partners, a Director of Investec Asset Exchange CSX, the Financial Services Authority and Management and Edge Performance VCT, a Commissioner theSecurities and Futures Authority.
of the Guernsey Financial Services Commission and Chairman of the EIS Association.
12 Sir Michael Snyder a o Non-Executive Director, 9 alastair Ben Gunn Appointed to the Board 22 September 2015 o Senior Independent Director Michael was Senior Partner of Kingston Smith between 1979 Appointed to the Board 5 March 2010 and 2016, and is now a consultant to the firm.
He has advised Ben was Chief Executive and then Chairman of Friends the government over many years, including chairing the Provident Life and Pensions Ltd as well as a Director of National Business Angels Network, and as a member of the Friends Provident.
As Chief Executive, he was responsible for Small Business Council and Small Business Investment all aspects of the Friends Provident Groups life and pensions Taskforce.
He was also founder Co-Chairman of the activities worldwide.
More recently, he was the Senior governments Professional and Business Services Council Independent Director at Aviva UK and Chairman of the and chaired the Association of Practising Accountants.
He is Senior Partner of Bramdean Consultants LLP and an elected member of the City of London Corporation, 10 Gene lockhart which he led for five years as Chairman of the Policy a o Non-Executive Director, and Resources Committee.
Appointed to the Board 5 March 2010 Gene is Chairman and Managing Partner at MissionOG, 13 Paul thandi aventure capital firm with significant operational and Non-Executive Director investment experience across the financial services and Appointed to the Board 1 January 2019 payments industries.
Previously, he was a Special Adviser at Paul is CEO of the NEC Group in Birmingham where he General Atlantic and a Venture Partner at Oak Investment hasoverseen the growth of one of the worlds top venue Partners.
Prior to that, he was President of the Global Retail management companies.
He is an experienced CEO, Chair Bank at Bank of America, President & CEO at Mastercard and Non-Executive Director with diverse international media International, and CEO at Midland Bank plc.
He has been on and service-led experience with an emphasis on people, the boards of many banking institutions including Midland innovation, data and culture.
Paul has over 20 years Group Holdings, First Republic Bank, Bank America Corp. experience in the media industry, including as executive Mastercard International, and APACS, amongst others.
director at CMP Information CMPi.
He is also Deputy Gene has also been the Chairman of the Board of CHAPS Lieutenant of West Midlands Lieutenancy, representing and Director of SWIFT.
Howard Flight retired from the Board on 1 April 2019.
Keith Carby will retire from the More details on the skills and experience of our Directors Board on 30 April 2019. can be found in the skills matrix on page 61.
7 8 9 10 11 12 13 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 57
