AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Attendance of the Audit Committee As at 31 December 2018, the Audit Committee comprised the following independent Non-Executive Directors: Meetings attended 2018 Attended Max possible Stuart Bernau chairman 9 9 Gene lockhart 8 9 keith carby 9 9 Sir Michael Snyder 9 9 1.
Gene Lockhart was unable to attend one meeting for personal reasons 2.
Keith Carby will retire from the Board on 30 April 2019.
Stuart Bernau, Chairman of the Audit Committee and Chit Ghee Yeoh, Director of Internal Audit Letter from the Chairman I am pleased to present the Audit Committee report for the 2018 ACTIVITIES year ended 31 December 2018.
Reviewed 38 Internal Audit reports and attestations and The Audit Committee has focused on delivering robust all of the Banks financial reporting scrutiny and evaluation of the Banks control environment so Reviewed related party contracts and third party reviews that it works and develops alongside the growth model.
We of key suppliers continue to be forward as well as backward looking to ensure Completed a full external audit tender the Committee fulfils its assurance role and understands, assesses and monitors risks facing the business.
Conducted the annual Committee performance review It has been a busy year for the Audit Committee.
During the summer, the Committee led the tender process for the Banks 2019 FOCUS AREAS external audit.
The ultimate goal of the process was to identify and appoint the audit firm that would provide the highest Oversight of Internal Audit reviews of Risk Weighted quality, most effective and efficient audit to the Bank.
Following a thorough and robust tender process, Iam pleased to report Assets RWA controls enhancements that PwC LLP has been reappointed as external auditor subject IT resilience and information security to reappointment by shareholders at the 2019 AGM.
More Financial reporting detail on the tender process can be found later in this report.
Review of Internal Audit reports In January 2019, we announced that we had adjusted the risk-weighting of certain commercial loans secured on commercial property and certain specialist buy-to-let loans that had the combined effect of increasing our RWA by 900 million.
Whilst the risk weightings have been adjusted, there is no deterioration in the credit quality of the affected assets.
We are learning the lessons from this and will continue to improve our systems and controls around capital and RWAs.
The Committee will oversee the Internal Audit reviews of RWA controls enhancements in 2019.
This is the programme to enhance MetroBanks systems and controls for risk-weighting and capital.
The Committee has monitored the delivery of the 2018 Internal Audit Plan.
We have reviewed the outcomes of thework performed and the reports issued, ensuring recommendations for improvement are actioned where appropriate.
In developing the Internal Audit Plan for 2019, we have ensured inclusion of those areas which bear the greatest risk to the Bank, those which are most impacted by continued growth and areas of regulatory focus.
We monitor the resource available to the Internal Audit team to ensure it has sufficient resource to fulfil its responsibilities.
68 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The 2019 Internal Audit Plan was approved by the Board in The Audit Committee in brief January 2019 following discussion at the Committee and it The Audit Committees key role is to review the integrity also approved the level of risk assurance contained within ofthe financial reporting for the Bank and to oversee the the plan.
Iam therefore comfortable that the key risks to effectiveness of the internal control systems and the work MetroBanks unique business model have been identified ofthe internal and external auditors.
external audit The Committee continues to arrange for periodic Recommend the appointment, reappointment or removal independent evaluation of the contracts for services with of the external auditors InterArch, Inc. InterArch.
This includes oversight of the Review independence and objectivity, as well as the reviews carried out by authoritative independent third parties, quality of the audit work performed the details of which can be found on page 70.
The standard Approve audit remuneration ofservice and the product InterArch provides is of a very high quality: however, management has decided to expand the Review the supply of non-audit services in line with suppliers we use for architectural design services.
theBanks policy and professional independence requirements As part of my role as Chairman of the Audit Committee, Ihold Meet regularly without management present regular meetings with colleagues from the Bank including, the Ensure the audit contract is tendered at least every Director of Internal Audit, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Financial 10years Officer and senior members of his team, and the Deputy Company Secretary who acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Internal audit Ialso sit on the Risk Oversight Committee and work closely Approve appointment or termination of the Director with Gene Lockhart, its Chairman.
ofInternal Audit I am available to meet with the Companys shareholders Contribute to the annual and half year review of the onrequest.
This year, the Senior Independent Director and Director of Internal Audit Imet with investors at the Banks offices in Holborn during Monitor and review the effectiveness of the function the summer and we also hosted an investor breakfast in Review and approve the Internal Audit Charter January 2019. Review and assess the Internal Audit Plan and ensure The Audit Committee met nine times in 2018.
Following thatresources are adequate each meeting, Iprovided a verbal update to the Board on Meet regularly with the Director of Internal Audit and keyissues and, where necessary, outlined the actions being ensure access to Board taken by management to address any issues raised.
The Review managements responsiveness to findings minutes are also included in the next Board pack.
Before each Audit Committee meeting Ialso meet with the external Financial and narrative reporting audit partner, and the Committee members have a session Monitor the integrity of the financial statements with the external auditor at the end of each meeting without the presence of management.
Review and report to the Board on significant financial issues and material judgements The Committee keeps itself up to date on industry and Review and challenge accounting policies, methods used regulatory matters.
In 2018 we had technical briefing to account for significant and unusual transactions, clarity sessions delivered by PwC, as well as a corporate and completeness of disclosure governance update provided by the Deputy Company Advise whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced and Secretary.
Ialso attend regular seminars run by professional understandable services firms on current key issues, which this year have included cyber security, social media and digital tools and Whistleblowing and fraud building trust in financial services.
Review the adequacy and security of whistleblowing arrangements It has been a pleasure to chair the Audit Committee since theBank obtained its banking licence in April 2010.
This Review the procedures for detecting fraud and ismy last report as Chair.
Subject to regulatory approval, preventingbribery SirMichael Snyder will take over as Independent Audit Chairman from 1 April 2019.
Sir Michael has extensive audit Internal controls and risk management experience, having been a partner of an audit firm for over Monitor and review the adequacy and effectiveness 40 years.
He has been a member of the Committee since of the Companys internal financial controls and risk 2016 and is well aware of the challenges facing the Bank as management systems it continues on its growth journey.
I am pleased to pass on Review and approve the statements in the Annual Report responsibility to Sir Michael and wish him well in his role concerning internal controls and risk management asChairman.
Stuart Bernau audit committee chairman 10 April 2019 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 69 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Area Key topics Composition of the Audit Committee As of 31 December 2018, the four members of the Audit Internal Audit Review of internal audits carried out Committee were all independent Non-Executive Directors in2018 with a range of relevant business experience.
For further Review and approval of the Internal details of their skills and experience, please refer to their Audit Charter biographies on pages 56 and 57.
At least one of the members Review of the 2018 Internal of the Committee has recent and relevant financial AuditReports experience and the Committee as a whole has competence in the banking sector.
Regular attendees at the Audit Review of the 2019 Internal Audit Plan Committee include the CEO, CFO, CRO, Director of Internal External audit 2017 external Auditors Report and Audit, Group Finance Director, Financial Controller, Deputy fullyear findings Company Secretary and representatives from the external 2018 External Audit Plan, engagement auditor, PwC.
terms and fees In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Terms of engagement for the half Governance Code the Code, two independent NEDs, yearreview Stuart Bernau Chair of the Audit Committee and Keith External auditors half year Carby member of the Audit Committee, stood down from reviewfindings the Committee on 31 March 2019.
They had both served on 2017 full year external Auditors Report the Board for nine years and in accordance with the Code, and findings they were no longer deemed independent.
Whilst there was Overseeing the external audit tender a brief transition period between 5 March 2019 being the process and making a recommendation nine year anniversary of their original appointment to the to the Board on the re-appointment of Board and the 1 April 2019, when they were no longer the external auditor independent, there were no meetings of the Committee.
From 1 April 2019 the Committees membership is in Related party Independent review of the InterArch compliance with the Code.
More information on this can be review Architectural design services and found inthe Nomination Committee report on page 79. branding, marketing and advertising contracts Key areas discussed at Audit Committee meetings in 2018 Information IT resilience review Area Key topics Technology Management IT Resilience Reports Policy Whistleblowing Policy Regulatory Regulatory and accounting update Anti-bribery and corruption including IFRS 16 Conflicts of interest and related parties IFRS 9 implementation progress updates Non-Audit Services Policy Modern Slavery Statement Review of Terms of Reference and UK Corporate Governance Code Update recommendation to Board for approval Committee performance evaluation In addition to the key areas above, the Committee reviewed Financial Review of Q1 results the progress against the Internal Audit Plan and reviewed reporting 2018 half year results, including thedetailed reports where appropriate.
At each meeting, anupdate of critical accounting wealso receive an update on horizon scanning for future judgements and estimates regulatory changes which may affect the Bank.
Review of Q3 results Related parties 2017 full year results, Annual Report and Architectural design services and branding, and Accounts, including assessment of the marketingand advertising services are provided to the key judgements and estimates, going Bank by InterArch a firm owned by Shirley Hill, wife concern and viability report ofVernon W. Hill, II, Chairman.
Review of 2017 external Auditors reports and findings In order to ensure that the contracts for services with InterArch are materially consistent with those that could be Tax strategy obtained from an independent third party, the contractual IFRS 9 key accounting judgements arrangements are subject to an independent annual review Deferred tax asset review arranged by the Audit Committee.
As part of this review detailed benchmarking is conducted by authoritative independent third parties.
For the architectural design contract, which covers the build and design of our stores, aBig Four professional services firm carries out the benchmarking review.
The marketing services contract, 70 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS which covers marketing, branding and advertising services, Approved the Internal Audit Charter, which sets out the is reviewed by the largest independent global marketing role and expectations of Internal Audit audit firm.
To provide assurance that the contracts remain Monitored the objectivity and competence of the Internal on arms length terms, the InterArch fee rates and structures Audit function, and the adequacy of Internal Audit are compared against market comparators and commentary resources and skills is provided on how the services provided to the Bank by Carried out an internally facilitated review of the InterArch align with these.
The Committee discussed the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function benchmarking reviews conducted by independent third Monitored the delivery of the Internal Audit Plan parties and evaluated the Banks response to the feedback reported.
Following consideration, the Committee remains Approved the Internal Audit Plan for 2019 satisfied that the contracts for services with InterArch are at arms length and are at least as beneficial as those which The Committee was satisfied that Internal Audit had could be obtained in the market from an alternative supplier.
adequate resources available this year.
The quality and effectiveness ofthe service provided by InterArch continue to provide value for the Bank.
In order to System of internal control and risk management expand the suppliers used, management intends to run a Details of the Banks risk management framework are competitive tender in 2019toidentify an additional provided on pages 28 to 54.
In considering the effectiveness alternative supplier of architecture services.
of internal controls, the Audit Committee received and discussed reports from Internal Audit and the external In line with the Code, the Committee also considers the auditor.
In addition, executive management was invited to disclosures that the Bank makes in the financial statements discuss the more significant issues raised by Internal Audit.
regarding the relationship with InterArch to ensure they are Management action plans to resolve the issues raised are appropriate and in line with relevant reporting standards.
monitored by the Audit Committee.
Following feedback from stakeholders, the Committee has included further information on the benchmarking review Recommendations for improvements to internal controls this year, as above.
bythe external auditor are monitored by Internal Audit, withprogress reported to the Audit Committee.
The annual review of the InterArch contracts completed in 2018.
Following this, new annual contracts were negotiated External audit and became effective from 28 February 2019.
The The Audit Committee reviews and makes recommendations Committee has evaluated the steps taken by management to the Board with regard to the appointment of the external toensure that the contracts continue to be at arms length auditor, its remuneration and terms of engagement.
aspart of the renegotiation process.
The Audit Committee is also responsible for the oversight of Fair, balanced and understandable the relationship with PwC and the effectiveness of the audit In line with the Code, the Committee considered whether process.
To satisfy ourselves of the effectiveness of the the 2018 Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable external audit, during the year we: and should provide the information necessary for carried out an external audit tender: shareholders to assess the Groups position, performance, carried out a review of the 2017 external audit process: business model and strategy.
The Committee is satisfied that reviewed the results of the Annual Report on PwCs audit the 2018 Annual Report meets this requirement and, in quality issued by the Financial Reporting Council RCS : particular, that appropriate disclosure has been included forboth positive and negative developments in the year.
reviewed the proposed Audit Plan in advance of the Theprocess supporting this goal included: annual audit: The compilation of the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Reviewed and approved the audit engagement terms and which was managed by the Chief Financial Officer proposed audit fee: together with a cross-functional team of senior managers considered the continued independence and objectivity Input by a cross-functional team from Finance, Risk, of PwC: and People, Legal, Investor Relations and business lines reviewed and discussed the reports provided by PwC.
A formal review by the Audit Committee of the draft 2018 Annual Report and Accounts, along with a review of any At the end of each Audit Committee meeting, members met issues raised in the external Auditors Report, in advance the external auditor without management present to discuss of final sign-off any relevant issues.
A final review, performed by the Board of Directors The Company confirms that it has complied with the provisions of the Competition and Markets Authoritys Order Internal Audit for the financial year under review.
The Groups Internal Audit function plays a key role in providing independent assessment and challenging governance, risk and control.
The Audit Committee approved the Internal Audit Plan and considered the results of its work.
We also: Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 71 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED External audit tender outcome: The final presentations were closely run and both PwC LLP, the Banks external auditor, has been in situ since participants gave detailed and authoritative presentations, 2009.
The Bank is required under law to put its audit out displaying expertise in their fields.
The Audit Committee totender at least every 10 years and to change its auditor recommended PwC as the preferred participant among atleast every 20 years.
As disclosed last year, the Audit thefinal candidates given the team presented the most Committee commenced a tendering process in 2018 which competently on relevant areas of focus.
These included is set out below.
The Audit Committee recommended to industry knowledge, audit quality, use of technology and theBoard that PwC be reappointed as the Banks auditor.
Aresolution to reappoint PwC will be put to shareholders atthe AGM in 2019.
Non-audit services The Bank and PwC have safeguards in place to protect the The tender process and the Committees involvement in that independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
process is outlined below: The Bank has a policy for the provision of non-audit services tender participants: PwC, KPMG, Ernst & Young, Grant by the external auditor.
In line with the policy, all non-audit Thornton and BDO were all invited to participate in the services provided to the Bank by the external auditor, tender process.
Consideration was also given to other firms.
wherethe fee is expected to exceed a fide minimis limit, It was agreed that there were adequate choices available mustbe pre-approved by the Audit Committee subject to such that Deloitte would not be invited to tender in light the guidelines and thresholds detailed in the policy.
Preofthe non-audit services it provides to the Bank.
approval by the Committee must be obtained in advance of any work being carried out.
Pre-approval must be performed tender documentation: Request For Proposal documentation by the Committee: it cannot be delegated to a member and a data pack was issued to all participants which provided ofmanagement.
The Committee must be provided with detailed information to support the submission of quality and adetailed explanation of each particular service to be accurate bids.
provided to allow it to make an appropriate assessment ofthe impact of the service on the external auditors carousel day: Each participant that had confirmed its independence.
The policy further formalises within the Bank interest in tendering had the opportunity to spend time with the restriction on the provision of non-audit services by the stakeholders from across the business to obtain a more external auditor which the FRC considers to be prohibited.
detailed understanding of the Bank and the existing Inaccordance with the FRCs Ethical Standard, the services management processes and challenges to better inform considered prohibited include: their tender submission.
These meetings included time with Tax and valuation services, consultancy and senior colleagues from Finance and Tax, Internal Audit, Risk, advisoryservices Company Secretarial, Operations and IT.
Services that involve playing any part in the management or decision-making of the Bank tender document scoring: We asked each participant to The design and implementation of internal control or risk provide us with responses to questions on the following management procedures related to the preparation or keyareas: control of financial information, or the design and An overview of the tendering firm and proposed team implementation of financial information technology systems Audit quality and process, including transitional Services linked to the financing, capital structure and arrangements if relevant investment strategy of the Bank Understanding of MetroBank and its unique culture Legal services How the firm would become independent and maintain Bookkeeping and preparing accounting records and independence financial statements Pricing and commercial structure of the engagement Payroll services and certain human resources services Services related to the Banks Internal Audit function Each firm was scored in each area, with scoring most heavily weighted towards questions on the audit process and No significant engagements for non-audit services were approach, and the team calibre and fit.
Scores were provided carried out by the external auditor during the year.
Where by the Chairman of the Audit Committee, Finance Director they did occur, they were in respect of audit or assuranceand Financial Controller.
related matters consistent with the principles of independent assurance provision.
Details of the fees paid to the external First-round presentation: Each participant was invited to auditor during the year can be found in note 7 to the provide a first-round presentation.
Each presentation was financial statements on page 119. attended by the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Finance Director, the Financial Controller, the Deputy Company Secretary and the Director of Procurement.
Presentations were not formally scored, but verbal feedback was debated internally.
Feedback was aligned to tender proposal document scores.
The two best scored participants were shortlisted and invited to formally present to the AuditCommittee.
72 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Significant financial reporting areas considered by the Audit Committee in 2018 In respect of financial reporting, the Audit Committee considered the key judgements and estimates in relation to the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts.
Key judgements and estimates in financial reporting Audit committee review and conclusions Impairment of loans and advances The Committee also specifically considered the key The Bank adopted IFRS 9 in the period, having estimated accounting judgements and disclosures for the transition and disclosed the potential impact.
Determining the to IFRS 9 and is satisfied that they are reasonable.
appropriateness of loan loss provision is inherently judgemental and requires management to make a number The Committee received and challenged reports from of assumptions.
management explaining the approach taken to provisioning and the resulting changes in the provision levels during Individual impairment losses on secured loans and the period.
advances are calculated based on an individual valuation of the underlying asset.
Expected impairment losses on The Committee considered key assumptions used in the stage 1 and 2 loans and advances are calculated using a Banks expected credit loss model, being the point at which statistical model.
a loan is considered to have experienced a significant increase in risk, probability of default, the probability of this The key areas of judgement and estimation consist of: default resulting in possession and or write-off, the loss the measurement of the expected credit loss allowance: given default the subsequent loss incurred and the what we consider to be a significant increase in credit economic scenarios.
risk: and the multiple forward-looking economic scenarios used The Committee is satisfied that the approach taken and in the modelling.
Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 73
