DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors of the Company who were in office during the There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Companys 1 year and up to the date of signing the financial statements share capital and there are no shares or stock which carry and summaries of their key skills and experience are set specific rights with regards to control of the Company.
The Directors seek annual authority from shareholders to allot new ordinary shares and to disapply pre-emption rights The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Annual of existing shareholders in accordance with the Investment Report for the year ended 31 December 2018.
As set out Association Share Management Guidelines.
more fully in the Summary of significant accounting policies within note 1 to the financial statements, this report for the Directors interests consolidated Group has been prepared in accordance with Details of the Directors beneficial interests are set out in the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as Annual Report on Remuneration on page 94. adopted by the EU and includes the Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 61 to 67.
Directors indemnities and Directors and officers liability insurance The Directors consider the Annual Report for the year ended Details regarding deeds of indemnity and Directors and 31 December 2018, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and officers liability insurance are set out in the Corporate understandable, and provides the information necessary Governance Report on page 67. forshareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Major interests in shares Information provided to the Group by substantial shareholders Principal activities pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR is Our principal activities during 2018 were the provision of published via a Regulatory Information Service.
MetroBank is a deposit-taking and lending institution with a focus on retail and small and As at 31 December 2018 and up to the last practical date medium-size commercial customers, offering consistent fair before publication of this report, the Group has been pricing and excellent customer service.
Were authorised to notified under DTR 5 of the interests in its issued share accept deposits under the Financial Services and Markets Act capital, and these are set out in the table below.
All such 2000, have a Consumer Credit Act licence and are members shareholders have the right to vote in all circumstances at of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
ordinary % of total direct Results and dividend As at 31 december 2018 shares held ordinary shares indirect interest The results for the year are set out in the consolidated Cohen Private Ventures 7,912,848 9.85 Indirect statement of comprehensive income on page 105.
Fidelity Management No dividend was declared or paid during 2018 2017: nil.
and Research 7,412,558 7.60 Indirect The Directors do not anticipate declaring a dividend in the Ruane, Cunniff & near future.
Goldfarb L. P. 5,020,755 5.15 Direct The Spruce House Significant events Partnership 4,925,000 5.06 Direct Further to the authority granted by shareholders at the 2018 AGM, on 25 July 2018 a further 8,851,304 new ordinary shares Hound Partners 4,915,285 5.05 Indirect of an aggregate nominal value of 8.51 were issued at 34.22 Wellington per share.
The issue followed the completion of a non Management pre-emptive cash placing of new ordinary shares, for gross GroupLLP 3,641,556 4.53 Indirect consideration of 303 million.
The new shares were admitted for trading on the London Stock Exchange on 27 July 2018.
Greenhouse gas emissions During the year we also successfully completed a debt Our energy consumption and associated greenhouse gas issuance which raised 250 million of Tier 2 capital and emissions during 2018 are set out in the Strategic Report acquired a portfolio of seasoned UK mortgages for onpage 51.
Employee involvement Articles of Association We encourage employee involvement in the Bank.
Increasing The Articles of Association can be found on our website: employee awareness of the financial and economic factors metrobankonline.
that affect us plays a major role in maintaining our customer focus.
All employees are eligible to participate in our share Share capital option and or share buy and share pool schemes.
More Our called-up share capital, together with details of shares information on our colleagues can be found on page 47 allotted during the year, is shown in note 19 to the financial ofthe Strategic Report.
Mike Brierly retired from the Board in March 2018.
Howard Flight retired from the Board on 1 April 2019.
Keith Carby will retire from the Board on 30 April 2019.
58 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Diversity Going concern Our Diversity and Inclusion policy outlines our commitment The financial statements are prepared on a going concern to employment policies which follow best practice, based basis, as the Directors are satisfied that the Group and Parent onequal opportunities for all employees.
We aim for our Company have the resources to continue in business for the workforce to reflect the diverse communities in which we foreseeable future.
operate and recognise that diversity is not only a key part of a responsible business strategy, but also supports a strong Viability Statement customer experience.
We give full and fair consideration Our Viability Statement is set out on page 43. toall applications for employment.
Auditors During the year, we published our Board Diversity Policy, During 2018 we carried out an extensive audit tender which sets out our commitment to diversity and inclusion process.
Following completion of a detailed and robust forthe Board.
At MetroBank we believe that a diverse Board, tender process, it was agreed that PwC would be invited to appointed on merit, with a broad range of skills, backgrounds, continue to provide external audit services to MetroBank.
knowledge and experience, will be a more effective and PwC has indicated its willingness to continue in office and responsible Board.
The policy can be found on our website aresolution seeking to reappoint it will be proposed at the atwww.
More details regarding the forward, we will report annually against the objectives in tender process can be found on pages 71 to 72. thepolicy.
Political donations Disabled employees We made no political donations in the year ending Applications for employment by disabled persons are always 31 December 2018 2017: nil.
fully considered, bearing in mind the abilities of the applicant concerned.
In the event of employees becoming disabled, Research and development we make every effort to ensure that their employment We have an ongoing commitment to make banking more continues and that we provide appropriate training and convenient for customers, and in 2018 we continued to support.
Our policy is that the training, career development invest in systems, procedures, products and services.
As a and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, result, we have capitalised 70 million of intangible assets.
be identical to that of other employees.
Post balance sheet events Modern slavery A summary of the key post balance sheet events is set out We are committed to supporting the communities in which innote 32 to the financial statements on page 159. we operate in order to enable them to develop both socially and economically.
Our policy is to conduct all business in Annual General Meeting anappropriate manner and we have zero tolerance for Details of this years AGM can be found in the Shareholder modern slavery.
We continue to be committed to acting Information section on page 166. professionally and fairly in all our business dealings and relationships wherever we operate, including enforcing Future developments appropriate systems and controls to ensure, on a risk basis, Our business and future plans are reviewed in the that modern slavery is not taking place in our business or OperatingReview.
Listing Rules disclosures The initiatives and how we have developed them through For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4CR, the information required during 2018 can be found on page 51.
We have also tobe disclosed by LR 9.8.
4R can be found in the following appointed a member of the Board as our Modern Slavery sections of the report: Champion who with the CEO will monitor ongoing Item location, where applicable compliance with the Modern Slavery Policy.
Detail of long-term Remuneration Report, to the incentiveschemes financial statements note 20 Our Modern Slavery Statement is available at metrobankonline.
co. uk Contracts of significance Any contracts of significance orrelated party transactions Risk management canbe found in note 28 to The Directors confirm that they have undertaken a robust thefinancial statements assessment of the principal risks facing the Group.
We seek to manage all risks that arise from our activities.
Details ofrisk management systems and the processes in place Corporate Governance Statement inrelation to financial reporting, and details of risk The Corporate Governance Report on pages 61 to 67 in management objectives and policies, are shown in the accordance with Rule 7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency RiskReport on pages 28 to 43.
As a result of normal business Rules and Rule 9.8.
6 5 and 6 of the Listing Rules forms activities, we are exposed to a variety of risks and the part of this Directors Report.
principal risks and uncertainties that we face are shown inthe Risk Factors and Management Report.
Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 59 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Statement of Directors responsibilities Directors statement pursuant to the disclosure and Our Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual transparency rules Report and the financial statements in accordance with Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are applicable law and regulations.
listed on pages 56 and 571, confirm that, to the best of theirknowledge: Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial the financial statements, which have been prepared in statements for each financial year.
The Directors have accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, prepared the Group and Parent Company financial give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the position and profit or loss of the Group taken as a European Union and applicable law and have elected to whole:and prepare the Parent Company financial statements on the the Strategic Report contained in the Annual Report same basis.
includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Under company law, the Directors must not approve the Group taken as a whole, together with a description financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
atrue and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that Statement of disclosure of information to auditors period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors Each Director in office at the date of this report, and whose are required to: name is listed on pages 56 and 571, confirms that to the best select suitable accounting policies and then apply of their knowledge: themconsistently: there is no relevant audit information of which the make judgements and accounting estimates that are Companys auditors are unaware: and reasonable and prudent: all reasonable steps that they ought to have taken as a state whether applicable IFRS as adopted by the European Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit Union have been followed, subject to any material information, and to establish that the Companys auditors departures disclosed and explained in the financial are aware of the information, have been taken.
statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern The confirmation is given and should be interpreted in basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Company and the Group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate The Directors Report comprising pages 58 to 60 has been accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its our transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at behalfby any time the financial position of the Company and the Group, and enable them to ensure that the financial David arden statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are chief Financial officer and company Secretary also responsible for safeguarding our assets and taking 10 April 2019 reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the information included on our website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Keith Carby will retire from the Board on 30 April 2019 60 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018
