NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Attendance at the Nomination Committee As at 31 December 2018, the Nomination Committee comprised the following independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman, Vernon W. Hill, II: Meetings attended 2018 Attended Max possible lord Flight chairman 5 5 Vernon W. Hill, II 5 5 keith carby 5 5 roger Farah 5 5 Lord Flight, former Chairman of the NominationCommittee and Danielle Harmer, ChiefPeople Officer Letter from the Chairman I am pleased to share my report of the Nomination Committee for 2018.
2018 ACTIVITIES We have put a great deal of energy into meeting with The Nomination Committee oversaw and recommended potential Board candidates during the year and have a the appointment of a new CFO, David Arden, and two refreshed Nomination Committee in place from 1 April 2019, new Non-Executive Directors, Catherine Brown and chaired by Roger Farah1.
PaulThandi who joined the Board on 1 January 2019 We have appointed Stuart Bernau as the Non-Executive As announced in last years Annual Report we welcomed Director accountable for workforce engagement from ournew Chief Financial Officer, David Arden, on March 2018 1 January 2019 following Mike Brierleys retirement.
The Committee also agreed new Committee membership and Chairman appointments to maintain Following a rigorous process for her appointment and working with our search partner Audeliss, Catherine Brown Committee independence and the appointment of a new Senior Independent Director SID.
These were joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 October 2018.
Catherine has extensive experience in organisational effective from 1 April 20191 transformation in financial services, leadership and operations.
2019 FOCUS AREAS Additionally Paul Thandi, CEO of the NEC, joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director from 1 January 2019 following abrief period on our Advisory Board.
Paul brings a relentless The Committee will focus on Board succession and focus on customers from his experience as a leader in media independence: specifically, sourcing high-quality and service businesses.
Non-Executive Director candidates with retail and commercial banking experience who have the capability It is great to be able to welcome new talent to the Board to support and challenge the organisation andthe team.
We will also seek to further improve the diversity ofourBoard in line with our Board Diversity Policy 1.
The above changes in Committee Chair and Senior Independent Director roles aresubject to regulatory approval.
Keith Carby retires from the Board on 30 April 2019.
78 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Board composition, independence and time commitments We have made good progress on Board succession and We reviewed the skills, experience, independence and expect to make at least another appointment within knowledge of the Board during 2018 to understand which 12months.
The appointment of two new Non-Executive areas to focus on when recruiting future Board members Directors gave us the opportunity to refresh the membership and the future composition of our Board and Committees.
and chairs of our Committees and our Committees are in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Codes We recognise the UK Corporate Governance Codes provisions from 1 April.
While there was a brief transitional recommendations in relation to tenure and independence.
period between 5 March and 1 April there were no meetings The Committee is satisfied that, as at 31 December 2018, all for the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees of the Non-Executive Directors were independent.
As a during March 2019. relatively young organisation, a number of our NEDs reached nine years tenure in March 2019 and we no longer treat The Board carried out an evaluation during 2018.
More details those Non-Executive Directors as independent.
Our Board and Committee composition from 1 April 20191: roles names comments Board roles Chairman Vernon W. Hill, II While our balance of independent Directors is currently slightly below the 50% minimum this will be short-lived as Keith Carby retires on Deputy Chairman Ben Gunn 30 April 2019, after nine years on the board.
non-independent From 1 May the Board excluding the Chairman will be made up Senior Independent Director Sir Michael Snyder of 10 Directors of which five 50% are independent Non-Executive Directors NEDs, three are non-independent NEDs and the remaining Designated NED for Stuart Bernau two are Executive Directors.
Workforce Engagement non-independent The Board continues its proactive search for additional independent Independent NEDs Catherine Brown NEDs and we expect to make at least one appointment this year.
Roger Farah Monique Melis All our UK Corporate Governance Code Committees are majority Paul Thandi or totally independent.
NEDs non-independent Keith Carby Gene Lockhart Executive Directors CEO Craig Donaldson CFO David Arden Audit Committee Chairman Sir Michael Snyder The Audit Committee will be comprised entirely of independent NEDs.
Members Roger Farah Monique Melis Nomination Committee Chairman Roger Farah The Nomination Committee will have a majority of independent NEDs Members Catherine Brown as members until Keith Carby retires on 30 April 2019.
From 1 May Keith Carby 2019 it will be comprised entirely of independent NEDs.
Vernon W. Hill, II Paul Thandi Remuneration Committee Chairman Roger Farah The Remuneration Committee will be comprised entirely of Members Catherine Brown independent NEDs.
Paul Thandi Risk Oversight Committee Chairman Gene Lockhart The Risk Oversight Committee membership will be 50% independent Members Stuart Bernau and 50% non-independent.
Gene Lockhart will transition out of the Catherine Brown role of Chairman of the Committee during 2020.
This enables us to Monique Melis retain his banking experience, as Committee Chairman, while we continue to refresh the Board.
The above changes in Committee Chair and Senior Independent Director roles are subject to regulatory approval.
Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 79 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Diversity Composition of the Nomination Committee We understand the merits of a diverse organisation and In addition to the members set out on page 78, Craig Board.
We have retained Audeliss, a search firm, to support Donaldson, Chief Executive Officer, attends meetings by us in sourcing candidates for Non-Executive Director roles.
The Chief People Officer, Danielle Harmer, acts Diversity is central to Audelisss approach and it is a signatory asSecretary to the Committee and provides support to to the Women on Boards Voluntary Code of Conduct for theCommittee Chairman and Committee as needed.
Audeliss has no connection to MetroBank.
Following each meeting the Chairman provides a verbal update to the Board.
The Committee minutes are also We do not have any specific targets in relation to Board included in future Board papers.
diversity and any appointments are made on merit as we seek individuals who will add significant value.
However, Key areas discussed at Nomination Committee meetings weare committed to building a strong Board which is in 2018 diverse in many ways, including gender, as per our Board Area topics Diversity Policy which is on our website.
Board The appointment of David Arden as the appointments new Chief Financial Officer Roger Farah took over as Chairman of the Nomination The appointment of Catherine Brown Committee on 1 April 20191 and I wish him well in his new asa new Non-Executive Director role.
Having served as a Non-Executive Director for nine The appointment of Paul Thandi as years I stepped down from the Board on 1 April 2019. anew Non-Executive Director lord Flight Board The Board succession plan nomination committee chairman for the financial year Succession progressively refreshing our Board ended 31 December 2018 Putting the Board succession plan into 10 April 2019 action and Board independence Review of proposed Non-Executive The Nomination Committee in brief Director candidates The Nomination Committee leads the process for identifying Committee Chairs and membership and and making nomination recommendations to the Board.
Its independence duties include: Agreement of Committee memberships for Monique Melis regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition Designated Non-Executive Director for including skills, knowledge, experience, independence Workforce Engagement and diversity of the Board as a whole and making recommendations to the Board as required: Other areas 2018 Hampton-Alexander data report considering succession planning for members of the for review Approval of Nomination Committee Board and Executive Directors, including the length of report service of members and the need to regularly refresh Annual review of the Nomination Board membership, taking into account the Companys Committee Terms of Reference strategic priorities and the main trends and factors Proxy Adviser feedback on 2017 Annual affecting the long-term success and future viability of Report and new Corporate Governance theCompany and the skills and expertise needed on the Code requirements Board in the future: Nomination Committee annual effectiveness review taking responsibility for identifying and nominating candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise, for the approval of the Board: evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience, diversity and length of service on the Board, and the range of critical skills of value to the Board relevant to the challenges and opportunities facing theCompany: considering Board candidates on merit and against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity, taking care that appointees have time available to devote to the position: and reviewing the results of the Board performance evaluation process relating to Board composition.
The Nomination Committee Terms of Reference can be found on our website: metrobankonline.
The change in Nomination Committee Chair role is subject to regulatory approval.
80 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018
