RISK OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE REPORT Attendance of the Risk Oversight Committee As at 31 December 2018, the Risk Oversight Committee ROC comprised the following independent Non-Executive Directors: Meetings attended 2018 Members Attended Max possible Gene lockhart chairman 5 5 Stuart Bernau 5 5 alastair Ben Gunn 4 5 Sir Michael Snyder 5 5 anna Monique Melis 4 4 Gene Lockhart, Chairman of the Risk Oversight 1.
Ben Gunn was unable to attend one meeting for personal reasons Committee and Aileen Gillan, Chief Risk Officer 2.
Monique Melis joined the Committee in March 2018 Letter from the Chairman 2018 ACTIVITIES I set out below the report of the Risk Oversight Committee for 2018.
Reviewed and approved or recommended 10 policies tothe Board for approval The ROC provides oversight of risk and advises the Board, Provided oversight of the preparation of the Banks asappropriate, on the risk posed to the Bank from its Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP continuing business activities and future risk strategy.
and Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process Theareas of risk include: ILAAP Credit risk Held Deep Dive review sessions on operational and Treasury and liquidity management ITresilience Operational risk Received regular updates on the Advanced Internal Ratings Based AIRB approach to calculating credit Compliance and conduct risk including regulatory risk riskapplication process Financial crime risk The Chairman and members of the Committee met withthe Regulator as part of the Banks periodic Overview Whilst 2018 was a busy and rewarding year for the Bank, summary meeting itwas not without its challenges, however, our unique business model goes from strength to strength, and we have 2019 FOCUS AREAS continued to win market share.
This growth is driven by winning customers, who bring their low-cost, long duration Organisational resilience and continuity deposits and then lending that out to high-quality, lower-risk opportunities.
We expect that the UK residential mortgage Ongoing work towards AIRB Accreditation lending market will continue to be challenging in 2019.
Capital Ourlending will continue to be underpinned by our Liquidity conservative approach.
Credit Risk From a credit risk standpoint, the Bank remained very strong during 2018.
Adherence to our conservative lending policies has resulted in consumer, mortgage and commercial loans that have prudent risk qualities and remain within our riskappetite.
As part of our oversight role, the Committees job is to constructively challenge and support the Management team as we build the Bank for the long term.
In January 2019, weannounced that we had adjusted the risk-weighting of certain commercial loans secured on commercial property and certain specialist buy-to-let loans that had the combined effect of increasing our RWAs by 900 million.
74 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Whilst the risk weightings have been adjusted, there is no Financial Crime Risk deterioration in the credit quality of the affected assets.
During the year, we received regular updates on financial Weare learning the lessons from this and will continue crime risk and we continue to keep a watching brief on this toimprove our systems and controls around capital and ever evolving area of risk.
Management presented to the Committee regarding the identification of the issue and its I am pleased to report that following her appointment to plans to enhance MetroBanks systems and controls in this theBoard in June 2017, Monique Melis became a member area.
The Audit Committee will provide oversight of the ofthe Committee in March 2018.
Moniques extensive Internal Audit reviews of the RWA controls enhancements.
financial services and regulatory experience is an excellent addition to the Committees membership and we welcome We submitted our application for an AIRB approach to credit her contribution.
risk to the regulator at the start of 2018.
Work towards AIRB accreditation will include ongoing engagement with the PRA The following sections explain the role and activities of the on what is an iterative and detailed project.
The potential ROC, and how it has discharged these responsibilities, as capital efficiencies AIRB will bring are significant and this well as setting out several key areas of activity during 2018. therefore remains one of our top priorities.
However, the Bank does not now expect to receive AIRB accreditation Gene lockhart prior to 2021. risk oversight committee chairman 10 April 2019 As part of its oversight role, the Committee has spent time reviewing and challenging the Banks ICAAP and associated documents, including stress testing and assumptions, prior to the submission to the PRA.
The pace of regulatory change shows no sign of abating.
Asit grows, the Bank must continue to evolve and mature toensure that it keeps pace in the environment of change and challenge in which it operates.
On the horizon, the implementation of ring-fenced banking legislation and the minimum requirement on own funds and eligible liabilities MREL and the new leasing standard IFRS 16 present a challenge but also a potential opportunity for smaller banks with significantly less complex businesses than their peers.
During the year, the Committee has spent time working with the Executive Leadership Team to review their plans to implement these regulations.
Operational Risk Keeping our customers safe is incredibly important to us.
Tothis end, during 2018 the Committee spent significant time reviewing and providing oversight of the Banks IT and operational resilience and infrastructure through a number of deep dive reviews.
Our reviews have focused on MetroBanks ability to proactively avoid, respond, recover and learn from operational and IT-related disruptions.
Anumber of key components make up the Banks resilience capabilities including fraud and cyber security, business continuity and crisis management, IT service management and change management.
MetroBank continues to invest heavily in technology and capability tofurther improve itsoperational resilience.
This will bean ongoing focus during2019.
Compliance and conduct risk including regulatory risk As is usual, we have also spent significant time during the year reviewing a number of the Banks policies, documents and transactions, and discharged other advisory and oversight responsibilities.
ROC members and other colleagues also met the PRA on a number of occasions during the year, including the Banks periodic summary meeting.
Iprovide a verbal update to the Board after every Committee meeting and the ROC minutes are included in the next Board pack.
Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 75 RISK OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The Risk Oversight Committee in brief Operational risk The ROC is a sub-Committee of the Board.
Its specific We receive reports concerning risk and control selfresponsibilities are set out in its Terms of Reference.
assessments, information security, business continuity management and incidents.
While a number of Accountable to the Board, the ROC provides leadership, incidents were raised during 2018, our view is that the oversight and direction regarding the Banks risk governance management of these incidents and the actions taken and management.
We are charged with helping the Board in response were proportionate and appropriate to tocreate an appropriate culture across the Bank, which thesize and scale of the incidents.
We also note that emphasises and demonstrates the benefits of a risk-based post-incident reviews were held for material incidents approach to risk management and internal controls.
We are to capture learnings and ways to prevent or mitigate responsible for reviewing, challenging and recommending any potential recurrences.
We continued to focus on to the Board the Banks risk appetite, ICAAP document, cyber and fraud risk during 2018, inresponse to the ILAAP document and risk policies.
We also provide oversight increased prevalence of attempted attacks against of the credit risk model programme.
The ROC oversees risk financial services firms and others.
We also increased management procedures and reviews risk reports on key our focus on operational resilience, having regard to business areas.
In addition, we advise the Audit Committee increased regulatory focus on firms ability to respond on reviews of effectiveness of the Banks risk controls, and to major events causing operational disruption.
the Nomination and Remuneration Committees on the Compliance and conduct risk including regulatory risk weighting to be applied to risk for the remuneration In a constantly changing regulatory environment, the calculations for the Executive Leadership Team.
ROC is updated regularly on developments and regulatory changes that could impact the Bank.
We The ROC receives regular management information MI receive updates on compliance and conduct risk in the and reports concerning the Banks performance against risk areas of culture and governance, product governance, appetite and the measures set by it and by the Board.
We customer treatment and voice of the customer.
We are receive regular updates on regulatory developments, and also updated on how the Bank manages expressions consider how these will affect plans, processes, systems ofdissatisfaction, and on the ongoing compliance andcontrols.
assurance work performed by the second line.
Financial crime risk The Committee reviews and formally notes the minutes of Given the level of risk posed by financial crime to all the Executive Risk Committee ERC the Asset and Liability banks, our report includes management information Committee ALCO and the Credit Risk Policy and Appetite onmatters including: performance against the Banks Committee CRPAC.
financial crime key risk indicators: compliance with customer identification and verification requirements As a key part of the Banks governance framework, the forall new accounts: oversight and risk assessment of ROCensures that the CRO has unfettered access to it high-risk customers.
Our report also covers payments and its Chairman.
and customer screening, as well as updates on items ofnote from the Financial Crime Steering Group.
At each scheduled meeting the ROC considered the Treasury and liquidity management following standing items: While the primary venue for in-depth discussions on CRO ROC Report Treasury is the ALCO, the Treasurers commentary is This includes an executive summary from the CRO setting tabled at each ROC meeting and the Treasurer is invited out items of note and assessing the Banks performance to attend meetings to discuss this.
The ROC also reviews against its risk appetite and risk metrics.
It also includes Treasury policies and notes the minutes of the ALCO.
Our specific reports on the following areas: report includes high-level MI on liquidity and interest rate Credit risk risk, while we also receive specific reports on Treasury Execution of our strategy requires prudent and risk.
In addition, the Treasurers report includes updates controlled management of credit risk.
To support this, on relevant regulatory matters.
one of the roles of the ROC is to oversee credit underwriting and ensure that the Bank has effective processes and controls to monitor and manage credit risk, including where the risk position associated with aparticular customer or loan has deteriorated.
This ensures that lending remains within risk appetite and monitors policy exceptions.
76 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Litigation update Key areas considered by the Risk Oversight Committee We note the report from the Banks Legal team regarding in2018 any material litigation cases.
During 2018, we received items of business including thefollowing: Deep dives and in-depth reviews We receive in-depth reviews on areas of emerging risk Area discussion and regulatory interest throughout the year.
Topics Policy Policies approved by the ROC: covered during 2018 included cyber security, commercial Arrears Management Policy lending, IT resilience and infrastructure, and operational resilience.
Impairment Policy Data Policy Composition of the Risk Oversight Committee Model Governance Policy Monique Melis joined the Committee in March 2018: while Recruitment and Selection Policy all other members held office throughout 2018.
NonExecutive Directors who are not ROC members may attend Impairment Policy meetings.
New Directors attend meetings as part of their Supplier Management Policy induction programme.
The CFO, CRO and CEO have Meta Policy standing invitations to attend as guests, unless the Chairman Treasury Dealing Policy of the Committee asks them to excuse themselves from a particular meeting or discussion.
Information Security Policy Model Policy Other Directors and colleagues attend as guests by invitation of the Chairman to present and report on relevant topics, Policies reviewed and recommended to with the Deputy Company Secretary acting as Secretary theBoard: tothe Committee.
Anti-Money Laundering and Counter Terrorism Financing Policy The appointments of two new Non-Executive Directors during the year gave us the opportunity to refresh the Regulatory MREL membership of the Committee, with effect from 1 April 2019.
GDPR process and post-implementation More information on this can be found in the Nomination review Committee report on page 79.
FCA culture essay response The ROCs Terms of Reference are reviewed annually and AIRB AIRB approach to calculating credit risk areavailable on our website.
application application updates Treasury Review and approval of Market Risk Policy IT resilience IT systems resilience review Operational risk review Cyber security update Capital and ILAAP document incorporating Treasury liquidity Policy and Contingency Funding Plan ICAAP document including interest rate risk in the banking book Deep dives ICAAP Fraud IT resilience Consumer lending portfolio Commercial lending Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 77
