STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Governance framework The Board has a coherent corporate governance structure with clearly defined responsibilities and accountabilities.
Thesehave been designed to safeguard and enhance long-term shareholder value and provide a robust framework inwhichto deliver our strategy.
Corporate governance structure MetroBank Board Corporate governance structure chief executive officer remuneration nomination audit risk oversight executive Management committees committee committee committee committee Leadership the role of the Board The Board is responsible to our shareholders and sets our strategy for achieving long-term success.
It is also ultimately responsible for the management, governance, controls, risk management, direction and performance of the Bank.
the composition of the Board As at the date of this Report, the Board consists of the Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors the CEO and CFO and nine Non-Executive Directors.
Howard Flight stepped down from the Board on 1 April 2019.
Board skills as at 31 December 2018 Skills Retail Financial Accounting financial Credit crime Retailing financial Role services risk investigation Governance Regulatory experience incl.
audit Leadership Vernon W. Hill, II non-executive chairman craig Donaldson chief executive officer David arden chief Financial officer and company secretary Non-Executive Directors Stuart Bernau non-executive director catherine Brown non-executive director keith carby non-executive director roger Farah non-executive director lord Flight non-executive director alastair Ben Gunn senior Independent director Gene lockhart non-executive director anna Monique Melis non-executive director Sir Michael Snyder non-executive director Paul thandi non-executive director 1.
Howard Flight retired from the Board on 1 April 2019.
Keith Carby will retire from the Board on 30 April 2019.
Paul Thandi was appointed on 1 January 2019.
Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 61 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Division of responsibilities between the chairman and chief executive officer The Board has formally documented the separate roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and more detail on this can be found on the Companys website at metrobankonline.
Each Director has committed to dedicate as much time as is necessary to the Company and the Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment set out that they should be prepared to dedicate at least 20 days per year to the Company.
Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Board, and the Committees on which they sit, and to devote sufficient time to the Companys affairs to enable them to fulfil their duties.
If Directors are unable to attend a meeting, their comments on papers to be considered at the meeting will be discussed in advance with the Chairman or Company Secretary so that their contribution can be included in the wider Board discussion.
Board role and responsibilities role responsibility Chairman The Chairman leads the Board and is responsible for its effectiveness and governance.
He sets the tone for the Company, including overseeing the development of the Banks business culture and standards in relation to the conduct of business and the behaviour of employees.
He is responsible for ensuring that there are strong links between the Board and management andbetween the Board and shareholders.
He sets the Board agenda and ensures that sufficient time is allocated to important matters, in particular those relating to our strategic direction.
He reports to the Board and is responsible for the leadership andoverall effectiveness of the Board.
A new role of Deputy Chairman was created with effect from 1 April 2019.
The role of the Deputy Chairman is to deputise for andsupport the Chairman in carrying out his responsibilities as leader of the Banks Board.
The Deputy Chairman will act as an ambassador for MetroBank, particularly in terms of developing and maintaining relationships with our stakeholders, including regulators, and industry representatives.
The Deputy Chairman will support the Chairman as required, in carrying out the following responsibilities: managing the business of the Board and ensuring that the Board operates effectively: keeping under review, with the Board, the general progress and long term development of the Bank: representing the Bank and the collective views of the Board externally: and performing any additional task as agreed with the Chairman.
Chief Executive Officer The Chief Executive Officer CEO is responsible for the day-to-day management of our operations, for recommending our strategic direction to the Board and for implementing the strategic direction agreed by the Board.
He is supported in decisionmaking by the Executive Leadership Team.
Craig reports to the Chairman and to the Board directly and is responsible for all executive management matters of the Bank.
Chief Financial Officer The Chief Financial Officer CFO has responsibility for planning, implementing, managing and controlling all financial-related and Company Secretary activities of the Company, both day to day and for the long term.
He is responsible for managing the Banks financial position including allocation and maintenance of capital, funding and liquidity.
The CFO also has oversight of the Treasury, Legal, Procurement and Investor Relations functions, and is also responsible for producing and ensuring the integrity of the Banks financial information and regulatory reporting.
As Company Secretary, David is responsible for advising and supporting the Chairman and the Board on good corporate governance and best boardroom practice.
He leads the Banks Company Secretariatfunction.
Senior Independent The Senior Independent Directors SID role is to act as a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary Director forDirectors when necessary.
The SID is also available to shareholders if they have concerns that have not been resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, Deputy Chairman, CEO or CFO.
The SID will attend meetings with, and listen to the views of, major shareholders tohelp to develop a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns if contact with the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, CEOor CFO is inappropriate.
The SID also acts as the conduit, as required, for the views of other Non-Executive Directors on the performance of the Chairman and conducts the Chairmans annual performance evaluation.
Non-Executive Director The role of the Non-Executive Director is to constructively challenge proposals on strategic direction.
Each Non-Executive Director brings specific experience and knowledge to the Board and its Committees.
The Non-Executive Directors as a whole have a broad and complementary set of technical skills, educational and professional experience, personalities, cultures and perspectives.
A skills matrix for the Board can be found on page 61.
Their contributions provide independent views on matters ofstrategy, performance, risk, conduct and culture.
The Non-Executive Directors were appointed for an initial two-year term butare re-elected on an annual basis.
Independence of Directors The Board is satisfied that, as at 31 December 2018, all of the Non-Executive Directors were independent.
Howard Flight retired from the Board on 1 April 2019 and Keith Carby will retire from the Board on 30 April 2019.
They will therefore not seek re-election at the next AGM.
The Board is hugely grateful to Howard and Keith for their significant contribution to the Bank, during their tenure.
Ben Gunn, Gene Lockhart and Stuart Bernau have been in place since the Bank was granted its banking licence in March 2010 and have overseen the Companys significant growth during that time, including the milestone of its listing on the London Stock Exchange in March 2016.
Their unique skills, retail banking, risk management and regulatory experience, continues to be instrumental to the growth of the Bank.
However, we recognise the UK Corporate Governance Codes recommendations in relation to tenure and independence, and therefore from March 2019 we will no longer treat those Non-Executive Directors as independent.
62 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS During 2018, the Board and the Nomination Committee spent a significant amount of time on the Boards long-term succession plan, including the balance of independence, diversity, skills and experience on the Board and have made significant headway in refreshing the Board.
We appointed two new independent Non-Executive Directors, Catherine Brown on 1 October 2018 and Paul Thandi on 1 January 2019.
We are actively seeking new independent Non-Executive Director candidates and expect to make another appointment within 12 months.
The Chairman is committed to ensuring that at least half of the Board excluding the Chair comprises independent NonExecutive Directors who objectively challenge management.
While our balance of Independent Directors is currently slightly below the 50% minimum, this will be short lived as Keith Carby retires on 30 April 2019.
Therefore from 1 May the Board, excluding the Chairman, will be made up of 10 Directors of which five 50% are independent Non-Executive Directors, threeare non-independent NEDs and two are Executive Directors.
More information on the makeup of our Board, Committees and succession planning can be found in the Nomination Committee report on page 79.
The Board remains mindful of the need for suitable succession, and therefore maintains a clear record of the time each Director has served the Company and the skill-set that they provide.
The Directors skills and experience span a wide range of sectors and specialisms: a skills matrix is shown on page 61.
Vernon W. Hill, II was appointed to the Board in 2008 and as Chairman in 2013.
The Board fully recognises its duty to select and support the best Chairman to lead the Bank in the interests of all stakeholders.
As the founder of the Bank, Vernon has a unique role.
The Board firmly believes Vernon to be the best qualified individual to take the Bank forward and implement the Banks unique business model as Chairman.
The Board fully supports the principle of an independent Chairman, in line with the Code, and will continue to keep under review the role and performance of the Chairman as part of its regular Board evaluation and succession planning processes.
Board attendance at 31 December 2018 Meetings attended 2018 Maximum Attended possible Vernon W. Hill, II non-executive chairman 10 10 craig Donaldson chief executive officer 10 10 David arden chief Financial officer and company Secretary 10 10 alastair Ben Gunn Senior Independent Director 10 10 Stuart Bernau non-executive Director 10 10 catherine Brown1 non-executive Director 2 2 keith carby non-executive Director 10 10 roger Farah non-executive Director 10 10 lord Flight non-executive Director 10 10 Gene lockhart non-executive Director 10 10 anna Monique Melis non-executive Director 10 10 Sir Michael Snyder non-executive Director 10 10 Paul thandi2 non-executive Director n a n a 1.
Appointed 1 January 2019 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Matters reserved for the Board During 2018, the key areas the Board focused on included: The Board is responsible for setting and managing our strategic direction.
The operation of the Board is Areas of focus documented in a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval, which is reviewed annually.
These include matters relating to the decisions concerning our strategic aims and Strategic direction long-term objectives, the structure and capital of the Group, financial reporting and controls, risk management and various statutory and regulatory matters.
The Board is also cyber resilience, risk monitoring and review responsible for effective communication with shareholders, any changes to Board or Committee membership or structure, and has authority to recommend the Directors compliance, governance, Board composition and Remuneration Policy to shareholders.
The Board delegates evaluation responsibility for day-to-day management of the business tothe Chief Executive Officer and sets out the basis for delegation of authorities from the Board to its Committees.
annual and quarterly reporting Board decisions and activity during the year The Board has a schedule of regular business, financial andoperational matters, and each Board Committee has Policy reviews and updates aschedule of reserved matters to ensure that all areas forwhich the Board has responsibility are addressed andreviewed during the year.
rBS alternative remedies Package application The Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that the Directors receive accurate andtimely information.
The Company Secretary compiles the regulatory and external affairs, PSD and open banking Board and Committee papers, which are circulated to Directors in advance of meetings.
The Company Secretary also ensures that any feedback or suggestions for improvement on Board creating FanS papers is fed back to management.
The Company Secretary provides minutes of each meeting and every Director is aware of the right to have any concerns minuted.
capital structure and planning corporate actions Digital banking OPEN new service offering 64 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Reports from the CEO, CFO and Chief Risk Officer CRO Prior to appointment, all Directors were advised of the time are standing items on every agenda.
The Company Secretary required to fulfil the role and confirmed they could make the reports on legal, regulatory and governance matters and necessary commitment.
This requirement is also included in updates the Board on any changes to their statutory duties their letters of appointment.
The Board is satisfied that the or the regulatory environment.
The Chairman of each Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors is able to Committee reports on the proceedings of the previous devote sufficient time to the Companys business.
There has Committee meeting at the next Board meeting.
been no change in the Chairmans other time commitments during the year.
Senior management and advisers are invited to attend Boardand Committee meetings, where appropriate, to Performance present, contribute to the discussion and advise members Every year, the Board undertakes an evaluation of its ofthe Board or its Committees on particular matters.
performance, as well as that of its Committees and Theinvolvement of senior management at Board and individualDirectors.
Committee discussions strengthens the relationship between the Board and senior management and helps As we reported last year, in accordance with the UK toprovide the Board with a greater understanding of Corporate Governance Code, the Board conducted an operations and strategic direction.
This evaluation was carried out by Deloitte LLP.
Deloitte LLP provides certain tax Board Committees and consulting services to MetroBank.
The Board evaluation The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to each was conducted by an independent team and the Board is ofthe Audit, Risk Oversight, Nomination and Remuneration satisfied that the advice received was challenging, objective Committees, and reports for each are set out on pages 68 to and independent.
Each Committee has written Terms of Reference setting out its duties, authority and reporting responsibilities.
external Board evaluation process First stage Second stage Third stage Copies of all the Committee Terms of Reference are available on our website: metrobankonline.
co. uk Briefing and Discussion Board with We keep the Terms of Reference of each Committee under questionnaire Results the SID Action continuous review to ensure they remain appropriate and collated, plan reported and agreed reflect any changes in legislation, regulation or best practice.
evaluated One-to-one Board They are also reviewed formally every year by the relevant interviews discussion with Board Committee and the Board.
More information on the makeup of our Committees can be found on page 79.
Any future changes to the Committees will be made after the review Deloitte LLP observed a number of strengths and identified and recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
The Board agreed an action plan to address these areas and reviewed progress against Effectiveness the plan during 2018.
The actions from the 2017 evaluation The skills and experience of Board members are set out on are now largely complete.
The key action was to continue pages 56 and 57.
The experience and knowledge of each toreview the Boards long-term succession plan, including ofthe Directors gives them the ability to constructively the levels of independence on the Board.
More details challenge strategy and to scrutinise performance.
on succession planning can be found in the Nomination Committee report on page 79 and more details on Induction of new Directors independence on the Board can be found on pages During 2018 and early 2019 we welcomed Catherine Brown 62 and 63. and Paul Thandi to the Board.
All of our new Directors undergo a formal, robust and tailored induction programme In line with the Code, during 2018 the Board conducted an upon appointment which is coordinated by the Deputy annual internal performance evaluation.
This internal review Company Secretary.
Non-Executive Directors meet the gave us further opportunity to reflect on the effectiveness Chairman and the CEO as part of the Nomination ofthe Boards activities, the quality of discussion, decisionCommittees selection process and then again on making and individual performance and contribution.
appointment for a thorough briefing on all relevant aspectsof the Company.
They also meet the Company Secretary, senior management and our advisers for briefingson their responsibilities as Directors and on ourbusiness, finances, risks, strategy, procedures and themarkets where we operate.
Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 65 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Focused one-to-one discussions were held with each Board and committee training and Deep Dive sessions Director and the Chairman.
The Chairmans evaluation was carried out by the SID.
The following topics were discussed: Composition, skills, independence, experience and diversity of the Board Financial regulatory risk Culture Strategy IFRS 16 and 2018 Corporate ICAAP process accounting Governance Succession planning Fraud and regulatory Code IT resilience Effectiveness of decision-making and quality of discussion update at meetings Resourcing of meetings, agenda planning, quality Risk management ofinformation The Board believes that effective risk management is crucial Committee effectiveness to the Banks strategic objectives and long-term success.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring risk is Each of the Board Committees also carried out reviews effectively managed.
Our approach to risk is further detailed on pages 28 to 54.
We are satisfied that the Board and each of the Committees The Risk Oversight Committee reviews the effectiveness of continue to operate effectively.
the risk management process on the Boards behalf, and its approach to this can be found in the Risk Oversight Development Committee report on pages 74 to 77.
The Company Secretary ensures that all Directors are kept abreast of changes in relevant legislation and regulations.
External appointments This year the Board received an externally facilitated training In appropriate circumstances, the Board may authorise session on the new 2018 Corporate Governance Code and Executive Directors to take non-executive positions in other aregulatory and accounting update including IFRS 16 was companies and organisations.
Such appointments should provided to the Audit Committee by PwC.
Non-Executive broaden their experience, provided the time commitment Directors attend seminars and briefings in areas considered does not conflict with the Directors duties to the Company.
to be appropriate for their own professional development, The appointment to such positions is subject to the prior including governance and issues relevant to the Committees approval of the Board.
During the year ended 31 December 2018, none of the Executive Directors take part in our appraisal procedure.
Banks Executive Directors held directorships in any other Thissets tangible targets against which performance is quoted company.
Non-Executive Directors are appraised as part ofthe overall Board Evaluation process referred to above.
Conflicts of interest At each meeting the Board considers Directors conflicts ofinterest.
The Companys Articles of Association provide for the Board to authorise any actual or potential conflicts ofinterest.
The Company has a commercial relationship with InterArch, Inc. InterArch, a firm which is owned by Shirley Hill, thewife of Vernon W. Hill, II.
The Audit Committee has considered this relationship and concluded that the arrangements with InterArch are on terms which are at leastas beneficial to the Bank as those which could be obtained from an independent third party.
Further details areset out in the Audit Committee Report on page 70 and in note 28 to the financial statements.
66 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent professional advice Relations with investors Directors have access to independent professional advice at The Board continues to place great importance on regular the Companys expense.
In addition, they have access to the two-way engagement with investors.
We welcome advice and services of the Company Secretary and his team, engagement and dialogue throughout the year as part of who are responsible for advice on corporate governance anongoing process.
We connect with our investors on an matters to the Board.
ongoing basis through a variety of channels including face-to-face meetings, presentations, webcasts and Directors indemnities and insurance onlinecontent.
We provide Directors and Officers with appropriate insurance, which is reviewed annually.
In addition, Directors Investor meetings are undertaken by the founder and and Officers have received an indemnity from the Bank Chairman, Vernon W. Hill, II, the CEO, Craig Donaldson, and against: a any liability incurred by or attaching to the the CFO, David Arden, supported by the Director of Investor Director or Officer in connection with any negligence, Relations.
During 2018, the team participated in over 300 default, breach of duty, or breach of trust by them in relation individual and group meetings in the US, UK and Europe to the Bank or any associated company: and b any other andpresented at various investor conferences.
Institutional liability incurred by or attaching to the Director or Officer in investors have the opportunity to meet with the Chairman, the actual or purported execution and or discharge of their Deputy Chairman and or other Non-Executive Directors duties and or the exercise or purported exercise of their todiscuss any areas of concern.
powers and or otherwise in relation to or in connection with their duties, powers or office other than certain excluded During November 2018 we held engagement sessions with liabilities, including to the extent that such an indemnity stakeholders, as we prepared for our upcoming annual isnot permitted by law.
reporting and we also held a governance breakfast with the Audit Committee Chairman and the SID in January 2019.
Appointment and retirement of Directors The Board may appoint Directors to the Board.
Newly The Investor Relations function reports to the Board on a appointed Directors must stand for election by shareholders regular basis on matters including share price performance, at the AGM following their appointment.
In accordance with changes in the shareholder register, analyst and investor the provisions of the Code, all continuing Directors of the feedback and significant market updates, with the assistance Company will offer themselves for annual re-election at the of the Banks corporate brokers.
The Investor Relations team 2019 Annual General Meeting.
Catherine Brown and Paul is responsible for ongoing communication with Thandi will stand for election by shareholders at the 2019 shareholders, analysts and investors.
All financial and AGM, this being the first Annual General Meeting following regulatory announcements, as well as other important their appointments.
Lord Howard Flight retired from the business announcements, are published in the Investor Board on 1 April 2019 and Keith Carby will step down from Relations section of our website and stakeholders can the Board on 30 April 2019.
They will therefore not seek subscribe to receive news updates by email by registering re-election at the 2019 AGM.
The Board continues to actively online on the website: metrobankonline.
co. uk investorseek new independent Non-Executive Director candidates relations.
Contact details for the Investor Relations and who, based on merit, will add value to the Board.
Under the Company Secretariat are available on the website for Articles of Association, shareholders may remove a Director anyshareholders, analysts or investors who wish to ask before the end of their term by passing an ordinary aquestion.
Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 67
