67 AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT ANNUAL CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Dear Shareholders, As Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee the Committee, I am pleased to present the Committees report for the year ended 31 December 2018.
The following pages provide an insight into how the Committee discharged its responsibilities during the year and the key topics that it considered in doing so.
I will also share some of the details from the executive updates presented to the Committee from across the business.
OUR OBJECTIVES The key objective of the Committee throughout the year has remained the provision of effective governance over the appropriateness of the Groups financial reporting including the adequacy of related disclosures, the performance of both the internal audit function and the external auditor, and the oversight of the Groups systems of internal control, business risks and related compliance activities.
OUR MEMBERS The Board believes that amongst the members of the Committee who are Martin Leitch Chair, Daniel Desbaillets and Christian fide Charnac they have suitable broad commercial knowledge and significant business experience.
The Interim Group Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, senior finance managers, Company Secretary and Head of Internal Audit, although not members of the Committee, also attend the meetings, as does the senior statutory auditor from our external auditor, who is not present when we discuss the auditors performance and or remuneration.
As part of this process of working with the Board and to maximise effectiveness, meetings of the Committee generally take place just prior to Company Board meetings.
The Chairman of the Committee reports to the Board as part of a separate agenda item, on the activity of the Committee and matters of particular relevance to the Board in the conduct of their work.
OUR ROLE The Committees terms of reference are available from the Groups website at https: investors.
com corporate-governance boardcommittees The Audit & Risk Committee holds regular, structured meetings and consults with senior management.
The Committee frequently requests that senior operational and functional heads attend meetings in order to update the Committee with events in the business.
Occasionally external business consultants were also invited to attend the meetings to present specific projects.
These meetings provide the Committee an opportunity to understand the projects and assess managements decisions.
The Committee regularly reviews strategic and operational risks and the associated controls and mitigating factors.
The Committee receives regular reports and briefings from internal audit and has reviewed the level of internal audit resource available within the Group and believes that it is adequate for the size, structure and business risks of the Group and is supplemented with appropriate external resources where expertise is needed.
FINANCIAL REPORTING the Committee as a whole prior to formal consideration by the Board.
The Committee plays a key role in overseeing the integrity of the Groups Any issues which were deemed to be significant were discussed by the financial statements, including any formal announcements relating to Committee members and other attendees, including management, financial performance, and considering significant financial reporting external and internal auditors.
The Committee has satisfied itself that controls over the accuracy and The Committee reviewed the content and message of results and consistency of information presented in the annual report and accounts the announcements, annual report and accounts, as well as trading are robust: and has confirmed to the Board that it believes this annual updates.
Draft reports are reviewed by the Committee Chairman and report and accounts is fair, balanced and understandable.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 68 AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The significant issues considered by the Committee in relation to the IMPAIRMENT OF HOTEL ASSETS financial statements during the year ended 31 December 2018, and the Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements states that the carrying actions taken to address these issues, are set out below: amount of property, plant and equipment as at 31 December 2018 is 3,153m 2017: 3,129m.
Operating hotel assets are valued at historic Hotel trading performance.
The Committee reviewed the Groups cost or otherwise as permitted by the transitional provisions of IFRS 1 hotel performance with reference to average room rate, occupancy and and are reviewed annually to consider whether these values have been operating cost.
Revenue per available room RevPAR of each hotel impaired.
The Group continues to engage external valuation experts was used as performance measurement to compare one hotel with to assist with the valuation exercise and impairment review.
Financial another within the Group, and also with other hotels within the performance and sensitivity of the valuation models to the other key competitive set.
The Groups performance was monitored against the inputs means that the valuation remains inherently subjective.
previous years results and budget.
The Committee examined managements recommendations in Capital expenditure and project funding.
The Committee reviews respect of the valuation of the Groups hotel and property portfolio.
capital expenditure of the Group and monitors the performance of The Committee also analysed the reports of significant properties newly refurbished hotels.
The Committee reviewed the Groups cash and challenged the assumptions made where it thought fit.
This is in position taking into account its future commitments on new capital particular to the valuation of assets located in New York.
The Committee projects such as the Sunnyvale California project and Yangdong was satisfied with the valuation process and agreed that: development in Seoul with a combined funding requirement of around 233m.
the selection of assets tested was done appropriately, taking into Going concern statement.
The Committee reviewed managements account indicators of impairment risk and materiality: analysis supporting the going concern basis of preparation of the there was the appropriate use of third-party valuation expertise: Groups financial statements.
This included consideration of forecast sufficient robust challenge was given to management by the external cash flows, availability of committed debt facilities and expected auditor: covenant headroom.
As a result of the assessment undertaken, the material judgemental assumptions that were used in the valuations Committee satisfied itself that the going concern basis of preparation were within reasonable parameters: and remained appropriate.
conclusions have been appropriately drawn.
The Committee considered whether managements assessment adequately reflected the Groups risk VALUATION AND CLASSIFICATION OF INVESTMENT appetite and principal risks as disclosed on pages 40 to 44: whether the PROPERTIES period covered by the statement was reasonable given the strategy of In general, the carrying amount of investment properties is the fair value the Group and the regions in which it operates: and whether the of the properties as determined by a registered independent appraiser.
assumptions and sensitivities identified, and stress-tested, represented Fair values were determined having regard to recent market transactions severe but plausible scenarios in the context of solvency and liquidity.
for similar properties in the same location as the Groups investment The Committee concurred with managements assessment and properties.
Where a fair value cannot be reasonably determined, the recommended the viability statement to the Board.
The Committee and the external auditor considered the appropriateness of the accounting treatment applied by Classification of an asset as investment property requires judgement: management in relation to revenue recognition.
In particular, the and is determined by reference to future intentions and the Groups Committee considered the treatment of IFRS 15 Revenue from business model.
The total carrying amount of investment properties as at Contracts with Customers which was effective from the start of the 31 December 2018 is 668m 2017: 577m as shown in Note 14 to the Groups financial year ended 31 December 2018.
The Committee consolidated financial statements.
concurred with managements conclusion that there is no material impact to revenue.
The Committee reviews the valuation obtained from external valuers biannually, which includes the assessment of net cash to be generated from Valuation and classification of investment properties and the properties, valuation assumptions and availability of comparable impairment of hotel assets.
The Committee and the external auditor market evidence.
The Committee was satisfied with the valuation process considered the appropriateness of the accounting treatment applied by and the reasonableness of the valuation provided by the external valuers.
management in relation to revenue recognition.
Further details on the The Committee also agreed with the external auditor on the relevant assessment in this area is covered separately hereinafter.
valuation disclosures to be included in the annual report.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 69 RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS EXTERNAL AUDITOR PROCESS During the year, the Group had in place systems of internal controls There has been regular partner rotation, and Jonathan Downer took over and risk management and the Board has delegated to the Committee from Steve Masters after completion of the 2015 audit in February 2016. responsibility for overseeing the effectiveness of these systems.
In The Committee is satisfied that KPMG continues to possess the skills particular, the Committee has oversight over the activities of the Group and experience required to fulfil its duties effectively and efficiently.
Management Risk Committee, the Group internal audit function and the external auditor.
The Committee is responsible for recommending the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditor.
A resolution to reAt the full and half year, the Committee reviewed the Groups principal appoint KPMG as the Groups external auditor will be proposed at the risks, including those that would threaten its business model, future Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
performance, solvency or liquidity, and considered how risk exposures had changed during the period as well as any new risks that had arisen.
Consideration is given each year to an audit tender process as KPMG As part of this process, the Committee also reviewed the status of key LLP has been the Groups auditor since the listing of the Company on risk indicators throughout the year against the risk appetite set, focusing the London Stock Exchange in 1996.
Under the current transitional on any which were outside optimal ranges.
Risks associated with Brexit rules, the latest year in which KPMG would be able to undertake an also were discussed and contingency plans were identified and, where audit of the Company is to 31 December 2022. possible, implemented.
NON-AUDIT SERVICES The system of internal controls is audited by the Groups Internal Audit In order to ensure the continued independence and objectivity of the function and commented on by the external auditor from time to time, Groups external auditor, the Group has strict policies regarding the and it encompasses all controls including those relating to financial provision of non-audit services rendered by the external auditor.
The reporting processes, operational and compliance controls and those Committees approval is required in advance for the provision of nonrelating to risk management processes.
audit services if the fee exceeds 30,000 for an individual assignment.
The Committee reviews non-audit fees regularly.
The Groups external Based on the work conducted by the Committee in reviewing the auditor is prohibited from providing any service that would conflict with effectiveness of its systems of internal controls and risk management, their statutory responsibilities or which would otherwise compromise whilst matters were raised and considered by the Committee over the their objectivity or independence.
course of the year, the Committee is satisfied that the Groups risk management and internal control systems were adequate and effective to With effect from financial year commencing from 1 January 2017, address in all material respects the financial, operational and compliance KPMG is further prohibited from providing tax compliance services and risks in light of the nature of the business and scale and diversity of the other conflicting non-audit services directly or indirectly to the Groups Groups operations.
This review covered the period from the date of the controlled entities in the EU to comply to the requirements issued in Companys last annual report and accounts up to the date of approval of the revised Ethical Standard for EU auditors.
In this respect, PwC was this annual report and accounts.
appointed to act as the tax adviser for the European region in 2017 whilst KPMG was retained for the other regions.
With regard to CDL Hospitality Trusts a Singaporean listed hospitality trust in which the Group has a 37% interest but which is consolidated From the beginning of 2019 or at the earliest practical date, KPMG will within the Groups results under IFRS 10 and Millennium & cease to offer non-audit services to entities of the Group outside the EU.
Copthorne Hotels New Zealand Limited and CDL Investments New Arrangement is currently made to appoint another advisors for these Zealand Limited both of which are separately listed on the New Zealand regions.
Stock Exchange, the Committee notes that these subsidiaries provide assurances on the effectiveness and adequacy of their internal control During the year ended 31 December 2018, KPMGs audit fee frameworks in their annual reports, that they operate under stringent amounted to 3m 2017: 3m and KPMGs non-audit fees were 1m requirements of their respective stock exchanges and have their own 2017: 1m.
These assurances form the basis on which the Committee has concluded that the businesses have effective internal control and risk management systems in place.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 70 AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED EFFECTIVENESS OF THE AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE The Board is satisfied that Martin Leitch and Christian fide Charnac have recent and relevant financial experience as required by the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The other member is Daniel Desbaillets.
The Committees performance is reviewed annually through a facilitated evaluation conducted by Lintstock Limited, the results of which showed that the Committee was effective.
During the year, the Committee has also undertaken the following: Discussed changes in accounting policies and initial work indicated that the impact on the Groups financial statements due to IFRS 16: Monitor the progress of major capital expenditure work such as the 50m refurbishment at the Mayfair hotel: Reviewed the schedule of Board reserved matters: Discussed quarterly reports relating to health and safety, litigation, treasury and tax.
Martin Leitch Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee 14 February 2019 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc
