57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Dear Shareholders, CHANGES TO THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE In July 2018, the Financial Reporting Council issued a revised version On behalf of the Board I present the Companys Corporate Governance of the UK Corporate Governance Code the New Code, which Statement for the financial year ended 31 December 2018.
In this is effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2019. statement, we describe our governance arrangements, how the Board and Therefore, the Company will be required to report on the application its Committees operate and how the Directors discharged their duties of the New Code starting with the Companys 2019 annual report and during the course of the year.
In anticipation of the New Code becoming effective, the Board and its Committees received regular updates and reports on the New As we enter 2019, it is important that we have a highly engaged Board: Code and developments in corporate governance during the course of one that is knowledgeable and cognisant of the challenges faced by our 2018.
The Directors have noted these changes and have considered the industry and our business and one that can support and challenge the Groups approach to addressing them within an enhanced governance executive team, and is well equipped to oversee the development of regime.
We look forward to reporting on this work in due course.
the Company, whilst maintaining appropriate and practical levels of governance, financial controls and risk management.
BOARD PRIORITIES In 2018, the business landscape remained challenging in light of the BOARD CHANGES geopolitical events and regulatory changes experienced around the world.
The Nominations Committee reviewed the structure of the Boards These included the possible withdrawal of the UK from the European committees during the year and the Board decided to amalgamate the Union Brexit and the uncertainty surrounding that process: global duties of the Risk Committee and Audit Committee and form the Audit trade tensions, particularly between the US and China: the impact & Risk Committee with effect from May 2018.
This was done in light of terrorism, especially in certain key gateway cities, such as London of the commonalities of their remits and the establishment within the and Paris: and increasing minimum wages in many jurisdictions.
The Group of a robust risk management framework.
The amalgamation of hospitality sector also continued to face headwinds due to disruptive the committees streamlines our Boards resources and facilitates a holistic innovation and change within the industry, with margins impacted by oversight of the Groups business, financial, operational, regulatory, the rapid growth of online travel agencies and intensifying competition compliance and risk management matters.
from large-scale, asset-light hotel management chains.
The Groups financial performance continued to be impacted in the near term In addition, the departure of three DirectorsJennifer Fox, Sue Farr and as a result of the full closure of the Millennium Mayfair Hotel for Gervase MacGregorin the latter half of the year created an opportunity refurbishment, as reported earlier: weaker operating performance in for us to re-examine the composition of our Board and where deemed Europe as well as the level of capital expenditure required to invest in appropriate adjust the membership of our Board and its Committees.
Against this backdrop, the Board and management team On the recommendation of the Nominations Committee, His Excellency spent a considerable amount of time discussing these matters and their Shaukat Aziz was appointed as Chair of the Remuneration Committee impact on the business.
in November 2018, having served as a member of the Committee since 16 June 2009, and Christian fide Charnac was appointed as a member of The Board is cognisant that in addition to meeting its fiduciary duties the Audit & Risk, Remuneration and Nominations Committees, during and corporate governance requirements, one of the Boards key priorities the year.
is to focus on developing and implementing strategies to help the Group navigate through these headwinds.
In particular, the Board must find As reported, we are in the process of conducting a search for a permanent solutions to turn around loss-making hotels and improve the Groups Group Chief Executive Officer and new independent Non-Executive performance.
This will help to accelerate growth and increase shareholder Directors.
This is a top priority for the Nominations Committee, value.
The Board remains diligent, watchful of the evolving landscape and, with regard to the search for a permanent Group Chief Executive within the industry, and we understand the need to act nimbly and Officer, we remain open to either hiring an external candidate or pragmatically in order to navigate this new landscape.
As part of this, we promoting talent from within the Company.
We will cast the net as wide may at times consider affiliating with larger international hotel chains to as necessary to ensure we find the right candidates and that the Board manage certain assets where we believe doing so will be accretive to their members have the appropriate mix of skills, diversity and experience, value.
I believe that our entrepreneurial and innovative culture will help aligned with the Groups strategies.
These new appointments will require the Company become more resilient and tackle these challenges in 2019 time, careful deliberation and engagement by our Directors.
on these efforts is provided in the Nominations Committee Report.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 58 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED The following is a list of the key priorities the Board has identified for The Board continues to be mindful of the recommendations made 2019. by Lord Davies and his Women on Boards report, which initially stated that companies should strive to achieve at least 25% female Governance representation on the Boards of FTSE 350 listed companies, and Succession planning for the Board and Committee membership the subsequent Hampton-Alexander Review conducted by Sir Philip Hampton and the late Dame Helen Alexander, which challenges FTSE The development and implementation of new policies and processes 350 companies to achieve a target of one-third of Board positions to be to enhance the Groups corporate governance regime in line with the held by women by 2020. requirements under the New Code The dedication of more time to reviewing and setting the high-level Whilst the Board remains of the opinion that appointments to the Board strategy and priorities for the Group should be based on merit, the benefits of diversity will be considered as part of the Boards succession planning and review of the composition Operations of the Board and its committees.
We acknowledge that more work will Increased capital investment to transform and reposition the Groups be required if we are to achieve the aspirational targets set out by Lord hotel estate Davies and, more recently, the Hampton-Alexander Review and we are Service and product innovation through, among other things, further working towards these goals as a top priority.
investment into and enhancement of the Companys website, e-commerce capabilities, loyalty programmes and its digital strategy It should be noted that Sue Farr had served on the Board from December overall, with a particular focus on business-to-business initiatives 2013 until her tenure ended in October 2018, when she stepped down.
A focus on tighter cost control The Nominations Committee is already in the process of identifying a successor: however, the recruitment process cannot be rushed.
We will People require time and must follow due process in order to identify a suitable Succession planning for the Group Chief Executive Officer role and candidate.
We affirm our commitment to improving gender diversity on other members of senior management our Board and across our Group more generally.
Flattening the management structure generally to make the team more Biographies of the members of our Board of Directors can be found efficient and agile on pages 48 to 50.
The strength of the Board lies in its diversity, with our Directors having a wide range of backgrounds and experience from SUCCESSION PLANNING across different industries.
In some instances, Board members may have Succession planning at the Board and senior management levels is similar professional backgrounds, but have different skill sets, which can essential to help minimise instability and ensure an appropriate level of add value to the operation of the Board.
The Nominations Committee talent and resources are available to execute on the Groups strategy.
regularly keeps under review the composition of the Board to ensure that it remains best placed to ensure the success of the business and deliver on The Nominations Committee, together with the wider Board, has taken our stakeholders interests.
time to consider the role of the Group Chief Executive Officer.
Mr Tan Kian Seng, who first joined the Company as Group Chief of Staff and CULTURE AND VALUES interim President of Asia in October 2016, resumed the role of interim Our corporate culture and values define who we are, what we stand Group Chief Executive Officer effective, 28 September 2018 and has for and how we do business, and are integral to the success of the proven to be a safe pair of hands and provides stability to the Group as Group.
The Board helps to establish the culture and identify the values we work to fill the skills gaps in our regional and functional leadership that guide it.
We remain committed to upholding the highest ethical teams.
Whilst the Board believes that the appointment of a permanent standards, operating under the principle that the tone at the top sets the Chief Executive Officer is vitally important for the Group, the Board standards for the rest of the business.
From a practical perspective, the will take time to consider and search carefully for the next Group Chief senior management team is responsible for living the culture and values Executive Officer.
on a day-to-day basis, and for clearly articulating these to colleagues globally.
As part of the New Code, we welcome the renewed focus on DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION culture and values and have already started work around examining the We believe that it is important to have diversity in the boardroom and we way they shape our behaviours and whether our policies and practices recognise the benefits and different perspectives that diversity in all of its are aligned with them.
We recognise that there is room for improvement formsincluding diversity of age, gender, of ethnic origin, and cultural in cultivating a corporate culture that is cohesive, collaborative and and educational backgroundscan bring to Board deliberations.
collective and is focused on helping the Company to achieve its corporate goals and even surpassing them.
As our industry continues to Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 59 face challenges, we need to nurture an innovative culture which will have BOARD EVALUATION a positive impact for our business.
This years Board evaluation was conducted by the Company Secretariat team, with support from Linstock Limited, through tailored and targeted SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT questionnaires and conversations with the Directors, with the aim of During the year under review, some of my fellow Directors and I met drawing out the significant issues concerning the operation of the Board with several of our major shareholders to discuss our business, corporate and its committees and identifying areas for improvement.
Further governance and other matters.
The Board found these meetings very information relating to the Board evaluation process and a summary of useful as they helped to inform us about the concerns of our institutional its key findings can be found on page 64 of this Corporate Governance shareholders and allowed us to have a constructive dialogue with them.
In particular, as previously reported, significant time was spent speaking to shareholders about their views of the 620-pence offer by Agapier I am pleased to report that the Board has determined that the Company Investments Limited, a company wholly-owned by our controlling has complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code shareholder, City Developments Limited, for the entire issued and to be in 2018, as further detailed in this Corporate Governance Statement.
issued ordinary share capital of the Company not already held by City Developments Limited and its subsidiaries, which was announced on I would like to thank our Directors for their diligent efforts over the 9 October 2017 and which subsequently lapsed on 26 January 2018. course of the year and look forward to their continued contributions and Agapier Investments Limited secured acceptances from 47.14% of the leveraging their connections and expertise to help grow the business.
The minority shareholders, marginally falling short of the 50% threshold following pages provides greater detail and insight into the work carried required for the bid to become unconditional.
out by the Board on your behalf.
As we embark upon 2019, we are cognisant of the persistent headwinds that lie ahead.
We shall remain focused on our strategic initiatives, and we shall ensure that we as a Board can work with speed and agility to make difficult and timely decisions to drive our business performance.
Kwek Leng Beng Chairman 14 February 2019 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 60 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Changes relating to the Groups capital structure, corporate structure CODE and listing status: Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc M&C or the Company is The half-yearly report, interim management statements and any the holding company of the Millennium Hotels & Resorts group of preliminary announcement of the final results: companies the Group.
M&C is a premium listed company with The Annual Report and Accounts, including the corporate governance equity shares traded on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange statement and Directors remuneration report: and therefore the Company is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Dividend policy, declaration of the interim dividend and Code the Code.
The Company has applied the main principles of the recommendation of the final dividend: April 2016 edition of the Code, a copy of which is available at www.
for the year ended 31 December 2018.
It is the Boards Significant changes in accounting policies or practices: view that the Company has complied with all of the provisions of the The Groups treasury policies: Code.
The Strategic Report on pages 18 to 45 provides information Capital expenditure above 5m and material contracts and leases: about the Groups strategy and business model, its financial and Significant contracts of the Company, or any subsidiary, not in the operating performance during the year and the outlook for its business, ordinary course of business: the principal risks and uncertainties which it faces, and its corporate responsibility initiatives.
The disposal of any significant assets, whether a single transaction or series of related transactions: THE ROLE OF THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES Any acquisition of land, property, or any addition of a hotel into the The Board provides leadership to the Group.
It sets the Groups strategy portfolio by acquisition or by means of a management contract: and oversees implementation of that strategy, ensuring that acceptable Major investments, including the acquisition or disposal of interests of risks are taken and mitigated where possible.
The Board ensures that more than five per cent of the voting shares of any company or the adequate resources are in place in order to deliver long-term value to making of any takeover offer: shareholders and benefits to the wider communities in which the Group Marketing campaigns or sponsorships where expenditure exceeds operates.
The Boards overriding duties are to run the Company as 500,000: stewards for the Companys stakeholders, with good governance, strong Approval of resolutions and corresponding documentation to be put values and a safety-driven and ethical culture.
forward to shareholders at a general meeting: The activities of our Audit & Risk, Remuneration and Nominations Approval of all circulars, prospectuses and listing particulars: Committees are set out in the reports of each committee, which reports Changes to the structure, size and composition of the board, following are deemed to be part of this report.
Details of the Groups principal recommendations from the Nominations Committee: risks can be found in the Our risks section of the Strategic Report on Appointments to the board, following recommendations by the pages 40 to 44.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all standing Nominations Committee: committees of the Board.
Membership and chairmanship of Board committees: There is a formal schedule of matters reserved specifically for decision Appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditor to by the Board.
A summary of the matters reserved for the Board is be put to shareholders for approval, following the recommendation of detailed below.
These are matters that are significant to the Group as the Audit & Risk Committee: a whole because of their potential strategic, financial and reputational Determining the remuneration policy for the directors, company consequences.
The Board has three main committees to deal with secretary and other senior executives: specific activities of the Groups affairs.
The chair of each committee The introduction of new share incentive plans or major changes to provides detailed reports to the Board on the matters discussed at each existing plans, to be put to shareholders for approval: committee meeting to ensure that all Directors have visibility of, and the Determining the independence of directors: opportunity to discuss, the matters being considered by each committee.
Review of the Groups overall corporate governance arrangements: Long term objectives and commercial strategy: The making of any political donation: Oversight over the Groups operations and internal controls: Prosecution, defence or settlement of significant litigation: Annual operating and capital expenditure budgets: Major changes to the rules of the groups pension schemes: and Extension of the Groups activities into new business or geographic Changes to the schedule of matters reserved for board decisions.
areas: Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 61 Copies of the terms of reference for each committee can be found on The respective responsibilities of the Chairman and Group Chief the investor relations section of the Groups website at https: investors.
Executive Officer are set out below and have been approved by the 1 millenniumhotels.
The Group Chief Executive Officer, supported by the regional heads of BOARD AND COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE operation and key functional heads, is responsible to the Board for the The Board generally has up to six regularly scheduled meetings per Groups operational performance, including: year and convenes ad hoc meetings as necessary.
The actual number of regularly scheduled Board and committee meetings attended by each implementing the Group strategy, as determined by the Board: Director during the year is shown below next to the maximum number of such meetings that each Director could have attended during the year.
maintaining adequate internal control systems and risk management processes: monitoring operational performance against plans and targets and reporting to the Board any significant variances: and maintaining an effective management team and succession plans.
AUDIT & RISK REMUNERATION NOMINATIONS RISK BOARD COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Kwek Leng Beng 6 6 3 3 1 Shaukat Aziz 6 6 5 6 3 3 2 Christian fide Charnac 6 6 4 4 1 1 1 1 Daniel Desbaillets 6 6 5 5 6 6 2 2 3 Susan Farr 3 4 4 5 1 1 Martin Leitch 6 6 5 5 3 3 4 Gervase MacGregor 1 5 3 4 2 2 5 Kwek Leng Peck 5 6 3 3 Kwek Eik Sheng 6 6 2 2 Jennifer Fox 1 1 1 His Excellency Shaukat Aziz was unable to attend one Remuneration Committee meeting owing to a conflicting appointment.
2 Christian fide Charnac was appointed as a member of the Audit & Risk Committee on 23 March 2018 and the Nominations and Remuneration Committees on 2 November 2018.
3 Sue Farr was unable to attend one board meeting and one Remuneration Committee meeting owing to personal reasons.
Sue Farr stepped down from the Board effective on 31 October 2018.
4 G ervase MacGregor was unable to attend four Board meetings owing to prior commitments and one Audit & Risk Committee meetings generally owing to a prior appointment.
Gervase MacGregor resigned from the Board on 1 December 2018.
5 Kwek Leng Peck was unable to attend one Board meeting owing to a conflicting appointment.
6 The Risk Committee was merged into the Audit Committee at the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting held in May 2018.
In addition to the regularly scheduled meetings shown above, the Board BOARD MEMBERSHIP held two ad hoc meetings, the Audit & Risk Committee held one ad hoc At the date of this Report, the Board is comprised of seven directors, meeting, and the Remuneration Committee held four ad hoc meetings.
including the Chairman, four independent Non-Executive Directors Attendance at those meetings is not reported.
The Risk Committee and two other Non-Executive Directors who, like the Chairman, are held one ad hoc meeting before the duties of the Risk Committee were appointees of the majority shareholder, City Developments Limited.
amalgamated with the Audit Committee.
Each Director is expected to fulfil his or her duties for the benefit of all shareholders and will each seek re-election by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Directors possess a variety of skills and have a mix of regional and global experience, as can be seen from the biographical details of the Directors set out on pages 48 to 50.
1 The responsibilities assigned to Tan Kian Seng, as the interim Group Chief Executive Officer, are substantially as set out in this report.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 62 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES Nominations Committee and the Board a succession plan for key There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman, Group management appointments: Chief Executive Officer and Senior Independent Director.
The roles ensure an appropriate system of internal controls and risk management of these positions are clearly defined so that no single individual has framework are embedded within the business: unfettered powers of decision.
Summaries of the roles and responsibilities take into account the Chairmans assessments of his performance from of the Chairman, Group Chief Executive Officer and Senior time to time: Independent Director are set out below.
be responsible for the day-to-day management of the Groups business and affairs and ensure that significant issues that arise are resolved in The Chairman an efficient and timely manner: and The Chairman provides leadership to the Board on all aspects of its role.
lead the management team to improve performance in every division.
His key duties are to: Senior Independent Director take a leadership role in setting a clear vision for the Group: His duties are to: mentor the Group Chief Executive Officer as and when required: balance the interests of management and the Board as well as the needs provide a channel of communication between the Chairman and the of shareholders and management: Non-Executive Directors: act as a liaison between management and the Board as well as between act as an intermediary for shareholders who wish to raise concerns that the Company and its shareholders: were not able to be raised through the normal channels of manage communications and information dissemination processes communication: between the Company and its shareholders and work closely with the act as a sounding board for the Chairman and serve as an intermediary Companys public relations team to achieve this objective: for the Non-Executive Directors, where necessary: establish the agenda and manage Board meetings: meet with the Non-Executive Directors at least once a year to appraise offer advice to and draw on the collective wisdom and experience of the performance of the Chairman and on such other occasions as are Board members: deemed appropriate: and take a proactive role in the appointment of Directors and, following meet with a range of shareholders when requested, to develop a better such appointments, oversee the development of individual Directors: understanding of their issues and concerns, and provide their feedback and to the Board.
develop the top management team, in particular the Group Chief NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Executive Officer, and establish a succession plan for the Group Chief The independent Non-Executive Directors are responsible for helping Executive Officer position.
to develop the Companys strategy and providing rigorous, objective and constructive challenge to create accountability and drive performance.
The Group Chief Executive Officer Among them, the current independent Non-Executive Directors have The Group Chief Executive Officer reports to the Board and has the appropriate balance of skills, experience, knowledge and independent ultimate accountability for the day-to-day running of the Group.
He judgement gained through varied backgrounds and experiences, within is responsible for leading the management team, operational activities the business world.
and performance of the Group, including the effective delivery of the Companys strategy and business plan, as agreed by the Board, while The responsibilities of the independent Non-Executive Directors include: managing and mitigating the principal risks faced by the Group.
helping management to develop the Companys strategic objectives by His duties are to: drawing on their own business and commercial experience and challenging assumptions: evaluate and develop for approval by the Board the strategic plan, as necessary, and the business plan and budget and deliver the same to scrutinising managements performance in delivering against the the satisfaction of the Board: strategy: lead and act as an advocate for the executive management team of the satisfying themselves on the integrity of financial information and Group: ensuring that the Groups risk and control systems are robust: and oversee the execution of the strategic vision and plans set by the board, determining appropriate levels of remuneration and reviewing and assess the Groups performance and progress in meeting them: succession planning for Executive Directors and members of the senior management team, as appropriate: promote the growth of the Group: develop the management team and establish for approval by the Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 63 The Board considers that each of the independent Non-Executive and the Board assessed the independence of Mr Aziz during the second Directors continues to have: half of the year and determined that, despite his tenure, he remained independent in character and judgement since among other things : the time required to undertake the responsibilities of his or her role: i he continued to make thoughtful and valuable contributions to the deliberations of the Board: ii he continued to challenge management unquestioned honesty and integrity: and other members of the Board as appropriate: iii he was not beholden an ability to provide strategic and pragmatic thought to the relevant to the Company for remuneration other than his annual director fee: matters: and iv none of the other factors weighing against independence an ability to manage and consider materiality and risk tolerance as key were present in terms of Mr Azizs relationships with the Company, its considerations in decision-making: and directors and or shareholders.
The Board also determined that it would an understanding of the business of the Group and the risk be helpful for Mr Aziz to remain as a director given his global experience environment in which it operates, including the potential for internal and the fact that his presence would help to provide continuity to the and external events to impact on health and safety, environmental, Board.
reputational, regulatory, market and financial matters.
In addition to the robust assessment of Mr Azizs independence, THE INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS the Board conducted its regular annual independence review in In accordance with the Code it is the Companys policy that at least half December 2018 and determined that there had not been a change to of the Board comprises of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The the independent status of all of the other independent Non-Executive independent Non-Executive Directors have wide ranging international Directors.
Their diverse business backgrounds, skills and experience, experience at senior levels in areas of finance, accounting, hospitality, the Directors concluded, enable all of them to continue to bring investment banking and international affairs.
They bring strong, independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance, independent judgement to the deliberations of the Board, particularly in resources, key appointments, standards of conduct and other matters respect of the Groups corporate governance regime.
On appointment, each independent Non-Executive Director At least once during the year the Chairman and Independent Nonreceives a letter of appointment setting out the terms of his or her Executive Directors met, without management being present, to discuss appointment, the fees to be paid and provisions relating to matters such the performance of senior management, the Board and other matters of as confidentiality of information, potential conflicts of interest and importance.
This meeting took place in December 2018. share dealing restrictions.
Such letters of appointment are subject to termination by either party giving one months notice.
The appointment DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION and any subsequent reappointment of a Non-Executive Director are The Board continues to recognise that diversity is key for introducing subject at all times to the Articles of Association of the Company and different perspectives into the Boards debate and for better anticipating any necessary shareholder approval or ratification.
the risks and opportunities in building a long-term, sustainable business.
Whilst relevance of skills is key, a balance between the skills represented Based on the principles outlined in provision B.
1.1 of the Code, the is sought to ensure that there is an appropriate mix of members from Board regularly assesses the independence of each of the Companys diverse backgrounds.
This contributes to minimising the risk of Non-Executive Directors, taking into account whether the Nongroupthink by promoting a healthy culture of challenge and scrutiny.
Executive Director is independent in character and judgement, and whether there are any relationships or circumstances that are likely to The Board meets the recommendation, set out in the Report into the affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
Since the Chairman of Ethnic Diversity of UK Boards published in October 2017 by Sir John the Board, Kwek Leng Beng, Kwek Leng Peck and Kwek Eik Sheng are Parker and the Parker Review Committee, that at least one person on appointees of the controlling shareholder, City Developments Limited, the Board is from an ethnic minority.
Our senior management team they are not considered to be independent for the purposes of Code represents 7 different nationalities across the globe, embodying our provision B.
1.1. corporate diversity and inclusion policy.
We seek to recruit the best talent possible for any role and we strive to achieve a well-balanced In June 2018 His Excellency Shaukat Aziz reached his ninth anniversary representation of backgrounds, nationalities, cultures, gender, skills and on the Board.
The Code provides that more than nine years of service experiences, at all levels across the Group.
on a Board is a factor that weighs against a directors independence and that the Board should state its reasons if it determines that a director is independent notwithstanding the director having served for more than nine years.
In accordance with the Code, the Nominations Committee Annual Report & Accounts 2018 64 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED DIRECTOR TRAINING AND INFORMATION The Company has in place a formal related party transaction policy and All Directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary, who the Audit & Risk Committee is responsible for reviewing related party is responsible for ensuring that proper Board procedures and applicable transactions on behalf of the Board.
During the year no new material corporate governance rules and regulations are observed.
In addition, the contracts or transactions between the Company or a subsidiary of the Directors are able, if necessary, to take independent professional advice Company and CDL or any other subsidiary of the CDL were entered at the Companys expense.
The Non-Executive Directors also have the into except as disclosed in Note 33 on page 169 herein.
opportunity to meet separately with the Chairman during the year.
4R 14 c, the Board confirms that in respect of the The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, is also 2018 financial year: responsible for ensuring that Directors receive appropriate training at the Companys expense where specific expertise is required in the course of i the Amended and Restated Co-Operation Agreement with CDL the exercise of their duties.
All Directors receive a Board compendium was in place during the year as required under LR 9.2.
2ADR 1 : detailing matters relating to Board procedures and their duties as directors.
A bespoke induction programme is established for any new ii the Company complied with the independence undertakings Directors who are appointed, based on their needs and experience.
4R during the year as required in LR 9.2.
2ADR 1 : and CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Board has established agreed procedures for managing potential iii so far as Board is aware, the independence undertakings in operational conflicts of interest.
These procedures and any potential LR 6.5.
4R have been complied with during the year by CDL conflicts authorised in accordance with section 175 of the Companies and its associates: Act 2006, as permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, are reviewed by the Board at least annually and other potential conflicts are EVALUATION PROCESS reviewed as they may arise from time to time.
The Board is satisfied that The effectiveness of the Board is of paramount importance to the overall the procedures for managing potential conflicts remain effective.
success of the Group and the Company undertakes a formal and rigorous annual review of the Board and its committees.
The Board evaluation is CO-OPERATION AGREEMENT an important part of the Companys corporate governance framework The Co-Operation Agreement between the Company and its majority and both the process and outcome are taken seriously by the Board.
shareholder, City Developments Limited CDL, which originally had been entered into at the time of the Companys listing in 1996 was Pursuant to the UK Corporate Governance Code the Company subsequently amended and restated in November 2014 in order to ensure conducted a board evaluation in respect of the Board performance compliance with the revised Listing Rules for the protection of minority during 2018.
This evaluation was led by the Company Secretariat team shareholders, which came into force in May 2014.
The primary purpose and was facilitated by Linstock Limited.
Linstock Limited had no other of this agreement is to ensure that the Group is able to carry on business connection with the Company save for the provision of insider list independently of CDL and its associates and that all agreements and software.
transactions between the Company and subsidiaries, on the one hand, and CDL and or any of its respective group undertakings, on the other The evaluation consisted of targeted questionnaires, which were hand, will be at arms length and on a normal commercial basis.
Under circulated by Linstock and focused on key themes relating to the effective the terms of the Amended and Restated Co-Operation Agreement, CDL functioning of the Board and its committees.
A report with anonymous and its associates have agreed not to take any action that would prevent feedback and recommendations was then produced and distributed the Company from complying with its obligations under the Listing to the Board and these results were discussed by the Directors at the Rules.
Furthermore, the Board and Nominations Committee will at all Companys Board meeting in February 2019.
As part of the exercise, times consist of a majority of Directors who are independent of CDL.
an evaluation of the Chairman was completed by the Non-Executive Whilst the Remuneration and Audit & Risk Committees shall at all Directors and individual performance reviews were submitted by the times be comprised solely of independent Non-Executive Directors, Directors as well as performance reviews of each committee.
CDL is entitled to nominate for appointment to the Board up to five directors.
As the Board is comprised of a majority of independent NonThe principal areas for improvement arising from the survey results Executive Directors and the Companys ability to operate independently included the development of further opportunities for Directors to meet of CDL is protected by the Amended and Restated Co-Operation and hear from management, a greater focus on key strategic initiatives Agreement, as well as the requirements under the Listing Rules, the and challenges facing the hospitality industry: increased awareness of Board considers that there are adequate safeguards for the protection of employee and customer views and the Groups regional markets: and minority shareholder interests.
succession planning at the Board and senior management levels.
The Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 65 Company Secretariat team will work with the Boards Chairman and Internal controls other Directors to help enhance the operation of the Board and its The Company reviews and confirms its level of compliance with the committees in these areas.
The matters reserved to the Board require that significant transactions, SUMMARY OF BOARDS WORK DURING THE YEAR projects and programmes must have specific Board approval.
During 2018, the Board considered all relevant matters within its remit, If Board approval is not required, authority levels are prescribed and with a particular focus on the following issues: delegated to ensure segregation among management and proper escalation of approval limits.
strategy and resource allocation: Group financial and treasury policies, controls and procedures are in finance and treasury: place and regularly reviewed and updated.
risk assessment and mitigation: All financial information published by the Group is subject to the stakeholder engagement: approval of the Audit & Risk Committee and the Board.
governance and compliance: Risk management assurance, risk and internal audit: and The principal risks of the Group are assessed annually by the Audit & succession planning.
During the year, there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT and managing those risks and, if appropriate, modifying the risks in SYSTEM IN RELATION TO PREPARATION OF light of changing conditions.
This process is reviewed by the Audit & CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS Risk Committee on behalf of the Board and has been in place for the The Board is responsible for the Groups internal control and risk year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report management systems, including oversight over the processes and and Accounts.
procedures that are in place in connection with the preparation of the Groups consolidated accounts.
In establishing these systems, the Operation Directors have considered the nature of the Groups business, the Primary responsibility for the day-to-day operation of the internal principal risks to which the business is exposed, the likelihood of such control and risk management systems is delegated to the Groups risks occurring, their potential impact and the costs and resources Chief Executive Officer, who chairs the management-level risk associated with mitigating or protecting against such risks.
The heads of the Companys operating regions and global instances such systems are designed to manage these principal risks, functions carry out regular reviews to ensure appropriate actions are rather than eliminate them.
As such, they can provide only a reasonable, implemented to meet the Groups objectives and manage its principal and not absolute, assurance against them.
The Groups principal risk risks appropriately.
factors and mitigating activities are described on pages 40 to 44.
Assurance The main features of the Groups internal control and risk management The effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems framework are set out below.
is reviewed by our internal audit function and, where appropriate, by the Groups external auditor and or external consultants, who report Strategy to management and to the Audit & Risk Committee.
As part of that The Groups strategic direction is reviewed by the Board, generally on process, the internal audit department produces individual reports, an annual basis.
Often as part of that process, a dedicated Board which are issued to appropriate members of the management team strategy session is held with the Group Chief Executive Officer and who are accountable to rectify any deficiencies and implement any other senior management as appropriate.
Further details about the recommendations.
These reports are summarised and distributed, as Groups business model and strategy can be found on page 20. appropriate, to the Audit & Risk Committee members, the Group Management prepares an annual budget for each year, in line with the Chief Executive Officer, senior management and the external auditor Groups strategy, and that budget is submitted to the Board for its and, where necessary, issues are drawn to the attention of the full review and approval.
The Board reviews, managements progress in developing, refining and executing the Groups strategy.
The Board reviews, at least quarterly, the Groups performance and how it tracks against the annual budget.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 66 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED COMMUNICATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS At the Annual General Meeting, all shareholders have the opportunity The Board and executive management team regularly interact with to question the Chairman and other Directors, including the Chairs of shareholders and analysts.
In particular: the Audit & Risk, Remuneration, and Nominations Committees.
The Company prepares individual resolutions on each substantially Presentations are made after the announcement of the Groups final separate issue to be put to shareholders and does not combine and half-yearly results.
During these presentations, analysts have the resolutions together inappropriately, and the Annual Report and opportunity to ask questions of the Group Chief Executive Officer Accounts is laid before the shareholders at the Annual General and Chairman of the Board.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 21 working days prior to the date of the Management meets with institutional shareholders on an ongoing meeting, and the Company encourages all shareholders to make basis to review the Groups performance, business model and positive use of the opportunity to communicate with the Board.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director often schedule of the proxy votes cast at the meeting is then made available conducts meetings with a range of major shareholders during the year: on the Companys website after the conclusion of the meeting.
other Non-Executive Directors have the opportunity to attend such meetings.
Significant feedback expressed by shareholders during those meetings is then provided to the Board in a timely manner.
As part of the Companys regular investor relations activities, the Group Chief Executive Officer, the Company Secretary and senior finance personnel are available to answer queries raised by analysts and institutional investors from time to time.
The Groups website provides regular updates for investors and contains all announcements made by the Group.
