88 NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Dear Shareholders, BOARD AND COMMITTEE COMPOSITION In my introduction to the Corporate Governance Statement, I refer I am pleased to present the Companys Nominations Committee to the importance to the business of having an engaged Board, with Report for 2018.
This report provides a summary of the Committees the appropriate mix of skills, diversity and experience, that offers responsibilities and its activities throughout the year.
both support and robust challenge to our senior management team.
These principles were firmly in mind as the Committee reviewed the During the year, the primary areas of focus for the Committee were composition of the Board and its committees throughout the year.
Board and committee composition, reviewing the role profiles for new Director appointments, and succession planning for the independent First, in March 2018, the Committee reviewed the structure of Non-Executive Director and Group Chief Executive Officer roles.
the Boards committees and, bearing in mind the progress made in developing the Groups risk management framework, decided that it The progress made in these areas is outlined below.
As Chairman of the would be appropriate to once again combine the Audit Committee and Committee, I take an active role in overseeing the progress made towards Risk Committee, to form the Audit & Risk Committee.
The Committee appointments to the Board and senior management team, and ensuring also decided in March 2018 that Christian fide Charnac should be that the Group has appropriate talent to be able to deliver on the strategy appointed as a member of the to-be-formed Audit & Risk Committee of the Group.
given his investment banking background and the fact that he had not yet been appointed to a Board committee.
These changes were approved GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER SUCCESSION by the Board and took effect in May 2018, immediately following the With Mr Tan Kian Seng in place as interim Group Chief Executive Companys Annual General Meeting.
Officer at the start of the year, the Committee was tasked with finding someone to fill that role on a permanent basis.
After conducting a search Second, as part of the Committees remit to regularly review of the during the first quarter of the year, the Committee recommended, and composition of the Board and its committees, the Committee considers the Board approved, the appointment of Jennifer Fox as Group Chief the tenure of existing Directors and whether a Directors length of Executive Officer and a Director of the Company.
She joined in June service has in any way impacted his or her ability to remain independent 2018 and, as reported previously, the Board and Ms Fox subsequently in character and judgement and perform his or her duties.
The Board mutually agreed that it would be best for her to step down, which she generally believes that Non-Executive Directors should stay for a did on 27 September 2018.
At that point, Mr Tan, resumed the interim significant period of time, with the appointment of new directors adding Group Chief Executive Officer role.
Since then, the Committee has diverse perspectives and skills.
It is important we ensure that the Board been examining the role profile and assessing the optimal characteristics, has continuity and on occasion we may determine that it is in the skills and background which candidates should possess and a search Companys best interests for a Non-Executive Director to stay beyond a for a successor was commenced.
Whilst the Board believes that the nine-year term.
Accordingly, when His Excellency Shaukat Aziz reached appointment of a permanent Group Chief Executive Officer is vitally his ninth anniversary on the Board in June 2018, the Committee, important, the Board is prepared to take its time in order to find the in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, conducted right candidate.
an independence assessment and concluded that Mr Aziz remained independent in character and judgement for the reasons set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 63.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 89 Third, with Sue Farr and Gervase MacGregor resigning from the Board to, age, gender, ethnicity, abilities, sexual orientation and religious in the latter half of 2018, after having served nearly five and four years, beliefswith the objective of having a workforce that is representative of respectively, we made some further changes to the composition of the the communities in which we operate.
We also encourage our franchised Boards committees.
Mr Aziz was appointed as chair of the Remuneration hotels, where we do not employ personnel directly, to follow the same Committee.
Given his experience and knowledge of the Company and guiding principles as set out in the Groups diversity and inclusion since he had been a member of the Remuneration Committee since 16 policy.
As a multinational company with a diverse set of stakeholders, the June 2009, the Committee considered that his appointment as chair of Board and our colleagues across the Group must be sensitive to different the Remuneration Committee would help bring continuity to the role.
In addition, Christian fide Charnac was appointed as a member of both the Nominations Committee and Remuneration Committee.
All of these 2018 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING changes were effective from 2 November 2018, and a search for at least The Nominations Committee was mindful of shareholder concerns one new independent Non-Executive Director was commenced and is received at the Companys 2018 Annual General Meeting, reflected in ongoing.
part by the significant votes received from independent shareholders opposing the election or re-election of the independent non-executive With the changes made during the year and in light of the Board being Directors.
In order to better understand those concerns, as well as others, comprised of a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors, the various Board members engaged with shareholders throughout the year Board considers the current composition of the Board and its committees and these issues were discussed at several Board meetings.
to be adequate for the time being.
That said, the Committee will continue to progress the searches for a permanent Group Chief Executive FUTURE PRIORITIES Officer and one or more new independent Non-Executive Directors as The Committees primary objectives for the coming year are to: matters of priority and will provide further updates on the progress of these searches as appropriate.
Continue the process of recruiting and appointing a permanent Group Chief Executive Officer and at least one new independent NonDIVERSITY Executive Director: The Board continues to support the aspirational targets set by the Lord Continue to review the balance of skills, diversity and experience of Davies report Women on Boards and those set in the Hamptonthe Companys Directors to determine if any further changes or Alexander Review and acknowledges that the Board currently is not appointments are needed to ensure the Board has the talent necessary reflective of the value that we place on diversity and inclusion within our to help the Group deliver its strategic objectives: business.
We recognise the need to take corrective action following the Consider the requirements under the revised version of the UK departures of Ms Fox and Ms Farr and will, over the coming years, seek Corporate Governance Code New Code, that will apply to the to redress the current imbalance in the representation of women on the Group in respect of its 2019 financial year and beyond, and ensure Board.
appropriate plans are in place to address the expanded role of the Nominations Committee under the revised version of the Code: The Board is also mindful of the recommendations made by Sir John Identify ways to improve the effectiveness of the Board and its Parker, in his Report into the Ethnic Diversity of UK Boards published committees: and in October 2017, to increase the ethnic and cultural diversity of the boards of FTSE 350 companies.
With regard to the recommendations Continue to review succession plans for key management roles across in that report, the Board is pleased to confirm that four Directors, the Group.
representing over half of the Board, are considered to have ethnic minority backgrounds.
Kwek Leng Beng As part of the Groups continuing effort to address gender and ethnic Chairman of the Nominations Committee diversity more broadly within the business, a new diversity and inclusion policy was adopted and rolled out across the Group during the course of 14 February 2019 the year.
That policy, which involves the education of employees on the benefits of diversity in the workforce and includes procedures that will allow the Board to monitor progress, reinforces the Groups commitment to promoting an inclusive work environment, one in which every member of its workforce feels valued and respected.
Our commitment extends to embracing diversity in all its formsincluding but not limited Annual Report & Accounts 2018 90 NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED OVERVIEW During 2018, the Committee spent considerable time conducting The Nominations Committee reviews the composition of the Board a search for a permanent Group Chief Executive Officer, a role that and its committees and oversees succession planning of the Companys would sit on the Board.
The process started with the Committee Directors.
By identifying and recommending candidates as Directors, reviewing the requirements of, and preparing a new job specification the Committee aims to ensure that the Board and its committees are for, the role.
The Committee then conducted a search, based on that job fit for purpose and have the appropriate balance of skills, diversity and specification, through internal resources and this is how Jennifer Fox was experience to be able to meet the challenges facing the Group.
The Committee members and other members of the Board interviewed Ms Fox and referencing was conducted.
Her appointment MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS was recommended to and approved by the Board and her employment The Committee is comprised of a majority of independent Nonbegan in June 2018.
After she stepped down in September 2018, the Executive Directors.
During the year the following Directors were Committee recommended that Tan Kian Seng resume his role as interim members of the Committee.
Group Chief Executive Officer, and the Board fully supported this recommendation.
Since then the Committee has, once again, refreshed Kwek Leng Beng Chairman the job specification for the role and resumed its search for a permanent Group Chief Executive Officer.
Kwek Leng Peck His Excellency Shaukat Aziz Also, following the departures of Sue Farr and Gervase MacGregor in 1 Susan Farr the third quarter of 2018, the Committee agreed on the appropriate Martin Leitch profile for a new independent Non-Executive Director and commenced 2 its search for one or more new appointments.
That search is ongoing Christian fide Charnac and the Committee remains open to using an external search agency to 1.
Susan Farr Stepped down from the Board on 31 October 2018. facilitate the process, as well as utilising the Directors own contacts and 2.
C hristian fide Charnac was appointed as a member of the Committee effective from networks.
However, in 2018 the Group did not utilise an external search 2 November 2018. agency for any of the open Board positions.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee and attends The searches for a permanent Group Chief Executive Officer and at all meetings.
Other Directors or members of senior management and least one new independent Non-Executive Director will be as broad as external advisers may attend the meetings at the invitation of the necessary to ensure that the right candidates are identified and that the Committee chair.
composition of the Board and its committees remains appropriate.
New Director appointments will be announced in due course.
The Committee met three times during the year.
BOARD APPOINTMENTS Part of the remit of the Committee is to ensure that the Board has the right balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge to enable it to discharge its duties effectively.
In order to fulfil this remit, the Committee may conduct searches to fill certain roles from time to time and recommend new appointments for such roles.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 91 INDUCTION TIME COMMITMENT On appointment to the Board, each Director undergoes a comprehensive All Directors are required to commit sufficient time to fulfil their induction programme as appropriate.
The programme is tailored to each responsibilities and this obligation is reflected in their letters of Directors individual needs, but is intended to provide an in introduction appointment.
The Nominations Committee monitors the extent of the to the Groups business, challenges and risks.
Newly appointed Directors Directors other interests to ensure that the effectiveness of the Directors also receive an overview of their duties, the corporate governance and the Board as a whole is not compromised.
The Nominations landscape applicable to listed companies in the UK and Board processes Committee is satisfied that each of the Non-Executive Directors commits and policies.
This process was followed with regard to the appointment sufficient time to their duties.
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE PERFORMANCE REVIEW As part of the Boards annual performance review, an assessment of the Committees performance in 2018 was completed in January 2019.
The results of the performance assessment were discussed and presented at the Board meeting held during February 2018 and the key finding of the evaluation, in respect of the Committee, was that the Committee was considered to be effective and remains independent in nature.
During the year, the Committee received regular updates on developments in corporate governance reform.
The Committee was provided with detailed reports on the revised UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council and proposals for the Groups approach to the changes.
As the revised UK Corporate Governance Code does not apply until accounting years beginning on or after 1 January 2019 the Group is not required to report on the application of the Code until then.
We will therefore report on what changes, if any, to the Groups governance regime will be required as a result of the revised Code in the Companys 2019 annual report and accounts and beyond.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 92 NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE DIVERSITY The role of the Committee is, among other things, to: The Board takes diversity seriously and this forms part of the Board and Committee deliberations when considering new appointments to the review the structure, size and composition of the Board, including the Board.
The Boards diversity policy is based on four principles, set out skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Directors and make below, that support the Boards commitment to achieving diversity: recommendations to the Board regarding any changes: The Board will not impose quotas regarding diversity, although it will consider succession planning for directors and other senior executives, remain committed to achieving diversity in the composition of the taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Board: Company and the skills and expertise needed: The Committee will on a regular basis consider and make identify and nominate for approval by the Board candidates to fill recommendations, if applicable, to the Board on its diversity Board vacancies when they arise: objectives: keep under review the leadership needs of the organisation, with a In reviewing the composition of the Board, the Committee will view to ensuring the continued ability of the organisation to compete consider the balance of skills, experience, independence and effectively in the marketplace: knowledge of the Board members: and review the time commitments required of Non-Executive Directors: In identifying suitable candidates for appointment, the Committee in consultation with the chairs of the Boards committees, review and will assess objective criteria with due regard to the benefits of diversity if appropriate recommend changes to the composition of the on the Board.
committees: consider the re-appointment of Non-Executive Directors at the TERMS OF REFERENCE conclusion of their specified terms of office, giving due regard to their The Committees terms of reference are available at: performance and ability to continue to contribute to the Board: www.
They were updated in 2018 to reflect changes arising under the New Code.
make recommendations to the Board on the independence of NonExecutive Directors: assess the appointment of any Director to an executive or other office within the Group: and review the Committees terms of reference from time to time.
