Audit Committee report Effectiveness of internal controls and Group assurance and risk function The above efforts provided the Committee with a clear and detailed understanding of the principal operations at all levels over the year.
The Committee continued to focus on challenging the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, the robustness of the Group Assurance and Risk Management processes and in assessing the importance of, and acting as required upon, all reported information received from our external and internal auditors and third-party advisers.
We remain committed to maintaining an open and constructive dialogue with our shareholders on audit matters.
Therefore, if you have any comments or questions on any element of the report, please email myself, care of Adrian Brannan, Group Risk Director, at company.
com Colin Rutherford Chairman of the Audit Committee Membership and remit of the Audit Committee Introduction from the The main purpose of the Audit Committee is to review and maintain oversight of Mitchells & Butlers corporate governance, particularly Audit Committee Chairman with respect to financial reporting, internal control and risk management.
The Audit Committees responsibilities also include: I am delighted to present, on behalf reviewing the processes for detecting fraud, misconduct and internal of the Board, the report of its Audit control weaknesses: Committee for the financial year ended reviewing the effectiveness of the Group Assurance function: and 29 September 2018. overseeing the relationship with the external and internal auditors.
At the date of the Annual Report, the Audit Committee comprises Over the past year we continued to have the benefit of spending four independent Non-Executive Directors: Colin Rutherford Chair, valuable time with our Group Risk Director and those key individuals Imelda Walsh, Stewart Gilliland and Dave Coplin, and two further throughout the Group, who collectively provide an appreciation and Non-Executive Directors nominated by substantial shareholders, rigorous insight into how our Group functions and reports.
These Ron Robson and Eddie Irwin.
In accordance with Code provision C. 3.1 interactions are extremely valuable and the Committee is grateful the Board considers that Colin Rutherford has significant, recent and for the instruction they provide.
These activities also significantly relevant financial experience.
Biographies of all of the members of the assist towards the promotion and efficient execution of the Audit Committee, including a summary of their respective experience, Committees oversight role.
Engagement with auditors and third parties Following the appointment of three Independent Non-Executive Directors in April and May 2013, Committee members were appointed The Committee continued to engage formally, regularly and at with effect from 11 July 2013, and revised terms of reference were an appropriate level of detail with our external auditors, internal established, in order to comply with Code requirements.
Those terms auditors also externally resourced and other third-party advisers of reference are reviewed by the Committee annually.
This has enabled the Committee to maintain an appropriate understanding of how our auditors and third-party The Audit Committee continued to meet quarterly during FY 2018. advisers interact with our assurance and risk function.
In turn this In each case, appropriate papers were distributed to the Committee enabled these essential reporting authorities to provide members and other invited attendees, including, where and to the comprehensive coverage over the whole audit process and has extent appropriate, representatives of the external audit firm and helped augment our Committees confidence in their respective the internal Group Assurance function.
When appropriate, the Audit Committee augments the skills and It is also important to note our Committees role in overseeing experience of its members with advice from internal and external audit the well-considered provision of adequate resources by the Group, professionals, for example, on matters such as developments in financial towards ensuring that any additional non-audit services required reporting.
Audit Committee meetings are also attended, by invitation, by over the year were obtained, where necessary, and in dealing with other members of the Board including the Chairman, the Chief Executive the increasing role of the Financial Reporting Council FRC and and the Finance Director, the Company Secretary and General Counsel, its evolving reporting requirements.
the Group Risk Director and representatives of the external auditor, Deloitte LLP.
The Audit Committee also meets privately not less than twice a year, without any member of management present, in relation to audit matters, with the external auditor.
The remuneration of the members of the Audit Committee is set out in the Report on Directors remuneration on page 80.
64 Mitchells & Butlers plc  STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 TO 147 OTHER INFORMATION 148 TO 152 Summary terms of reference oversee the process for dealing with complaints received by the Group regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters A copy of the Audit Committees terms of reference is publicly and any confidential, anonymous submission by employees of concerns available within the Investor section of the Companys website: regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters: and www.
com pdf audit committee terms.
pdf adopt and oversee a specific Code of Ethics for all corporate The Audit Committees terms of reference were approved by the employees which is consistent with the Companys overall statement Committee and adopted by the plc Board in 2013.
Those terms of of business ethics.
reference specifically provide that they will be reviewed annually.
They have been reviewed and updated as appropriate each year since Key activities of the Audit Committee and no changes were felt to be needed in FY 2018.
At the time of re-adoption of the Companys Corporate Governance Compliance Audit matters are reviewed at quarterly Audit Committee meetings Statement in July 2016, as updated to reflect changes required to give throughout the year at which detailed reports are presented for review.
effect to the introduction of the Market Abuse Regulation MAR, The Audit Committee commissions reports from external advisers, any changes to the Companys governance arrangements to reflect the the Group Risk Director or Company management, either after requirements of MAR were introduced.
Other than those MAR-related consideration of the Companys major risks or in response to developing amendments, which related to consequential changes to regulatory issues.
During the year, in order to fulfil the roles and responsibilities of references e. g. the UKLAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules are now the Audit Committee, the following matters were considered: known as the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, there have the suitability of the Groups accounting policies and practices: been no material changes to these Terms of Reference since the last review in 2015.
Accordingly, in FY 2018 no material changes were made half year and full year financial results: to the terms of reference of the Audit Committee, and the work of the the scope and cost of the external audit: Audit Committee is kept under review with the expectation that any such matters which come to light are included in the review scheduled the auditors half year and full year reports: for FY 2019. reappointment and evaluation of the performance of the auditor, The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to review any activity including recommendations to the Board, for approval by within the business.
It is authorised to seek any information it requires shareholders, on the reappointment of the Companys auditor from, and require the attendance at any of its meetings of, any Director and on the approval of fees and terms of engagement: or member of management, and all employees are expected to non-audit work carried out by the auditor and trends in the non-audit co-operate with any request made by the Audit Committee.
fees in accordance with the Committees policy to ensure the The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to obtain, at the safeguarding of audit independence: Companys expense, outside legal or other independent professional the co-ordination of the activities and the work programmes of the advice and secure the attendance of outsiders with relevant experience internal and external audit functions: and expertise, if it considers this necessary.
the arrangements in respect of Group Assurance including its The Chair of the Audit Committee reports to the subsequent Board resourcing, external support, the scope of the annual internal audit meeting on the Committees work and the Board receives a copy plan for FY 2018 regarding the level of achievement and the scope of the minutes of each meeting.
of the annual internal audit plan for FY 2019: The role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to: periodic internal control and assurance reports from Group Assurance: review the Companys public statements on internal control, the Groups risk management framework for the identification and risk management and corporate governance compliance: control of major risks, its risk and assurance mitigation plan and the review the Companys processes for detecting fraud, misconduct annual assessment of effectiveness of controls: and control weaknesses and to consider the Companys response compliance with the Companys Code of Ethics: to any such occurrence: corporate governance developments: review managements evaluation of any change in internal controls over financial reporting: the status of material litigation involving the Group: and review with management and the auditor, Company financial statements reports on allegations made via the Groups whistleblowing required under UK legislation before submission to the Board: procedures and the effectiveness of these procedures including a summary of reports received during FY 2018. establish, review and maintain the role and effectiveness of the internal audit function, known as Group Assurance, whose objective is to provide independent assurance over the Groups significant processes and controls, including those in respect of the Groups key risks: assume direct responsibility for the appointment, compensation, resignation, dismissal and the overseeing of the auditor, including review of the external audit, its cost and effectiveness: pre-approve non-audit work to be carried out by the external auditor and the fees to be paid for that work together with the monitoring of the external auditors independence:  Mitchells & Butlers plc 65 Audit Committee report continued Disclosure of significant issues considered The principal objectives of the internal audit plan for FY 2018 were, and remain for FY 2019: The Audit Committee has reviewed the key judgements applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, which are described to provide confidence that existing and emerging key risks are being in the relevant accounting policies and detailed notes to the financial managed effectively: statements on pages 92 to 147. to confirm that controls over core business functions and processes The Audit Committees review included consideration of the following are operating as intended core assurance : and key accounting judgements: to confirm that major projects and significant business change Property, plant and equipment valuation the assumptions used by programmes are being adequately controlled.
management to value the long leasehold and freehold estate including During FY 2018, 17 audit reports were issued by the Group Assurance estimated fair maintainable trading levels, brand multiples and use of function and reviewed by the Board or the Audit Committee.
Internal spot valuations to ensure a consistent valuation methodology is in audit recommendations are closely monitored through to closure via place.
Short leasehold buildings, unlicensed land and buildings and a web-based recommendation tracking system, introduced in FY 2013 fixtures, fittings and equipment are held at cost less depreciation and and updated in FY 2018, which has significantly improved the overall impairment.
The revaluation methodology is determined by using monitoring of internal audit recommendations to ensure these are management judgement, with advice taken from third-party valuers: successfully implemented in a timely manner.
A summary of the status Valuation of onerous lease provisions determination of whether of the implementation of internal audit recommendations is made monthly a loss is unavoidable requires areas of judgement which include to the Executive Committee and quarterly to the Audit Committee.
consideration of potential future investment decisions, local conditions In FY 2018, a comprehensive tender process was undertaken regarding which may be impacting on current performance and the opportunity the co-sourced Group Assurance function.
PwC were successfully to surrender a lease back to the landlord: re-appointed based upon overall merit and quality of the team, to provide Pension deficit the pension liability is sensitive to the actuarial Group Assurance audit services to M&B for a further two-years.
assumptions applied in measuring future cash outflows.
The use of assumptions such as the discount rate and inflation which have an Risk management framework impact on the valuation of the defined benefit pension scheme has As disclosed in the Risk and uncertainties section on pages 38 to 42 been assessed by the Audit Committee.
The most significant criteria the Risk Committee continues to meet on a quarterly basis to review considered for the selection of bonds include the rating of the bonds the key risks facing the business.
Membership of the Risk Committee, and the currency and estimated term of the retirement benefit which includes representation from each of the key business functions, liabilities.
Management have used judgement to determine the is detailed below: applicable rate of inflation to apply to pension increases in calculating the defined benefit obligation: Company Secretary and General Counsel Chairman Covenants the headroom on the covenants within the securitised Group Finance Director estate, together with an evaluation of the mitigating options available Commercial and Marketing Director to management to ensure there is reasonable assurance that should a covenant be close to being breached, management have further Divisional Director Operations actions that could be undertaken to prevent such a breach occurring, Group HR Director have been reviewed in detail by management and assessed by the Audit Committee: and Director of Business Change & Technology Separately disclosed items judgement is used to determine Group Risk Director those items which should be separately disclosed to allow a better Head of Legal understanding of the adjusted trading performance of the Group.
This judgement includes assessment of whether an item is of sufficient Key risks identified are reviewed and assessed on a quarterly basis in size or of a nature that is not consistent with normal trading activities.
terms of their likelihood and impact, within the Groups Key Risk Heat Map, in conjunction with associated risk mitigation plans.
In addition, Effectiveness of internal audit the Risk Committee review includes an assessment of the material relevance of emerging risks and the continued relevance of previously The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing identified risks.
During FY 2018, Risk Committee meetings continued the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function.
The Audit to include a cross-functional, detailed review of the Groups key risks.
Committee meets regularly with management and with the Group Risk This process, which was introduced in FY 2016, continues to prove to be Director and the internal auditor, to review the effectiveness of internal effective and adds value to the continued development and progression controls and risk management and receives reports from the Group Risk of the Groups approach to evaluating new and existing risks, supported Director on a quarterly basis.
The annual internal audit plan is approved by the Audit Committee Actions arising from Risk Committee meetings are followed up by the and kept under review on a monthly basis, by the Group Risk Director, Group Risk Director.
The Audit Committee reviews the Risk Committee in order to reflect the changing business needs and to ensure new and minutes, in addition to undertaking a quarterly review of the Groups emerging risks are considered.
The Audit Committee is informed of any Key Risk Heat Map.
amendments made to the audit plan on a quarterly basis.
The FY 2018 internal audit plan was developed through a review of formal risk assessments in conjunction with the Risk Committee and the Groups Executive Committee together with consideration of the Groups key business processes and functions that could be subject to audit.
A similar approach has been employed in relation to the FY 2019 internal audit plan.
66 Mitchells & Butlers plc  STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 TO 147 OTHER INFORMATION 148 TO 152 Confidential reporting The Audit Committee remains confident that the objectivity and independence of the auditor are not in any way impaired by reason The Groups whistleblowing policy enables staff, in confidence, to raise of the non-audit services which they provide to the Group.
concerns about possible improprieties in financial and other matters and to do so without fear of reprisal.
Details of the policy are set out in the That policy also includes an extensive list of services which the audit Companys Code of Ethics.
The Audit Committee receives quarterly firm may not provide or may only provide in very limited circumstances reports on whistleblowing incidents and remains satisfied that the where the Company and the audit firm agree that there would be no procedures in place are satisfactory to enable independent investigation impact on the impartiality of the audit firm.
Details of the remuneration and follow up action of all matters reported.
No major issues have been paid to the auditor, and the split between audit and non-audit services, reported in FY 2018 major issues being defined for this purpose as are set out in note 2.3 of the financial statements on page 112. matters having a financial impact of greater than 100k.
External audit annual assessment External auditor appointment The Audit Committee assesses annually the qualification, expertise, Deloitte LLP was appointed as the auditor in 2011, following a formal resources and independence of the Groups auditor and the overall tender process.
The Audit Committee has considered the guidance effectiveness of the audit process.
The Finance Director, Company in relation to rotation including the proposed transition rules which will Secretary and General Counsel, Audit Committee Chairman and Group be considered when recommending the appointment of the auditor in Risk Director meet with the auditor to discuss the audit, significant risks future years.
The most recent audit partner rotation took place in 2016 and any key issues included on the Audit Committees agenda during whereby John Charlton became the lead Audit Partner.
has complied throughout the reporting year with the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Fair, balanced and understandable statement Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee One of the key governance requirements of the Groups financial Responsibilities Order 2014.
Under the terms of that Order, the statements is for the report and accounts to be fair, balanced and Committee expects to carry out a competitive audit tender by no later understandable.
Therefore, upon review of the financial statements, than 2020 in respect of the financial year ending in 2021 to ensure the the Audit Committee and the Board have confirmed that they are continued objectivity, independence and value for money of the satisfied with the overall fairness, balance and clarity of the Annual statutory audit.
It may choose to do so at an earlier time.
Report, which is underpinned by the following: The Audit Committee considers that the relationship with the auditor is formal minutes of the year end working group comprised of relevant working well and is satisfied with its effectiveness and has not considered internal functional representatives and appropriate external advisers: it necessary to require Deloitte LLP to re-tender for the external audit work.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys clear guidance being issued to all contributors to ensure a consistent choice of auditor.
approach: and formal review processes at all levels to ensure the Annual Report External auditors independence is factually correct.
The external auditor should not provide non-audit services where it might impair their independence or objectivity to do so.
The Audit Colin Rutherford Chairman of the Audit Committee Committee has established a policy to safeguard the independence and objectivity of the Groups auditor as set out below.
That policy 21 November 2018 has been reviewed in FY 2018 and a copy of it is appended to the Audit Committees terms of reference and is available on the Companys The Going Concern and Long-Term Viability Statements website.
Pursuant to that policy the following services have been can be found on pages 105 and 42 respectively.
pre-approved by the Audit Committee provided that the fees for such services do not exceed in any year more than 70% of the average audit fee paid to that audit firm over the past three years: audit services, including work related to the annual Group financial statements, and statutory accounts: and certain specified tax services, including tax compliance, tax planning and tax advice.
Acquisition and vendor due-diligence may only be provided if it is specifically approved by the Committee on a case by case basis in advance of the engagement commencing.
Any other work for which management wishes to utilise the external auditor must be approved as follows: services with fees less than 50,000 may be approved by the Finance Director: and engagements with fees over 50,000 fall to be approved by the Audit Committee or its Chair.
