Board of Directors Knowledge and experience Bob Ivell Phil Urban Tim Jones RNM ME ME Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Aged 66 Aged 55 Aged 55 Appointed to the Board in May 2011, Bob has Phil joined Mitchells & Butlers in January 2015 Tim was appointed Finance Director in over 30 years of extensive food and beverage as Chief Operating Officer and became October 2010.
Prior to joining the Company, experience with a particular focus on food-led, Chief Executive in September 2015.
Phil was he held the position of Group Finance Director managed restaurants, pubs and hotels.
previously Managing Director at Grosvenor for Interserve plc, a support services group.
He is currently Non-Executive Chairman Casinos, a division of Rank Group and Previously, he was Director of Financial of Carpetright plc, a Non-Executive Director Chairman of the National Casino Forum.
Operations at Novar plc and held senior of Charles Wells Limited and President of Prior to that, he was Managing Director for financial roles both in the UK and overseas in The Association of Licensed Multiple Retailers.
Whitbreads Pub Restaurant division, and for the logistics company, Exel plc.
Tim is a member He was previously Senior Independent Scottish & Newcastle Retails Restaurants and of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Director of AGA Rangemaster Group plc Accommodation Division.
Phil has an MBA and in England and Wales and obtained an and Britvic plc, and a main Board Director of is a qualified management accountant CIMA.
MA in Economics at Cambridge University.
S&N plc as Chairman and Managing Director of its Scottish & Newcastle retail division.
He has also been Chairman of Regent Inns, Park Resorts and David Lloyd Leisure Limited, and was Managing Director of Beefeater Restaurants, one of Whitbreads pub restaurant brands, and a Director of The Restaurant Group.
Bob is Chair of the Nomination Committee and of the Market Disclosure Committee.
Ron Robson Colin Rutherford Imelda Walsh AN Deputy Chairman Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive ARNM ARN Aged 55 Director Director Appointed as Deputy Chairman in July 2011, Aged 59 Aged 54 Ron is a Managing Director of Tavistock Group, Appointed as an independent Non-Executive Appointed as an independent Non-Executive Chief Executive of Ultimate Finance Group, Director in April 2013, Colin is currently Director in April 2013, Imelda is a Non-Executive Chairman of Avenue Insurance Partners and a Chairman of Brookgate Limited and Teachers Director, and Chair of the Remuneration Non-Executive Director of Tottenham Hotspur Media plc.
He is also a Non-Executive Director Committees of FirstGroup plc and Aston Limited.
He was previously Chief Financial of Evofem Biosciences Inc. and Renaissance Martin Lagonda Global Holdings plc.
She was Officer of Tamar Capital Partners and Group Services SAOG amongst his other activities.
a Non-Executive Director, and subsequently Finance Director of Kenmore, both property He was formerly Executive Chairman of MAM Chair of the Remuneration Committee, of investment and management groups.
From Funds plc and Euro Sales Finance plc and has William Hill plc from 2011 to 2018, Mothercare 2005 to 2008 he was Group Finance Director served as a Director of various other public plc from 2013 to 2016, and Sainsburys Bank of The Belhaven Group plc, a listed pub and private companies in the UK and overseas.
She has held senior retailing, brewing and drink distribution group.
Colin is a member of the Institute of Chartered Executive roles at J Sainsbury plc, where she Prior to that he held a number of senior finance Accountants of Scotland and has directly was Group HR Director from March 2004 to roles including Group Finance Director of a relevant corporate finance experience in July 2010, Barclays Bank plc and Coca-Cola & listed shipping and logistics group, and trained both the leisure and hospitality industries.
Imelda is Chair as a Chartered Accountant with Arthur Colin is Chairman of the Audit Committee, of the Remuneration Committee.
Ron is a nominated shareholder and serves on all other independent representative of Piedmont Inc. governance committees.
48 Mitchells & Butlers plc  STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 TO 147 OTHER INFORMATION 148 TO 152 Stewart Gilliland Eddie Irwin Josh Levy ARN ARN R Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Aged 61 Aged 59 Aged 28 Appointed as an independent Non-Executive Appointed as a Non-Executive Director Appointed a Non-Executive Director Director in May 2013 and as Senior in March 2012, Eddie is a nominee of Elpida in November 2015, Josh is a nominated Independent Director in February 2015.
Group Limited, a significant shareholder in shareholder representative of Piedmont Inc. Stewart was Chief Executive Officer of Muller Mitchells & Butlers.
Eddie is Finance Director a significant shareholder in Mitchells & Butlers.
Dairy UK Limited until 2010 and prior to that of Coolmore, a leading thoroughbred Josh is an Investment Analyst at Tavistock held senior management positions in InBev SA, bloodstock breeder with operations in Ireland, Group having previously worked in the Interbrew UK Limited and Whitbread plc.
the USA and Australia and a Non-Executive Investment Banking Division of Investec Bank.
He is currently Chairman of C&C Group plc Director of Grove Ltd, the holding company of Josh holds an MSc and a BA Hons from the and Curious Drinks Limited and a Non-Executive Barchester Healthcare Limited.
He graduated University of Nottingham.
Director of Tesco plc and Natures Way from University College Dublin with a Bachelor Foods Limited.
of Commerce Degree and he is a Fellow of both the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants and the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Keith Browne Dave Coplin Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive ARN Aged 49 Director Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in Aged 48 September 2016, Keith is a representative of Appointed as an independent Non-Executive Elpida Group Limited, a significant shareholder Director in February 2016, Dave is the CEO in Mitchells & Butlers.
Keith obtained a and founder of The Envisioners Limited and Bachelor of Commerce Degree from University was formerly the Chief Envisioning Officer College Dublin, qualified as a chartered for Microsoft Limited, and is an established accountant in 1994 and subsequently gained thought leader on the role of technology in an MBA from University College Dublin.
After our personal and professional lives.
For over joining KPMG Corporate Finance in 1996, he 25 years he has worked across a range of became a partner in the firm in 2001 and Head industries and customer marketplaces, of Corporate Finance in 2009.
He retired from providing strategic advice and guidance the partnership to operate as an Independent around the role and optimisation of technology Consultant in 2011. in the modern society both inside and outside of the world of work.
Key to Committee membership A Audit Committee R Remuneration Committee N Nomination Committee M Market Disclosure Committee E Executive Committee  Mitchells & Butlers plc 49
