Directors report Share capital The Boards responsibilities in respect of the The Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 29 September 2018 Company include: comprised a single class of ordinary shares of which 428,310,823 shares Determining the overall business and commercial strategy were in issue and listed on the London Stock Exchange 30 September Identifying the Companys long-term objectives 2017 422,548,604 shares.
The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares of the Company are contained within the Companys Reviewing the annual operating budget and financial plans Articles of Association.
Of the issued share capital, no shares were held and monitoring performance in relation to those plans in treasury and the Companys employee share trusts held 1,885,130 Determining the basis of the allocation of capital shares.
Details of movements in the issued share capital can be found in note 4.7 to the financial statements on page 139.
Each share carries the Considering all policy matters relating to the Companys activities right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
The notice of the including any major change of policy Annual General Meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights in relation to the resolutions to be put to the Annual General Meeting.
F or the Companys latest financial information go to: www.
com investors All issued shares are fully paid up and carry no additional obligations or special rights.
There are no restrictions on transfers of shares in the Company, or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them, other than The Directors present their report on the affairs of the Group and the those which may from time to time be applicable under existing laws and audited financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 29 September 2018. regulations and under the Articles of Association.
In addition, pursuant The Business review of the Company and its subsidiaries is given on to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, Directors and pages 14 to 17 which, together with the Corporate governance statement certain officers and employees of the Group require the prior approval and Audit Committee report, are incorporated by reference into this of the Company to deal in the ordinary shares of the Company.
report and, accordingly, should be read as part of this report.
Participants in the Share Incentive Plan SIP may complete a Form Details of the Groups policy on addressing risks are given on pages 38 of Instruction which is used by Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited, to 42 and 62 and 63, and details about financial instruments are shown the SIP Trustee, as the basis for voting on their behalf.
in note 4.4 to the financial statements.
These sections include information about trends and factors likely to affect the future development and During the year, shares with a nominal value of 34,816 were allotted performance of the Groups businesses.
The Company undertakes under all-employee schemes as permitted under Section 549 of the no obligation to update forward-looking statements.
Companies Act 2006, and shares with a nominal value of 457,374 were allotted pursuant to the Scrip Dividend Scheme.
No securities Key performance indicators for the Groups businesses are set out were issued in connection with a rights issue during the year.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders This report has been prepared under current legislation and guidance that restrict the transfer of shares or voting rights attached to the shares.
in force at the year end date.
In addition, the material contained on pages 1 to 45 reflects the Directors understanding of the requirement Interests of the Directors and their immediate families in the issued share to provide a Strategic report.
capital of the Company as at the year end are on page 86 in the Report on Directors remuneration.
This report has been prepared for, and only for, the members of the Company as a body, and no other persons.
The Company, its Directors, Dividends employees, agents or advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands No final dividend will be paid in respect of the year ended 29 September it may come or who becomes aware of it and any such responsibility 2018 FY 2017 final dividend of 5p.
No interim dividend was paid during or liability is expressly disclaimed.
the year FY 2017 interim dividend of 2.5p.
Areas of operation Throughout FY 2018 the Group had activities in, and operated through, pubs, bars and restaurants in the United Kingdom and Germany.
50 Mitchells & Butlers plc  STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 TO 147 OTHER INFORMATION 148 TO 152 Interests in voting rights The Companys two largest shareholders, Piedmont Inc. and Elpida Group Limited, have nominated representatives on the Board.
Piedmonts As at 29 September 2018, the Company was aware of the following appointment rights are formalised in the Deed of Appointment referred significant holdings of voting rights 3% or more in its shares: to in this report but there is no equivalent agreement in place between %of the Company and Elpida.
The Elpida representatives were appointed Shareholder Ordinaryshares sharecapital with the approval of the Board in March 2012 and September 2016.
Piedmont Inc. 116,234,517 27.14 Direct holding The Board has carefully considered whether it would be appropriate to enter into a formal agreement with Elpida that is similar to the existing Elpida Group Limited 100,840,659 23.54 Direct holding agreement between the Company and Piedmont.
Having taken into Standard Life account the Financial Reporting Councils report of August 2014 Aberdeen plc 47,103,182 10.99 Indirect holding Towards Clear & Concise Reporting and the views expressed previously Smoothfield Holding by certain of the investor representative bodies, the Board considers that Limited 19,021,589 4.44 Direct holding such an agreement would be merely one of form rather than substance and not in the interests of shareholders generally.
As a result, the Board Based on the total voting rights figure as at 29 September 2018 of 428,310,823 shares.
does not propose currently that the Company should enter into such The following changes took place between 30 September 2018 and an agreement with Elpida, and Elpida has not, to date, sought such an 21 November 2018: agreement.
The Board considers that the Company is acting in accordance with good governance principles in working with our significant Standard Life Aberdeen plc notified the Company on 5 October 2018 long-term shareholders towards our common goals and the achievement that its holding had decreased to 44,739,657 shares 10.45%, and again of the Companys strategy, with continued stability at Board level.
on 7 November 2018 that its holding had decreased to 42,780,803 shares 9.99%.
Directors indemnity Directors As permitted by the Articles of Association, each of the Directors has the benefit of an indemnity, which is a qualifying third-party indemnity Details of the Directors as at 21 November 2018 and their biographies as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
The indemnity are shown on pages 48 and 49.
The Directors at 29 September 2018 and was in force throughout the tenure of each Director during the last their interests in shares are shown on page 86.
There were no changes financial year, and is currently in force.
The Company also purchased to the Board of Directors during the year nor subsequent to the year end, and maintained throughout the financial year Directors and Officers up to the date of this report.
In September 2018, the Company liability insurance in respect of itself and its Directors.
No indemnity announced that Stewart Gilliland had informed the Board of his intention is provided for the Companys auditor.
to step down from the Board and this is likely to take place by the end of December 2018.
Articles of Association The Company is governed by its Articles of Association and The Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation in relation to the of the shareholders of the Company.
appointment and removal of Directors.
The powers of the Companys Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
Conflicts of interest In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association which are The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider in line with best practice guidance of the UK Corporate Governance Code and, if it sees fit, authorise situations where a Director has an interest all the Directors, with the exception of Stewart Gilliland, will retire at the that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the AGM and will offer themselves for re-election.
The Board has a formal system Under a Deed of Appointment between Piedmont Inc. and the in place for Directors to declare Situational Conflicts to be considered Company, Piedmont Inc. has the right to appoint two shareholder for authorisation by those Directors who have no interest in the matter Directors to the Board whilst it owns 22% or more of the issued share being considered.
In deciding whether to authorise a Situational Conflict, capital of the Company, and the right to appoint one shareholder the non-conflicted Directors are required to act in the way they consider Director to the Board whilst it owns more than 16% of the Company would be most likely to promote the success of the Company for the but less than 22%.
In the event that Piedmont Inc. owns less than 16% benefit of all shareholders, and they may impose limits or conditions of the Company any such shareholder Directors would be required when giving authorisation, or subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
The Board believes that the systems it has in place for reporting and considering Situational Conflicts continue to operate effectively.
 Mitchells & Butlers plc 51 Directors report continued Related party transactions Employment policies Internal controls are in place to ensure that any related party transactions The Group employed an average of 44,802 people in FY 2018 FY 2017 involving Directors or their connected persons are carried out on an 45,891.
Through its diversity policy, the Company seeks to ensure that arms-length basis and are properly recorded.
every employee, without exception, is treated equally and fairly and that all employees are aware of their responsibilities.
Change of control provisions Our policies and procedures fully support our disabled colleagues.
There are no significant agreements which contain provisions entitling We take active measures to do so via: other parties to such agreements to exercise termination or other rights a robust reasonable adjustment policy: in the event of a change of control of the Company.
disability-specific online resources accessible via the Groups There are no provisions in the Directors or employees service online recruitment system : and agreements providing for compensation for loss of office or employment occurring because of a takeover.
processes to ensure colleagues are fully supported.
The trustee of the Companys SIP will invite participants on whose The Group is responsive to the needs of its employees.
As such, should behalf it holds shares to direct it how to vote in respect of those shares, any employee of the Group become disabled during their time with us, and, if there is an offer for the shares or other transaction which would we will actively retrain that employee and make reasonable adjustments lead to a change of control of the Company, participants may direct it to to their environment where possible, in order to keep the employee accept the offer or agree to the transaction.
The trustee of the Mitchells & with the Group.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career Butlers Employee Benefit Trust may, having consulted with the Company, development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as vote or abstain from voting in respect of any shares it holds or accept or possible, be identical to that of other employees.
reject an offer relating to shares in any way it sees fit, and it may take all or any of the following matters into account: the long-term interests of Employee engagement beneficiaries, the non-financial interests of beneficiaries, the interests Mitchells & Butlers engages with its employees continuously and in of beneficiaries in their capacity as employees or former employees, a number of ways to suit their different working patterns.
This includes: the interests of future beneficiaries and considerations of a local, moral, ethical, environmental or social nature.
line manager briefings: The rules of certain of the Companys share plans include provisions communications forums and roadshows held by functions or brands which apply in the event of a takeover or reconstruction, as set out below.
across the Company: a dedicated intranet for the Retail Support Team: Provisions which apply in the event of a takeover or reconstruction Mable, the M&B online learning system: Shareplan  email news alerts: 2013 Performance Restricted Awards vest pro rata to focus groups: Share Plan performance and time elapsed weekly bulletins specifically targeted at retail house managers and lapse six months later and mobile workers: 2013 Short Term Deferred Bonus shares may be released employee social media groups: and Incentive Plan or exchanged for shares in the new controlling company a monthly magazine poster, Frontline News, for the retail estate.
Details of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance 2013 Sharesave Plan Options may be exercised within of the Company are shared with all employees at the appropriate time six months of a change of control using the methods listed above.
Share Incentive Plan Free shares may be released We provide opportunities for employees to give their feedback or exchanged for shares in the to the Company in a number of ways, from team or shift meetings in new controlling company restaurants, bars and pubs and engagement surveys for all employees to the Mitchells & Butlers annual Business Forum.
Business Forum representatives collect questions from employees across the Company and put them to members of the Executive Committee.
The questions and answers are published in Frontline News and online.
Engagement with Mable the Mitchells & Butlers learning environment has grown significantly since launch in July 2017 driven by our ability to create and deliver quality online training in-house.
In the last year we have added online training for each brand food menu change and drinks training for seasonal products is now delivered via Mables social pages.
Development programmes for all retail team now incorporate live online classrooms delivered via interactive webinar with over 46,000 learners attending one of the 2,400 workshops led by our retail training team.
The STAR skills training programme is a comprehensive learning resource on Mable for all new retail team.
85% of users return frequently to the site.
52 Mitchells & Butlers plc  STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 TO 147 OTHER INFORMATION 148 TO 152 Mitchells & Butlers operates the Challenge 21 policy in all our businesses Going concern across England and Wales and a Challenge 25 policy in our Scottish The financial statements which appear on pages 92 to 147 have been businesses.
The policy requires that any guest attempting to buy alcohol prepared on a going concern basis.
The Directors have reviewed the who appears under the age of 21 or 25 in Scotland, must provide an Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: acceptable form of proof of age ID to confirm that they are over 18, its financial risk management objectives: its financial instruments before they can be served.
This policy forms part of our regular training and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
for our employees on their responsibilities for serving alcohol.
The Groups financing is based on securitised debt and unsecured bank Mitchells & Butlers is keen to encourage greater employee involvement facilities and, within this context, a robust review has been undertaken in the Groups performance through share ownership.
It operates two of projected performance against all financial covenants.
As a result HMRC approved all-employee plans, which are the 2013 Sharesave of this review the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Plan and the Share Incentive Plan which includes Partnership shares.
Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the The Company also operates two other plans on a selective basis, which foreseeable future.
See section 1 of the financial statements on page 105 are the 2013 Performance Restricted Share Plan and the 2013 Short Term for the Companys going concern statement, and page 42 for the Deferred Incentive Plan.
Further details on the plans are set out in the Companys long-term viability statement.
Annual General Meeting During the year, the Company has remained within its headroom limits for the issue of new shares for share plans as set out in the rules of the The notice convening the Annual General Meeting is contained in a above plans.
The Company uses an employee benefit trust to acquire circular sent to shareholders with this report and includes full details shares in the market when appropriate to satisfy share awards in order of the resolutions proposed.
to manage headroom under the plan rules.
No shares in the Company were purchased by the employee benefit trust during FY 2018.
Auditor Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor Political donations of the Company and its reappointment will be put to shareholders at The Company made no political donations during the year and intends the AGM.
to maintain its policy of not making such payments.
It will, however, as a precautionary measure to avoid inadvertent breach of the law, Events after the balance sheet date seek shareholder authority at its 2019 AGM to make limited donations As set out in note 5.3 to the Group financial statements on page 142, on or incur limited political expenditure, although it has no intention 26 October 2018 the High Court provided a ruling regarding guaranteed of using the authority.
That court case did not involve the Company or its pension schemes but, unless reversed on appeal Funding and liquidity risk as to which it is not clear as at the date of this report whether there will In order to ensure that the Groups long-term funding strategy is aligned be an appeal it will apply to the Company and its Group and GMPs with its strategic objectives, the Treasury Committee regularly assesses enjoyed by members of the Groups pension schemes.
The court ruled the maturity profile of the Groups debt, alongside the prevailing financial that pensions provided to members who had contracted-out of their projections and three year plan.
This enables it to ensure that funding scheme must be recalculated to ensure payments reflect the equalisation levels are appropriate to support the Groups plans.
of state pension ages in the 1990s.
The ruling confirmed the method of equalising GMPs that is to be applied.
The court also ruled that trustees The current funding arrangements of the Group consist of the securitised are obliged to make arrears payments to members and simple interest notes issued by Mitchells & Butlers Finance plc and associated liquidity on the arrears should be paid at 1% above the base rate.
More details facility and 150m of unsecured committed bank facilities.
Further of how this ruling may impact the Company are set out in note 5.3 information regarding these arrangements is included in note 4.2 to the to the financial statements.
The terms of the securitisation and the bank facilities contain a number of financial and operational covenants.
There are no other post-balance sheet events to report.
Compliance with these covenants is monitored by Group Treasury.
Disclosure of information to auditor The Group prepares a rolling daily cash forecast covering a six week period and an annual cash forecast by period.
These forecasts are reviewed and Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors are aware, used to manage the investment and borrowing requirements of the Group.
specifically those who are a Director at the date of approval of the Annual A combination of cash pooling and zero balancing agreements is in place Report, there is no relevant audit information as defined by Section 418 3 to ensure the optimum liquidity position is maintained.
Committed of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditor is unaware facilities outside of the securitisation are sized to ensure that the Group and each Director has taken all steps that ought to have been taken to can meet its medium-term anticipated cash flow requirements.
make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
 Mitchells & Butlers plc 53 Directors report continued Greenhouse gas GHG emissions statement The Group generates GHG emissions throughout its estate of bars and restaurants for heating, cooling, lighting and catering including the refrigeration and preparation of food and drink.
GHG emissions per m turnover were reduced by 10.8% during the 2017 18 tax year in comparison to 2016 17 in response to a continued focus on engaging staff on energy efficiency and through investment across our business.
Assessmentparameters Assessment year 2017 18 tax year.
Boundary summary All bars and restaurants either owned or under operational control during the 2017 18 tax year were included.
Scope General classifications of greenhouse gas emissions scopes based on the GHG protocol and ISO 14064-1:2006 within the context of the Groups operations are as follows: Scope 1 direct greenhouse gas emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by the Group, e. g. fuel combustion of varying types, occurs during kitchen activity and to generate heating and domestic hot water most commonly through natural grid supplied gas, but also some LPG Liquefied Petroleum Gas and oil.
Real fires fuelled by logs or coal are also used to supplement customer comfort and enhance ambience.
Scope 2 GHG emissions from the generation of purchased electricity used during kitchen activity and for lighting, heating and cooling.
Scope 3 indirect emissions as a consequence of the activities of the Group, but occurring from sources not owned or controlled by the Group.
This assessment focuses on Scope 1 and 2 emissions only Scope 3 is optional under the current regulations.
Consistency with the financial statements Scope 1 and 2 emissions are reported for the 2017 18 and 2016 17 tax years to retain consistency with reporting of our carbon emissions under the Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme.
Scope 1 and 2 emissions from sites with landlord supplies are not included in the CRC submission.
Franchise sites are excluded as they are responsible for arranging and paying for their own energy.
Alex sites in Germany are included.
Emissions are based on UK average emissions multiplied by the number of Alex sites.
Exclusions Scope 1 Vehicle fleet emissions are excluded as they have been calculated to account for 1% total emissions which falls below the materiality threshold.
Scope 1 Fugitive emissions within refrigeration and cooling equipment are not included as detailed records are not yet held.
Outside of scope Logs are outside of scope because the Scope 1 impact of these fuels has been determined to be a net 0.
However, the CO e value of logs has been 2 calculated to be 1% and would be excluded in any case as this falls below the materiality threshold.
Emission factor data source All carbon emission factors used are consistent with details provided in the respective Carbon Reduction Commitment submissions.
Assessment methodology Defra Environmental Guidelines 2013.
Materiality threshold All emission types estimated to contribute 1% of total emissions are included.
Intensity threshold Emissions are stated in tonnes CO e per m revenue.
This intensity ratio puts emissions 2 into context given the scale of the Groups activities and enables comparison with prior year performance.
Target Emissions during the 2016 17 tax year are provided for comparative purposes.
It should be noted that the 2016 17 emissions have been re-calculated with electricity transmission and distribution losses removed as these are now classed as Scope 3 emissions.
54 Mitchells & Butlers plc  STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 TO 147 OTHER INFORMATION 148 TO 152 2016 17 2017 18 Change from previous year % movement  tCO e tCO e m tCO e tCO e m tCO e tCO e m in tCO e m 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 Scope 1 95,993 45.4 90,021 41.2 5,972 4.2 9.3% Scope 2 163,960 77.6 149,721 68.5 14,239 9.1 11.7% Statutory total Scope 1 & 2 259,953 123.0 239,742 109.7 20,211 13.3 10.8% Statutory carbon reporting disclosures required by Companies Act 2006.
Modern Slavery Act 2015 In accordance with the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act, the Board has approved and the Company has accordingly published its compliance statement on its website.
This can be accessed at www.
com By order of the Board Greg McMahon Company Secretary and General Counsel 21 November 2018  Mitchells & Butlers plc 55
