STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 TO 147 OTHER INFORMATION 148 TO 152 Corporate governance statement The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
I am delighted to be able to report that the Board considers that the Company has complied throughout the year ended 29 September 2018 with all the provisions and best practice guidance of the Code except those in respect of Board composition and the constitution of Board Committees.
This corporate governance statement addresses the small number of areas where, for reasons specific to Mitchells & Butlers, there are divergences from the Code as described below.
The Audit Committee report and Nomination Committee report which are set out on pages 64 to 67 and page 60 respectively of the Annual Report also form part of this corporate governance statement and they should all be considered together.
The Board recognises the importance of good corporate governance in creating a sustainable, successful and profitable business and details Bob Ivell Chairman are set out in this statement of the Companys corporate governance procedures and application of the principles of the Code.
There are, however, a small number of areas where, for reasons specifically related This corporate governance statement to the Company, the detailed provisions of the Code were not fully sets out our report to shareholders on complied with in FY 2018.
These areas are kept under regular review.
A fundamental aspect of the Code is that it contains best practice the status of our corporate governance recommendations in relation to corporate governance yet acknowledges that, in individual cases, these will not all necessarily be appropriate for arrangements.
Accordingly, the Code specifically recognises the concept of Comply or Explain in relation to divergences from the Code.
The Board is responsible for ensuring that the activities of the Mitchells & Butlers Group and its various businesses are conducted Compliance with the Code in compliance with the law, regulatory requirements and rules, good Except for the matters which are explained below in line with the practices, ethically and with appropriate and proper governance and Comply or Explain concept, the Company complied fully with the standards.
This includes reviewing internal controls, ensuring that principles and provisions of the Code throughout the financial year there is an appropriate balance of skills and experience represented in respect of which this statement is prepared and continues to do on the Board and compliance with the UK Corporate Governance so as at the date of this statement.
Code the Code, which is issued by the Financial Reporting Council and which is available at www.
uk, and for maintaining Explanation for non-compliance with parts of the Code appropriate relations with shareholders.
During the year, there were three divergences from full compliance with the Code as set out below by reference to specific paragraphs The Company is reporting against the 2016 edition of the Code.
in the Code: A revised Code was published In July 2018, which will become effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
1.2 Composition of the Board, C. 3.1 and D. 2.1 Constitution The key changes between the 2016 and 2018 Codes are: of Committees During the year, Code Provision B.
1.2, which requires that at least enhanced board engagement with the workforce and half of the Board be made up of independent Non-Executive Directors wider stakeholders: excluding the Chairman, was not complied with.
Accordingly, a clear business strategy aligned with a healthy corporate this had consequential implications on the composition of the Audit company culture: and Remuneration Committees.
There were no changes in Board composition during FY 2018.
In September 2018, the Company a high-quality and diverse board composition: and announced that Stewart Gilliland had informed the Board of his intention proportionate executive remuneration that supports the long-term to step down from the Board and the Board has commenced a process success of the business.
of identification and recruitment of a replacement.
The Board will examine current practices in relation to the While the Board does not comply fully with the requirement for at requirements of the 2018 Code and will report in relation to them least half of its members to be independent, it recognises and values at the appropriate time.
the presence of representatives of its major shareholders on the Board and welcomes the interest shown by them in the Company as a whole.
The Board will continue to work closely with the representatives of The latest financial information for Mitchells & Butlers and its group its major shareholders to further the interests of the Company.
of companies is included in the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts of which this corporate governance statement forms part and which is available online at: www.
com investors  Mitchells & Butlers plc 57 Corporate governance statement continued The possibility of appointing a further independent Non-Executive the Company Secretary also co-ordinated the externally facilitated Director remains a matter for the Nomination Committee to review performance evaluation of the Board, details of the output of which and is considered regularly.
Throughout FY 2018, the Company had are set out at page 63.
The appointment and removal of the Company and continues to have fully functioning Nomination, Audit and Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
Remuneration Committees as required by the Code.
The Audit and Attendance levels at Board and Committee meetings Remuneration Committees are not fully compliant with the relevant provisions of paragraphs C. 3.1 and D. 2.1 of the Code in that they include Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee the presence of representatives of major shareholders.
Nevertheless, Directors who served during the year the Board values the contribution of those shareholder representatives on those Committees, does not consider this to be an impediment to Bob Ivell 10 10 n a 6 6 2 2 good governance and looks forward to continuing to work with them Keith Browne 10 10 n a n a n a on matters affecting the Group and its activities in the future.
Dave Coplin 10 10 4 4 6 6 2 2 The information required by Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule Stewart Gilliland 10 10 4 4 6 6 2 2 DGTR 7.1 is set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 64 to 67.
Eddie Irwin 10 10 4 4 6 6 2 2 The information required by DGTR 7.2 is set out in this corporate Tim Jones 10 10 n a n a n a governance statement, other than that required under DGTR 7.2.
6 Josh Levy 10 10 n a 6 6 n a which is set out in the Directors report on pages 50 to 55.
Ron Robson 10 10 4 4 n a 2 2 Board composition Colin Rutherford 10 10 4 4 6 6 2 2 Phil Urban 10 10 n a n a n a The Board started and ended the year with eleven Directors and the table opposite lists the composition of the Board during the year.
Imelda Walsh 10 10 4 4 6 6 2 2 The Board Directors The following were Directors of the Company during the year ended The Board is responsible to all stakeholders, including its shareholders, 29 September 2018: for the strategic direction, development and control of the Group.
Date Dateof It approves strategic plans and annual capital and revenue budgets.
appointed changeofrole It reviews significant investment proposals and the performance of Directors who served during the year past investments and maintains an overview and control of the Groups operating and financial performance.
It monitors the Groups overall Bob Ivell Independent Non- 1 system of internal controls, governance and compliance and ensures Executive Director 09 05 11 14 07 11 that the necessary financial, technical and human resources are in place 1 Interim Chairman 14 07 11 26 10 11 for the Company to meet its objectives.
Our website includes a schedule Executive Chairman 26 10 11 12 11 12 of matters which have been reserved for the main Board.
Non-Executive During FY 2018 there were ten scheduled Board meetings.
There Chairman 12 11 12 were also four meetings of the Audit Committee, six meetings of the 2 Keith Browne Non-Executive Director 22 09 16 Remuneration Committee and two meetings of the Nomination Dave Coplin Independent NonCommittee.
The table opposite shows attendance levels at the Board Executive Director 29 02 16 and Committee meetings held during the year: the numbers in brackets Stewart Gilliland Independent Nonconfirm how many meetings each Director was eligible to attend during Executive Director 23 05 13 the year.
Senior Independent Full attendance was recorded for all Directors in respect of all Board and Director 02 02 15 Committee meetings during FY 2018, but where Directors are unable to 2 Eddie Irwin Non-Executive Director 21 03 12 attend a meeting whether of the Board or one of its Committees, they 3 Josh Levy Non-Executive Director 13 11 15 are provided with all the papers and information relating to that meeting and are able to discuss issues arising directly with the Chairman of the Tim Jones Finance Director 18 10 10 Board or Chair of the relevant Committee.
In addition, the Board 3 Ron Robson Non-Executive Director 22 01 10 members meet more informally approximately four times a year and the Deputy Chairman 14 07 11 Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors meet without the Executive Colin Rutherford Independent NonDirectors twice a year.
Executive Director 22 04 13 There are ten Board meetings currently planned for FY 2019.
Phil Urban Chief Executive 27 09 15 The Company Secretarys responsibilities include ensuring good Imelda Walsh Independent Noninformation flows to the Board and between senior management and Executive Director 22 04 13 the Non-Executive Directors.
The Company Secretary is responsible, 1.
Independent while in the role specified.
through the Chairman, for advising the Board on all corporate 2.
Nominated shareholder representative of Elpida Group Limited.
governance matters and for assisting the Directors with their professional 3.
Nominated shareholder representative of Piedmont Inc. development.
This includes regular corporate governance and business issues updates, as well as the use of operational site visits and the provision of external courses where required.
The Company Secretary facilitates a comprehensive induction for newly appointed Directors, tailored to individual requirements and including guidance on the requirements of, and Directors duties in connection with, the Code and the Companies Act 2006 as well as other relevant legislation.
In FY 2018, 58 Mitchells & Butlers plc  STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 TO 147 OTHER INFORMATION 148 TO 152 At the start and end of the year, the Board was made up of ten male Chief Executive and one female members.
There were no changes to the Board during Phil Urban was appointed Chief Executive on 27 September 2015. the year.
He has responsibility for implementing the strategy agreed by the Board and for the executive management of the Group.
The Executive Directors have service contracts, details of which are on the Companys website www.
The Chairman and each Senior Independent Director of the Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment.
Copies of the Stewart Gilliland was appointed to the role of Senior Independent respective service contracts or letters of appointment of all the members Director on 2 February 2015.
He will be stepping down from the Board of the Board are available on the Companys website.
In addition, they by the end of December 2018 and will not be submitted for re-election are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during at the 2019 AGM.
The Board has commenced a process of identification normal business hours and at the place of the Annual General Meeting and recruitment of a replacement.
from at least 15 minutes before and until the end of the meeting.
The Senior Independent Director supports the Chairman in the delivery All the Companys Directors are required to stand for annual re-election of the Boards objectives and ensures that the views of all major at the Companys Annual General Meeting in accordance with the shareholders and stakeholders are conveyed to the Board.
Stewart Companys Articles of Association.
The exception to this is Stewart Gilliland Gilliland is available to all shareholders should they have any concerns who plans to step down from the Board by the end of December 2018 if the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director and consequently will not be standing for re-election at the AGM in have failed to resolve them, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Their biographical details as at 21 November 2018 are The Senior Independent Director also meets with Non-Executive set out on pages 48 and 49, including their main commitments outside Directors, without the Chairman present, at least annually, and conducts the Company.
the annual appraisal of the Chairmans performance and provides The Executive Directors may be permitted to accept one external feedback to the Chairman on the outputs of that appraisal.
Non-Executive Director appointment with the Boards prior approval Non-Executive Directors and as long as this is not likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
As at the The Company has experienced Non-Executive Directors on its Board.
date of this Annual Report, neither of the Executive Directors held Bob Ivell was considered to be independent upon his appointment on any such external directorship.
9 May 2011 in that he was free from any business or other relationship Division of responsibilities between Chairman and Chief Executive with the Company which could materially influence his judgement and In accordance with provision A.
2.1 of the Code, the roles of Chairman he continues to represent a strong source of advice and independent and Chief Executive should not be exercised by the same individual.
Since his appointment as Chairman on 14 July 2011 the independence test, as set out in the Code, is no longer applicable The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief to his current position.
Executive are clearly established and set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
In particular, it has been agreed in writing that the Chairman Ron Robson and Josh Levy were appointed to the Board as representatives shall be responsible for running the Board and shall provide advice and of one of the Companys largest shareholders, Piedmont Inc. and were assistance to the Chief Executive.
He also chairs the Nomination therefore not regarded as independent in accordance with the Code.
Committee, is a member of the Remuneration Committee and attends, Eddie Irwin and Keith Browne were appointed to the Board as by invitation, meetings of the Audit Committee.
He also chairs the representatives of another of the Companys largest shareholders, Market Disclosure Committee, the Property Committee and the Elpida Group Limited and were therefore not regarded as independent Pensions Committee.
in accordance with the Code.
It is also agreed in writing that the Chief Executive has responsibility for There are currently four independent Non-Executive Directors on the all aspects of the Groups overall commercial, operational and strategic Board: Stewart Gilliland, Colin Rutherford, Imelda Walsh and Dave Coplin.
He chairs the Executive Committee details of which appear on page 61 and attends the Nomination, Remuneration and Other than their fees, and reimbursement of taxable expenses which Audit Committee by invitation, not necessarily for the entirety of such are disclosed on page 80, the Non-Executive Directors received no meetings depending upon the subject matter.
He is also a member of remuneration from the Company during the year.
The base fee for the Market Disclosure Committee, the Property Committee and the Non-Executive Directors will increase by 2% to 53,000 per annum and Pensions Committee.
the fee paid to Non-Executive Directors for chairing a Committee or for the role of Senior Independent Director will increase to 13,000 per All other Executive Directors currently just the Finance Director and all annum, both changes to take effect from 1 January 2019. other members of the Executive Committee report to the Chief Executive.
When Non-Executive Directors are considered for appointment, Chairman the Board takes into account their other responsibilities in assessing The UK Corporate Governance Code provides that the Chairman should, whether they can commit sufficient time to their prospective directorship.
on appointment, meet the independence criteria set out in provision B.
1.1 On average, the Non-Executive Directors spend two to three days per of that Code.
Bob Ivell met these independence criteria on appointment.
month on Company business, but this may be more depending on Bob Ivell was appointed to the role of Executive Chairman on 26 October the circumstances from time to time.
2011 on the departure of the then Chief Executive and reverted to the role of Non-Executive Chairman on 12 November 2012.
The Chairman ensures that appropriate communication is maintained with shareholders.
He ensures that all Directors are fully informed of matters relevant to their roles.
 Mitchells & Butlers plc 59 Corporate governance statement continued Board information and training Diversity and Inclusion Steering Group and Board Diversity Policy All Directors are briefed by the use of comprehensive papers circulated The Company has a Diversity and Inclusion Steering Group which in advance of Board meetings and by presentations at those meetings, examines the implementation of diversity within the Group.
in addition to receiving minutes of previous meetings.
Their understanding The Board has approved a Board Diversity Policy.
The key statement of the Groups business is enhanced by business specific presentations and objectives of that policy are as follows: and operational visits to the Groups businesses.
Separate strategy meetings and meetings with senior executives and representatives Statement: of specific functions, brands or business units are also held throughout The Board recognises the benefits of diversity.
Diversity of skills, the year.
background, knowledge, international and industry experience, and gender, amongst many other factors, will be taken into consideration The training needs of Directors are formally considered on an annual when seeking to appoint a new Director to the Board.
Notwithstanding basis and are also monitored throughout the year with appropriate the foregoing, all Board appointments will always be made on merit.
training being provided as required, including corporate social responsibility and corporate governance as well as the environmental Objectives: impacts of the Companys activities.
The Board should ensure an appropriate mix of skills and experience to ensure an optimum Board and efficient stewardship.
All Board Committees appointments will be made on merit while taking into account individual competence, skills and expertise measured against Each Board Committee has written terms of reference approved by identified objective criteria including consideration of diversity.
the Board, which are available on the Companys website.
Those terms of reference are each reviewed annually by the relevant Committee The Board should ensure that it comprises Directors who are to ensure they remain appropriate.
sufficiently experienced and independent of character and judgement.
Audit Committee The Nomination Committee will discuss and agree measurable Details of the Audit Committee and its activities during the year objectives for achieving diversity on the Board with due regard being are included in the Audit Committee report on pages 64 to 67 which given to the recommendations set out in the Davies Report, the is incorporated by reference into this statement.
Hampton-Alexander Review and the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016.
These will be reviewed on an annual basis.
Remuneration Committee Details of the Remuneration Committee and its activities during the year Progress against the policy: are included in the Report on Directors remuneration on pages 68 to 91.
The Board continues to monitor progress against this policy.
In terms of Board diversity, the proportion of women on the Board was 9% as at Nomination Committee the year ended 29 September 2018.
Any future appointments will always The Nomination Committee is responsible for nominating, for the be made on merit and will continue to take into account diversity, not approval of the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board.
It is only in terms of gender, but also in terms of the appropriate mix of skills also responsible for succession planning for the Board and the Executive and experience.
Committee and reviewing the output of the Board effectiveness review.
The Board has agreed to set out a detailed Board succession plan and Details of the Mitchells & Butlers Diversity Policy, which applies to that will be considered by the Nomination Committee in FY 2019. diversity in relation to employees of the Mitchells & Butlers Group, can be found in the corporate social responsibility section on pages 32 to 37.
During the year, the Nomination Committee considered the composition of the Board and, following the year end, has assessed the outcome of A detailed description of the duties of the Nomination Committee the externally facilitated Board effectiveness review which was carried is set out within its terms of reference which can be viewed at out during the financial year now reported on.
com investors businessconduct boardcommittees conclusions of that review are on page 63.
The Nomination Committee The following were members of the Nomination Committee during agrees the importance of having diversity on the Board, including female the year: representation and individuals with different experiences, skill sets and expertise, so as to maintain an appropriate balance within the Company Appointment Memberat date 29 09 18 and on the Board.
Bob Ivell Chair 11 07 13 Y Dave Coplin 29 02 16 Y Stewart Gilliland 11 07 13 Y Eddie Irwin 11 07 13 Y Ron Robson 11 07 13 Y Colin Rutherford 11 07 13 Y Imelda Walsh 11 07 13 Y During the year, the Company complied with provision B.
2.1 of the Code as the Nomination Committee comprised a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
60 Mitchells & Butlers plc  STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 TO 147 OTHER INFORMATION 148 TO 152 Market Disclosure Committee Portfolio Development Committee The EU Market Abuse Regulation MAR which took effect in July 2016, The executive review of property transactions and capital allocation brought about substantial changes relating to announcements of material to significant property matters such as site remodel and conversion plans information about the Company and its affairs, and relating to dealings and the Companys real estate strategy is carried out by the Portfolio in shares or other securities by Directors and other senior managers, Development Committee.
This is not a formal Board Committee but including tighter controls on permitted dealings during closed periods comprises the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Group Property and the handling of information relating to the Company.
MAR requires Director and the Company Secretary and General Counsel.
It has companies to keep a list of people affected and the previous compliance delegated authority to approve certain transactions up to agreed financial regime and timeframe were enhanced.
limits and, above those authority levels, it makes recommendations to the Board or the Property Committee.
As a result, a formal standing Committee of the Board was established, called the Market Disclosure Committee, which comprises the Chairman, Pensions Committee the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and an independent Non-Executive Director, currently Colin Rutherford.
The Board has established a Pensions Committee to supervise and manage the Companys relationship with its various pension schemes Executive Committee and their trustees.
The Executive Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Executive, The Pensions Committee members are Bob Ivell Committee Chair, consists of the Executive Directors and certain other senior executives, Colin Rutherford, Imelda Walsh, Tim Jones, Phil Urban, Keith Browne namely Gary John Group Property Director, Susan Martindale and Josh Levy.
Group HR Director, Greg McMahon Company Secretary and Throughout FY 2018, the work of the Pensions Committee focused General Counsel, Chris Hopkins Commercial and Marketing Director and primarily on the discussions with the Trustee of the Mitchells & Butlers Susan Chappell, Nick Crossley and Dennis Deare all Divisional Directors.
Pension Plan in relation to application of an inflation linked increase to The Executive Committee meets at least every six weeks and has pensions in October 2018 in the context of the Companys instruction day-to-day responsibility for the running of the Groups business.
to the Trustee to apply a CPI-related increase as set out in note 4.5 of It develops the Groups strategy and annual revenue and capital budgets the Group financial statements, and of the Trustees application to court for Board approval.
It reviews and recommends to the Board any for rectification of the Trust Deed and Rules of that plan as referred to significant investment proposals.
This Committee monitors the financial at note 4.5 of those financial statements.
and operational performance of the Group and allocates resources within the budgets agreed by the Board.
It considers employment issues, Treasury Committee ensures the Group has an appropriate pool of talent and develops senior The treasury operations of the Mitchells & Butlers Group are operated management manpower planning and succession plans.
A note of on a centralised basis under the control of the Group Treasury the actions agreed by, and the principal decisions of, the Executive department.
Although not a formal Board Committee, the Treasury Committee are supplied to the Board for information in order that Committee, which reports to the Finance Director but is subject Board members can keep abreast of operational developments.
to oversight from the Audit Committee and, ultimately, the Board, Phil Urban has ultimate responsibility for employment related issues has day-to-day responsibility for: and he also oversees matters relating to human rights including the liquidity management: implementation of the Modern Slavery Act throughout the Group.
investment of surplus cash: General Purposes Committee funding, cash and banking arrangements: The General Purposes Committee comprises any two Executive interest rate and currency risk management: Directors or any one Executive Director together with a senior officer from an agreed and restricted list of senior Executives.
It is always guarantees, bonds, indemnities and any financial encumbrances chaired by an Executive Director.
It attends to business of a routine including charges on assets: and nature and to administrative matters, the principles of which have relationships with Banks and other market counterparties such as credit been agreed previously by the Board or an appropriate Committee.
Property Committee The Treasury Committee also works closely with the financial accounting department to review the impact of changes in relevant accounting The Property Committee reviews property transactions which have practices and to ensure that treasury activities are disclosed appropriately been reviewed and recommended by the Portfolio Development in the Companys accounts.
Committee, without the need for submission of transactions to the full Board.
The Property Committee agrees to the overall strategic direction The Board delegates the monitoring of treasury activity and for the management of the Groups property portfolio on a regular basis compliance to the Treasury Committee.
It is responsible for monitoring and may decide that a particular transaction should be referred to the the effectiveness of treasury policies and making proposals for any Board for consideration or approval.
The Property Committee comprises changes to policies or in respect of the utilisation of new instruments.
Bob Ivell Committee Chair, Phil Urban, Tim Jones, Josh Levy, Keith The approval of the Board, or a designated committee thereof, Browne, Colin Rutherford, Stewart Gilliland and Gary John.
is required for any such proposals.
 Mitchells & Butlers plc 61 Corporate governance statement continued Independent advice Internal control and risk management Members of the Board may take independent professional advice in The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal the furtherance of their duties and the Board has agreed a formal process control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In order for such advice to be made available.
Members of the Board also have to discharge that responsibility, the Board has established the procedures access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and General necessary to apply the Code for the year under review and to the date Counsel, the Companys legal and other professional advisers and its of approval of the Annual Report.
Such procedures are in line with the external auditor.
The terms of engagement of the Companys external Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal advisers and its external auditor are regularly reviewed by the Company Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting and are regularly Secretary and General Counsel.
reviewed by the Audit Committee.
The key features of the Groups internal control and risk management Code of Ethics systems include: The Company has implemented business conduct guidelines describing Processes, including monitoring by the Board, in respect of: the standards of behaviour expected from those working for the Company in the form of a code of ethics the Ethics Code.
The Ethics i. financial performance within a comprehensive financial planning, Code was reviewed and re-communicated to all employees in FY 2018 accounting and reporting framework: to ensure it was kept clearly in focus.
Its aim is to promote honest and ii.
strategic plan achievement: ethical conduct throughout our business.
The Ethics Code requires: iii.
capital investment and asset management performance, with detailed appraisal, authorisation and post-investment reviews: and compliance with all applicable rules and regulations that apply to the iv.
consumer insight data and actions to assess the evolution of Company and its officers including compliance with the requirements brands and formats to ensure that they continue to be appealing of the Bribery Act 2010: and relevant to the Groups guests.
the ethical handling of actual or apparent conflicts of interest between An overall governance framework including: internal and external, personal and professional relationships: and i. clearly defined delegations of authority and reporting lines: that any hospitality from suppliers must be approved in advance ii.
a comprehensive set of policies and procedures that employees by appropriate senior management, with a presumption against are required to follow: and its acceptance.
the Groups Ethics Code, in respect of which an annual The Company takes a zero tolerance approach to bribery and has confirmation of compliance is sought from all corporate employees.
developed an extensive Bribery Policy which is included in the Ethics The Risk Committee, a sub-committee of the Executive Committee, Code.
The Ethics Code requires employees to comply with the which assists the Board, the Audit Committee and the Executive Bribery Policy.
Committee in managing the processes for identifying, evaluating, The Company also offers an independently administered, confidential monitoring and mitigating risks.
The Risk Committee, which continues whistleblowing hotline for any employee wishing to report any concern to meet quarterly, is chaired by the Company Secretary and General that they feel would be inappropriate to raise with their line manager.
Counsel and comprises Executive Committee members and other All whistleblowing allegations are reported to, and considered by, the members of senior management from a cross-section of functions.
Executive Committee and a summary report with details of any major Its primary responsibilities are to: concerns is supplied to, and considered by, the Audit Committee i. advise the Executive Committee on the Companys overall at each meeting.
risk appetite and risk strategy, taking account of the current The Board takes regular account of social, environmental and ethical and prospective operating, legal, macroeconomic and matters concerning the Company through regular reports to the Board financial environments: and presentations to the Board at its strategy meetings.
advise the Executive Committee on the current and emerging compliance statement in relation to the Modern Slavery Act can be risk exposures of the Company in the context of the Boards viewed on the Companys website www.
com overall risk appetite and risk strategy: iii.
promote the management of risk throughout the organisation: Directors training includes environmental, social and governance ESG iv.
review and monitor the Companys capability and processes matters and the Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that to identify and manage risks: Directors are made aware of and receive regular training in respect v. consider the identified key risks faced by the Company and of these important areas.
The Chief Executive, Phil Urban, is ultimately new and emerging risks and consider the adequacy of mitigation responsible for ESG matters.
plans in respect of such risks: and The Board is responsible for the Companys internal risk management vi.
where mitigation plans are inadequate, recommend system, in respect of which more details can be found in the Risks improvement actions.
and uncertainties section of this report, and in the following section The Groups risks identified by the processes that are managed by the Risk of this statement.
Committee are described in Risks and uncertainties on pages 38 to 42.
More details of the work of the Risk Committee are included in the Audit Committee report on pages 64 to 67.
Examination of business processes on a risk basis including reports from the internal audit function, known as Group Assurance, which reports directly to the Audit Committee.
62 Mitchells & Butlers plc  STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 TO 147 OTHER INFORMATION 148 TO 152 The Group also has in place systems, including policies and procedures, Board effectiveness evaluation and Chairmans evaluation for exercising control and managing risk in respect of financial reporting and appraisal and the preparation of consolidated accounts.
These systems, policies During the year, the Board carried out a Board Effectiveness Review and procedures: which was facilitated by Mrs Ffion Hague of Independent Board govern the maintenance of accounting records that, in reasonable Evaluation.
Mrs Hague carried out detailed interviews of the Board detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions: members and presented her conclusions to a meeting of the whole Board.
The Board has considered those conclusions carefully and noted, require reported information to be reviewed and reconciled, in particular, that the feedback was that the Board was performing well with monitoring by the Audit Committee and the Board: and with a good mix of skills and experience and that Board meetings allow provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as for good debate and discussion.
The principal Committees of the necessary to permit the preparation of financial statements in Board were also noted to be working well.
As regards areas for further accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS development, the Board has agreed that it will review its composition and or UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, as appropriate.
develop a more formal succession plan for both the Board and the senior leadership group with continued focus on gender and ethnic diversity.
In accordance with the Code, during the year the Audit Committee That plan is presently being prepared for formal consideration by the completed and reported to the Board its conclusions in respect of its Nomination Committee and the full Board.
The Board has also agreed annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and to improve the degree of formality around its Pensions Committee and internal control systems, including financial, operational and compliance Nomination Committee so that they are brought more in line with the controls.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
The Board has than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, as also noted and agreed to review and update its longer-term strategic plan, such, it can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against building on the outputs of the business improvement activities referred material misstatement or loss.
In that context, in the opinion of the Audit to in the Chief Executives Report on page 14.
The final recommendations Committee, the review did not indicate that the system was ineffective relate to clarifying and simplifying some of the Boards regular reports or unsatisfactory and to the extent that weaknesses in internal controls and these are being implemented during the current financial year.
were identified, the Audit Committee confirmed that necessary remedial action plans were in place.
The Audit Committee is not aware of any The annual appraisal of the Chairmans performance was conducted by change to this status up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
the Senior Independent Director, Stewart Gilliland, with the independent Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present and the With regard to insurance against risk, it is not practicable to insure against conclusions fed back to the Chairman.
The principal conclusions of that every risk to the fullest extent.
The Group regularly reviews both the review were that Mr Ivells performance remains highly constructive and type and amount of external insurance that it buys with guidance from that the level of Mr Ivells involvement was of benefit to the Company an external independent broker, bearing in mind the availability of such noting that the relationship between the Chairman and CEO is critical.
cover, its cost and the likelihood and magnitude of the risks involved.
Annual reviews of the Chairmans performance will continue to be conducted as required by the Code.
Further, as indicated above, the Shareholder relations Board Effectiveness Review included an assessment of the Chairman The Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders for the and his fulfilment of his role.
performance and activities of the Company.
The Company regularly updates the market on its financial performance, at the half year and Going concern full year results in May and November respectively, and by way of other The Directors statement as to the status of the Company as a going announcements as required.
The content of these updates is available concern can be found on page 53. by webcast on the Companys website, together with general information about the Company so as to be available to all shareholders.
The Company has a regular programme of meetings with its larger shareholders which provides an opportunity to discuss, on the basis of publicly available information, the progress of the business.
On a more informal basis, the Chairman, Chief Executive and the Finance Director regularly report to the Board the views of larger shareholders about the Company, and the other Non-Executive Directors are available to meet shareholders on request and are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with larger shareholders.
The voting rights of Piedmont Inc. and Elpida Group Limited are set out in the Directors report on page 51.
The AGM provides a useful interface with shareholders, many of whom are also guests in our pubs, bars and restaurants.
All proxy votes received in respect of each resolution at the AGM are counted and the balance for and against, and any votes withheld, are indicated.
