S St tra rat teg egiic c R Re ep por ort t G Go ov five er rnan nanc ce e F Fiina nan nc ciia all S St ta at tem emen ent ts s NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED RISK COMMITTEE REPORT As mentioned on the previous page, both the external executive Nomination Committee effectiveness search consultants, Russell Reynolds and Egon Zehnder, who were In 2018 we carried out an internal evaluation of Nomination engaged in the executive and non-executive searches, are Committee effectiveness which involved the completion of a signatories to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search questionnaire, with the results being analysed and presented The Risk Committee is responsible for Firms on gender diversity and best practice and were both briefed at a Committee meeting for discussion.
The Committee was overseeing the Groups risk management on our Diversity Policy in the context of identifying candidates for considered to be effective in fulfilling its role during 2018 and our consideration.
framework, ensuring that risks are remains independent.
We also reviewed progress against actions identified in the 2017 evaluation: appropriately identified, managed and As part of our evaluation of the Nomination Committee, it was mitigated, and advising the Board on risk considered that whilst progress has been made, more could be 2017 evaluation actions update done in relation to considering candidates for the Board from a appetite, strategy and culture.
The following actions were identified during the 2017 evaluation: wide range of backgrounds.
It was therefore agreed that for future continued focus in meetings on diversity we have received Board recruitment, we will ensure that the Boards diversity and regular progress updates on the Groups internal diversity inclusion requirements form a key part of the role specification.
programme from the newly appointed Diversity and Inclusion We have a newly established internal employee-led resource group Lead: and which has the objective of striving for diverse representation at all enhancing Committee papers papers have been enhanced, levels in our business, including, but not limited to women and ensuring they are concise and facilitate constructive debate ethnic minorities.
The co-chairs or appropriately qualified and discussion.
Number of meetings of the members of that group will be briefed on the approach we take 3 Risk Committee: to increase diversity in future Board recruitment processes.
2018 evaluation actions Some of the areas that will be actioned in 2019 include: We recognise that we do not currently have sufficient diversity in executive search process ensure the Boards diversity Allocation of time Allocation of time our executive management and direct reports.
At the end of 2018 and inclusion requirements form a key part of the role this group was 27% female and 73% male.
Since then, we have Risk Culture, Risk Framework including specification: and appointed Scilla Grimble as Chief Financial Officer and Katherine Principal Risks, Risk & Compliance plans Committee Chairs and composition considering the rotation and Annual Report Disclosures 19% Bellau as Company Secretary, both of whom now form part of our of Committee chairs to refresh Committees.
Review of management of risks associated executive management.
with third parties 7% Overview of Committee activities for 2019 Review of technology and data security risks As part of our 2018 Diversity Action Plan we invested in employee Following the announcement that Robin Freestone will succeed and management 19% resource groups to support grass roots diversity initiatives, and me as Chair of the Board with effect from the conclusion of the Review of plans to address risks associated reviewed and made changes to our talent acquisition and talent with GDPR 18% AGM in May, the Committee will be commencing a search for progression approaches under our vision Be yourself.
Be brilliant an additional Non-Executive Director with appropriate financial Deep dives into strategic and brand specic together.
These included: risks 9% experience to succeed Robin as Chair of the Audit Committee.
Allocation of time appointing a dedicated Diversity and Inclusion Lead role within Monitoring of current and emerging risk Sally James our people function: landscape including regulatory and Risk Culture, Risk Framework including This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Chair of the Risk Committee legal matters 28% establishing employee resource groups to focus on gender Principal Risks, Risk & Compliance plans and ethnic minority equality and representation, diversity of and Annual Report Disclosures 19% background voices, disability, mental health, and or LGBTQI Review of management of risks associated 2018 highlights Bruce Carnegie-Brown with third parties 7% issues: Chair of the Nomination Committee introduced new reporting from the Data Protection Officer DPO to each developing an inclusive-first approach across key people Review of technology and data security risks 13 February 2019 and management 19% Risk Committee meeting, which included overseeing the Groups GDPR processes, aimed at reducing internal barriers to the culture of Review of plans to address risks associated inclusion and foster increased sense of belonging and implementation project, the management of the Groups data protection with GDPR 18% appreciation of diverse voices and perspectives in order to risks and the results of our DPO oversight activities: Deep dives into strategic and brand specic benefit attraction, engagement, progression and retention of risks 9% monitored, via reports from the Chief Risk Officer, the Groups readiness diverse talent: and Monitoring of current and emerging risk for compliance with the Insurance Distribution Directive: hosting a Pride day to demonstrate the Groups commitment landscape including regulatory and to welcoming and valuing diversity and inclusion, which included legal matters 28% oversaw the introduction of an enhanced approach to the management a presentation from a member of The Stonewall Trans of risks arising from third parties who support our business: Advisory Group.
Dear Shareholder continued to focus on technology and data security risks and As chair of the Risk Committee, I am pleased managements progress on improvements to cyber security: 38% to present the Risk Committees report for 10% assessed the potential challenges associated with Brexit including the the year ended 31 December 2018.
I have 7% preparation of potential mitigation plans: and set out our role and activities in overseeing 30% the Groups risk management framework, reviewed the proposed revisions to the Groups strategic priorities against ensuring risks are appropriately identified, 15% the Group Risk Appetite Framework and Statement and advised the Board managed and mitigated and advising the on risks associated with the proposed revisions to the Group strategy.
Board on risk appetite, strategy and culture.
Committee membership I chair the Risk Committee and the other members, all of whom are Independent 38% Non-Executive Directors, are detailed in the 10% table below.
Biographies of the members of 7% the Committee are set out on pages 40 to 41.
30% 15% M Mo on ne ey ys su up pe er rm mar ark ke et t.. c co om m G Gr ro ou up p p pl lc cA An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 M Mo on ne ey ys su up pe er rm mar ark ke et t.. c co om m G Gr ro ou up p p pl lc cA An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 f 56 57 G Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Committee members Committee meetings Risk & Compliance Overview of Committee activities for 2019 Eligible to We met three times in 2018 and the attendance of our members is The Group has a Risk & Compliance function, headed by the Chief The management of operational and conduct risks will continue to Committee members attend Attended shown in the table on the left of this page.
We invited the Chair of Risk Officer, which reviews the Groups risks and controls together be our priority for 2019.
We will focus on management of risks the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief with the Groups compliance with regulatory requirements of the associated with the delivery of the strategic initiatives and Brexit.
Sally James Chair 3 3 Risk Officer, Head of Internal Audit and Company Secretary, various bodies that regulate the Groups activities.
These We will oversee the ongoing embedding of enhanced controls in Andrew Fisher 3 3 together with appropriate members of the management team with regulatory bodies include the FCA, the Information respect of cyber security, data privacy, third party management Robin Freestone 3 3 responsibility for management of key risks, and the external Commissioners Office, Ofgem which operates a voluntary code and billing.
We will also oversee the implementation of systems, Genevieve Shore 3 3 auditor, to meetings as necessary.
The Committee also meets relating to energy price comparison to which MoneySuperMarket processes and procedures to meet the requirements of upcoming Sarah Warby 1 1 separately with the Chief Risk Officer at least once a year.
subscribes and Ofcom which operates a voluntary code relating regulatory developments including the application of the Senior Sarah Warby was appointed a Director and member of the Risk Committee to broadband speeds to which Decision Tech subscribes.
Managers & Certification Regime to the Group.
on 1 June 2018 After each meeting, I report to the Board on the main issues that we discussed.
The Group recognises that regulation in general, and in particular The secretary to the Committee is Katherine Bellau, Company In 2018, we: the activities of the FCA, Ofgem and CMA will continue to be a Secretary and Group General Counsel.
The members of the Risk Committee can, where they judge it feature of the price comparison market.
The Group has invested, reviewed and approved the Risk & Compliance plan which necessary to discharge their responsibilities, obtain independent and will continue to invest, in additional skills and resources in this defines the scope of the work that the function will The Risk Committee maintains close links with the Audit Committee professional advice at the Companys expense.
area in 2019. undertake with regard to compliance monitoring and with the Chair of each Committee being a member of the other.
assurance activities across the Group this included This cross-membership and liaison between the Committees on This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Principal activities in 2018 assurance activities relating to GDPR compliance both agenda items and reports facilitates effective linkage between The Committee has an annual schedule of work, developed from internally and in relation to key third parties who support both Committees and ensures that any matters relating to internal its terms of reference, with standing items that it considers at each our business: control and financial reporting are considered in an effective Sally James meeting in addition to any specific matters upon which the considered the updates against the Risk & Compliance manner.
In addition, the Risk Committee works with the Chair of the Risk Committee Committee has decided to focus.
This schedule of work is plan and the results of the work performed since the Remuneration Committee to ensure that risk is properly considered 13 February 2019 expected to evolve to reflect the Groups strategy and changes to previous meeting and managements response: and in setting the Groups remuneration policy.
I am a member of the the economic and regulatory environment in which the Group reviewed the resources of the Risk & Compliance function.
Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee.
The Risk Committee receives regular reports from members of executive management, the Chief Risk Officer, the Role Head of Internal Audit and the Group General Counsel.
Risk Committee effectiveness The primary role of the Risk Committee is to assist the Board in its In 2018 we carried out an internal evaluation of Risk Committee oversight of risk within the Group, including risk appetite, risk effectiveness which involved the completion of a questionnaire, tolerance and the risk management framework.
This includes: In 2018, we: with the results being analysed and presented at a Committee advising the Board on the Groups overall risk appetite, further enhanced and approved the Group Risk Appetite meeting for discussion.
The Committee was considered to be tolerance, strategy and culture: Framework and Statement following scenario analysis and effective in fulfilling its role during 2018 and remains independent.
overseeing and advising the Board on the current risk consideration by executive management, ensuring it is We also reviewed progress against actions identified in the 2017 exposures of the Group and future risk strategy: aligned with the new vertical structure of the Group: evaluation: overseeing the application of the Groups risk management approved revisions to the Group Risk Appetite Framework framework: and Statement to take account of the Groups strategic 2017 evaluation actions update reviewing reports received from the Groups management, Risk priorities announced in February 2018 and advised the The following actions were identified during the 2017 evaluation: & Compliance function and, where appropriate, Internal Audit Board on risks associated with those strategic priorities: Committee packs we have enhanced Committee papers, or third parties on the identification, management and received reports from executive and senior management ensuring they are concise and facilitate constructive debate mitigation of risks: on the ongoing management of the risks associated with and discussion: and reviewing reports from the Groups legal team in relation to the strategic initiatives and risks facing their parts of the continuing to focus on putting customers at the heart of the legal matters affecting the Group: business in addition to ad hoc reports relating to new or business we ensure customers are at the heart of our Group overseeing compliance with relevant legal and regulatory emerging risks: Risk Appetite Framework and Statement and we review the requirements including financial crime and anti-bribery oversaw the introduction of an enhanced approach to the conduct risk scorecards at each meeting to ensure we are procedures: management of risks arising from third parties who doing the right thing for customers through our Customer in relation to proposed strategic transactions, material support our business: First programme.
acquisitions or disposals, ensuring that a due diligence oversaw improvements in the management of technology appraisal of the proposition is undertaken, which includes an risks, with a focus on cyber security: assessment of risks and implications for the risk appetite and 2018 evaluation actions assessed the potential challenges associated with Brexit tolerance of the Group: and Some of the areas that will be actioned in 2019 include: including the preparation of potential mitigation plans: considering and approving the remit of the Risk & Compliance reviewing the process for identifying emerging risks and received updates and oversaw managements actions in function and ensuring it has adequate resources.
ensuring the Committee balance their time between current relation to the consideration of risks associated with the and emerging risks: and General Data Protection Regulation GDPR and Written terms of reference that outline the Committees authority continuing to focus on putting customers at the heart implementation of systems, processes and procedures to and responsibilities are published on the investor relations section of the business.
meet the requirements of GDPR: of the Groups website at http: corporate.
reviewed the changes made to the incident management com and are available in hard copy form from the Company processes to take account of data protection issues: Secretary.
We review our terms of reference annually.
reviewed the conduct scorecards at each meeting to ensure we are putting customers at the heart of the business through our Customer First programme: continued to enhance reporting of legal matters and regulatory developments: and oversaw the compliance with evolving regulation and interactions with our regulators including the FCA, in particular in relation to the Insurance Distribution Directive.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 Moneysupermarket.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 58 59
