112 Corporate governance report This followed a full tender process The committee confirms its compliance External audit undertaken in 2015 and a transition for the financial year ended 31 December  Inc and process during 2016, which allowed PwC 2018 with the provisions of The Statutory  LLP together to work together with Mondi and Deloitte to Audit Services for Large Companies PwC were first appointed as auditors ensure a smooth handover.
Market Investigation Mandatory Use of by shareholders at the Annual General Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Meetings in May 2017, replacing Deloitte Andy Kemp was appointed as the UK audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
& Touche and Deloitte LLP respectively partner and Michal Kotz as the South together Deloitte.
The 2018 audit was The committee also confirms that their second for Mondi.
 Inc is included in the JSE list of accredited auditors.
External audit independence, objectivity and effectiveness A formal framework for the assessment e Considered the interaction with Inspections included a review of audits of the effectiveness of the external audit management and the level of challenge carried out by PwC.
A specific review process and quality of the audit has been of PwCs audit of the Mondi Group was e Regular meetings held between the adopted by the committee, covering all undertaken by the FRC see below for chair of the committee and the audit aspects of the audit service provided more information.
While part of the assessment Key outputs e Reviewed feedback from committee is managed annually, it is treated as an e The quality of the audit partners and members including views on how ongoing review throughout the cycle.
team were confirmed with no material PwC has supported the work of the Evaluation focus issues raised in the feedback received committee and their communication e Robustness of audit process with the committee e The audit had been well planned and delivered with work completed on e Considered the effectiveness of Mondis e Audit quality, including quality controls schedule and management comfortable policies and procedures for maintaining e Audit partners and team, including skills, that any key findings had been raised auditor independence character and knowledge appropriately, active engagement Management e Independence and objectivity on misstatements and appropriate e Feedback from engagement with the e Formal reporting judgements on materiality Chief Financial Officer, Group Controller Inputs e PwC demonstrated a good and Group Head of Internal Audit Audit committee understanding of the Group and had e Feedback from questionnaires issued identified and focused on the areas of e Continual monitoring of audit at corporate and business unit level to greatest risk performance throughout the year those personnel involved with the audit e PwCs reporting to the committee was e Reviewed and agreed the audit plan PwC clear, open and thorough, including e Reviewed the quality of reporting to e Provided the committee with explanations of the rationale for the committee, the level of challenge confirmation that they operate in particular conclusions as appropriate and professional scepticism and the accordance with the ethical standards e It was confirmed that there had been an understanding demonstrated by PwC of required of audit firms appropriate level of challenge the business of the Group e Confirmed the policies and procedures e Reviewed the coordination between the Conclusion they have in place to maintain South African and UK audit partners, the The committee, having considered all their independence quality of the audit team, technical skills relevant matters, has concluded that it and experience and the allocation of Regulators is satisfied that auditor independence, resources during the audit e The UK Financial Reporting Councils objectivity and effectiveness have FRC 2017 18 report on Audit Quality been maintained.
UK Financial Reporting Council FRC Audit Quality Review The FRCs Audit Quality Review team The focus of the review and their The audit committee confirms that there selected to review the audit of the reporting is on identifying areas where were no significant areas for improvement 2017 Mondi plc financial statements as improvements are required.
The chair identified within the report.
The audit part of their 2017 annual inspection of of the audit committee had discussions committee is also satisfied that there is audit firms.
with the FRC both before and after the nothing within the report which might process and received a full copy of the have a bearing on the audit appointment.
findings of the Audit Quality Review team which have been discussed with PwC.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 113 The committee also monitors the staffing Non-audit services Internal audit and resources available to the internal A policy is in place that governs the The Boards have established an internal audit function and the quality of those provision of non-audit services provided by audit function, which forms an integral resources.
In 2015 an external review of PwC to Mondi, including the requirements part of Mondis governance and risk the internal audit function was undertaken for the approval of such services.
The policy management and internal control by Ernst & Young LLP with a full report was last updated in 2016 to reflect the new frameworks.
The primary purpose of presented to the committee.
The review EU audit framework regulations.
the internal audit function is to ensure concluded that the internal audit function is that the Groups principal risks are Where approval is required the business fit for purpose and meeting its mandate to being managed effectively.
The function must submit a formal request setting out provide assurance primarily in the financial forms a key part of Mondis approach to the objectives, scope of work, likely fee and operational areas.
level and the rationale for requiring the note was the clear affirmation that the work to be carried out by the Groups The audit committee has primary function is independent and objective.
external auditor rather than another service responsibility for monitoring and reviewing Some recommendations were put forward provider.
Sufficient information must also the scope and effectiveness of the Groups mainly in the areas of knowledge sharing be provided to allow an assessment of internal audit function and appoints and and the greater use of technology by the materiality and the impact the service discharges the Group Head of Internal team.
The way in which the team has been might have on the financial statements.
Audit the equivalent of the chief audit addressing the recommendations in the Each request is reviewed, and where executive as envisaged by the King Code.
report has been monitored and reviewed appropriate challenged, before being The Group Head of Internal Audit has by the committee.
The committee has passed for approval.
direct access to, and responsibility to, the concluded that the Group Head of Internal committee and works closely with the Audit provides appropriate leadership of The committee monitors compliance committee in liaison with PwC.
the internal audit function which remains with the policy, receiving reports at each effective in carrying out its remit.
meeting detailing all approved non-audit An internal audit charter, approved by the services.
This enables regular consideration committee, is in place.
The charter sets This audit committee report was approved and oversight of a key threat to auditor out the purpose, remit and authority of by the Boards on 27 February 2019 and is independence and objectivity.
Each year the signed on their behalf.
committee considers and approves the The majority of non-audit services are auditStephen Young internal audit plan which is designed to related assurance services.
During 2018 Chair of the DLC audit committee focus on the Groups key risks to ensure examples were the verification of certain that they are managed effectively within matters required from the statutory auditor the context of our business objectives Speakout in relation to subsidy applications, the and that appropriate internal controls are provision of a comfort letter for the Euro in place.
The committee ensures that all Medium Term Note Programme and the material operations are covered and that review of the interim results announcement.
there is an appropriate degree of financial Non-audit related work being undertaken and geographical coverage.
Every Mondi by PwC on behalf of Powerflute was also operation is visited at least once every five assessed in the lead up to the acquisition years with all major plants audited annually.
of Powerflute by Mondi to ensure that all Reports are given at each committee such work ceased within the required meeting providing an update on activities, timeframes and had no impact on PwCs progress against plan, results from audits independence as auditor to the Group.
The Group has a confidential reporting hotline carried out and managements response called Speakout operated by an independent The breakdown of the fees paid to PwC, to address any areas highlighted for third party.
Speakout, monitored by the Boards including the split between audit and improvement.
The committee will consider and audit committee, is a simple, accessible and confidential channel through which our non-audit fees, is included in note 4 to the deviations from plan as the need arises employees, customers, suppliers, managers financial statements on page 168.
The nonduring the year, usually in response to or other stakeholders can raise concerns audit fees for 2018 represent 10% of the a material acquisition or change in the about conduct that seems contrary to Mondis values.
It makes communication channels audit fee paid.
Groups risk profile highlighted through available to any person in the world who has audit reports and through matters raised via information about unethical practices in the the confidential reporting hotline, Speakout.
Any type of concern can The committee regularly challenges the be raised via Speakout.
More details can be found on page63.
The Boards and the nature and speed of managements audit committee receive regular reports of response to issues raised in audits and Speakout messages received and ensure that to Speakout messages in order to be appropriate investigation into each message satisfied that this has been appropriate has been undertaken and responses given with actions taken where any allegation proves to the circumstances.
Maintaining sound to have some foundation.
This will continue to oversight and control of activities through be an area of focus, with such reports being the use of internal audit reviews is key to understanding where further work may be required to reinforce Mondis ethical and considered by the committee to be a key cultural values.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 114 Corporate governance report Role, terms of reference andevaluation DLC sustainable development committee The committee oversees and monitors the Composition progress of our sustainable development Meeting SD approach, commitments, targets We are uniquely positioned to play Members Committee attendance and performance within a global context.
throughout member six meetings a leading role in ensuring that the the year since in the year It provides guidance in relation to future of packaging is sustainable Stephen Harris, March 2011 6 sustainability matters generally, reviewing 1 chair by design.
It is our responsibility and updating the Groups framework Peter Oswald May 2017 6 of sustainability policies and strategies, to provide the answers our Dominique May 2017 6 ensuring they are aligned with global customers and society are 2 Reiniche, chair best practice.
A summary report from looking for, while delivering 3 Stephen Young May 2018 4 the directors on the Groups sustainability competitive advantage for our practices is set out on pages48 to63.
1 Stephen Harris was chair of the committee from 1 October business through our sustainability 2015 until 16 May 2018.
Stephen stepped down as chair, but remained a member of the committee, at the time of his The committee works together with the performance.
We take our appointment as Senior Independent Director Mondi Limited social and ethics committee 2 Dominique Reiniche was appointed as chair of the committee commitments seriously and on 16 May 2018 in addressing social and ethical values.
3 Stephen Young joined the committee on 1 May 2018. recognise that although we have Stephen has missed one meeting of the committee since his The Group Technical & Sustainability appointment as a result of a commitment made prior to him Director together with the Group Heads made good progress in 2018, joining the Boards of Sustainable Development and Safety there is still more work to do to Other regular attendees and Health attend all meetings of the future-proof and build a safe committee and provide the link between e Chief Financial Officer business for all.
the committee, management and e Joint Chairs and Non-Executive Dominique Reiniche the operations.
Directors who are not members of Chair of the DLC sustainable the committee development committee The committee operates under formal terms of reference.
The committee agenda e Group Technical & Sustainability Director during the year included the regular matters e Group Head of Sustainable Development reserved for its review together with other e Group Head of Safety and Health ad hoc matters falling within the authority delegated to it by the Boards, including consideration of a long-term greenhouse gas target calculated using the sciencebased methodology and participation in a number of key global initiatives.
The committees performance against its terms of reference is reviewed on an annual basis.
The committee is satisfied that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference during the year.
The committee chair regularly reports to the Boards on the work and output from meetings and provides any necessary recommendations or advice on matters of direct relevance to the deliberations of the Boards.
The evaluation of the committee was carried out as part of the 2018 internal evaluation see page101 for more information.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018
