Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements BOARD OF DIRECTORS Bruce Carnegie-Brown Mark Lewis Scilla Grimble Robin Freestone Genevieve Shore Sally James Chair of the Board and Chair Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Independent Non-Executive Director and Independent Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and of the Nomination Committee Chair of the Audit Committee Chair of the Risk Committee Term of Office: Appointed to the Board as a Term of Office: Mark was appointed to the Board Term of Office: Scilla was appointed to the Board Term of Office: Robin was appointed to the Term of Office: Genevieve was appointed to Term of Office: Sally was appointed to the Board Non-Executive Director in April 2010 and became in March 2017 and became Chief Executive as Chief Financial Officer in February 2019.
Board as a Non-Executive Director in August the Board as a Non-Executive Director in as a Non-Executive Director in April 2013 and Chair of the Board in April 2014.
He became Chair of the Audit Committee September 2014. became Senior Independent Director in May 2017.
Committee Membership: Scilla attends meetings in April 2016.
Committee Membership: Bruce chairs the Committee Membership: Mark attends meetings of the Audit and Risk Committees by invitation.
Committee Membership: Genevieve is a Committee Membership: Sally chairs the Risk Nomination Committee and attends meetings of the Risk, Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committee Membership: Robin chairs the Audit member of the Risk, Remuneration, Audit and Committee and is a member of the Remuneration, Independent: Not applicable.
of the Risk, Remuneration and Audit Committees Committees by invitation.
Committee and is a member of the Risk, Nomination Committees.
Skills and Experience: Scilla has a strong financial by invitation.
background and extensive consumer experience.
Skills and Experience: Mark has experience in She was formerly director of Group Finance at Skills and Experience: Genevieve brings digital, Skills and Experience: Sally has experience Skills and Experience: Bruce has over 35 years of consumer marketing, online marketplaces and Marks and Spencer Group Plc 2016 to 2018, Skills and Experience: Robin has experience of technology and commercial expertise to the of the financial services sector having been a experience of the financial services sector in both retail.
He was formerly retail director at John Lewis part of which was spent as interim chief financial leading global and digital businesses, having been Group from a career in the media, publishing and non-executive director of UBS Limited 2009 to executive and non-executive roles.
He has 2013 to 2017 and was its online director prior officer.
Scilla previously held senior finance roles chief financial officer of Pearson PLC from 2006 technology sectors.
Most recently she was chief 2015 and before that held a number of senior previously held senior executive positions in to that.
Mark previously held senior commercial at Tesco PLC and was a managing director at to 2015.
Previously he was deputy chief financial product and marketing officer of Pearson PLC legal roles in investment banks in London and private equity as a managing partner of 3i Group, and management roles at Collect and eBay UK UBS Investment Bank.
Scilla is a qualified officer at Pearson and prior to that, he held a and prior to that was director of digital strategy Chicago including managing director and EMEA in insurance as chief executive officer of Marsh including CEO and managing director.
Mark has chartered accountant, having trained and number of senior financial positions at and chief information officer.
Genevieve is a general counsel at UBS Investment Bank from Ltd and in banking as a managing director of JP an MBA INSEAD and an MA, BA Hons from qualified with PwC.
Amersham plc 2000 to 2004, Henkel Ltd 1995 non-executive director at Santander UK plc, 2001 to 2008.
She is a non-executive director Morgan, and non-executive roles as chairman of Cambridge University in Mathematics.
Robin is a Next 15 Communications Group plc, Arup Group of Rotork plc where she is senior independent External Appointments: None.
Aon UK Ltd 2012 to 2015, director of Close non-executive director of Smith & Nephew plc Limited and the Rugby Football Union.
She has director, a non-executive director of Hermes External Appointments: None.
Brothers Group plc 2006 to 2014 and director and Capri Holdings Limited formerly Michael advised and invested in education technology Fund Managers Limited and a non-executive of Catlin Group Ltd 2010 to 2014.
Kors Holdings Limited, also chairing the audit start-ups and works with female executives as director of Bank of America Merrill Lynch committee of both companies.
International D. A. C. External Appointments: Bruce is chair of Lloyds of London and vice chair and lead independent External Appointments: Robin is a non-executive External Appointments: Genevieve is a External Appointments: Sally is a non-executive director of Banco Santander SA.
director of Smith & Nephew plc and Capri Holdings non-executive director of Santander UK plc, director of Rotork plc, Bank of America Merrill Limited formerly Michael Kors Holdings Limited.
Next 15 Communications Group plc, Arup Group Lynch International D. A. C. and Hermes Fund He sits on the advisory board to the ICAEWs Limited and the Rugby Football Union.
Financial Reporting Committee and also chairs the ICAEWs Corporate Governance Committee.
Andrew Fisher Katherine Bellau Sarah Warby Board skills matrix: Independent Non-Executive Director and Company Secretary and Non-Executive Director Bruce Andrew Robin Scilla Sally Mark Genevieve Sarah Chair of the Remuneration Committee Group General Counsel Carnegie-Brown Fisher Freestone Grimble James Lewis Shore Warby Term of Office: Andrew was appointed to the Term of Office: Katherine was appointed Term of Office: Appointed to the Board as a Banking Insurance Industry Experience Board as a Non-Executive Director in August 2014.
Company Secretary and Group General Counsel Non-Executive Director in June 2018.
Digital Customer Experience Front Office on 8 February 2019.
Committee Membership: Andrew chairs the Committee Membership: Sarah is a member of the Risk, Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Remuneration Committee and is a member of Skills and Experience: Katherine was appointed Finance and Accounting the Nomination and Risk Committees.
General Counsel and Company Secretary in Committees.
She joined the Group in 2012 Independent: Yes.
after overseeing the sale of MoneySavingExpert Governance Skills and Experience: Andrew has experience of Skills and Experience: Sarah has experience to the Group.
Katherines expertise covers legal, of building valuable brands across consumer building digital, media and entrepreneurial regulatory and governance issues and their Risk and Regulation businesses.
He has recently stepped down, sectors.
She is currently Chief Growth Officer of impact on digital businesses.
Previously, Katherine Technology Back Office HyperJar Ltd and was previously chief marketing following its takeover by Apple, as executive practised at international law firm DLA Piper and chairman of Shazam Entertainment Limited officer at J Sainsbury plc.
Prior to that, Sarah was lectured at The University of Law.
She holds a Marketing marketing director of Heineken UK.
She is a fellow where he was previously chief executive officer.
Post-Graduate Diploma in Commercial Intellectual Prior to that, Andrew was European managing of the Marketing Society and Marketing Academy Property Law.
Strategy and an advisor to the Museum of Brands.
director of Infospace Inc and founder and managing director of TDLI.
External Appointments: Sarah is chief growth External Appointments: Andrew is a nonofficer of Hyperjar Ltd and an adviser to the Museum of Brands.
executive director of Marks and Spencer Group plc and Merlin Entertainments plc.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 Moneysupermarket.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 40 41
