100 Corporate governance report Annual General Meetings Performance evaluation At the 2018 Annual General Meetings all resolutions were passed.
Overall in Below are the key actions reported last year following the internal evaluation undertaken excess of 68% of the total Group shares in 2017 and details of the progress we have made against those actions: were voted.
Action agreed from 2017 evaluation Progress achieved The Annual General Meetings of Mondi Succession planning remained a key focus area during 2018 To continue to focus on succession planning at board, committee and with the appointment of Stephen Young as a successor to Limited and Mondi plc are scheduled to executive level, considering cultural, John Nicholas in May 2018 and detailed discussions by the be held on 9 May 2019 in Johannesburg geographic and gender diversity nominations committee in relation to board and executive level and London respectively, presenting an requirements as the business looks succession at its meeting in June.
Members of the executive to grow.
committee and other members of senior management have opportunity for shareholders to question presented to the Boards throughout the year, giving the the directors about our activities and directors exposure to a wider group of people.
Directors are available to meet high on the agenda in 2019. informally with shareholders immediately To continue to assess opportunities A number of detailed presentations in relation to potential before and after the meetings.
for growth as and when they arise with growth opportunities have been made to the Boards during the management providing detailed overviews year.
Management will continue to bring such opportunities to Separate resolutions will be proposed for to the Boards of any potential options the Boards for consideration as and when appropriate.
each item of business to be considered at when appropriate.
the meetings with the voting conducted by To maintain the high level of focus on Safety remains a key focus and we strive for continuous safety, considering in particular the improvement.
A social psychology of behaviour programme is polls.
It is confirmed that each director will behavioural and cultural reasons behind being developed for trial implementation, focused safety training be standing for re-election by shareholders life altering injuries and other serious for managing directors, first line managers and safety and at the meetings.
The meetings will consist safety incidents.
health professionals is being undertaken and a safety campaign of a number of resolutions representing targeted at the behavioural causes of serious incidents has been launched.
regular business usually conducted at an To continue to develop Mondis policies An overview of the actions taken to date was presented to the annual general meeting, together with a and procedures in the key areas of sustainable development committee at its meeting in May.
number of additional resolutions relating to focus set out in the UK Modern Slavery Mondis 2018 Modern Slavery Act statement was approved at Mondis proposed corporate simplification.
Act and to consider the use of certain the same meeting.
An initial discussion in relation to proposed The notices, which include explanations measurements to allow progress to KPIs was held.
These will be developed with specialist support be monitored.
and presented for approval during 2019. of each resolution, are contained in separate circulars which will be sent to all To monitor the outcome of the The Boards have been kept up to date with developments consultation in relation to the UK throughout the year and proposed actions designed to shareholders in advance of the meetings, in Corporate Governance Code and to implement certain provisions of the new Code were presented accordance with the corporate governance consider and implement any changes to, and approved by, the Boards towards the end of 2018. codes of South Africa and the UK.
required in order to ensure compliance with the new Code.
The voting results will be announced on the JSE and LSE and made available on the Mondi Group website as soon as practicable following the close of both meetings.
From left to right: Fred Phaswana Stephen Young Tanya Fratto Peter Oswald Dominique Reiniche Stephen Harris David Williams Andrew King Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 101 2018 internal board evaluation process The results confirmed that the Boards In line with best practice, we have conducted external evaluations at least once continue to operate well and to a high every three years, the last time being in 2016.
In 2018, the Boards determined that standard, with open and effective debate, an internal evaluation was appropriate, recognising the opportunity this provides to opportunity for challenge and full and reflect on the activities and performance of the Boards, committees and individual active participation from all members of directors, and to consider improvements to the operation of the Boards.
The Company Secretaries facilitated the process illustrated below: The review of the performance of the Joint Chairs, led by Stephen Harris as the Senior Independent Director, incorporated feedback from the Non-Executive and Review of prior year action plan Executive directors.
Consideration was and progress against plan given to the effective leadership of the Boards, how they worked together, their time commitment and the management of the meetings.
The positive working relationship between the Joint Chairs and the way in which they effectively manage Questionnaires issued to and completed by directors, their joint role was noted.
senior executives and the The key actions agreed by the Boards Company Secretaries following the 2018 evaluation are: 1.
Subject to shareholder and necessary regulatory approval, to ensure the smooth implementation of the corporate simplification announced in One-on-one interviews between the Joint Chairs November 2018. and individual directors 2.
To maintain the focus on succession planning at board and executive committee level, particularly in light of Mondis commitment to meeting gender and ethnic diversity targets.
Review of Joint Chairs performance 3.
To continue to focus on safety bythe SID and other directors performance and developing Mondis safety culture, looking in particular at new and innovative ways in which we can communicate with employees in this regard and continually refresh the safety message.
To continue to actively consider a report prepared variety of strategic growth options for the Group, giving due consideration to evolving industry trends.
To ensure that proposed changes to practice to meet new regulatory Report considered by the nominations committee, proposed actions and Corporate Governance Code formulated and recommendations requirements continue to be made to the Boards implemented effectively, ensuring Mondi is in a strong position to report against the new requirements.
The Boards consider that they continue to benefit from the annual review process, Action plan agreed the results from which help guide by the Boards the future focus of meeting agendas and behaviours.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 102 Corporate governance report Role, terms of reference andevaluation DLC nominations committee The key focus of the committee is to Composition ensure that the composition of the Meeting Boards is appropriate and relevant to In light of John Nicholas nearing Members Committee attendance the Group and that the Boards are in the throughout member five meetings in completion of a nine-year term the year since the year best position to drive the agreed strategy.
on the Boards, the search for a Tanya January 2017 5 This includes consideration of diversity and Fratto new non-executive director was succession matters.
Stephen March 2011 5 apriority for the committee during The committee operates under formal Harris the year.
The committee spent terms of reference.
The committee agenda John October 2009 3 1 time focusing on the balance and during the year included the regular matters Nicholas reserved for its review as well as other diversity of skills, knowledge and Fred June 2013 5 Phaswana ad hoc matters falling within the authority experience on the Boards and delegated to it by the Boards, including Dominique October 2015 5 ensuring a smooth appointment Reiniche the recruitment of a new non-executive and induction process following director and consideration of changes to David Williams, May 2007 5 chair the decision to appoint the Boards committees.
The committees 2 Stephen Young May 2018 2 performance against its terms of Stephen Young.
reference is reviewed on an annual basis.
David Williams 1 John Nicholas stepped down from the committee on 16 May 2018.
John attended all meetings up to the time of his The committee is satisfied that it has acted Chair of the DLC retirement from the Boards nominations committee in accordance with its terms of reference 2 Stephen Young joined the committee on 1 May 2018.
Stephen has missed one meeting of the committee since his during the year.
appointment as a result of a commitment made prior to him joining the Boards The evaluation of the committee Other regular attendees was carried out as part of the 2018 internal evaluation see page 101 for e Chief Executive Officer more information.
Key matters addressed by the committee Board and committee composition Succession planning Corporate governance and other matters e Review of the composition of the Boards to ensure e Considered the Boards succession plans, including maintenance of an appropriate balance of skills and in relation to existing directors and the requirements e Considered a request from a member of the diversity of experience to support the future growth of the Boards in the longer term.
executive committee to take on the directorship strategy, resulting in the appointment of Stephen e Received a report and presentation on talent of another company, confirming that the time Young see page 103 for more information.
management practices within the Group.
commitment would not interfere with their duties e Review of the composition of each of the to Mondi.
e Received a report and presentation on diversity committees and committee chairs, recommending within the Group and a review of measures being e Considered, and recommended to the Boards, changes to the Boards see page 103 for taken to improve this see pages 104 and 105 for the re-election of all directors at the Annual more information.
more information on our approach to diversity.
e Consideration of the composition of the DLC e Review of the succession plans for the executive e Review of the committees terms of reference, executive committee, including the skills, experience committee members and senior management performance and work programme.
and qualifications required, diversity and succession within the Group, discussing any potential gaps and e Considered, and agreed to, the committees report planning, and proposals from management and actions to address them.
for inclusion in the Groups Integrated report and recommendation of new appointments to the financial statements.
Board evaluation e Review of Dominique Reiniches performance e Monitored progress against the agreed action plan and contribution to the Boards as she completed from the prior years evaluation process see page her three-year term in office, with the committee 100 for more information.
concluding that Dominique remained independent and able to contribute effectively to Mondi in the e Considered and agreed the process for the 2018 best interests of shareholders, both in her role as a internal evaluation of the Boards, committees director and as chair of both the DLC sustainable and individual directors see page 101 for development and Mondi Limited social and more information.
e Review of the output from the 2018 evaluation e Review of the continued independence of each process and recommendation of an action plan to non-executive director, including consideration the Boards see page 101 for more information.
of their term in office and any potential conflicts of interest.
e Review of the time commitment required of each non-executive director, concluding that all nonexecutive directors continued to devote appropriate time to address their duties to Mondi.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 103 Appointment of Stephen Young Review of committee memberships As a result of John Nicholas decision to step down of Mondi and the way in which it operates as he neared the end of his nine-year term in office, meant he was well-placed to take on the role.
and the appointment of Stephen Young to the Consequently, it was also agreed that Dominique Boards, the Committee undertook a review of the Reiniche would replace Stephen Harris as chair current roles and responsibilities of the directors of the sustainable development and social and and in particular the committee memberships.
Stephen has remained a A number of factors were considered, including member of each committee, providing continuity.
the desire to bring new perspectives to each of Given his financial experience, Stephen Young the committees and the time commitment of each was proposed to shareholders for appointment director.
After consideration, it was recommended as chair of the audit committee see page 106 for Towards the end of 2017, the decision was taken to, and agreed by, the Boards that Stephen Harris more information.
He also joined the nominations to start preparing for the departure of John replace John as Senior Independent Director and sustainable development committees on Nicholas, given that John was approaching upon Johns retirement.
Stephen Harris length appointment, providing a fresh viewpoint to each of the completion of nine years of service on the of service on the Boards and his experience these committees.
The skills and experience required of a new non-executive director were discussed in detail, with the committee agreeing that the primary focus was on finding someone with a Board appointments strong financial background and the necessary financial experience to be able to take over Johns role as audit committee chair.
Mondi has an agreed process in place for the recruitment and appointment of new In accordance with Mondis established directors to the Boards.
This process was followed in relation to the appointment of appointment process, which is set out Stephen Young and is set out below.
Further details on Stephens appointment can opposite, the recruitment process was led by be found opposite.
David Williams, Joint Chair, and John in his role as Senior Independent Director, on behalf of the nominations committee.
Russell Reynolds Associates, an external search agency, was Agreement of key business experience engaged to assist with the selection process.
and skills required, taking into account Russell Reynolds is a signatory to the Voluntary diversity requirements, and candidate Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms.
specification drawn up While Russell Reynolds is currently assisting Mondi with another recruitment process below board level, it does not involve the individual External independent search from Russell Reynolds who supported us agent engaged to assist with the with Stephen Youngs appointment, thereby selection process ensuring the independence of the board recruitment process.
Agent conducts a market search Russell Reynolds drew up a detailed and provides a long list of potential specification based on the criteria agreed by candidates for consideration, the long list the committee.
They then conducted a market to include male and female candidates search and benchmarked candidates for the from a variety of backgrounds role before providing detailed profiles for a longlist of candidates.
The candidates were from a variety of backgrounds, with the focus Short list chosen from long list for being on financial and business experience, interview byone of the Joint Chairs and from different nationalities, with both male and SID and female candidates included.
Having reviewed the profiles presented, initial interviews were undertaken with a number of the candidates before a shortlist of two Short list reduced to an candidates was agreed.
They were then agreed number of candidates for interviewed by other Mondi executives and interview by other executive and non-executives before being considered at a non-executive directors full meeting of the nominations committee.
Following a rigorous selection process, the Nominations committee considers committee, having considered the relative the preferred candidates and makes a merits and fit of each candidate, made a recommendation to the Boards recommendation to the Boards, which was accepted, to appoint Stephen Young as an independent non-executive director with effect Boards consider the recommendation from 1 May 2018. and whether to proceed with Stephen was the preferred candidate on the appointment the basis of his strong financial and general management background, his recent experience On appointment each non-executive initially appointed for a three-year term, after as CEO of a listed international engineering director receives letters of appointment which a review is undertaken to consider business and his audit committee experience.
setting out, among other things, their renewal of the term for a further three Full biography term of appointment, the expected time years.
However, Mondi follows governance Page 89 commitment for their duties to Mondi and best practice with all directors standing for details of any committees of which they will re-election by shareholders at each Annual Induction details Page 96 be a member.
Non-executive directors are General Meeting.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018
