Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT The Nomination Committee has a formal, rigorous and transparent We followed the procedure outlined above for the search for the procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
new Chair, Non-Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer, When the need to appoint a Director is identified, we prepare a engaging Russell Reynolds as the external executive search candidate profile indicating the skills, knowledge and experience consultants for the appointment of the Chair and Chief Financial The Nomination Committee is responsible required, taking into account the Boards existing composition, Officer and Egon Zehnder as the external executive search for reviewing the structure, size and including relevant experience and understanding of our stakeholder consultants for the appointment of the Non-Executive Director.
composition of the Board and its groups.
We engage external executive search consultants and Both firms are signatories to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for consider the gender, nationality, and educational and professional Executive Search Firms on gender diversity and best practice Committees: taking into account skills, background of candidates, as well as individual characteristics which and have no other connection with the Company.
Both firms knowledge, experience and diversity, will enhance diversity of thinking on the Board.
Suitable candidates were briefed on our diversity expectations and we considered and making recommendations to the are interviewed by Committee members.
and interviewed a wide and diverse range of candidates for each role.
The search for the new Chair was led by Sally James, as Senior Board with regard to any changes.
We give careful consideration to ensure proposed appointees Independent Director.
The Board was unanimous in its decision have enough time available to devote to the role and that the to appoint Robin Freestone as Chair to succeed me from the balance of skills, knowledge and experience, including experience and conclusion of the AGM in May 2019, Sarah Warby Non-Executive understanding of our stakeholder groups, on the Board is maintained.
Director and Scilla Grimble Chief Financial Officer.
When the Nomination Committee has identified a suitable candidate, The members of the Nomination Committee can, where they judge Dear Shareholder we then make a recommendation to the Board with the Board it necessary to discharge their responsibilities, obtain independent As chair of the Nomination Committee, making the final decision.
professional advice at the Companys expense.
I am pleased to present the Nomination Committees report for the year ended Written terms of reference that outline the Committees authority Committee meetings 31 December 2018.
I have set out below our and responsibility are published on the investor relations section We held three scheduled meetings during the year, with a number role and activities in reviewing the Boards of the Groups website at http: corporate.
com of ad hoc meetings to provide updates on the various recruitment size, structure and composition, including and are available in hard copy form on application to the Company processes during the year.
Details of the attendance at the recommendation of appointment of a Secretary.
We review our terms of reference annually and updated Nomination Committee meetings are set out above.
new Chair, Non-Executive Director and them with effect from 1 January 2019 to reflect the changes Chief Financial Officer, reviewing succession introduced by the UK Corporate Governance Code July 2018 version.
We invited the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief People Officer and development plans for the Board and and the Company Secretary to attend meetings of the Nomination executive management and overseeing the Committee.
During 2018, we also invited members of the executive Boardroom diversity Groups diversity plans.
management to present to the Committee in relation to the Following the appointment of Scilla Grimble on 4 February 2019, management of top talent in their teams and received progress we now have 50% female representation on the Board and have Committee membership updates from our Diversity and Inclusion Lead.
The Company exceeded our target of 33% by 2020.
I chair the Nomination Committee and Secretary acts as secretary to the Nomination Committee.
Bruce Carnegie-Brown the other members, all of whom are The Boards Statement on Diversity is as follows: Chair of the Independent Non-Executive Directors, are Nomination Committee detailed in the table below.
Biographies of In 2018, we: The Board of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC welcomed the the members of the Nomination Committee publication of the Hampton-Alexander Review on FTSE Women 2018 highlights reviewed the composition of the Board, including the are set out on pages 40 and 41.
Leaders and the Parker Review on Ethnic diversity of UK boards.
balance of skills, knowledge and experience, including conducted a search for a new Chair, led by our Senior Independent Director: We recognise the benefits of having a diverse Board, and see Committee members experience and understanding of our stakeholder groups: conducted a search for a new Non-Executive Director: diversity at Board level as important in maintaining good corporate Eligible to conducted a search for, considered and recommended to Committee members attend Attended governance and Board effectiveness.
We want a Board that reflects the Board the appointment of a new Chairman led by the conducted a search for a new Chief Financial Officer: diversity in the broadest sense to embrace different perspectives, Senior Independent Director, Non-Executive Director and Bruce Carnegiereviewed the size, structure and composition of the Board and its Committees: insight and challenge such as gender, race, age, educational and Chief Financial Officer: Brown Chair 3 3 professional background, disability or sexual orientation.
reviewed the Groups internal diversity plans: and reviewed progress on diversity of the Board: Andrew Fisher 3 3 reviewed the pipeline of top talent to run the business Robin Freestone 3 3 continued to review talent in the Group with a greater focus on managing Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC is committed to ensuring particularly at the level below executive management, Sally James 3 3 the pipeline of top talent to run the business particularly at the level below that any Board vacancies arising are filled on merit, in the context with presentations from executive management which Genevieve Shore 3 3 executive management.
of the skills, experience, independence and knowledge which the also included updates on diversity plans for their areas Sarah Warby 2 2 Board as a whole requires to be effective.
When Board positions of the business: Sarah Warby was appointed as a Director and become available, the Company will remain focused on ensuring considered and recommended to the Board the remember of the Committee on 1 June 2018 that a diverse range of candidates including all aspects of diversity election of all Directors at the 2019 Annual General as described above are considered whilst ensuring that Number of meetings of the Meeting other than me, as I will be stepping down at the 3 Role appointments continue to be based on merit, measured against Nomination Committee: conclusion of that meeting: and The role of the Nomination Committee is to: objective criteria and the skills and experience the individual reviewed and updated the policy for approval of Directors regularly evaluate the balance of skills, offers.
The Board has targeted a minimum of one director of conflicts of interest and the register of Directors conflicts Allocation of time Allocation of time knowledge, experience and colour by 2024 and has achieved its target of a minimum female of interest.
independence of the Board: representation on the Board of 33% by 2020.
Succession, talent & development plans 22% review the size, structure and Diversity 23% composition of the Board, including The Nomination Committee reviews and assesses composition Board composition, skill set and recruitment 33% Board diversity: on behalf of the Board and recommends appointments of new Annual Report disclosures, Committee eectiveness identify and recommend to the Board at Directors.
As part of these processes, the Nomination Committee and other governance matters 22% the relevant time candidates for will consider the balance of skills, experience, independence and appointment as Directors: and knowledge of the Board and the diversity representation.
give full consideration to succession planning for Directors and other senior As at the date of this report, the Board had a total of eight Directors.
The skill set of the Non-Executive Directors includes financial, economic, financial services, banking, digital, technology, communications and consumer expertise.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 Moneysupermarket.
