Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Code.
I am a qualified accountant and was formerly chief financial Committees revised terms of reference include all matters officer of Pearson PLC.
I am a non-executive director and chair the required by Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 7.1 audit committees of both Smith & Nephew plc and Capri Holdings and both the 2016 and 2018 editions of the Code.
Limited formerly Michael Kors Holdings Limited.
I am also a The Audit Committee plays a key role in member of the advisory board to the ICAEWs Financial Reporting Committee meetings monitoring the integrity of the Groups Committee.
As a whole the Committee has competence relevant We met four times in 2018 and the attendance of our members is financial reporting, reviewing the material to the sector in which the Company operates through the digital shown in the table.
In order to maintain effective communication experience of Genevieve Shore, Sarah Warby and me, the financial between all relevant parties, we invited the Chair of the Board, financial reporting judgements and services experience of Sally James and retail customer experience Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer, assessing the internal control of Sarah Warby.
Head of Internal Audit and Company Secretary, together with environment.
appropriate members of the management team with responsibility Biographies of the members of the Committee are set out on for risk and internal control, and the external auditor, to meetings pages 40 to 41. as necessary.
We set time aside periodically to seek the views of the external auditor, in the absence of management.
The external Committee members auditor has direct access to me to raise any concerns outside Eligible to formal Committee meetings.
I also meet separately with the Head Committee members attend Attended of Internal Audit during the year.
In between meetings, I keep in Robin Freestone Chair 4 4 touch with the Chief Financial Officer and external audit partner Number of meetings of the Sally James 4 4 4 as well as other members of the management team.
Audit Committee: Genevieve Shore 4 4 Sarah Warby 2 2 After each meeting, I report to the Board on the main issues that we discussed.
Allocation of time Sarah Warby was appointed to the Board and Audit Committee on 1 June 2018 Allocation of time Planning and preparation for The members of the Audit Committee can, where they judge it The secretary to the Committee is Katherine Bellau, Company external reporting including necessary to discharge their responsibilities, obtain independent Secretary and Group General Counsel.
standard changes 14% professional advice at the Companys expense.
Annual report, half year and Role trading update reviews 21% Financial Statements and reports The primary role of the Audit Committee is to ensure the integrity Internal controls, risk assessment The Committee is responsible for reviewing the appropriateness and evaluation 14% of the financial reporting and audit processes and monitor the of the Groups trading statements, half-year reporting and annual Internal audit planning and report effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management review including whistleblowing 17% Financial Statements.
We do this by considering, among other systems.
This includes: External audit matters, including things, the accounting policies and practices adopted by the monitoring the integrity of the Financial Statements of the eectiveness and fees 20% Group: the correct application of applicable reporting standards Company, any formal announcements relating to the Allocation of time Review of tax, treasury and other and compliance with broader governance requirements: the Companys financial performance and any significant issues Robin Freestone strategic financial matters 14% approach taken by management to report the key judgemental and judgements contained in them: Planning and preparation for external Chair of the Audit Committee reporting including standard changes 14% areas of reporting and the comments of the external auditor on reviewing the Groups Financial Statements and the material managements chosen approach.
Annual report, half year and trading financial reporting judgements contained in them: update reviews 21% 2018 highlights advising the Board on whether the Committee believes this Internal controls, risk assessment Annual Report and the Financial Statements contained within it, oversaw an assurance programme to monitor implementation of the and evaluation 14% In 2018, we: when taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and strategic initiatives: Internal audit planning and report review provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the reviewed the 31 December 2017 Annual Report and including whistleblowing 17% oversaw the move to reporting under the new CGUs following realignment Groups strategy, business activities and financial performance: Financial Statements and the half-year statement to 30 June External audit matters, including eectiveness of the Group vertically as part of the Reinvent strategy together with the reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence 2018, together with reports from the external auditors: and fees 20% corresponding goodwill reallocations: and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, reviewed the trading updates issued in April 2018 and Review of tax, treasury and other strategic taking into consideration relevant UK professional regulatory October 2018: monitored progress on GDPR compliance: financial matters 14% requirements: reviewed the allocation of goodwill between the new monitored progress on the automation of Finance and HR controls and developing and implementing a policy on the level, amount and CGUs, following alignment of the Group vertically, as part further enhancements to processes: pre-approval of non-audit services provided by the external of the Reinvent strategy: Dear Shareholder auditor: considered the appropriateness of the Reinvent strategy focused on financial reporting, including the processes to ensure the Annual As chair of the Audit Committee, I am advising the Board on the appointment, re-appointment and costs of change taken outside adjusted operating profit: Report & Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable: pleased to present the Audit Committees removal of the external auditor and the remuneration and considered the provisional purchase price allocation and 38% reviewed the effectiveness of external and internal audit processes and the report for the year ended 31 December terms of engagement of the external auditor: the additional disclosures related to the acquisition of 10% effectiveness and appropriateness of our system of internal controls: 2018.
I have set out our role and activities monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal control Decision Tech: 7% in ensuring appropriate challenge and considered and approved the Groups tax strategy for publication: and risk management systems, including whistleblowing and examined key points of disclosure and presentation to 30% governance around accounting treatment fraud prevention procedures: ensure adequacy, clarity and completeness of the Financial focused on the development of our assurance and internal audit capability: and the internal control environment and 15% reviewing the scope, activities and results of the Groups Statements: and ensuring that the Annual Report as a whole considered the financial and accounting matters arising from the acquisition Internal Audit function: reviewed documentation prepared to support the is fair, balanced and understandable.
of Decision Tech: reviewing the Audit Committees terms of reference, carrying enhanced going concern and viability statements given on out an annual performance evaluation exercise and noting the pages 27 to 28. considered the implications of new accounting standards that are effective Committee membership satisfactory operation of the Committee: and for the first time in the current financial year, notably IFRS 15, Revenue from I chair the Audit Committee.
The other reporting to the Board how it has discharged its responsibilities.
contracts with customers and IFRS 9, Financial Instruments: and members of the Audit Committee are Significant issues considered the implications of accounting standards coming into effect in 38% detailed in the table on the next page.
Written terms of reference that outline the Committees authority We identified the issues on page 50 as significant in the context 2019, principally IFRS 16, Leases.
10% All the members are Independent Nonand responsibilities are published on the investor relations section of the 2018 Financial Statements.
We consider these areas to be Executive Directors in accordance with 7% of the Groups website at http: corporate.
significant taking into account the level of materiality and degree provision C. 3.1 of the UK Corporate 30% com and are available in hard copy form from the Company of judgement exercised by management.
We discussed the issues Governance Code Code and the Board Secretary.
We review our terms of reference annually and updated 15% in detail to ensure that the approaches taken were appropriate.
has determined I have recent and relevant them with effect from 1 January 2019, to align them with the July This included reviewing presentations and reports from both financial experience as required by the 2018 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Audit management and the external auditor.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 Moneysupermarket.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 48 49 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Fair, balanced and understandable Report Independence and non-audit services Issue Committee review We have policies and procedures in place in relation to the and Accounts Revenue recognition We reviewed and assessed managements key controls in relation to the recording of revenue provision of non-audit services by the external auditor which One of the key governance requirements is for the Annual Report which include: As more fully described on pages are reviewed regularly and were updated in 2017 to reflect the and the Financial Statements, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced a a completeness check which is performed by reconciling all click activity on the website and 92 and 105, the majority of the requirements of the new EU Ethical Standards for auditors.
and understandable and provide the information necessary for Groups revenue is derived from ensuring that an invoice has been raised, or revenue has been accrued, where appropriate: This ensures that the Group benefits in a cost-effective manner shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, b a review to compare accrued revenue at the end of the previous month and actual revenue success-based commercial deals from the cumulative knowledge and experience of its auditor whilst business model and strategy.
Ensuring this standard is met requires which compensate the Group for invoiced during the following month, with significant differences investigated to provide evidence also ensuring that the auditor maintains the necessary degree of continuous assessment of the financial reporting issues affecting that revenues are correctly stated: and each product sold by a provider independence and objectivity.
The external auditor is not permitted the Group in addition to the focused exercises which take place c a programme of revenue assurance by the Groups Internal Audit function.
to a customer referred to it by to perform any work which they may later be required to audit or during the production of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The Group recognises which might affect their objectivity and independence or create These focused exercises can be summarised as follows: This helps provide us with assurance that revenues are correctly stated by reviewing provider this revenue at the point at a conflict of interest.
Key points from our internal procedure for a qualitative review of disclosures and a review of internal which a customer leaves one of systems and controls to ensure that sales made by providers resulting from referrals made by approval of work given to the external auditor are: consistency throughout the Annual Report and Financial the Group have been correctly identified and allocated in the provider systems.
In addition the Groups websites, based on no non-audit work may be placed with the external auditor Statements: management regularly reviews the quantum and ageing of any accrued revenue balances.
the number expected to click without the specific approval of the Audit Committee: a review by the Committee of all material matters, as reported through and purchase a product The assessment of the Groups information system which records the clicks, together with the any approved non-audit services must be in line with the cap elsewhere in this Annual Report and Financial Statements: reconciliation of revenue to cash receipts, therefore form a key part of the audit.
The results of from a provider site.
limits introduced by EU legislation as referred to later : a risk comparison review, which assesses the consistency of KPMGs testing are included in their first half and full-year reports prepared for the Committee the non-audit fees are reported regularly to the Committee: and the presentation of risks and significant judgements and reviewed in detail and discussed with KPMG.
various services are prohibited, including the provision of most throughout the main areas of risk disclosure in this Annual The judgements in relation to software and development assets largely relate to the future capitalisation of software types of tax services, valuation services, appraisals or fairness Report and Financial Statements: economic benefits associated with the assets and that capitalisation is in accordance with the opinions, outsourcing of internal audit services, management and development costs a review of the balance of good and bad news: and relevant accounting standards.
We addressed these matters through papers received from functions, recruitment services and legal services.
As more fully described on ensuring it correctly reflects: management which included key IT projects and were comfortable with managements justification.
pages 102 to 104 of the Groups the Groups position and performance as described on We gain comfort that business plans in relation to the capitalised assets have received Board During the year the value of non-audit services provided by the Financial Statements the Group pages 24 to 28: approval.
This is also a significant risk area for the audit, and therefore KPMG provide to the external auditor amounted to 0.03m 2017: 0.03m.
Non-audit holds intangible asset balances the Groups business model, as described on pages 10 to 11: Committee their comments on the approach taken by management.
services amounted to 12% of the value of the audit.
EU legislation arising from the capitalisation the Groups strategy, as described on pages 8 to 9. on permitted non-audit services came into effect from 17 June of certain software and 2016 which introduced a permitted non-audit services fee cap of development costs principally The Directors statement on a fair, balanced and understandable 70% of the average audit fee over a consecutive three-year period.
relating to developments in the Annual Report and Financial Statements is set out on page 79.
This cap will come into effect for the Group in the financial year Groups front end platforms and ending 31 December 2020.
The non-audit services during 2018 back office data warehouse.
External auditor related to the review of the Groups half-year reporting.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the The acquisition of Decision Tech gave rise to additional Intangible Asset and Goodwill balances.
Acquisition of decision tech Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditor.
We also We reviewed and assessed managements conclusion on purchase price allocation work, challenging As more fully described on pages The assurance provided by the external auditor on this item is approve the terms of engagement and fees of the external auditor, 112 to 113 of the Groups the key assumptions and assessing these compared to the original investment case.
considered by the Group as strictly necessary in the interests of ensuring they have appropriate audit plans in place and that an Financial Statements the Group the Group.
The non-audit services offered reflects the auditors appropriate relationship is maintained between the Group and acquired Decision Tech on knowledge and understanding of the Group.
The Group has also the external auditor.
9 August 2018. continued with the appointment of other accountancy firms to provide certain non-audit services to the Group in connection with We also reviewed and considered the following areas due to their materiality and the application of judgement.
However, we considered internal audit, tax, systems and regulatory advice and anticipates In 2018, we: them to be stable in nature and therefore did not classify them as significant issues in the context of the 2018 Financial Statements.
that this will continue in 2019. reviewed, considered and agreed the scope and methodology of the audit work to be undertaken by the external auditor: The external auditor was not engaged during the year to provide Issue Committee review evaluated the independence and objectivity of the external any services which may have given rise to a conflict of interest.
auditor, having regard to: a a report from the external Reallocation of goodwill across We reviewed and assessed managements reallocation of goodwill arising on the acquisition of The Committee is satisfied that the overall levels of audit and auditor describing their arrangements to identify, report the Groups CGUs Moneysupermarket.
com Financial Group Limited and MoneySavingExpert.
com to the revised CGU non-audit fees are not material relative to the income of the and manage conflicts of interest: b the extent and nature structure.
Management selected to reallocate the goodwill across the Insurance, Money, Home external auditor as a whole and therefore that the objectivity of non-audit services provided by the external auditor: and Services and Other CGUs based on the relative Net Present Values derived from the future EBITDA and independence of the external auditor was not compromised.
c considering the tenure of the audit partner, who is earnings potential of each of these CGUs.
We considered the appropriateness of basing the required to rotate every five years in line with ethical reallocation on Net Present Value of future cash flows, the alternative methods available and effectiveness and re-appointment standards.
The audit partner rotated with effect from the amounts of goodwill allocated to the CGUs.
We considered the quality and effectiveness of the external audit April 2015 and the audit was tendered during 2016: Intangible assets impairment We reviewed the judgements, assumptions and estimates made by management in preparing the process, in light of the FRCs Practice Aid for Audit Committees monitored the quality of services provided by the testing impairment review to ensure that they were appropriate.
We also obtained the external auditors May 2015.
The assessment of effectiveness was completed as external auditor: views on the appropriateness of the approach and conclusions.
The results of this review were that part of an ongoing process of review throughout the year with agreed the terms of engagement and fees to be paid to the we were satisfied with the conclusions reached.
the Audit Committee seeking assurances and understanding of external auditor for the audit of the 2018 Financial Statements: the auditors approach to the audit.
At the planning meetings for Share-based payment charges We reviewed the judgements, assumptions and estimates made by management to ensure that they reviewed recommendations made by the external auditor the half-year review and year-end audit, the external auditor was were appropriate.
The results of this review were that we were satisfied with the conclusions reached.
in their management letters and the adequacy of required to explain significant risks to audit quality by reference managements response: and Enhanced going concern and In assessing the validity of the statements detailed on pages 27 to 28, we reviewed the work to the Companys specific circumstances and changes in the risks reviewed the report of the FRCs Audit Quality Review team viability statements undertaken by management to assess the Groups resilience to the Principal Risks under various and reasons for those changes.
We explored the auditors relating to KPMG.
scenarios and gained appropriate assurance that sufficient rigour was built into the process.
understanding of our business and industry knowledge which informed their approach to identifying risks.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 50 51 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED We reviewed the report of the FRCs Audit Quality Review team Whistleblowing Training relating to KPMG as a firm and discussed the actions taken by KPMG In 2018, we: The Group has a whistleblowing process including an external The Audit Committee receives or reviews guidance as appropriate in light of the recommendations.
KPMG confirmed that it is confidential reporting hotline which enables employees of the during the year.
reviewed the framework and effectiveness of the Groups performing the audit in line with the latest model adopted by the Group to raise, in confidence, concerns about possible system of internal control and risk management, including firm.
This includes the increased use of mandated audit programmes improprieties in financial reporting, other operational matters financial, operational and compliance controls: In 2018, we: and standard working papers, greater support and challenge from or inappropriate personal behaviours in the workplace.
received regular updates from management on internal their 2nd Line of Defence support team and increased central received updates from our external auditor, KPMG, on control improvements including reports on progress of monitoring of the audit.
We worked with KPMG to understand financial reporting developments: automation of financial controls, ensuring the target of In 2018, we: their judgements about materiality.
We looked at the way they received an update on the tax environment and over 60% of the automation of controls was met by the communicated key accounting and audit judgements.
This approach reviewed reports at each meeting from the Company forthcoming regulations from Deloitte, our tax adviser: and end of the year: was supplemented by members of the Committee and senior Secretary and Group General Counsel on: a socialisation reviewed the impact of IFRS 16 on the Groups Financial reviewed comprehensive reports from the external members of the finance team who regularly interact with the of the external confidential reporting hotline, email and Statements from January 2019. auditor, KPMG, of the results of its controls testing as part external auditor completing a detailed questionnaire which included internet arrangements: and b whistleblowing incidents of the external audit: and consideration of the audit partner, the approach, communication, and their outcomes.
reported to the Board on our evaluation of the operation independence, objectivity, and reporting.
The results of the rolled out the Groups whistleblowing process to Overview of Committee activities for 2019 of the Groups internal control and risk management questionnaire were then reported to and discussed by the Decision Tech.
Our priority for 2019 will remain the oversight of the assurance system, informed by reports from Internal Audit including Committee, with the Committee gaining an understanding from programme to monitor implementation of the new strategic PwC and KPMG.
respondents of why respondents considered the audit team initiatives.
Following the implementation of our Finance and HR exhibited the qualities included in the responses.
We also assessed Risk Committee system, we will oversee further enhancements to systems and the cost effectiveness and value for money aspect of the audit.
We consider the adequacy of managements response to matters The Group has a separate Risk Committee which is chaired by Sally processes.
We will also continue to focus on the development of We reported our findings to the Board as part of our recommendation.
raised and the implementation of recommendations made.
The Risk Committee operates separately but alongside the our assurance and internal audit processes, with the Head of Audit Committee.
A separate report of the work and responsibilities Internal Audit and PwC.
We held private meetings with the external auditor as necessary The Boards statement on internal control and risk management of the Risk Committee is set out on pages 57 to 59.
The Group after Committee meetings to review key issues within their sphere can be found on pages 46 to 47. also has a separate Risk & Compliance function, headed by the This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: of interest and responsibility.
Internal Audit KPMG has acted as the auditor to the Group since 2004 and were Robin Freestone The Group has an Internal Audit function which together with the Audit Committee effectiveness appointed as the auditor to the Company on its flotation in 2007.
Chair of the Audit Committee PwC co-source arrangement delivers a risk-based internal audit In 2018 we carried out an internal evaluation of Audit Committee The lead audit partner rotates every five years to ensure 13 February 2019 plan to provide independent assurance over the Groups key risks.
effectiveness which involved the completion of a questionnaire, independence.
The KPMG audit partner was rotated on 30 April 2015 with the results being analysed and presented at a Committee in accordance with the FRCs Ethics Standard 3 Revised.
The Committee was considered to be effective formal competitive tender exercise during 2016 in relation to the in fulfilling its role during 2018 and remains independent.
We also In 2018, we: audit for the Group for the year ended 31 December 2017, the Board reviewed progress against actions identified in the 2017 evaluation: continued to oversee enhancements to our Internal Audit approved the Audit Committees recommendation to put a resolution function, ensuring the function has the right expertise and to shareholders at the 2017 Annual General Meeting to re-appoint 2017 evaluation actions update experience to provide effective challenge throughout the KPMG, which shareholders subsequently approved.
The following actions were identified during the 2017 evaluation: organisation, through recruitment, training and leveraging enhancing Committee papers papers have been enhanced, the PwC co-source arrangement: Since KPMGs re-appointment, we have considered further ensuring they are concise and facilitate constructive debate reviewed and approved a revised Internal Audit Charter: the length of KPMGs tenure and the results of the detailed and discussion: reviewed the rolling twelve-month Internal Audit plan which questionnaire when assessing their continued effectiveness and oversight of implementation of new strategic initiatives we defines the scope of work the Internal Audit function will independence.
We continue to remain satisfied with the work of have overseen an assurance programme which monitors the undertake, ensuring it is aligned to key risks of the business: KPMG and that it continues to remain independent and objective.
implementation of the new strategic initiatives.
reviewed results from audits performed including any In accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK & unsatisfactory audit findings and related action plans: Ireland 260 and Ethical Standard 1 issued by the Accounting 2018 evaluation actions received assurance of the Groups readiness for GDPR Practices Board, and as a matter of best practice, the external Some of the areas that will be actioned in 2019 include: prior to 25 May 2018: auditor has confirmed its independence as auditor of the enhancing Internal Audit reporting to the Committee: and reviewed open audit actions, together with monitoring Company, in a letter addressed to the Directors.
ensuring the processes and procedures are put in place to meet progress against the actions: the requirements of the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
considered the different sources of assurance against the We have therefore complied with the requirement to ensure the Groups key risks to ensure there is comprehensive risk external audit contract is tendered within the 10 years prescribed by and assurance coverage: EU and UK legislation and the Codes recommendation.
We confirm met with the Head of Internal Audit without management we have complied with the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services present and the Chair of Audit also met separately with the for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory use of Head of Internal Audit: Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities agreed a targeted plan to provide specific assurances over Order 2014. the strategic initiatives and associated strategic enablers: agreed the plan and received summary reports on the Internal control progress of the Revenue Assurance function: and The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the conducted an assessment of the Internal Audit function.
effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems.
Through monitoring the effectiveness of its internal controls and risk management, the Committee is able to maintain a good understanding of business performance, key judgemental areas and managements decision-making processes.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 52 53
