104 Corporate governance report At employee level: The position remains stable in comparison Diversity & Inclusion to 2017 which, although positive, means e Recruitment activities are aligned with Mondi is committed to encouraging and we havent made any significant progress the aims of our D&I policy, including promoting diversity and inclusion D&I in all towards meeting our targets in this regard.
to promote diversity of all types and its forms.
The focus in this area and the work being to ensure fair and non-discriminatory As a global organisation operating in undertaken will therefore need to continue working practices.
more than 30 countries, D&I forms an during the coming year.
Developing the e We aim to ensure that a sufficient integral part of the way we do business.
pipeline up to executive committee level pipeline of candidates from a variety We are committed to creating a culture remains a priority as well as a focus on of backgrounds are considered during that embraces D&I and provides a working other forms of diversity, including ethnicity.
environment that is flexible and nonAdditional gender diversity statistics can be e We aim to ensure that the nationalities discriminatory, from recruitment and people found in the Strategic report on page 54. of candidates at long and short list development to reward and our talent As part of the Boards oversight of Mondis stages are appropriately representative management approach.
We strive for an D&I policy, a presentation was provided to of our international footprint, subject to inclusive environment where differences the committee during the year in relation the availability of candidates with the are valued and embraced.
We employ, to D&I and succession planning, covering necessary qualifications and experience.
empower and develop competent people new and ongoing initiatives to improve with the necessary potential required to e We will ensure fair and equal training and D&I and progress made in this regard.
meet our business needs and maintain a development opportunities.
Regular discussions are also held at both competitive business advantage.
The policy also confirms the Boards executive committee and operational The Groups formal D&I policy, which was intention to work towards achieving committee level.
approved by, and has the full support of, the Hampton-Alexander Reviews One significant step taken during the the Boards, is intended to help us meet recommended target of 33% women on year towards meeting the goals of our these goals and sets out guidelines for such boards and across executive committees policy was the creation of a D&I taskforce.
matters as recruitment, the use of search and their direct reports by 2020 and the This resulted in our first global D&I firms, succession and annual reviews, Parker Reviews recommended target of conference, more details of which can both at board level and in relation to the one person of colour on boards by 2021, a be found opposite.
One of the first roles wider workforce.
target that we currently meet.
of the task force will be to identify and Key policy requirements include: However, while gender, ethnicity, race recommend KPIs so that we can monitor and other forms of D&I will always be our progress effectively.
At board and executive committee level: considered, and form a key part of e For board appointments, Mondi will, In South Africa we are committed to making our succession planning discussions, wherever possible, engage executive a positive contribution to the process of appointments at all levels will continue to be search firms that have signed up to the transformation.
We have taken active steps made based on skill and ability.
It remains Voluntary Code of Conduct in relation to to meet the requirements of broad-based important to ensure that D&I is seen in a the search process.
black economic empowerment BBBEE, broader context and that we have the right including establishing transformation e Search firms will be requested to include mix of backgrounds, skills, knowledge and forums in our South African operations to on the longlist a sufficient number experience on our Boards, and throughout allow our employees to discuss equity and of qualified female candidates and the Group, to meet our business needs and training-related issues and ideas.
candidates from a variety of ethnic future strategy.
Additional information on backgrounds, a requirement that is the specific process followed for board-level also reflected in the Voluntary Code appointments can be found on page 103. of Conduct.
At the end of 2018, we had two female e The nominations committee will review, directors representing 25% of the at least annually, succession plans in composition of the Boards and one director relation to the Boards, the executive of colour.
During 2018, we also reported to committee and other senior managers in the Hampton-Alexander Review that as at light of D&I levels across the Group and 30 June 2018 we had approximately 27% taking into account skills, experience and female representation across our executive diversity requirements.
committee and its direct reports combined.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 105 Diversity is also an essential part of Mondis Creating a diverse and inclusive culture leadership development programme with the inclusion of a number of talent management and development initiatives, including the implementation of training modules such as Intercultural Diversity & International Business Competence through The Mondi Academy to enhance the understanding and appreciation of the benefits of diversity within the business.
Other training schemes designed to empower and support diversity include Success management training with a focus on female career strategies for higher management positions and training on career building for young female employees.
In addition, employee exchanges where individuals spend time working in different business units and locations around the Group enable them to gain experience of different working practices and skills as well as having exposure to different cultures.
Other initiatives include mentoring and development programmes, flexible working practices and membership of an LGBT network and consultancy in order to Creating a work environment that fosters a culture Following a round of workshops, participants support diversity and employee integration of diversity and inclusion is vital to the success of translated the insights they had gained into across the business world.
our organisation and improves our competitive actionable items based on Mondis D&I pillars: advantage in becoming an employer of choice.
Attracting and retaining a diverse and The Mondi cultural characteristics 2018 marked a milestone for Mondi, with 75 inclusive workforce colleagues from various locations around the world incorporate our aim to hire and work meeting in Austria for our first Diversity & Inclusion 2.
Growing and developing a diverse and effectively with people who differ in D&I Conference a unique opportunity to create a inclusive workforce ethnicity and race, gender, culture, age and roadmap for success and a network of colleagues 3.
Leading towards a diverse and inclusive culture all committed to progressing D&I at Mondi.
We measure our progress at Mondi through the use of tools such as our global A number of external contributors shared valuable 4.
Inspiring to create an inclusive mindset and insights on industry trends, good practices, the employee surveys and 360 feedback.
company culture implementation of change agents to foster D&I initiatives and business cases.
Enabling diversity and inclusion across Mondi While it is recognised that there are many challenges and there is more work to do, The D&I taskforce is supported by a steering committee comprised of executive committee Mondi believes that continually sharing members and chaired by Group Communication best practice, networking and sharing & Marketing Director Sara Sizer.
Mondi has made experiences both internally and externally progress on D&I in the past by establishing policies and processes, but this renewed momentum is will allow us to make good progress.
important to drive greater behavioural change to More details can be found on page 54. establish a truly diverse and inclusive workforce to deliver long term, sustainable success for Mondi.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 106 Corporate governance report Composition DLC audit committee As a result of his retirement from the Boards at the conclusion of the Annual General Composition Meetings in May 2018, John Nicholas Meeting stepped down from the committee after The committees focus on the Members Committee attendance almost nine years as chair.
Stephen Young, throughout member four meetings quality of the external audit the year since in the year who was appointed to the Boards on process continued during the Tanya May 2017 4 1 May 2018, was appointed as a member Fratto year, particularly in light of the of the committee by shareholders at the Stephen March 2011 4 Annual General Meetings and replaced increasing external attention being Harris John as chair.
Stephen is a member of given to the audit market.
It was John Nicholas, October 2009 2 the Chartered Institute of Management 1 pleasing to hear that the FRCs chair Accountants and has held a number of Audit Quality Review team did not Stephen Young May 2018 2 commercial accounting and finance roles 2 chair identify any significant areas for during his career, most notably holding the 1 John Nicholas stepped down from the committee on 16 May role of Group Finance Director at Meggitt improvement during its review of 2018.
John attended all meetings up to the time of his plc for nine years before being appointed retirement from the Boards PwCs audit of Mondi plcs 2017 2 Stephen Young was appointed to the committee on Chief Executive Officer in 2013, a position 16 May 2018.
Stephen attended all meetings following financial statements.
his appointment he held until December 2017.
Stephen is Stephen Young therefore considered to have recent and Other regular attendees Chair of the DLC audit committee relevant financial experience.
His roles at a e Chief Executive Officer number of international companies across the industrial and engineering sectors also e Chief Financial Officer mean that he is well placed to understand e Joint Chairs and Non-Executive the environment in which Mondi operates.
Directors who are not members of the committee The committees other members, Stephen Harris and Tanya Fratto, each have e Group Controller appropriate knowledge and understanding e Group Head of Internal Audit of financial matters and have commercial e South African and UK representatives expertise gained from industries with similar from PwC capital intensive manufacturing, engineering The committee is constituted as a and technology-focused international statutory committee in respect of the operations.
The full biographies detailing duties set out in the South African the experience of each member of the Companies Act 2008 and a DLC committee can be found on page 89. committee of the Boards in respect of In accordance with the Listings other duties assigned to it by the Boards.
Requirements of the JSE, the committee has considered and satisfied itself that Andrew King, Mondis Chief Financial Officer, has appropriate expertise and experience.
Andrew is a chartered accountant and throughout his career has held various finance and business development roles.
The committee has also considered and satisfied itself of the appropriateness of the expertise and adequacy of resources of the finance function and expertise of the senior management responsible for the finance function.
As a result, the committee also confirms that it is satisfied that Mondi has appropriate financial reporting procedures in place and that these are operating effectively.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 107 The committee operates under formal The committee chair regularly reports to Role, terms of reference terms of reference.
The committee agenda the Boards on the work and output from andevaluation during the year included the regular matters meetings and provides any necessary The committees primary responsibility is reserved for its review during the annual recommendations or advice on matters to oversee the Groups corporate financial financial reporting cycle and ensured it has of direct relevance to the deliberations of reporting, including the relationship with the appropriately discharged its responsibilities the Boards.
external auditor, as well as Mondis internal during the year, having operated in control and risk management framework The evaluation of the committee compliance with relevant legal, regulatory and to assist the Boards with any was carried out as part of the 2018 and other responsibilities.
The committees judgements and decision-making required internal evaluation see page 101 for performance against its terms of in this regard.
reference is reviewed on an annual basis.
The committee is satisfied that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference during the year.
Key matters addressed by the committee Financial reporting External audit matters Internal audit matters e Review of the integrity of all financial e Recommended to the Boards that the appointment e Reviewed and agreed the internal audit plan, announcements with input provided by the Group of PwC for the 2018 audit be put to shareholders at confirming the focus on key risk areas and adequate CFO, Group Controller and PwC.
cover of all material operations.
e Review of the Mondi Group Integrated report and e Reviewed the independence, objectivity e Reviewed and approved the internal audit charter financial statements for tone and consistency and effectiveness of PwC see page112 for which sets out the purpose, remit and authority of and consideration as to whether the report as a more information.
whole was fair, balanced and understandable see e Reviewed and approved the external audit plan, e Received reports from the Group Head of page110 for more information.
taking account of the scope, materiality and audit Internal Audit at each meeting see page113 for e Reviewed and discussed PwCs reports to risks and agreeing the audit fees.
e Received a report at each meeting of any non-audit e Reviewed the effectiveness of the internal e Reviewed accounting policies to be applied for the services performed by PwC in order to monitor audit team.
year ending 31 December 2018. auditor independence.
e Held a meeting with the Group Head of Internal e Reviewed new accounting pronouncements e Reviewed and agreed the engagement letters and Audit without management present.
and any potential impact for the Groups representation letters.
Governance and other e Held a meeting with PwC without management e Reviewed the going concern basis of accounting present: the committee chair also engaged regularly e For JSE purposes reviewed the appropriateness and the longer-term viability statement see page47 with the audit partners.
and expertise of the Chief Financial Officer and the for more information.
effectiveness of the finance function see page106 Risk management e Reviewed the JSEs latest report from its proactive for more information.
monitoring process setting out the results of its and internal controls e Monitored and reviewed the continued reviews of financial statements during the year, implementation of those elements of the Groups e Undertook a detailed review of the Groups risk confirming that Mondis financial statements Code of Business Ethics reserved for review by the management policy, plan and tolerance levels and were compliant.
committee, as well as the supporting framework of of the process to assess the risks see pages38 the Business Integrity Policy.
e Reviewed the legal and compliance risks faced by e Reviewed the effectiveness of the risk management the Group.
and internal control systems see pages38 to46 for more information.
e Reviewed Mondis competition compliance programme.
e At each committee meeting undertook a more in-depth review of a number of the most significant e Reviewed the committees terms of reference, Group risks.
e Half-yearly presentations on IT risk management and cyber security see page111 for more information.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 108 Corporate governance report Internal control The Groups internal control and risk management framework, embedded in all key operations, is designed to address all the significant strategic, financial, operational and compliance risks that could undermine our ability to achieve our business objectives in the future and is managed within risk tolerance levels defined by the Boards.
In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Group has in place an internal control environment to protect the business from principal risks which have been identified.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting and we have responsibility for ensuring the effectiveness of these controls.
Full details of Mondis internal control and risk management framework can be found in the Strategic report on pages38 to46.
The committee has reviewed the risk management process and the Groups system of internal controls.
The committee considers that the system of internal controls operated effectively throughout the financial year and up to the date on which the financial statements were signed.
Significant issues related to the financial statements The committee has considered each of the following items based on discussions with, and submissions by, management and satisfied itself as to the accounting treatment and presentation thereof.
The most significant items were discussed with the external auditors during the planning stage and on completion of the audit.
These issues are broadly similar to those addressed by the committee during 2017.
The key considerations in relation to the 2018 financial statements were: Matter considered Action Special items are those financial items which the Group The committee has critically reviewed each item presented by considers should be separately disclosed on the face of the management as being special to ensure that the items are in line income statement to assist in understanding the underlying with the Groups accounting policy.
financial performance achieved by the Group as special items The committee considered both the quantification and affect year-on-year comparability.
The classification of an item as presentation of special items.
special is based on materiality in the context of the current years financial performance and generally must exceed 10 million.
The committee has reviewed the adequacy of the descriptions Subsequent adjustments to items previously reported as special of the special items in the financial statements and the items continue to be reflected as special items in future periods Strategic report.
even if they do not exceed the quantitative reporting threshold.
The committee has also considered whether any significant The net special item charge for the year was 126 million before tax.
transactions that were not classified as special were appropriately It included restructuring and closure costs of 45 million and related classified in the financial statements and appropriately described impairments of assets of 81 million related to the discontinuation in the Strategic report.
of in-line silicone coating production at tt: restructuring of bags operations in the US: a restructuring programme in Consumer Packaging primarily in the UK operations: and closure of an uncoated fine paper machine in South Africa.
Details of the special items are included in the Strategic report on page 65 and in note 3 of the financial statements.
In addition to property, plant and equipment of 4,340 million, The committee considered a report from management describing intangible assets of 91 million and goodwill of 942 million are potential impairment indicators of tangible and intangible assets included as assets in the statement of financial position.
and the outcomes of related impairment tests.
As set out in the accounting policies, the Group performs an The committee also considered a report from management on impairment review at least annually and whenever there is any the outcomes of the annual goodwill impairment test.
indication that certain of its assets may be impaired.
The critical underlying assumptions applied were reviewed by See notes 10, 12 and 13 of the financial statements.
the committee and compared with the Groups budget and the current macroeconomic environment.
The committee considered the sensitivities underlying the primary assumptions to determine the consequences that reasonably possible changes in such assumptions may have on the recoverable amount of the underlying assets.
The committee satisfied itself that no impairment related to goodwill was required and that the impairments in property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets were primarily related to the closure and restructuring of operations.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 109 Matter considered Action The Group has operations in a number of countries each with a The committee receives regular reports from management different tax system.
about new legislative developments that may impact the Groups tax positions.
The Group is regularly subject to routine tax audits and provisions are made based on the tax laws in the relevant country and the The committee has considered reports from management outlining expected outcomes of any negotiations or settlements.
the Groups most significant tax exposures, including ongoing tax audits and litigation, and has reviewed the related tax provisions The Groups recognition of deferred tax assets, relating to future recognised by management, satisfying itself these are appropriate utilisation of accumulated tax losses, is dependent on the future and the risk of new unexpected exposures arising is low.
profitability and performance of the underlying businesses.
The committee has considered a report from management See note 7 of the financial statements.
outlining the key judgements relating to the recognition of deferred tax assets and satisfied itself that the assumptions made are reasonable and consistent from year to year.
Significant judgement is required in determining the assumptions The assumptions applied in the valuation of the forestry assets to be applied for the valuation of the Groups forestry assets and and retirement benefits were reviewed by the committee.
Such assumptions are based, as The committee considered the basis on which these assumptions far as possible, on observable market data and, in the case of the were determined, and evaluated the assumptions by comparing retirement benefit obligations, the input and advice of actuaries.
them with prior years and considering market developments The most significant assumptions and sensitivities are disclosed during 2018. in note 14 for forestry assets and 23 for retirement benefits in the The committee satisfied itself that the assumptions, and the financial statements.
changes to those assumptions when compared with the year ended 31 December 2017, were appropriate.
From 1 January 2018 the Group early adopted IFRS 16, Leases.
The committee has considered a report from management in The impact on the accounting policies and on the financial relation to the restated financial information and the updated statements are discussed in more detail in notes 32 and 33 of the accounting policies.
The process of restatement was discussed with management and the committee satisfied itself that the restated financial information was appropriate.
During 2018, the Group concluded four business combinations, The committee considered a report from management describing of which the most significant was Powerflute Finland.
the process undertaken in conducting the identification The business combinations are described in note 24 of the and valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in financial statements.
On acquisition, the Group determined the fair value of assets The committee satisfied itself that the fair values were appropriate, acquired and liabilities assumed, based on its own experience in that the resulting goodwill recognised in these transactions was the industry and the input of experts.
appropriate and that there were no unrecorded assets or liabilities.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 110 Corporate governance report Fair, balanced and understandable Oversight through the year e Review of applicable accounting policies and pronouncements and their application e Review of regular financial results and announcements e Reports from the Group Controller and PwC e Reports from internal audit Review included e Provision of an outline plan including content and structure, design concepts and timetable e Consideration of regulatory and governance requirements for reporting e Review of detailed reports from the Group Controller and PwC providing the opportunity for debate and challenge e Summaries of areas where management judgements had been made Review confirmed e Consideration of going concern and longer-term viability e Well documented planning and procedures for the preparation of e Separate meeting with PwC without the report management present e Collaborative approach between e Sufficient opportunity to all parties required to contribute to review drafts the report e Basis of preparation consistent with financial reporting throughout the year e All significant issues had been considered e Messaging was consistent particularly the narrative reflecting the financials Conclusion e After completion of the detailed review, the committee was satisfied that: taken as a whole, the Groups Integrated report and financial statements 2018, were fair, balanced and understandable: the report accurately reflected the information shareholders would require in order to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: and the use of alternative performance Recommendation measures contained in the report e The committee reported its findings assists in presenting a fair review and conclusion to the Boards of the Groups business A key role of the committee is to ensure Although oversight and review of material that the interests of shareholders are financial reporting matters are considered protected, in particular that there is throughout the year, at the request of robust financial reporting with good the Boards, the committee assessed the internal controls in place and appropriate integrity of the Groups Integrated report accounting practices and policies and financial statements 2018 and the combined with sound judgement.
clarity, completeness and consistency of disclosures.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 111 Approach to regular financial reporting The committee continually reviews its approach to financial reporting, being aware of the need for transparency and maintaining a focus on long-term value creation.
This has included, in particular, consideration of the continued practice of publishing a quarterly update on trading conditions.
Having considered the cyclical nature of our business, our competitor reporting cycles and our desire to keep the market informed, we are of the view that we should continue with this practice.
We also took into account feedback received from some of the Groups largest shareholders who have indicated their support for this approach as they find that it bridges the gap between the full reporting periods and provides an update on important market dynamics that affect the sector in which Mondi operates.
We continue to monitor market practice and to keep the position under review.
Information technology risk The committee undertakes, on a An independent audit of Mondis half-yearly basis, a detailed review cyber security framework was of information technology risk and also undertaken.
The results and mitigation actions.
The Groups IT recommendations were reported to risk management framework has the committee.
The risks posed by been explained to the committee, increasing levels of digitalisation and with comfort obtained that it is holistic the use of cloud-based business and robust, having been audited by applications were also discussed independent third parties.
These risks, together with continued development of While these reviews cover all relevant Mondis networks to protect against aspects of IT risk, including security, fraud attempts, will remain the focus compliance and availability, the focus during 2019. is increasingly on cyber security, with the top five IT risks being in this area.
The committee was encouraged Cyber security drives the principal by the level of focus being given to mitigation activities, particularly in cyber security across the Group.
the areas of network design and The emphasis being placed on security architecture.
employee awareness, education and testing was welcomed by the During the year, a detailed audit committee.
Overall the committee of Mondis operational assets was concluded that the Groups IT risk undertaken by KPMG with the aim management was effective and that of identifying key risks to Mondis management ensured that it was production sites and assessing the level subject to continuous monitoring of protection in place.
and improvement see page 46 for more information.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018
