Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Governance framework the company secretary The Company Secretary is responsible for: managing the provision of timely, accurate and considered information to the Board: Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Board recommending corporate governance policies and practices to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: implementing and communicating corporate governance policies across the Group: and advising the Board and its Committees on corporate governance and compliance within the Group and appropriate Audit Risk Remuneration Nomination procedures for the management of their meetings and duties.
Committee Committee Committee Committee The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the whole Board.
All Directors are able to consult with the Company Secretary, who is also secretary to all of the Board Committees.
There is also a formal documented procedure by chairman Leadership which any Director may take independent professional advice I am responsible for: This section looks at the roles and responsibilities of our Board relating to the performance of any aspects of their duties at the leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects Companys expense, which can be facilitated by the Company members.
The Board splits its meetings between its Ewloe, London and of its role: Secretary.
Darren Drabble stepped down as Company Secretary Manchester offices.
Employees have the opportunity to meet and promoting the highest standards of corporate governance: on 8 February 2019 and was succeeded by Katherine Bellau.
the role of the Board interact with Board members at various times during the year.
In May facilitating effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors We are responsible for the long-term success of Moneysupermarket.
2018, we held a product showcase in which the Board and senior and encouraging active engagement by all Directors, with the com Group PLC, with the overall aim of delivering shareholder Board meetings leadership team were invited to sit with employees leading innovative appropriate level of challenge by all Directors: value over the long term.
Principally, we achieve this through: I set the Board agendas following consultation with the Chief projects in order to gain a deeper understanding of those projects.
ensuring the Board receives accurate, timely and clear setting and monitoring strategy and ensuring the necessary Executive Officer and with the assistance of the Company information and is consulted on all matters important to it: resources are in place: Secretary.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to submit We also hosted our first Q&A sessions with employees from ensuring the Board have regard to the interests of stakeholders agenda items for discussion and we periodically review how providing entrepreneurial leadership within an effective risk our Ewloe and Manchester offices, providing the opportunity and review mechanisms for engagement with stakeholders: and management framework: and we allocate our time at Board meetings see chart below.
for employees to ask questions directly of the Non-Executive ensuring the Company maintains effective communication with reviewing management performance.
These sessions, together with informal small groups shareholders and communicating their views to the Board.
Following the launch of our Reinvent growth strategy in February of employees meeting Non-Executive Directors over breakfast In setting and monitoring strategy, we have regard to the impact 2018, the Board has focused on monitoring progress against the at various times throughout the year, continue to form part of chief executive officer new strategic priorities with deep dives to cover specific strategic that those decisions will have on the Groups obligations to various our programme of engagement with employees.
In September, The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for: stakeholders, including shareholders, employees, regulators and priorities at each meeting.
We have also reviewed the requirements we appointed Sarah Warby as our Employee Champion to take leading the performance and management of the Group: the wider community.
of the new UK Corporate Governance Code which we will be required forward the programme of engagement activities with employees.
proposing strategies, business plans and policies to the Board: to report upon in our 2019 Annual Report and commenced our ensuring effective implementation of the Boards decisions: While the Board is not managing the day-to-day operations of the enhanced programme of Board engagement activities with I ensure that our Directors remain in touch with and understand maintaining an effective framework of internal controls and risk stakeholders, in particular, employees.
Group, key decisions and matters which are reserved for approval the issues being faced by our customers and how employees deal management: and of the Board are fully documented and regularly reviewed.
This is addressed, in part, by Directors listening leading, motivating and monitoring performance of the include the setting of, and changes to, Group strategy, approval of In 2018 we held eight Board meetings.
The principal areas to employee calls with customers.
Companys executive management and focusing on succession major acquisitions or disposals, determination of interim dividends of focus for the Board in 2018 are listed in the section on page 44 planning for the executive management.
Scheduled meetings in 2018 and recommendation of final dividends, approval of budget and and the pie chart below shows how the Board allocated its time.
Eligible to Additionally, I meet from time to time with the Non-Executive financial results, and carrying out an annual review of the Board members attend Attended the non-executive directors effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems.
Directors without the Executive Directors present.
Each Non-Executive Director is responsible for: Bruce Carnegie-Brown 8 8 bringing experience and independent judgement to the Board: Andrew Fisher 8 8 We review the matters reserved to the Board annually and have Allocation of Board time and Robin Freestone 8 8 revised these with effect from 1 January 2019 to align them with constructively challenging and helping develop proposals the new UK Corporate Governance Code July 2018 version.
The current matters reserved are available on our website at Mark Lewis 8 8 http: corporate.
Matthew Price 7 7 the senior Independent director Genevieve Shore 8 8 The Senior Independent Director is an Independent NonThe Board currently comprises me, as Chair, five Independent Sarah Warby 5 5 Executive Director who is responsible for: Non-Executive Directors, Andrew Fisher, Robin Freestone, Sally Matthew Price stepped down as a Director on 31 October 2018 meeting with the Companys shareholders and representative James, Genevieve Shore and Sarah Warby, and two Executive Sarah Warby was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 1 June 2018 bodies when requested and, if necessary, discussing matters Directors, Mark Lewis Chief Executive Officer and Scilla Grimble with them where it would be inappropriate for those Chief Financial Officer.
As Chairman, I am responsible for leading Ad hoc conference calls and Committee meetings were also discussions to take place with either the Chairman or the Chief the Board and for its effectiveness.
convened to deal with specific matters which required attention Executive Officer: and between scheduled meetings.
acting as a sounding board for the Chairman and as an Mark Lewis leads the business as Chief Executive Officer.
Scilla Strategy 46% intermediary for the other Directors when necessary.
Grimble was appointed as Chief Financial Officer on 4 February Governance, Risk and Annual Report 12% 2019 and Sarah Warby joined the Board as an Independent People Talent Culture 4% Sally James is our Senior Independent Director.
Matthew Price stepped Business performance and CEO Updates 18% down from the Board as Chief Financial Officer on 31 October Finance and investor relations 20% 2018.
The division of the roles and responsibilities of Chair and employee champion Chief Executive Officer is in writing, provides clarity on the distinct The Employee Champion is an Independent Non-Executive Director responsibilities of each role and has been revised and approved who is responsible for: by the Board to align them with the new UK Corporate Governance the programme of Board engagement activities with employees.
Code with effect from 1 January 2019.
Responsibilities of Board members are set out opposite.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 Moneysupermarket.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 42 43 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board committees Training and information 2017 evaluation actions update In 2018, we allocated time and attention to: We delegate certain Board responsibilities to our Board Committees Directors are continually updated on the Groups business, An update on progress against actions identified following the which play an important governance role through the work they the markets in which they operate and changes to the competitive evaluation conducted in 2017 is set out below: Strategy carry out.
Briefing papers are prepared and circulated to the and regulatory environment through presentations and briefings Strategy the new strategic priorities were translated into a undertook a review of the Groups Reinvent Growth Committee members in advance of each meeting.
The Committee to the Board from Executive Directors and senior management.
strategic implementation plan and this was reviewed at each Strategy at a number of meetings attended by the Board chairs report formally to the Board on Committee activities at the Board meeting, with a focus on one or more strategic priorities and senior management including a two-day off-site subsequent Board meeting.
As part of the annual individual performance evaluation I discuss at each Board meeting: strategy meeting at which we: training and development requirements with each Director so that Board packs we have enhanced our Board papers, creating a tested and reviewed the Groups Reinvent Growth The Committees may obtain external professional advice at the any needs identified through the formal evaluation or during the template executive summary and ensuring the papers are Strategy and strategic priorities: Companys expense if deemed necessary.
The Company Secretary also maintains a concise and facilitate constructive debate and discussion: and reviewed the markets in which we operate: and record of individual Directors training.
Stakeholder voice we have reviewed our stakeholder reviewed the regulatory and risk environment in which Detailed reports on the activities of the Audit Committee, Nomination engagement, mapping our existing mechanisms and identifying we operate, with a focus on price comparison websites.
Committee and Risk Committee are set out in this Report on pages Directors received briefings from the Company Secretary during new mechanisms for engagement, particularly in relation to our reviewed the Groups plans against the Boards risk 48 to 53, 54 to 56 and 57 to 59 respectively.
Details of the work of 2018 on governance and compliance areas, in particular the 2018 employees to ensure stakeholder voices are heard in the appetite to ensure that our ambitions for the business the Remuneration Committee together with the Annual Statement edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code and The Companies Boardroom.
are aligned with our ability to manage risk: from the Remuneration Committee chairman, the Remuneration Miscellaneous Reporting Regulations 2018. reviewed a number of potential acquisitions and approved Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration are set out in the 2018 evaluation actions the acquisition of Decision Tech: Directors Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 74.
To ensure that Directors are able to fully acquaint themselves with The Directors many positive responses indicated their widely held approved the annual budget: current trading and matters requiring discussions and decisions, view that ongoing improvements have been made since the previous held deep-dives at our Board meetings into various aspects comprehensive Board papers and Committee papers are circulated Effectiveness evaluation in 2017.
In particular, members considered there was of the business including new business opportunities, electronically approximately one week prior to scheduled meetings.
The composition of our Board is kept under review by the Nomination open and transparent debate with constructive challenge and internal control and risk management, cyber security, Committee to ensure that it retains the necessary balance of skills, active engagement from all members of the Board.
The Board data protection, and our strategic priorities: and Directors, may, in the furtherance of their duties, take independent knowledge, experience, gender and diversity to meet the needs of receives comprehensive reports to enable it to monitor performance, adopted new Group KPIs for 2018 onwards which are professional advice at the Companys expense.
Details of the skills and experience of individual consider risks and controls, and take key decisions.
Some of the aligned with the revised Group strategic priorities.
Directors are set out on pages 40 to 41. areas that will be actioned in 2019 are a continuing focus on: Independence of non-executive directors Strategy ensuring the strategic implementation plan is Governance Sarah Warby joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on The Board considers that I was independent on appointment updated and regularly reviewed: reviewed and revised our annual programme of business 1 June 2018.
Scilla Grimble joined the Board as Chief Financial as Chairman and considers Andrew Fisher, Robin Freestone, Group culture assessing and monitoring culture: and for the Board and each of the Committees, tailoring the Officer on 4 February 2019, succeeding Matthew Price, who Sally James, Genevieve Shore and Sarah Warby to be independent, Stakeholder voice ensuring the stakeholder voice is actively deep dives to reflect the new strategic priorities adopted stepped down as Chief Financial Officer on 31 October 2018. being independent in character and judgement and free from and regularly considered by the Board.
in February 2018: relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could progressed the actions from the 2017 external Board The Nomination Committee reviewed the composition of the appear to affect, their judgement.
In 2019 we will undertake an internal evaluation of the Board and evaluation process and conducted an internal Board Board in 2018 and recommended that the Board, with the its Committees.
evaluation process, details of which are on page 45: recruitment of Scilla Grimble and Sarah Warby, had the right conflicts of interest oversaw the implementation of upgrades to our cyber balance of skills, knowledge and experience, including relevant As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the Companys articles Director evaluation and data security capabilities: experience and understanding of our stakeholder groups.
In light of association enable Directors to authorise potential conflicts I appraise each of the Directors individually in the form of reviewed the new UK Corporate Governance Code and of our announcement that Robin Freestone will succeed me as of interest.
The Company has a formal procedure for notification interviews, taking account of feedback received as part of the Board approved an action plan for compliance, which included Chair in May 2019, we will be commencing a search for a new and authorisation to be sought prior to appointment of any new evaluation process.
I can confirm that each Director continues to approving an enhanced programme for engagement with Non-Executive Director who will chair the Audit Committee.
Director or prior to a new conflict arising.
This procedure has been make a valuable contribution to the Board and devotes sufficient stakeholders: and updated in 2018 to reflect the requirements of the new UK Corporate time to the role.
My evaluation was undertaken by the Senior considered, discussed and revised the Principal Risks Induction of a new director Governance Code and enables non-conflicted Directors to impose Independent Director, taking into account the views of the other and uncertainties, identifying emerging risks which On appointment, each Director receives a tailored induction to limits or conditions when giving or reviewing authorization.
Biographies of the Board are set out on pages 40 and 41 could impact the Group.
suit the individuals background and experience.
Sarah Warbys requires the Board to review the register of Directors conflicts which includes my significant commitments.
The Board is satisfied induction is summarised below: annually and on an ad hoc basis when necessary.
The Board has that these appointments do not conflict with my ability to carry Leadership and employees complied with this procedure during the year.
out my duties and responsibilities effectively for the Group.
appointed Sarah Warby, a Non-Executive Director, Stage 1 Company structure and strategy including Group structure, as our Employee Champion and approved an enhanced history, strategy, vision, key people, succession plans: Board performance evaluation Committee evaluation programme of engagement activities with employees: procedures including governance framework, Code of Conduct We conducted formal evaluations of each of the Committees.
Board evaluation announced the appointment of Scilla Grimble as Chief and other key policies, recent Board and Committee minutes, This involved the completion of questionnaires by members of We undertake a performance evaluation of the Board each year.
Financial Officer, with effect from 4 February 2019: and annual agendas, matters reserved to the Board: finance and each Committee and senior management who interact with each An external evaluation is carried out every three years.
Following an held a deep-dive into the Groups people and culture, performance including operating plans, current KPIs and targets, Committee.
The results were analysed and discussed by the external evaluation in 2017, we undertook an internal evaluation diversity, talent management and employee engagement operational overview of all business areas, stakeholders and key relevant Committee.
Summaries of the actions arising from these in 2018. including reviewing results of employee surveys and relationships: Group Risk Appetite Framework and Statement.
evaluations and progress on actions identified in 2017 can be feedback from the various employee focus groups found in the relevant Committee report.
This involved the completion of questionnaires by individual Directors diversity and inclusion and mental health awareness.
Stage 2 Industry and competitive environment and stakeholders and the Company Secretary, with the results being analysed and including customer trends: consumer and regulatory environment: presented for discussion at a Board meeting.
The Board then agreed Performance recent analyst and broker reports, meetings with key advisers: the key actions.
The Board also reviewed its progress against actions reviewed the strategic and operational performance share register analysis.
identified in the internal 2017 Board evaluation: of each of the businesses: and considered Group financial performance against budget Stage 3 Meet the team including individual meetings with and forecast.
the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Company Secretary, Chief Risk Officer and senior management with business-related presentations from senior management.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 44 45 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED regular reviews of the Principal Risks facing the Group to Accountability process for review of effectiveness Annual General Meeting ensure they are being identified, evaluated and appropriately The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness All shareholders will have the opportunity to ask questions at Financial and business reporting managed: of the risk management and internal control systems.
The steps the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The chairs of the Audit, The Boards aim is to present an Annual Report to shareholders, a process for regular assessment of key controls across the it takes in relation to the review are set out on pages 29 and 31.
Nomination, Remuneration and Risk Committees will be available which, taken as a whole, is a fair, balanced and understandable Group: The Audit Committee makes a recommendation to the Board on to answer questions at that meeting.
Shareholders may also assessment of the Groups position and performance, business a Risk & Compliance function responsible for overseeing the effectiveness which the Board considers, together with reports contact me, the Chief Executive Officer or, if more appropriate, model and strategy.
The Board has ensured that processes are in implementation of the Risk Appetite Framework: from the Risk Committee, in forming its own view on the the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director to raise any issue place to achieve this and more information on the processes can be an Internal Audit function providing assurance over key risks, effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems.
with one or all of the Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
found in the Audit Committee Report on pages 48 to 53.
A statement processes and controls: and of Directors responsibilities and the auditors responsibilities a whistleblowing hotline which employees can use to report During 2018, the Board reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups The Company prepares separate resolutions on each substantially in relation to the Annual Report are set out on pages 79 to 86. any instances of suspected wrongdoing.
risk management and internal control systems.
We confirm that separate issue to be voted upon at Annual General Meetings.
The Directors opinion that the Companys business is a going the processes outlined above and on pages 29 to 31 and 52 have The result of the vote on each resolution is published on the concern is set out on page 28.
Our internal control effectiveness is assessed through the been in place for the year under review and up to the date of Groups website after the Annual General Meeting and will be performance of regular checks, which in 2018 included the approval of this Annual Report and that these processes accord announced via the regulatory information service.
At the 2018 Risk management and internal control following areas: with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the FRC Guidance AGM, shareholders representing 75.5% of the Companys issued The Board has overall responsibility for setting the risk appetite of reviewing and testing the Groups financial reporting processes: on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and share capital returned their proxy votes.
the Group, maintaining the Groups risk management and internal completion of the Groups internal audit plan: Business Reporting September 2016 version.
We also confirm that control system and reviewing the systems effectiveness.
We have performing compliance monitoring activities including financial no significant failings or weaknesses were identified in relation to Compliance statement an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the promotion reviews and call listening: the review.
The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the This Corporate Governance Report, together with the Audit Principal Risks faced by the Group which has been in place for the assessment of the identification and management of risks Principal Risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten Committee Report on pages 48 to 53, the Nomination Committee year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual connected to the Groups capital investment programme: its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity and Report on pages 54 to 56, the Risk Committee Report on pages 57 Report.
The Risk Committee and the Audit Committee assist us assessment of the Groups processes for identifying and these, together with how they are managed or mitigated, are set to 59 and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 74 in discharging these duties.
mitigating potential conflicts of interest: out on pages 29 to 33. provides a description of how the main principles of the 2016 assessment of the identification and management of edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code have We regularly review and update our internal control and risk technology risks across the Group, including cyber risk, Shareholder engagement been applied by the Company during 2018.
The Code is published management processes.
We continued to oversee progress on data security and change management: and by the Financial Reporting Council and is available on its website work started in 2016 relating to an upgraded quality assurance and Major shareholders monitoring the completion of the Groups mandatory at www.
testing process for new technology releases and enhanced incident The Board actively seeks and encourages engagement with major Customer First, data protection, cyber security and Code of management process.
A summary of actions we have taken in institutional shareholders and other stakeholders.
Senior executives, Conduct training for new starters and refresher training for The Directors consider that during the financial year ended 2018 is set out in the Risk Committee Report on pages 57 to 59. including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer all employees.
31 December 2018 and to the date of this Report, the Company regularly meet with analysts and institutional shareholders to complied with the Code except as follows: keep them informed of significant developments and to develop Risk management Risk review and assessment an understanding of their views which are discussed with the Board.
A description of the process for managing risk together with a The Groups systems and procedures are designed to identify and E. 1.1 We write to major shareholders giving them the opportunity In addition, all Directors receive formal reports and briefings during description of the Principal Risks and strategies to mitigate those manage and, where practicable, reduce and mitigate the effects of to meet the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and she is the year about the Companys investor relations programme and risks, is provided on pages 29 to 33. the risk of failing to achieve the Groups objectives.
They are not available to meet with major shareholders when requested but receive detailed feedback obtained by the Companys brokers designed to eliminate such risk, but the Group seeks to understand has not received any requests to do so.
As a result of regular after meetings, direct contact and other means, through which Internal control its Principal Risks and manage them within our risk appetite.
feedback provided to the Board by the Chief Executive Officer and they are able to develop an understanding of the views of major The main features of the Groups risk management and internal the Chief Financial Officer following dialogue with major shareholders.
External analysts reports on the Group are also controls in respect of financial reporting and the preparation of The Groups risk register is a key element in our risk management shareholders, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director circulated to Directors.
accounts are: framework and is used in the assessment and reporting of risks believes she is aware of the views, issues and concerns of major a comprehensive annual business planning and budgeting being managed by the Group.
Senior management continue to work shareholders.
Andrew Fisher, in his capacity as Remuneration Committee process, requiring Board approval, through which risks are alongside the Risk & Compliance function to ensure the risk register chairman, also engages in discussion with shareholders on identified and appraised: incorporates any new risks and movements in risks.
The risk register significant matters relating to executive remuneration.
a comprehensive financial reporting system, regularly is managed by the Risk & Compliance function and is reviewed on a enhanced, within which actual and forecast results are regular basis by the Risk Committee.
Each risk is owned by a member Formal presentations are given to analysts and shareholders covering compared with approved budgets and the previous years of executive management who is responsible for the ongoing the full-year and half-year results and the Company seeks to maintain figures on a monthly basis and reviewed by the Board: assessment of risk and the delivery of mitigating actions.
Robust risk a dialogue with various bodies which monitor the Companys a review of Group policies relating to the maintenance of and control assessments are carried out at least quarterly across governance policies and procedures.
The Company Secretary accounting records, transaction reporting and key financial all areas of the business, in order to understand the strength and generally deals with questions from individual shareholders.
control procedures: performance of the controls in place, and potential gaps and an investment evaluation procedure to ensure an appropriate weaknesses.
Internal Audit and Risk & Compliance monitoring level of approval for all capital expenditure and other communications with shareholders findings are also taken into account when assessing risks.
capitalised costs: The results and results presentations, together with all information monthly finance team meetings which include reviews of reported to the market via the regulatory information service, The Risk & Compliance function provides challenge to executives internal financial reporting issues and financial control press releases and other shareholder information, are published in their assessment and management of risks with particular focus monitoring: and on the investor relations section of the Groups website at on the actions being taken to reduce risk.
The senior management ongoing training and development of financial reporting employees.
com to be viewed and team meets on a monthly basis to ensure risk management is accessed by all shareholders.
integrated within strategic and business planning processes.
Other controls in place to manage our business in accordance with Reporting to the Risk Committee enables the Directors to have our Risk Appetite Framework include: Our Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available to clear visibility of the most relevant risks: identify areas of concern an annual two-day strategy meeting to discuss and approve the shareholders if they have concerns for which contact through and or priority: have access to detailed information to enable root Groups strategic direction, plans and objectives and the risks the normal channels of me, the Chief Executive Officer or the cause analysis and underlying trends: and identify, escalate, and to achieving them: Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve or for which such potentially mitigate the impact of new risks in a timely manner.
a schedule of matters reserved for approval by the Board to contact is inappropriate.
Twice a year the Board reviews the Groups Principal Risks and the ensure it maintains control over appropriate strategic, financial, Group Risk Appetite Framework and Statement.
During these organisational, compliance and capital investment issues: reviews it also takes account of the significance of any environmental, an organisational governance structure with clearly defined social and governance matters to the business of the Group, lines of responsibility and delegation of authority: ensuring any related risk and associated mitigation have formal risk and control policies and supporting procedures been identified.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 46 47
