88 Board of directors Appointed Experience Fred Phaswana June 2013 Fred brings to the DLC Board a wealth of experience in African and global businesses, together with well 74 Independent developed strategic and commercial skills.
He was previously regional president of BP Africa, a non-executive Joint Chair Yes on appointment director of Anglo American plc and chair of Anglo American South Africa, Anglo Platinum, Transnet, Ethos Committee memberships Nominations, social and ethics Private Equity, the South African Energy Association and the Advisory Board of the Cape Town Graduate School Qualifications of Business.
MA Unisa, BCom Hons RAU, Fred was chair of Standard Bank group and The Standard Bank of South Africa between 2010 and 2015.
He was BA Philosophy, Politics and also the former vice chairman of WWF South Africa and Business Leadership of South Africa and was the Economics Unisa honorary president of the Cape Town Press Club.
External appointments Chair of the South African Institute of International Affairs and non-executive director of Naspers Limited.
Appointed Experience David Williams May 2007 and as Joint Chair in David has significant experience in senior financial roles held across a range of multinational companies, with 73 August 2009 Joint Chair board experience as both an executive and non-executive director.
Independent Yes on appointment David served as finance director of Bunzl plc for 14 years before retiring in January 2006.
He was previously a Committee memberships member of the Tootal management board and Finance Director of Tootal plc and has held a number of senior Nominations chair, independent director and committee chair roles.
David was formerly a non-executive director of the Peninsular & remuneration Qualifications Oriental Steam Navigation Company, Dewhirst Group plc, Medeva plc, George Wimpey plc, Taylor Wimpey plc, Graduated in economics Tullow Oil plc, Meggitt plc and Dubai-based DP World Limited.
from Manchester University, chartered accountant UK David continues to contribute significant financial and business experience to the DLC Board and has an extensive understanding of Mondi and its history since listing.
Appointed Experience Peter Oswald January 2008 and as Chief Peter brings significant packaging and paper experience to the DLC Board, having worked in the sector for 56 Executive Officer in May 2017 more than 27 years.
He has detailed knowledge of operations and extensive experience in acquisitions, the Chief Executive Officer Independent restructuring, turnaround and organic growth of businesses and inspiring large teams.
Peter began his career No Committee memberships with Deutsche Bank and automotive company KTM.
He joined the Frantschach Group in 1992 as the Head of Executive chair, sustainable Internal Audit, later becoming Corporate Controller.
development, social and ethics Qualifications After serving as chief executive of the bag and flexibles business from 1995 to 2001, he was appointed chief Graduated in law from the executive of Mondi Packaging Europe in 2002, leading its subsequent integration with Frantschach into the new University of Vienna and in Mondi packaging division.
Having held a number of senior executive roles within Mondi, Peter was appointed business administration from WU-Vienna Business School Chief Executive Officer of the former Europe & International Division in January 2008 and Chief Executive Officer of the Mondi Group in May 2017.
He was a non-executive director of Telekom Austria AG between 2008 and 2014 and of MIBA AG between 2014 and 2015 and chair of the supervisory board of OMV AG between 2015 and 2016.
Appointed Experience Andrew King October 2008 Andrew has more than 16 years experience with Mondi in various strategy, business development and finance 49 Independent roles, giving him a detailed understanding of Mondis strategy, capital allocation priorities, financial structure and Chief Financial Officer No the environment in which the Group operates.
He has played a key role in defining the Groups strategic direction Committee membership Executive and re-shaping the capital structure since listing.
Qualifications Andrew completed articles with Deloitte & Touche in Johannesburg in 1994.
In 1995 he joined Minorco, part of Graduated in commerce from the University of Cape Anglo American, as a financial analyst, before assuming responsibility for the groups investment management Town, chartered accountant activities, and transferring to their corporate finance department in 1998.
He worked on a number of group South Africa M&A activities before being appointed a vice president of Anglo American Corporate Finance in 1999.
He was appointed Mondis Vice President of Business Development in 2002 and Corporate Development Director in 2004.
He served as Chief Financial Officer of Mondi from June 2005 to May 2006.
He was then appointed as Group Strategy and Business Development Director before becoming the Chief Financial Officer of the Mondi Group in 2008.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 89 Appointed Experience Tanya Fratto January 2017 Tanya has wide experience in product innovation, profit and loss, sales and marketing and engineering in a 58 Independent range of sectors.
This experience, together with Tanyas extensive knowledge of operating in the US, brings a Non-Executive Director Yes vital perspective to the DLC Board.
She was CEO of Diamond Innovations, Inc. a world-leading manufacturer of Committee memberships Audit, nominations, super-abrasive products, until 2010.
Before that she enjoyed a successful 20-year career with General Electric remuneration chair where she ran a number of businesses and built an experience base in product management, operations, Qualifications Six Sigma and supply chain management.
Prior to starting her career with General Electric, she worked at BSc in electrical engineering International Paper Company.
External appointments Non-executive director of Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. Smiths Group plc and Ashtead Group plc.
Appointed Experience Stephen Harris March 2011 Stephen brings to the DLC Board extensive experience in engineering and manufacturing having spent his early 60 Independent Senior Independent career with Courtaulds plc before moving to the USA to join APV Inc, where he held several senior management Yes Director positions between 1984 and 1995.
Stephen was appointed to the board of Powell Duffryn plc as an executive Committee memberships Audit, nominations, director in 1995 and then went on to join Spectris plc as an executive director from 2003 until 2008.
He was also remuneration, sustainable a non-executive director of Brixton plc from 2006 to 2009. development, social and ethics Qualifications External appointments Chartered engineer, graduated Chief Executive Officer of Bodycote plc.
in engineering from Cambridge University, masters degree in business administration from the University of Chicago, Booth School of Business Appointed Experience Dominique October 2015 Dominique has extensive business understanding of operating in senior leadership positions in Europe as well as Reiniche Independent international strategic, consumer marketing and innovation experience, allowing her to provide valuable insight to 63 Yes the DLC Board.
Non-Executive Director Committee memberships Nominations, remuneration, She started her career with Procter & Gamble before moving to Kraft Jacobs Suchard as Director of Marketing sustainable development chair, social and ethics chair and Strategy where she was also a member of their executive committee.
After helping Jacobs Suchard through Qualifications its acquisition by Kraft-Mondelez, Dominique joined The Coca-Cola System in 1992, starting as Marketing MBA from ESSEC Business and Sales Director and then holding various roles of increasing responsibility up to general manager France.
School in Paris From 2002 to early 2005 she was CEO Europe for Coca-Cola Enterprises and from 2005 she was CEO Europe for the Coca-Cola Company and then chair from 2013 until stepping down in 2014.
Dominique was a non-executive director of Peugeot-Citroen SA between 2012 and 2015 and of AXA SA between 2005 and 2017.
External appointments Non-executive director and chair of Chr.
Hansen Holding A S and a non-executive director of Paypal Europe and Severn Trent Plc.
Appointed Experience Stephen Young May 2018 Stephen has a strong financial and general management background with experience gained internationally across 63 Independent a variety of sectors, including the industrial and engineering sectors.
Stephen spent his early career in commercial Non-Executive Director Yes accounting and finance roles at companies including Ford Motor Company, Mars, Inc and Grand Metropolitan plc Committee memberships now Diageo plc.
He was Group Finance Director of the Automobile Association until its acquisition by Centrica in Audit chair, nominations, 2000 before becoming Group Finance Director at Thistle Hotels plc.
sustainable development Qualifications In 2004 Stephen was appointed Group Finance Director at Meggitt plc, an international engineering business Graduated in mathematics specialising in aerospace equipment.
He held this role for nine years before being appointed Chief Executive Officer from Southampton University, in 2013.
Stephen stepped down from the board of Meggitt plc on 31 December 2017. member of the Chartered Institute of Management External appointments Accountants UK Non-executive director and audit committee chair at Derwent London plc and at Weir Group plc Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 90 Corporate governance report How the Boards operate Mondi comprises Mondi Limited, registered Agendas for each meeting are agreed the distribution of appropriate, accurate and listed in South Africa, and Mondi plc, with the Joint Chairs to ensure that, in and well-presented materials, with meeting registered and listed in the UK.
Each entity addition to regular items, consideration is packs being circulated electronically a has its own board of directors comprising being given to matters that may impact week before each meeting.
Each board the same individuals.
This enables the the Groups operations from the wider programme is usually held over two days effective management of the dual listed economic or business environment.
enabling the directors to spend more time company DLC structure as a single unified During 2018 for example, among a number together and form a greater understanding economic enterprise with due consideration of other presentations, the Boards received of each other, developing a culture that being given to the interests of the ordinary a presentation from an economist updating allows each board member to feel that shareholders of both Mondi Limited and them on global market and economic they are able to be open and transparent, Mondi plc.
trends and the longer-term economic encouraging discussion and challenge in outlook.
Responding appropriately to the board room.
The Joint Chairs ensure Leadership of the Boards comes from the the changing environment in which the there is sufficient debate and consultation Joint Chairs.
Having joint chairs brings Group operates is vital for Mondis longwith management and advisers as well to the Boards a diversity of knowledge, term success.
as between the directors themselves experience and shared values.
They have during meetings, allowing them to reach agreed a rolling agenda to ensure that all The Boards meet at least six times a considered and effective decisions.
key matters reserved for the consideration year as a DLC board plus at least once As appropriate, other senior executives and of the Boards are covered in the annual each year as separate legal entity boards.
advisers are invited to attend and present cycle of meetings.
Fred Phaswana chairs those meetings held at meetings, providing the non-executive in South Africa and David Williams those directors with a broader perspective on held outside South Africa, together ensuring matters under consideration.
Board structure Mondi Limited Mondi plc 1 e South African operations e Non-South African operations e Board of directors e Board of directors DLC e Registered in South Africa e Registered in the UK Board e Primary listing on the JSE e Premium listing on the LSE e Secondary listing on the JSE Single unified economic enterprise 1 In addition, Mondi Limited owns a 50% interest in a subsidiary in Cote DIvoire Compliance statement Mondis dual listed company structure requires Examples of Mondis application of the provisions us to comply with the provisions of the April 2016 of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code recommended practices set out in King IV are issued by the Financial Reporting Council available found throughout this governance report.
uk and the principles contained A more detailed analysis of Mondis compliance in the South African King IV Code of Corporate with King IV is available on the Mondi Group Governance available at www.
It is the view of the Boards that Mondi has complied The Boards note the publication of the new UK throughout the year with all the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, which took effect Corporate Governance Code.
The Boards are also from 1 January 2019.
We have reviewed the of the view that Mondi has been in compliance with principles and provisions contained within the new the principles of King IV.
Code and have implemented where appropriate changes to our policies and practices to ensure compliance with the new Code during 2019.
More information can be found on page 87.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 91 Composition of the Boards Composition The directors holding office during the year ended 31 December 2018 are listed below, of the Boards together with their attendance at board meetings.
As at 31 December 2018 there were Joint chairs 2 eight directors: the Joint Chairs, four non-executive directors, each considered by the Executive directors 2 Boards to be independent, and two executive directors.
Non-executive directors 4 The size and composition of the Boards and their committees are kept under review by the nominations committee.
We are of the view that collectively there is an appropriate balance of capabilities, business experience, independence and diversity on the Boards to meet the Groups current business needs.
The directors have experience gained from a range of international organisations.
Those in office as at the date of this report, together with their biographical details, can be found on pages 88 and 89.
Diversity of the Boards Mondi Limited Mondi plc % board one board one DLC Board Female 25% Directors meeting meeting seven meetings Male 75% Fred Phaswana 1 1 7 David Williams 1 1 7 Tanya Fratto 1 1 7 Stephen Harris 1 1 7 Andrew King 1 1 7 1 John Nicholas 1 1 2 Peter Oswald 1 1 7 Dominique Reiniche 1 1 7 2 Non-executive Stephen Young 1 1 5 director tenure 1 John Nicholas retired from the boards of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc on 16 May 2018.
John attended all meetings up to the time of his retirement from the Boards 03 years 2 2 Stephen Young joined the boards of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc on 1 May 2018.
Stephen attended all meetings following his appointment 36 years 1 69 years 1 In addition, the Joint Chairs and the Non-Executive Directors met twice during the year.
9 years 0 These meetings focus particularly on the performance of the executives although the agendas are driven by the non-executive directors themselves and cover a variety of topics.
One of these meetings is attended by the Chief Executive Officer in order to provide input to the discussions on executive performance and succession.
Nationalities represented on the Boards South African 2 British 3 Austrian 1 French 1 Board policies and procedures American 1 Professional advice D&O insurance A policy is in place pursuant to which each director Throughout the year to 31 December 2018, in line may obtain independent professional advice at with market practice, Mondi maintained directors Mondis expense in the furtherance of their duties and officers liability insurance.
as a director of either Mondi Limited or Mondi plc.
No requests were received during the year.
Procedure for conflicts of interest Company law, the memorandum of incorporation In addition, each of the committees are of Mondi Limited and the articles of association empowered, through their terms of reference, to of Mondi plc allow directors to manage potential seek independent professional advice at Mondis conflicts.
A formal procedure is in place for the expense inthe furtherance of their duties.
reporting and review of any potential conflicts of interest involving the Boards with support from the Company Secretaries, with authorisations reviewed on an annual basis.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 92 Corporate governance report Division of responsibilities The division of responsibilities between the Joint Chairs and the Chief Executive Officer has been clearly defined and approved by the Boards.
The functions and duties of the Senior Independent Director, a role to which Stephen Harris was appointed during 2018, are also set out in a separate statement.
Role Joint Chairs e lead and manage the Boards, setting the agenda, providing direction and focus, ensuring effectiveness and open and Fred Phaswana transparent debate David Williams e undertake regular engagement with the Chief Executive Officer in between meetings Biographies Page 88 e ensure there is a constructive relationship between the executive and non-executive directors e ensure high standards of corporate governance and ethical behaviour and oversee the culture of the Group e oversee the induction, training and development of directors and the consideration of succession e ensure effective communication with shareholders and other stakeholders e ensure the Boards receive accurate, timely and clear information to support discussion and decision-making Role Chief Executive e leads and manages the business with day-to-day Officer responsibility for running the operations and, in particular, the execution of strategy within the delegated authority from Peter Oswald the Boards Biography e ensures the communication of Mondis values and goals Page 88 throughout the organisation, leading by example e chairs the DLC executive committee and leads and motivates the management team e ensures the Group has effective processes, controls and risk management systems e develops and implements Group policies, including with regard to safety and sustainability e together with the Chief Financial Officer, leads the relationship with institutional shareholders Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 93 Role Assessment of the Company Secretaries Executive e manages the day-to-day operations of the Group, in this case Director within his remit as Chief Financial Officer, in accordance with Pursuant to the Listings Requirements of authority delegated by the Boards the JSE, the Boards confirm that they have Andrew King reviewed and are satisfied that each of the Company Secretaries is competent and has Biography the relevant qualifications and experience.
Page 88 Their biographies are on page119.
In assessing their competence and the quality of the corporate governance services they provide, the Boards have considered the Role expected role and duties pursuant to the requirements of both the South African and Senior e provides support to, and acts as a sounding board for, the UK Companies Acts, governance codes and Independent Joint Chairs and the Non-Executive Directors continuing obligations of the stock exchanges on which Mondi is listed, and considered their Director SID e acts as a point of contact for shareholders respective compliance with each of these.
The Boards have reviewed their performance Stephen Harris e available as a trusted intermediary for the other directors, not only during the last year but since as necessary joining Mondi.
Biography Page 89 e chairs a meeting of the Non-Executive Directors at which the The Boards concluded that the Company performance of the Joint Chairs is considered Secretaries have each complied with all the requirements of the Companies Acts, governance codes and continuing obligations of the relevant stock exchanges and that the arrangements in place for monitoring and Role assessing their competence and performance Independent e provide independent oversight of the Groups activities are effective.
Non-Executive e offer an external perspective to, and constructively challenge, Directors management Tanya Fratto e provide to the Boards a diversity of knowledge and experience Dominique e monitor management performance and the development of Reiniche the organisational culture e review and agree strategic priorities and monitor the delivery of Stephen Young the Groups strategy Biographies e ensure the integrity of financial reporting and the effectiveness Page 89 of internal controls and risk management e determine executive director remuneration Role Company e work together on the coordination of Mondis DLC structure Secretaries e support the Joint Chairs in the delivery of accurate and timely information ahead of each meeting Philip Laubscher e ensure compliance with board and committee procedures Jenny Hampshire e act as a key point of contact for Joint Chairs and NonBiographies Executive Directors Page 119 e provide support to the Boards and committees, and advise on governance, statutory and regulatory requirements, maintaining an arms length relationship with the Boards e provide advice on legal, governance and listing requirements in both South Africa and the UK, in particular relating to continuing obligations and directors duties e appointed and removed by the Boards as a whole Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 94 Corporate governance report Our committees The Boards are supported by the committees that have been established in line with governance practice and to which the Boards have delegated specific areas of responsibility.
The role of each committee is described below and in more detail later in this report.
Mondi Mondi Limited plc The Boards DLC DLC DLC DLC nominations audit remuneration sustainable committee committee committee development Oversees the Oversees the Responsibility for committee composition of Groups corporate recommending Oversees the Groups Mondi Limited the Boards and financial reporting, overall remuneration strategy, commitments, committees and the internal control policy and the setting social targets and considers succession system, risk of executive and performance relating and ethics planning and management and senior management to safety, committee diversity, making the relationship remuneration the environment recommendations with the external Oversees South and other sustainable to the Boards auditor African social and development matters ethical issues Read more Read more Read more Read more Read more Page 117 Page 102 Page 106 Page 122 Page 114 DLC executive DLC disclosure committee committee Day-to-day Responsibility for classifying and management overseeing the prompt disclosure of of the Group inside information and overseeing the creation of insider lists Read more Read more Page 118 Page 121 Each committee has the authority to These are available on the Mondi Group It also ensures that all aspects of the make decisions according to its terms of website.
During 2018 certain of the Boards mandate have been addressed and reference.
Work programmes are agreed committee terms of reference were enables any necessary recommendations by each committee that are designed updated, primarily in response to changes or advice relevant for deliberations to around the annual business calendar introduced by the new UK Corporate be provided.
and their respective terms of reference.
Only committee members are entitled to The matters reserved for the Boards The committees meet prior to meetings of attend committee meetings, although the together with the terms of reference of the Boards to enable the committee chairs chair of each committee can invite, as each of the committees are reviewed on to report to the Boards.
This facilitates they consider appropriate, other directors, an annual basis and when there have been communication between directors.
management and advisers to meetings to changes in circumstances, governance provide information and insights, answer or regulation.
questions and to assist the committees in carrying out their duties.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 95 How the Boards spent their time The Joint Chairs agree an annual work programme for the Boards that ensures all matters reserved for review by the Boards are covered.
The Boards are satisfied that this was the case during the year.
Additional matters are added to each meeting agenda as the need arises throughout the year, usually in connection with strategic opportunities that have presented themselves or where market conditions or operational performance discussions trigger a request for a more in-depth review.
Each meeting includes a report from the Chief Executive Officer providing an operational update: a report from the Chief Financial Officer on the Groups financial performance: an update on safety performance: country assessments for key geographic locations where the Group operates: and a report from the Company Secretaries on recent governance and regulatory matters.
Other matters addressed by the Boards Financial performance Operational performance Succession planning e Review and approval of the full and half-yearly e Detailed reports in relation to the fatalities e Consideration of recommended changes to the results and associated announcements and the and life-altering injuries and oversight of membership of the DLC executive committee.
e Consideration of succession and talent e Review and approval of the Mondi Group Integrated e Reports from the chief executive officers of a management plans.
report and financial statements, ensuring they are number of the business units see page 97. fair, balanced and understandable see page 110 Other e Monitoring of the implementation of a number of for more information.
e Consideration of the proposed e Consideration of ordinary and special dividend e A presentation from the Quality Director of the corporate simplification.
recommendations and declarations in light of Consumer Packaging business unit.
e Review of employee survey results see page 99 for the Groups stated dividend policy, financial more information.
performance and strong cash generation.
Governance and risk management e Consideration of a number of regular matters that e Review and approval of the Group business plan for e Regular reports from the chair of each committee.
are reserved for the Boards see schedule on the 20192021 and the budget for 2019, considering Mondi Group website.
assumptions made and the reasonableness of the e Review of the Groups corporate governance plan and focusing on the operational overviews, framework and specifically proposals cash flow management and capital allocation.
arising in relation to the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
e Annual reviews of the Group treasury and Group tax functions and performance, including approval e Review and approval of the renewal of Dominique of the Groups tax strategy statement for publication Reiniches term of office.
e Review and approval of the Groups Modern Slavery Act statement.
Strategy formulation and monitoring e Review of the output from the internal board evaluation process and agreement of an action plan e A strategy review session, considering where Mondi is today, its strategic focus, options for see page 101 for more information.
future growth and detailed business unit strategic e A review of the Groups risk management initiatives, resulting in continued support for processes, plan and risk tolerance levels and Mondis strategic direction see page 26 for internal controls, with consideration of risk more information.
monitoring, mitigation activities and independent e Regular review of potential growth opportunities assurance processes see pages 38 and 39 for identified by management.
e Review of investor feedback see page 98 for e Half-yearly presentations on IT risks and cyber security see page 111 for more information.
e Regular review of competitor analyses.
e Review of the Group insurances, ensuring an appropriate balance of risk between the Group and e Regular review of shareholder analysis reports.
e Review of principal Group policies.
e Review of arrangements for the Annual General Meetings, in particular feedback received from shareholders and voting indications.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 96 Corporate governance report Training, development Stephen Young Induction Programme andculture In the lead up to and following Stephens When new directors join the Boards they Executive committee members and appointment as a non-executive director on 1 May senior management undertake an induction.
While there is an 2018, a number of meetings, briefings and site Meetings with members of the executive outline induction programme in place, visits were organised in order to provide Stephen committee were held in order to give Stephen an this is discussed with each new director with a detailed overview of the Group and to allow understanding of the Groups business, markets, him to make as full and effective a contribution and is tailored to meet any specific operations and material projects, as well as risk as possible to the Boards deliberations and areas, and to give him the opportunity to hear requirements, in particular any committee decision-making during the first few months firsthand about the Groups culture and operational responsibilities.
The programme generally following his appointment.
Meetings with other key members of senior focused particularly on the role and duties Stephen includes meetings with each member of the management were also held, including with the would assume once appointed as chair of the executive committee and key advisers as Group Head of Reward, Group Head of Internal audit committee.
Audit, the Group Heads of Tax and Treasury, the well as site visits.
The aim is to familiarise a Group Head of Strategy & Investor Relations and new director with the nature of the Groups Company Secretaries the Group Heads of Sustainable Development and business and operations, highlighting the Stephens induction started with a briefing from Safety and Health.
The meeting with the Group one of the company secretaries to explain the DLC Head of Internal Audit was a key one for Stephen key challenges and opportunities as well structure and its implications for the operation of given his audit committee role.
A meeting with the as the regulatory environment in which the the Boards, both at a practical level and in terms Groups Chief Information Officer to discuss the Group operates, and the culture and values of the applicable regulatory and governance information management architecture and cyber of the Group.
Following his appointment to framework.
He was given access to an online security was also held.
director handbook containing a number of key the Boards on 1 May 2018, an induction documents, including guidance on the duties External auditor programme was undertaken by Stephen and obligations for listed company directors, key A meeting with the UK audit engagement partner Young, the details of which can be policies and the terms of reference for each of was undertaken at an early stage in order to Mondis committees.
provide Stephen with an independent view of Mondis relationship with its external auditor and We aim to ensure that existing directors Joint Chairs and the auditors role at each audit committee meeting.
receive ongoing training and development Non-Executive Directors opportunities and that they are able to While Stephen met all members of the DLC Site visits Board during the recruitment and interview keep up to speed with changes to the During August 2018 Stephen undertook a site process, further meetings were arranged as visit to Mondis mill in wiecie, Poland.
Given that environment in which Mondi operates, appropriate around the time of his appointment Stephen was unable to join the full Boards economic developments and governance and his first board programme.
Key among these visit to wiecie earlier in the year, this provided was Stephens meeting with John Nicholas, the and regulatory changes.
It is equally Stephen with a separate opportunity to meet local outgoing audit committee chair.
management and to receive tailored presentations.
important that the directors are given the The visit also included a tour of the plant and a opportunity to monitor Mondis culture, dinner with members of the management team.
to see how it is embedded into the This allowed Stephen early on in his tenure organisation and to ensure that practice to see one of Mondis largest operations and to observe behaviour and culture in practice.
on the ground aligns with the culture and This was followed by a visit to Mondis Group office values promoted by the Boards.
While Stephens induction covered a significant This is achieved in a number of ways: amount in a short space of time, we remain aware that the induction needs to be an ongoing process, Site visits particularly during the first year of appointment, and so we continue to look for additional opportunities The directors are encouraged wherever to offer Stephen a broader perspective of possible to visit Mondis key assets the business.
and operations so that they can see them firsthand and get a more in-depth understanding of the business as well as meet local management and staff.
Such visits allow the directors to see for themselves how our safety culture is working in practice, the outcome of the investments they have approved and how the Mondi Diamond is used to frame operational behaviour.
Talking to local management during these site visits provides an invaluable perspective to the directors.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 97 Board presentations To ensure the directors are aware of Neither of Mondis executive directors developing trends and future changes currently holds a directorship external The Boards have in place a rolling in governance and regulation and the to Mondi.
programme of presentations from members likely impact on the Group, the Company of the executive committee and other Each director can discuss any development Secretaries report to the Boards at each senior management.
These presentations needs with one of the Joint Chairs at meeting.
They also brief the directors on give the directors direct exposure to any time but the opportunity arises more governance and regulatory consultations members of senior management beyond formally during the annual review process for information and to assist the directors the executive directors, allowing them the when discussions regarding individual with context for their decision-making opportunity to ask questions, hear their performance are held.
In addition, all during board and committee deliberations.
views and opinions and to hear how the directors are encouraged to strengthen Other corporate function specialists, businesses are performing and developing.
and refresh their knowledge by attending for example from Group tax and Group The directors also gain valuable insight workshops, seminars and courses relevant treasury, report to the Boards to enable for the purposes of succession planning.
to their respective roles, and details of the the directors to gain a greater insight into Presenters are additionally invited to attend availability of these are provided regularly.
the way Mondi is managed and controlled.
board dinners, offering a more informal This provides opportunities to question setting for discussion.
processes, resources and key risks as Site visits: The Boards also receive presentations well as providing context on the wider from external advisers in relation to a variety economic environment.
External directorships Reports and updates Although it is recognised that valuable Presentations and reports aimed at experience can be gained from executive providing wider context to the Groups directors accepting appointments as nonactivities and position in the market executive directors on other boards, it is are provided regularly to the Boards.
important to ensure the appropriateness Management also provide updates on and number of such commitments.
issues affecting the packaging and paper Mondi has a policy setting out the industry as a whole and regular feedback is parameters regarding such appointments.
provided through the sharing of analyst and A director will retain any fee paid to them in broker reports and briefings.
respect of directorships external to Mondi.
wiece, Poland In June 2018, the directors visited Mondis mill Board presentations: in wiecie.
The visit included presentations from the local management team, providing the Boards with an update on matters including safety, financial, operational and environmental and sustainability performance.
The directors also heard about the initiative at the mill to reduce the level of waste sent to landfill, an initiative that won a Mondi Diamond award earlier in the year see page 74 for more details.
The directors undertook a tour of the mill, giving them an opportunity to see in practice the results of the 260m capital investment programme completed in 2017, to observe the culture, particularly in relation to safety, and to talk to local management and employees.
The tour was followed by a dinner with members of the wiecie management team.
During the year the Boards heard from the chief This feedback provides a vital source of information executive officers of Mondis Consumer Packaging to the directors on how employees feel about Richards Bay and Uncoated Fine Paper business units as well as Mondi and the environment and culture in which In July 2018, Tanya Fratto joined Michael the chief executive officers of the Fibre Packaging they work.
More information can be found on Hakes, Mondis Group HR Director, on a visit Paper and South African businesses, covering page 99. to Mondis Richards Bay facility in South Africa.
matters including safety performance and culture, The visit included a tour of the mill as well as a In addition, the Boards received presentations financial and operational performance, progress chance to see the Kwambonambi nursery, one from external advisers including in relation to global with capital investment projects and challenges economic and market trends, the duties of boards of the sites at which we propagate seedlings faced.
Mondis Group Communication & Marketing for our forestry plantations.
Tanya also spent in relation to environmental, social and governance Director and Consumer Packagings Quality risks and investor perceptions.
time meeting with and asking questions of local Director also presented.
The Boards have also received updates on Mondis Group HR Director presented to the information technology risk through two detailed Boards on the outcome of the 2018 group-wide presentations given to the DLC audit committee Site visits by the directors, either individually or employee survey, providing insight into the views during the year see page 111 for more information.
collectively, remain high on the agenda in 2019 of the 89% of employees that responded to with visits to plants in Austria and Germany the survey.
being planned for the Boards during the year.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 98 Corporate governance report In addition, the executive management The remuneration committee consults with Stakeholder engagement and the Group Head of Strategy & Investor shareholders on remuneration matters During the year, the Boards took the time Relations make themselves available to when appropriate, most recently in relation to review who they consider to be Mondis investors on an ongoing basis in order to to proposed changes to the Groups key stakeholders.
This gave them the maintain an open dialogue, resulting in a remuneration policy which were approved opportunity to step back and think about number of ad hoc meetings and calls taking at the Annual General Meetings in 2017. those groups that are most relevant to place throughout the year.
Such consultation is key to understanding Mondi, to ensure that the Boards continue shareholder views.
to give consideration to the material It is important that we maintain this regular stakeholders when making decisions engagement with shareholders and The Company Secretarys office and to allow engagement activities to be prospective investors in order to allow is the focus for private shareholder focused appropriately.
The stakeholders us the opportunity to further explain our communications, responding to individual identified and some of the engagement strategy and priorities.
It is hoped that shareholder correspondence, and activities undertaken during the year are such engagement and our willingness coordinating our engagement on corporate referred to in more detail on pages 22 to 25. to be transparent builds trust in Mondis governance matters.
management and develops the investor All directors are kept informed of Investor engagement communitys understanding of our shareholder views and feedback, business and our culture.
While we accept While the Joint Chairs maintain particularly from the full and half-year that our shareholders will have different responsibility for ensuring there is effective investor roadshows, which are presented priorities and varying views on the future of communication with shareholders, it is the and discussed at board meetings.
Mondi, we welcome these views and the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Analyst reports are shared regularly with constructive dialogue that we aim for.
Officer who undertake active engagement the Boards and consideration given to with investors on a regular basis, meeting In addition, we maintain ongoing contact any views both positive and negative with Mondis largest shareholders, analysts with our debt providers and the Chief regarding the Groups performance, and other fund managers.
The Senior Financial Officer and Group Treasurer future direction and the perceptions of the Independent Director is available to meet have held regular meetings with the credit management team.
with shareholders as required should any rating agencies, relationship banks and The Mondi Group website issues arise that are not resolved through debt investors.
com contains a wealth the more regular channels.
of information including the latest news Below are details of the key investor from around the Group, announcements, events that have taken place during 2018, share price information and general including meetings, investor roadshows and shareholder information as well as more participation in investor conferences.
in-depth reports regarding our sustainability commitments and progress.
Investor events Investor perceptions study Month Event In the second half of the year, we March e Preliminary results announcement commissioned an external consultant, e Investor roadshow in South Africa Johannesburg and Cape Town Investor Perceptions, to undertake a study to understand how a broad cross-section e Investor roadshow in Europe London and Edinburgh, including of shareholders, non-holders and sellJefferies packaging conference side analysts perceive Mondi in terms of performance, strategy, management, e Sun City BoAML conference South Africa communication and willingness to engage.
e Investor day in Munich Engagement levels were good, with investors open to sharing their views on the Group and April e Discussions with investors and advisory bodies prior to Annual providing valuable insight into areas of strong General Meetings performance as well as those areas offering improvement potential.
The results of the May e Trading update study, which were generally very positive, were presented to the Boards during the December e Annual General Meetings board meeting.
A number of action items were identified, with the Boards agreeing to e Investor roadshow in the US Boston, Chicago and New York follow up on those it considers most relevant August e Half-yearly results during 2019.
In light of the value the directors felt the study e Investor roadshow in South Africa Johannesburg and Cape Town brought and the increased focus in the new UK September e Investor roadshow in Europe London and Edinburgh Corporate Governance Code on engagement with, and understanding the views of, major October e Trading update shareholders, it is intended to undertake similar studies on a more regular basis.
November e London UBS European conference December e London BoAML Paper conference e Investor roadshow in Frankfurt Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 99 Wider stakeholder engagement Developing our activities in relation to e the latest global employee survey, which employee engagement in particular is had a participation rate of 89% and The increasing focus on wider stakeholder a priority.
While we always consider the gave our employees the opportunity to engagement reflects our awareness of impact on employees when we make provide their views on a range of matters.
the need to consider the interests of not decisions, the Boards appreciate that they The results of this survey were presented just our shareholders but also our people, need to understand their views in order to the Boards and further updates will be customers and the communities in which to do this effectively.
A number of events provided over the course of the next year we operate.
While this has always been took place during the year to facilitate to allow the Boards to monitor progress a focus for the Boards, the new UK engagement with our people, including: with actions agreed following the survey.
Corporate Governance Code has reminded More information can be found on pages boards of the need to keep this high on e the annual meeting of our European 52 and 53. the agenda.
Having confirmed who our Communication Group, involving key stakeholders are, our approach to In addition, we held a virtual leadership representatives from our plants across sustainability provides the framework forum, Inspire meetings and a number of Europe, attended by Peter Oswald, within which we can engage with them employee briefings.
Andrew King and Mondis Group HR and encourages us to consider more Director, Michael Hakes: Not only do these activities facilitate widely the impact that our business can e a senior leadership forum, attended by employee engagement, they are also vital have.
Our Group Head of Sustainable 120 of Mondis senior leaders as well as to giving the Boards clear oversight of Development continues to maintain a several members of the Boards, including Mondis culture.
The outcome from these dialogue on socially responsible investment the Joint Chairs, and incorporating types of events and the views expressed through focused briefings with interested Mondis Diamond Awards ceremony: and provide insight to the Boards on how well investors and stakeholders and collaborates our values are embedded and understood, closely with a number of external bodies the concerns of our employees and the flow on such matters.
More information on our of communication throughout the Group.
engagement activities during the year can During 2019 there will be increased emphasis be found on pages 22 to 25 and in our on creating a clear link between these online sustainable development report.
activities and the discussions at board level.
Review of employee survey results In January 2018 Mondi undertook its latest groupwide employee survey, in which 89% of employees participated.
The Boards invited Michael Hakes, Mondis Group HR Director, to present the results of the survey.
The presentation included details of the response rate relative to previous surveys, key areas of positive and negative feedback, broken down by job level and tenure, and comparisons to external benchmarks.
Employee engagement levels were a key area of focus, with the results being used to indicate the extent to which our people feel engaged with Mondi and their role.
The results of the survey act as a significant source of information to the Boards when they are assessing the views of Mondis employees and how well Mondis values are communicated, understood and felt by employees on a day-to-day basis.
The survey also looked at a number of key culture indicators, including the proportion of employees that were considering leaving Mondi, how empowered employees felt and whether they felt they were recognised for their performance.
A number of action areas were identified and additional questions raised by the Boards.
A follow-up presentation will be given to the Boards during 2019.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018
