Governance Board of Directors Douglas Caster Pete Raby Peter Turner Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Douglas Caster CBE FIET Pete Raby Peter Turner Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Appointed: Non-executive Director in February Appointed: August 2015.
Non-executive Chairman and Nomination Skills and contribution: Pete has a strong Skills and contribution: Peter has significant Committee Chairman on 1 January 2019. technical background and extensive prior financial experience combined with a strong Skills and contribution: Douglas is a highly experience in planning and executing business track record of driving improved business experienced electronic systems engineer with a strategy across global technology and performance in multiple large-scale and strong track record of managing and driving manufacturing operations.
He is an Career and experience: Pete joined Morgan Career and experience: Peter joined Morgan experienced Chairman and Chief Executive Advanced Materials in August 2015 as Chief Advanced Materials in April 2016 as Chief having performed these roles at Ultra Executive Officer.
Before joining Morgan Financial Officer.
Before joining Morgan Electronics Holdings plc.
Advanced Materials, Pete was President of the Advanced Materials, Peter was Finance Director Career and experience: Douglas began his Communications and Connectivity sector of at Smiths Group plc from 2010 to 2015.
During career with the Racal Electronics Group in 1975, Cobham plc.
Pete demonstrated strong this time he was responsible for driving before moving to Schlumberger in 1986 and leadership across a range of senior strategy, restructuring programmes across the Group to then to Dowty as Engineering Director of Sonar technology and operational positions at Cobham enhance operating margins with a strong focus & Communication Systems in 1988.
In 1992, he over a nine-year period.
Prior to Cobham, on improving operating cash flow.
Prior to became Managing Director of that business and, Pete was a partner at McKinsey & Company in Smiths, Peter was Finance Director from 2007 after participating in the management buy-out London, specialising in strategy and operations in to 2009 at Venture Production plc, before it was that formed Ultra Electronics, joined the Board the aerospace, defence and power & gas acquired by Centrica plc in 2009.
In April 2000, he became sectors.
He has a PhD in satellite navigation and 2006, Peter held several senior positions at Managing Director of Ultras Information & an M. Eng.
from the Department of Electronic The BOC Group plc, including Finance Director Power Systems division.
In April 2004 he was and Electrical Engineering at the University of the Industrial & Special Products division.
appointed Chief Operating Officer and became of Leeds.
Peter started his career as an auditor at Price Chief Executive in April 2005.
He holds a degree in chemistry Additional appointments: None.
Deputy Chairman in April 2010 and became from Oxford University.
Chairman of Ultra in April 2011 until 28 January Committees: None.
2019 when he retired from Ultra as Chairman.
Douglas was Morgan Advanced Materials plcs Committees: None.
Senior Independent Director from January 2015 until December 2017.
He was appointed to the role of Chairman in January 2019 and stepped down as Chair of the Remuneration Committee at the same time.
Additional appointments: Chairman of Metalysis Limited.
Committees: N R 44 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Jane Aikman Helen Bunch Laurence Mulliez Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Senior Independent Director Jane Aikman Helen Bunch Laurence Mulliez Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Senior Independent Director Appointed: Non-executive Director and Appointed: Non-executive Director Appointed: Non-executive Director in May 2016.
Audit Committee Chair in July 2017. in February 2016.
Remuneration Senior Independent Director in December 2017.
Skills and contribution: Jane brings to the Board Skills and contribution: Laurence has significant significant financial experience and knowledge of Skills and contribution: Helen has significant experience in growing, simplifying and unifying growing manufacturing and technology businesses.
experience of driving business performance and complex international and industrial She also brings to the Board a valuable external building businesses in new markets.
brings to the Board a valuable perspective as a Career and experience: Laurence started with serving executive.
Career and experience: Since July 2018, Jane Banque Nationale fide Paris in 1988 followed by has been Chief Financial Officer of Arqiva Group Career and experience: At the start of her M&M Mars Inc. in 1992 and then Amoco Limited, a communications infrastructure career, Helen spent 17 years working in global Chemical Inc. in 1993, which was acquired by company, and prior to this she was the Chief businesses serving a wide variety of industries BP p. l. c. in 1998.
She spent a further 11 years at Financial Officer of KCOM Group plc, a listed from automotive to household products: BP in a variety of roles including Chief Executive communications services and IT solutions 1 1 years with ICI and the remainder with a of Castrol Industrial Lubricants and Services.
She was Chief Financial Officer and successor company, Lucite International Ltd. After BP, Laurence became Chief Executive of Chief Operating Officer of Phoenix IT Group plc In 2006, Helen joined Wates Group, the independent power producer Eoxis UK Limited until its acquisition by Daisy Group in 2015.
Jane privately-owned construction and property from 2010 to 2013.
Through a number of has also held Chief Financial Officer positions at services company, as Group Strategy Director non-executive positions both in the UK and Infinis plc, Wilson Bowden plc and Pressac plc and became Managing Director of Wates Retail internationally, Laurence also brings valuable and a senior finance position at Asia Pulp and Limited in January 2011.
Since 2015, Helen has knowledge of the energy, steel and Paper in south-east Asia.
Jane was a nonbeen Managing Director of Wates Smartspace infrastructure industries and insight into some executive Director of Halma plc from 2007 and Limited, the enlarged business following a of Morgans key markets.
chaired its audit committee from 2009 until her merger with another Wates company and the Additional appointments: Chairman of Voltalia departure in July 2016.
Jane holds a civil acquisition of a facilities management business.
Chairman of Globeleq Ltd, non-executive engineering degree and qualified as a Chartered Additional appointments: Managing Director Director of Aperam S. A. and member of the Accountant with Ernst & Young.
of Wates Smartspace Limited supervisory board of SBM Offshore N. V. Additional appointments: Chief Financial Committees: A N R Committees: A N R Officer of Arqiva Group Limited Committees: A N R Committees Committee Chairman Audit A N Nomination Remuneration R Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 45
