Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Report of the Audit Committee This Report gives an insight into the responsibilities, activities and workings of the Audit Committee and how it discharged its duties during 2018 On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Continued to monitor closely our risks and my Report of the Audit Committee for Morgan internal controls and received a presentation Committee members Advanced Materials plc.
During the year the from each Division including in December Committees primary function has been to 2018, from each of the three separate Jane Aikman Chair ensure the integrity of the Groups financial business units within the Carbon and Helen Bunch reporting and audit processes and the Technical Ceramics Division.
The 1 Douglas Caster maintenance of sound internal control and risk presentations were delivered by Divisional Laurence Mulliez management procedures.
The Committee and global business unit management, as continues to monitor and address any changes in appropriate, who presented their findings 1.
Stepped down from the Committee on governance and reporting requirements, whilst to the Committee either in person or by 31 December 2018. responding to the ongoing challenges of ensuring conference call, which gave the Committee All members of the Audit Committee are consistent and robust financial controls across a the opportunity to ask questions directly and independent non-executive Directors global business, as it continues to fulfil its gain further insight into the internal control and Jane Aikman Committee Chair, strategic priorities.
environment and risk management approach has the requisite financial experience and of our businesses.
For any issues which were competence in accounting and auditing.
The matters below have been the key areas of raised, the Committee fully considered the In accordance with the 2016 and 2018 focus for the Committee during 2018: cause, potential or actual impact and UK Corporate Governance Code, Continued to oversee the internal audit response by management.
Douglas Caster stepped down from the function, including the scope, purpose and Audit Committee on 31 December Reviewed the Groups tax strategy prior to resource of the function, its programme of 2018, prior to his appointment as approval by the Board, as published on the work and the status of actions arising from non-executive Chairman of the Board Companys website from December 2018. audit findings, including their relative risk and on 1 January 2019.
Biographies of the Reviewed the potential impact of IFRS 16 progress in resolving them.
At its February current Committee members, including Leases and how best to manage and 2018 meeting the Committee reviewed the details of relevant sector experience, are implement the required changes associated effectiveness of the internal audit and agreed set out on pages 44 and 45. with IFRS 16. that there should be more focus on risk-based audits for 2018, both at Group Assessed the key areas of significant and local entity level.
During the latter part judgement in relation to the 2018 financial of 2018 an external review was performed statements which were specific adjusting of the effectiveness of the internal audit items, intangible asset impairment testing, function.
Further information on the process provisions and contingent liabilities and tax and conclusions of the review, including balances.
These are set out in detail on page recommended improvements and actions 53 within this Committee Report.
to be taken, can be found on page 53.
Reviewed and approved the proposed Recommended the draft Morgan Code for external audit tender process which approval by the Board of Directors and commenced in 2018. monitored the activity related to its launch This is my first full year as Committee Chair, and across the Group.
I am pleased to report that the Committee is continuing to work well and is fully discharging its responsibilities, whilst contributing effectively to the Groups overall governance framework.
Jane Aikman Committee Chair Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 51 Governance Report of the Audit Committee continued Meetings Reviewing whether the Group has followed Areas of focus in 2018 appropriate accounting standards and made At the end of every meeting, members of the During 2018, in addition to the areas of work appropriate estimates and judgements, Committee also meet the external auditor, the outlined in the Chairmans letter above, the taking into account the views of the Head of Internal Audit and the Director of Ethics Committee: external auditor.
and Compliance, without the executive Received a report from KPMG on the Directors or other members of management Appropriateness to adopt the going concern conclusions of the FRCs review of the present.
Between meetings, the Chairman of basis of accounting in preparing financial Companys 2017 audit and noted KPMGs the Audit Committee keeps in contact with the statements.
Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Whether there is a reasonable expectation, Reviewed the Groups half-year and full-year Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group taking the Groups position and principal risks statements prior to Board approval.
Financial Controller, the external auditor, the into account, that the Group will be able to Made a recommendation to the Board that it Head of Internal Audit and the Director of Ethics continue in operation and meet its liabilities is appropriate to prepare the accounts for and Compliance as necessary.
as they fall due over the period covered by the year on a going concern basis.
Information and support Reviewed the methodology for preparation Reviewing the content of the Annual Report The Committee may request the attendance at of the Companys Viability statement, see and Accounts and advising the Board on meetings of any Director or employee as may page 30 of the Strategic Report, and agreed whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced be considered appropriate by the Committee.
an appropriate time period for that statement, and understandable and provides the The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive and a reasonable financial base case for that information necessary for shareholders to Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Head of period, together with an in-depth evaluation assess the Companys position and Internal Audit, the Group Financial Controller, of the risks affecting the financial viability of performance, business model and strategy.
the Group General Counsel and the Director the Company over that timeframe, all for of Ethics and Compliance and senior Reviewing and monitoring the Groups recommendation to the Board.
representatives of the external auditor whistleblowing arrangements and systems Reviewed the results of the detailed impact attend meetings by invitation.
and controls for the prevention of bribery.
assessment in relation to IFRS 15 Revenue Considering the effectiveness of the Groups from contracts with customers, including The Committee identifies and ensures that it internal audit function, and remit of the specific tests to ascertain where differences receives the information it needs to enable function.
in accounting treatment will be required, it to fulfil its responsibilities.
Training and concluding that there will not be a significant development information is made available Making recommendations to the Board, for it impact.
to the members of the Audit Committee to put to shareholders for their approval at as appropriate.
the AGM, in relation to the appointment, Reviewed the implementation and impact reappointment and removal of the external of new accounting standard, IFRS 16 Leases.
Audit Committee terms of reference auditor and the approval of the remuneration Reviewed the scope of the external audit, The Audit Committee has a clear set of and terms of engagement of the external and confirmed the external auditors terms responsibilities and these are set out in its terms auditor.
of engagement and fee structure.
of reference and agreed by the Board.
The Subject to the current transitional provisions, terms of reference were reviewed and approved Assessed the findings of the external audit, ensuring that the audit services contract is without changes during the year.
The terms of including any potential major issues and put out to competitive tender every 10 reference remain wholly compliant with the noting the key audit risks.
years, supervising any such process and April 2016 version of the UK Corporate Assessed the effectiveness of the external overseeing the selection process for a Governance Code, which applied to the 2018 audit process, including all aspects of the new auditor.
financial year and are consistent with the FRCs service provided by the external auditor, Guidance on Audit Committees, also published Reviewing the effectiveness of the process whilst noting the auditors view of in April 2016, as well as with the Disclosure for the statutory audit taking into interactions with senior management.
The consideration relevant UK professional and Monitored the level of non-audit work Committees terms of reference are available on regulatory requirements.
undertaken by the external auditor, which the Companys website and the responsibilities Reviewing and monitoring the external in 2018 included services amounting to of the Audit Committee are summarised below: auditors independence and objectivity.
0.1 million mainly in connection with tax Monitoring and making appropriate Oversight of the engagement of the external services, equating to 4.0% of the audit fees.
recommendations to the Board with regard auditor to supply non-audit services.
See note 4 on page 99 for further to the financial reporting process, the integrity information.
The Committee has the authority, in accordance of the financial statements of the Group, Reviewed the controls and assurance with its terms of reference, to investigate any including any formal announcements relating processes that are in place to mitigate the matters and may obtain external advice at the to the Groups financial performance.
cost of the Company, but did not seek or Reviewing accounting policies used by the require any such advice during the year.
Reviewed the effectiveness of, and received Group and their consistent application across reports from management on, the Groups the Group.
internal audit and risk management systems.
52 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Reviewed and approved the plan, work and Public reporting Provisions and contingent liabilities overall effectiveness of the internal audit The Committee, as requested by the Board, The level of provisioning for known and function, monitored its progress against the considered the Code requirement for the Board contingent liabilities, including those arising from plan and ensured that the appropriate to make a statement on whether the Annual trading, environmental issues and litigation, is resource was deployed within the function.
Report and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, an issue where management and third-party balanced and understandable.
The Committee judgements are important.
These are addressed Reviewed the systems of internal controls of, approached this as follows, and: by the Committee and the Board discussing and risks managed in, the Divisions, see Risk with various members of senior management management section on pages 18 to 21 for Considered the questions which need to be the key judgements made, supported, where further information.
answered in order to evaluate whether the appropriate, by relevant external advice.
Annual Report and Accounts meets the fair, Reviewed the Groups whistleblowing KPMG LLP also reports regularly on all material balanced and understandable test.
process, and related procedures and policies.
During the Reviewed the methodology used to Reviewed material litigation.
year the Group recorded redundancy and construct the narrative sections of the Reviewed the status of the Groups export restructuring provisions in the ordinary course Annual Report.
of business, which are disclosed separately in Reviewed the disclosure judgements made note 23 to the financial statements to provide Reviewed the status of the Groups risk from by the authors of each section and investors with additional information to assist in third-party representatives agents and considered the overall balance and their assessment of the Groups performance.
consistency in the Annual Report.
Reviewed reports from the Head of Internal Tax balances Received confirmation from external Audit and the Director of Ethics and Accounting for current and deferred tax involves advisers that all regulatory requirements are Compliance, on the calls made to the a range of judgements.
The Committee and the satisfied.
Groups ethics hotline and reports to Board address these issues through reporting Received confirmation of verification of management related to ethical conduct and from the Chief Financial Officer and the Director content from the authors of each section.
or compliance and noted the outcome of of Group Tax, supported as necessary by investigations into those.
Received confirmation from the Chief external professional advice.
Financial Officer that the narrative reports Reviewed executive managements The Committee reviewed the content of the and financial statements are consistent.
assessment of the potential impact of the Annual Report and Accounts and advised the United States Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on the Made a recommendation to the Board to Board that, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced Group and US tax positions.
assist it in determining whether it is able to and understandable and provides the make the statement that the Annual Report Considered executive managements information necessary for shareholders to assess and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, decision to close the Thermal Ceramics the Groups position and performance, business balanced and understandable.
Monitored the judgements made by The significant areas of judgement considered by executive management in relation to the the Committee in relation to the 2018 financial accounting treatment and provisions statements, and how these were addressed, associated with the disposal of the were as follows: Composites and Defence Systems business, Specific adjusting items which completed in November 2018.
In the consolidated income statement, the Reviewed and approved the plan, work and Group has presented specific adjusting items overall effectiveness of the internal audit separately in order to provide the best indication function, monitored its progress against the of the underlying performance of the Group, internal audit plan and ensured that and details of the nature and quantum of the appropriate resources were utilised and individual items are provided in note 6 to the deployed within the function.
This comprised the disposal December 2018 meeting, the Committee on 20 November 2018 of the Composites and reviewed an independent third-party review Defence Systems business, the exit from the of the effectiveness of the internal audit Thermal Ceramic businesses in Brazil and function and considered the report and Venezuela, and the exit of the ceramic cores its findings and how the function could part of Technical Ceramics operating segment be further improved in 2019. in China.
The Committee fully considered the principle of disclosure for specific adjusting items and the individual items.
Taking into account guidelines issued by the FRC and peer-group disclosure of similar items, the Committee concluded that it is the best way to present the Groups results.
Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 53 Governance Report of the Audit Committee continued Control environment Performance monitoring Internal financial control and risk The Groups control environment is Performance is monitored through regular management systems underpinned by the Groups policy set.
This meetings of the Board and of the Executive The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its covers financial procedures, environmental, Committee, a comparison of forecast and actual responsibilities relating to the adequacy and health and safety practice, compliance e. g. results is considered, including cash flows and effectiveness of the control environment and risk anti-bribery and corruption, and trade comparisons against budget and the prior year.
The Groups system of compliance and other areas such as IT and HR.
Divisional management teams also meet internal control has been in place for the year There is a Limit of Authorities Policy, which regularly to review performance.
The members under review and up to the date of approval of describes the matters reserved for the Board of the Executive Committee also visit sites on a the Annual Report.
and the delegations granted to the Chief regular basis.
Through the Audit Committee, the Board Executive Officer and other executives.
The Risk management reviews the effectiveness of the internal control Group operates various programmes to The Board undertakes a formal assessment of system annually and did so again for the year improve the control environment and the Groups principal risks at least twice a year.
This system is consistent with the management of risk.
These include the Groups The identification, assessment and reporting FRCs guidance on the internal control Ethics and Compliance Programme, which of risks is a continuous process carried out in requirements of the Code.
This review covered includes relevant training, the provision of conjunction with operational management and all material controls, including financial, systems to help businesses manage risk appropriate steps are taken to mitigate and operational and compliance controls, and risk consistently, and reporting processes.
The manage all material risks including those relating management systems.
The Audit Committee external ethics hotline is available to employees to the Groups business model, solvency and and Board receive regular risk management to raise concerns and any reports made to the liquidity.
The Board, either directly or through reports and together they ensure that there are hotline are investigated by senior management.
the Audit Committee, receives updates on risks, adequate internal controls in place and that these The Divisional and business unit Presidents and internal controls and future actions from both are functioning effectively.
other senior operational and functional Divisional and Group perspectives.
The management make an annual statement of The Directors considers that the Groups Executive Committee collectively reviews compliance to the Board, confirming that, for system of internal financial control provides risk management and internal controls for each of the businesses for which they are reasonable, but not absolute, assurance in the all principal Group risks.
The Groups risk responsible, the financial statements are fairly following areas: that the assets of the Group are management system, as set out in the Risk presented in all material respects, appropriate safeguarded: that transactions are authorised management section on pages 18 to 21, systems of internal controls have been and recorded in a correct and timely manner: supports the Going concern statement and developed and maintained, and the businesses and that such controls would prevent or detect, the Viability statement on page 30. comply with Group policies and procedures or within a timely period, material errors or have escalated known exceptions to an Risk factors irregularities.
The system is designed to mitigate appropriate level of management.
In addition, and manage risk, rather than eliminate it and to The Groups businesses are affected by a the Audit Committee receives an annual address key business and financial risks.
number of factors, many of which are influenced presentation on business risk and internal by macro-economic trends, although, as controls from Divisions and global business units.
The main features of the Groups system of described above and in the Strategic Report, internal control and for assessing the potential Financial reporting the identification and mitigation of such risks are risks to which the Group is exposed are regularly reviewed by the Executive Committee Risk management systems and internal controls summarised as follows: and the Board.
These are further discussed in are in place in relation to the Groups financial the Risk management section on pages 18 to 21. reporting processes and the process for preparing consolidated accounts.
These include Internal audit policies and procedures which require the The Groups internal audit function reviews maintenance of records which accurately and internal control and risk management processes.
fairly reflect transactions and disposal of assets, The Audit Committee approves the annual provide reasonable assurance that transactions internal audit plan and receives regular reports are recorded as necessary to allow the showing the results of the audits.
Actions arising preparation of financial statements in accordance from internal audit reviews are agreed with with International Financial Reporting Standards management and the Audit Committee IFRS, and the review and reconciliation of monitors progress of any outstanding actions.
Representatives of the businesses The Head of Internal Audit has direct access to are required to certify that their reported the Chairman of the Audit Committee and information gives a true and fair view of the state meets separately with the Audit Committee of affairs of the business and its results for the without executive management at least twice period.
The Audit Committee is responsible for a year.
monitoring these risk management systems and internal controls.
54 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements External auditor, including non-audit In 2018, the proportion of the auditors fees for Having overseen the transition of the senior non-audit work relative to the audit fee was audit engagement partner and reviewed the services policy 4.0% 2017: 8.0%.
effectiveness of the audit process, and all aspects The external auditor, KPMG LLP, has processes of the service provided by the external auditor, in place to safeguard its independence and The Committees policy is to undertake an and taking account of the assurance given by the objectivity, including specific safeguards where it annual review of the effectiveness of the audit external auditor as to its independence, the is providing permissible non-audit services, and process and of all aspects of the external Committee once more discussed and reviewed has confirmed in writing to the Audit Committee auditors performance and independence before the external audit tender position.
In December that, in its opinion, it is independent.
After determining whether to undertake a formal 2018, the Committee reviewed a proposed plan considering such procedures, the opinion of the review of the auditor, including a re-tender with regard to the external audit tender process Audit Committee was that the auditors presentation, or whether to put the Groups and subsequently recommended to the Board objectivity and independence were safeguarded audit work out to full third-party tender.
that the intention was to commence a formal despite the provision of a limited number of and rigorous tender process after the The Group last changed its auditor in late 2001. non-audit services by KPMG LLP.
completion of the 2018 financial year-end audit The external auditor rotated the partner The policy on the provision of non-audit process.
The intention is that following the responsible for the Groups audit work in 2008, services by the external auditor which was tender process, the chosen audit firm will 2013 and 2018.
As noted in the 2017 Annual revised in 2016 following the implementation of shadow KPMG LLP during the 2019 year-end Report, 2017 was the last financial year that the EU Audit Regulation and Directive is audit and formally perform the audit for the Mr Sykes acted as the senior audit engagement summarised below: financial year ending 2020. partner, with Mr Sawdon, the new senior audit Certain non-audit services may not be engagement partner having been appointed in The Company has complied with the provisions provided.
The external auditor may not: March 2018, following completion of the 2017 of the Competition and Markets Authoritys review their own work: make any financial year external audit.
Order on statutory audit services.
management decisions: create a mutuality of interest: and or put themselves in the position of advocate.
Any permissible non-audit work proposed to be placed with the external auditor with a total fee between 50,000 and 200,000 must be approved in advance by the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Projects in excess of 200,000, must be approved in advance by the Audit Committee, with any such proposal being submitted in writing to the CFO, who would in turn seek approval from the Audit Committee.
All permissible non-audit work, regardless of value, must be approved by the Group Financial Controller.
Work which includes multiple phases is treated as a single project for approval purposes.
The prior approval of the Audit Committee is required for any non-audit work which, when added to the fees paid for other non-audit work, would total more than 60% previously 80% of the audit fee.
The value of non-audit fees must not under any circumstances exceed 70% of the average Group statutory audit fee incurred in the last three consecutive financial years.
Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 55
