Governance Corporate governance The Board delegates the day-to-day Statement of compliance with the Leadership management of the Group and operational April 2016 UK Corporate The role of the Board matters to the Chief Executive Officer and the Governance Code The Board is collectively responsible to the Chief Financial Officer.
The two executive Companys shareholders for the long-term The main principles of the UK Corporate Directors together with the Group Human success of the Company.
The Board is satisfied it Governance Code focus on Leadership, Resources Director, the Group General has met the Codes requirements for its effective Effectiveness, Accountability, Remuneration and Counsel, the Group IT Director, and the operation.
The Board has continued to monitor Relations with Shareholders.
This statement Divisional or global business unit Presidents, progress against the key execution priorities set describes how the Company has applied the form the Executive Committee.
in 2016, with specific agenda items at Board main principles of the Code.
It should be read in The Board has delegated authority for certain meetings.
The Board ensures that there is a conjunction with the Strategic Report on pages other specific matters including approvals to a robust framework of prudent and effective 4 to 41 and the other sections of the Directors General Purposes Committee at which a controls, which enables risks to be assessed Report on pages 42 to 78. non-executive Director must be present.
The Board sets the Companys Other than in respect of the areas noted below, The General Purposes Committee meets standards, which are contained in the Morgan throughout the year ended 31 December 2018 as required.
Code, and which are referred to on pages 34 the Company has complied with the relevant to 41 of the Corporate responsibility section of The Disclosure Committee met on an ad-hoc provisions of the April 2016 edition of the UK this Report.
basis during the year to assess whether Corporate Governance Code the Code which information which directly concerns the Group is applicable to the 2018 financial year: Matters reserved is inside information, as defined by the Market There is a schedule of matters specifically Provision A.
4.2 The non-executive Abuse Regulation, which came into force in reserved for the Board, which includes: setting Directors did not meet during the year to 2016, and to discharge other responsibilities the Groups strategic aims and objectives: consider the performance of Andrew relating to the control and disclosure of inside approving significant contractual commitments Shilston as Chairman, as he retired from information.
The membership of the Disclosure and capital expenditure including the acquisition the Board on 31 December 2018.
Committee comprises all the Directors and or disposal of companies businesses, and Provision B.
2.4 Neither an external search the Company Secretary.
treasury and intellectual property transactions : consultancy nor open advertising were used reviewing the effectiveness of risk management in the appointment of Douglas Caster as Board meetings and internal controls processes: and corporate Chairman.
In this regard, the Boards view In 2018, the Board met formally on eight governance matters.
The schedule of matters was that having recently appointed a new occasions.
A summary of the matters addressed reserved for the Board is available to view on CEO and CFO that have performed a deep at these meetings is set out below.
The Board also and thorough strategic review of the regularly reviews the limitations of authority During the year, there were several dedicated Company, their focus was to ensure within the Group, to ensure they remain agenda items on Group strategy to monitor continuity of strategy of the Company.
The last review and update of the performance and delivery against the agreed While a new Chairman could invest in that Limits of Authority Policy took place at the execution priorities.
The Board received strategy, an appointment from within February 2018 Board meeting.
presentations on the strategic plan for each of ensured the smooth continuation of the the Divisions global business units and separate adopted strategic approach.
Delegation of authority reviews on talent, technology, sales effectiveness The Board is aided by three principal The Code, together with the July 2018 edition and safety.
Committees, namely the Audit, Nomination and of the Code, which will apply to the 2019 Remuneration Committees, each of which deals Annual Report, is published by the Financial with matters the Board considers suitable for Reporting Council FRC and is available on its delegation, as defined within the respective terms website www.
The memberships, roles and activities of the principal Committees are described in their respective reports: the Report of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 51 to 55: the Report of the Nomination Committee is set out on pages 56 and 57: and the Report of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 58 to 75.
The full terms of reference of these principal Committees are available on the Companys website.
46 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Attendance at meetings The attendance of each Director at Board, and Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committee meetings based on membership of those Committees, rather than attendance as an invitee is set out in the table below.
Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Eligible Eligible Eligible Eligible Director to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended 1, 2 3 Andrew Shilston 8 8 4 4 4 2 Pete Raby 8 8 Peter Turner 8 8 1 Jane Aikman 8 8 4 4 4 4 4 4 1 Helen Bunch 8 8 4 4 4 4 4 4 1 3 Douglas Caster 8 8 4 4 4 4 4 3 1 Laurence Mulliez 8 8 4 4 4 4 4 4 1.
Indicates a Director deemed by the Board to be independent or, in the case of the Chairman, independent on appointment.
Retired from the Board on 31 December 2018.
Andrew Shilston as retiring Chairman and Douglas Caster as an interested party were not eligible to attend the Nomination Committee meeting held in July 2018, which discussed the Chairmans succession.
Andrew Shilston was not present during the November 2018 meeting, which specifically discussed the selection of a new non-executive Director to join the Board in 2019 when Andrew Shilston would have stepped down from the Board.
The two Nomination Committee meetings at which Andrew Shilston was not present, were chaired by Laurence Mulliez, the Senior Independent Director.
Should a Director have concerns about the Review of the Groups treasury Considered a report on the potential impact running of the Company or a proposed action, arrangements including approval of the of the business of US sanctions against Iran which are not resolved, their concerns would be refinancing of the Groups Revolving Credit and Russia.
recorded in the Board minutes.
An appropriate Facility and the issue of US Dollar and Euro Approval of the Morgan Code.
Directors and Officers liability insurance policy Senior Notes.
Approval of an action plan to promote is in place.
Approval of the appointment of Douglas diversity across the Group and build a Caster as Chairman.
Summary of the Boards work during the year: sustainable inclusive culture, commencing Review of outcomes of the 2018 Board with gender diversity.
Monitoring of environmental, health and performance evaluation and agreement on safety performance and improvement plan.
Approval of the planned divestment of the actions for further improvement, as well as Composites and Defence Systems business, Continued focus on the delivery of the monitoring of progress against actions arising completed in November 2018.
Further strategic execution priorities, which included from the 2017 performance review.
information on the divestment is available presentations on the strategic plans for each Received an update on the talent strategy on page 104. of the Divisions and global business units.
and potential future leadership capability, Considered the impact the July 2018 edition A review of the risk appetite and risk which is a Group execution priority, looking of the Corporate Governance Code would management strategy including potential at how best to train and build the optimum have on the Group in 2019. level of exposure for all principal risks.
talent pool for the future development of Approval of major capital expenditure and the business.
an update on technology projects.
Received a report on the Groups IT strategy Review and approval of the Groups and performance from the newly appointed half-year results, trading statements and Chief Information Officer, focusing on four preliminary announcement of final results.
key elements to align IT requirements with Approval of the 2019 budget.
Approval of matters in relation to pensions valuations, funding arrangements and the pensions strategy, in the UK and US, including the closure of the Morgan Pension Scheme in the UK to the future accrual of benefits from April 2018 and replacement pension arrangements see note 22 for more information.
Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 47 Governance Corporate governance continued Information and support Chairman and Chief Effectiveness The Company Secretary, with the Chairman, is Executive Officer Board balance and independence responsible for ensuring the Board has full and The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive During 2018, the Board continued to comprise timely access to all appropriate information to Officer are separate, clearly established, set out five non-executive Directors including the enable it to fully discharge its duties.
Board in writing and agreed by the Board.
Chairman and two executive Directors.
This is papers are generally made available considered to be the appropriate number of The Chairman is responsible for the leadership electronically at least five working days prior to members for the Board, given the scale of the and effectiveness of the Board and the individual each meeting.
Non-executive Directors also Groups operations at this time.
Owing to Directors, shaping Boardroom culture, ensuring receive information and updates between formal Andrew Shilston stepping down as Chairman on the Board has effective decision-making Board meetings.
31 December 2018 and being replaced by processes and applies sufficient challenge to Douglas Caster, this has left a vacancy on the During the 2018 financial year, the quality of major proposals.
The role includes setting the Board, which has meant that since 1 January Board papers have been reviewed and Boards agenda and ensuring sufficient time is 2019 there are four non-executive Directors improved, with particular focus on risk review available for all agenda items, particularly including the Chairman.
Further information related papers, following the recommendations regarding strategic issues: promoting a culture of on the ongoing recruitment process for a new arising out of the 2017 Board performance open debate and constructive challenge which non-executive Director is included in the Report review.
From 2019 onwards any submitted results in sound decision-making: encouraging of the Nomination Committee on pages 56 and Board papers will also take into consideration all Directors effective contributions drawing on 57.
Biographies of the Directors in post at the the Directors duties under section 172 of the their skills, experience and knowledge: and date of this Report, including details of their skills, Companies Act 2006. ensuring constructive relationships between career and experience and any other significant executive and non-executive Directors.
The Directors have access to the advice and external commitments, are set out on pages 44 Following the announcement in July 2018 that services of the Company Secretary who, with and 45.
Douglas Caster would succeed Andrew Shilston the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring that as Chairman, Douglas and Andrew have worked The size, structure and composition of the Board procedures are followed, and that closely together to ensure a smooth transition Board were reviewed during the year, taking applicable rules and regulations are observed.
A and handover of the role.
Andrew Shilston, who into account succession planning and the need procedure is in place to enable the Directors to was Chairman up until 31 December 2018, met to progressively refresh the membership and seek independent professional advice at the the independence criteria set out in the Code update the knowledge and range of skills and Companys expense in fulfilling their duties as on appointment as Chairman on 1 August 2012. experience of the Board, which are regularly Directors should the need arise.
Douglas Caster, who was appointed Chairman reviewed.
The Board wishes to ensure that it Induction and professional development on 1 January 2019, was also considered maintains a good blend of views and skills as well New Directors receive a full, formal and tailored independent on appointment as Chairman.
as a cohesive and informed decision-making induction on joining the Board.
The Board comprises members with a The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for experience and background is taken into account breadth and depth of professional and sector the management of the Group, including the in developing a tailored induction programme, experience, and with varied and relevant delivery of the Groups business plan, the which will usually include: an information pack backgrounds: it has Directors with skills in formulation and implementation of strategy, with pertinent documents: meetings with strategy, finance and technology, as well as chairing the meetings of the Executive external advisers, senior executives and global commercial experience, and working Committee and ensuring the implementation of functional heads: and a number of site visits.
knowledge of other Boards or executive roles.
the Groups policies, all within the authorities All non-executive Directors have access to delegated by the Board.
The Chairman and Throughout the year, the Company complied management and employees at all levels and are Chief Executive Officer maintain a strong with the requirement of the Code that at least encouraged to visit operational sites.
Each year working relationship and open dialogue, which half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should at least one Board meeting is held at an ensures coherent leadership of the Group.
comprise non-executive Directors determined operating facility.
In 2018, Board visits were by the Board to be independent.
In addition made to the Technical Ceramics sites in Non-executive Directors to considering the factors set out in the Code, Waldkraiburg, Germany and Corby, England.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for the Boards assessment of a non-executive a term of three years, subject to annual The Chairman considers the individual training Directors independence and effectiveness re-election in accordance with the Code.
and development needs of each Director.
The covers their total number of commitments, and The independence, commitment and Company Secretary keeps the suitability of any relationships with major suppliers or with effectiveness of any non-executive Director who external courses under review and facilitates the charities receiving material support from the has served for two three-year terms is subject to continuing training and development of all Company.
rigorous review prior to reappointment for a Directors as necessary.
Training may be Commitment final three-year term.
Further information on the provided via presentations at Board meetings to non-executive Directors can be found in their Prior to undertaking an additional external role keep the Boards knowledge up-to-date.
In 2018 biographies on pages 44 and 45. or appointment, the Chairman and the this included a presentation on developments in non-executive Directors are asked to confirm the corporate environment of relevance to listed The Chairman and the non-executive Directors that they will continue to have sufficient time to companies and on the requirements under the met without the executive Directors present on fulfil their commitments to the Company.
From 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code at the one occasion during the year.
In addition, the 1 J anuary 2019, in accordance with the July 2018 November Board meeting.
Senior Independent Director and the other edition of the Code, Directors will be asked to non-executive Directors met without the seek Board approval prior to accepting any Chairman present.
48 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Performance evaluation Auxesis Consulting produced a report Continued focus on succession planning and summarising the results of the questionnaires the development of leaders, building on the As anticipated in the 2017 Annual Report, the and highlighting any significant changes from work of the two previous years, and Board conducted an externally facilitated Board last year, discussing the finding with the monitoring initiatives implemented by performance evaluation during 2018, complying Chairman initially.
with the Code requirements to have an independent external evaluation every three The final report was made available to the Recognising the amount of organisational years.
Prior to this, the most recent externally Board and the findings were presented by change within the business, provide more facilitated Board evaluation took place in 2015.
Jack Telfer and the Chairman at the opportunities for interaction with the senior The next externally facilitated Board evaluation is December Board meeting.
management team including an additional due in 2021.
An internal Board performance visit to facilities outside of Europe.
The Board subsequently agreed an action plan.
evaluation, led by the Chairman, which included Continue to review the information The Board continuously monitors its own input from the external evaluator, took place in provided to the Board to assess performance to ensure that it provides the 2016 and 2017. performance and the Groups risk profile.
Group with the right blend of leadership and The aim of the external evaluation of the Boards Continue to schedule reviews of major strategic oversight, enabling it to carry out its performance and that of its Committees and decisions with a view to improving future duties effectively.
The Board believes that there individual Directors was to identify ways to decision-making.
is scope for further development and improve effectiveness.
improvement to oversee the delivery of the Actions were taken during the year to Groups strategy and to ensure that the Board The 2018 external evaluation was led by the implement the recommendations made operates effectively and in a timely manner Chairman and carried out by Jack Telfer of following the 2017 internal Board performance during a period of change.
Jack Telfer is not involved in review and in the case of execution of the arising from the 2018 Board performance any other business relationship with the strategic priorities and focus on business evaluation process include the following: Company and is independent.
leadership, the work continues to progress.
Consider the skills mix on the Board, The process for the external evaluation of the and specifically representation of Asian Board and its Committees was as follows: experience, commencing with the All Board members completed online recruitment of an additional questionnaires.
Auxesis Consulting reviewed Directors responses and met with each Director individually.
Recommendations from the 2017 Board performance review and actions implemented during 2018 Recommendations from 2017 Action taken progress made during 2018 Board recruitment consideration of the mix of skills and experience The relevant blend of skills and experience on the Board has been required on the Board to support the priorities and challenges facing considered in the selection of a new non-executive Director.
Succession planning and developing leaders Continued focus on talent A number of key appointments were made in 2018 through both external management and development, one of the Groups strategic priorities.
hires and internal promotion to increase the talent pool and strengthen capabilities and succession potential.
A range of tools have been provided to senior managers to assist them in developing teams and conducting more effective performance reviews.
Contact with senior managers Board to spend more time with the Opportunities to interact with senior managers were provided during the Executive Committee and other senior managers.
year through various site visits including Board meetings held in Waldkraiburg, Germany and Corby, England.
A number of senior managers presented at Board meetings throughout the year, which on occasions included a pre Board meeting dinner.
Assessing the risk profile of the Group.
The Groups appetite for risk was reviewed at the June Board meeting.
Improved Board papers have also helped facilitate the risk review process.
Ensuring a review and assessment of major decisions.
All capital expenditure and acquisition disposal decisions made by the Board were and will continue to be reviewed one year after implementation.
Dialogue with shareholders improving the communication of major Brokers presented shareholder views to the Board at the April meeting and shareholders views to the Board.
will to do so annually going forward with the broker notes being shared prior to each Board meeting.
The executive Directors met with a number of investors during the year and Douglas Caster had a programme of meetings with shareholders in January 2019 as part of his induction as Chairman.
Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 49 Governance Corporate governance continued Owing to the change of Chairman at the Constructive use of the Accountability beginning of 2019, the non-executive Directors Annual General Meeting Financial reporting did not meet during 2018 to evaluate Andrew The Annual General Meeting AGM is usually A summary of the statement of Directors Shilstons performance as Chairman as noted attended by all members of the Board and by responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report on page 46 of this report.
a representative of the external auditor.
At the and the financial statements is set out on page AGM held in May 2018, the Chief Executive Conflicts of interest 78 and the Going Concern and Viability Officer made a short business presentation.
statements are set out in the Strategic Report The Board has procedures in place to address Shareholders were invited to ask questions on page 30. the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 during the meeting and had the opportunity concerning the duty of the Directors to avoid to meet the Directors and other members of Business model and strategy conflicts of interest.
Accordingly, the Directors senior management before and after the formal Details of the Groups business model, how it is are required to: meeting.
The results of the proxy voting on all working to generate and sustain long-term value Disclose proposed outside commitments resolutions were released to the London Stock and details of the Boards strategy for ensuring and to seek Board approval before accepting Exchange and published on the Groups website the Group meets its objectives are set out in the any additional external appointments in as soon as practicable after the AGM.
Strategic Report on pages 4 to 41. order to enable a prior assessment of any actual or potential conflict.
Information on share capital Internal control and other matters Disclose without delay any situation which The Board has overall responsibility for gives rise to an actual or potential conflict.
The information about share capital required to establishing and maintaining a sound system of be included in this statement can be found on internal control to safeguard shareholders The Board reviews the outside interests of the pages 76 to 78 in the Other disclosures section.
investment and the Groups assets and for Directors annually, including any disclosed reviewing the effectiveness of this system.
Should an actual or system of internal control, and the role of the potential conflict be identified, the Board Audit Committee in ensuring its effectiveness, considers whether to authorise the situation in are set out in the Report of the Audit accordance with the Companys Articles of Committee on pages 51 to 55.
Association and, if so, the terms of any authorisation.
In the event of an actual conflict Relations with shareholders arising, the Director concerned must notify the Following the announcement of the Groups Chairman the Chairman would notify the results and after other significant statements and Senior Independent Director and the Director presentations, investor opinion is canvassed and would be denied access to the relevant any feedback is made available to the Board.
In information and excluded from any associated addition, the Board is provided with brokers debate and decision.
reports and feedback from any shareholder Following the 2018 review, it was confirmed that meetings on a regular basis.
On an annual basis no potential or actual conflicts had occurred the Companys appointed house stockbrokers during the year under review.
Neither of the also present the major shareholders views to current executive Directors holds any external the Board: in 2018 this took place at the April non-executive directorships of other publiclyBoard meeting.
The Chief Executive Officer and quoted companies.
Chief Financial Officer met with a number of investors in 2018.
Douglas Caster then Chairman designate met with analysts in December 2018 and attended a programme of meetings with investors in January 2019 as part of his induction as Chairman.
To help facilitate dialogue with shareholders, the Investors section of the Companys website includes details of Regulatory News Service announcements, press releases, presentations, webcasts and other relevant Company and shareholder information.
50 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018
