Governance Report of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee continued to evaluate the blend of skills, diversity and experience of the Board during the year, confirming the appointment of a new Chairman of the Board, a new Chair of the Remuneration Committee and commenced the search for a new non-executive Director.
I became Chair of the Nomination Committee The Committee considered the broader remit and of the Board on 1 January 2019, following introduced by the new UK Corporate Committee members Andrew Shilstons retirement from the Board Governance Code, which will include oversight at the end of 2018. of executive succession planning and promotion 1 Douglas Caster Chairman of diversity when considering future 2 The primary task of the Committee during the Andrew Shilston appointments to the Board, as reflected in its year was to appoint a new Chairman.
Neither Jane Aikman new terms of reference adopted in December Andrew Shilston nor I were involved in the Helen Bunch 2018.
I look forward to continuing the good selection process, with Committee meetings Laurence Mulliez work done by my predecessor, Andrew regarding the appointment being chaired by Shilston, in developing an effective Board, 1.
Appointed Chairman of the Committee Laurence Mullliez, Senior Independent Director.
which will support the Groups strategy and and the Board with effect from The Committee concluded that the new 1 January 2019. secure the Groups long-term success.
Chairman should be an internal appointment for 2.
Chair of the Committee until the reasons set out in the Corporate 31 December 2018 when he retired Douglas Caster CBE FIET from the Committee and the Board Governance Report on page 46 and referenced Committee Chair later in this report.
The Committee is composed solely of non-executive Directors.
I stepped down as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on my appointment Throughout 2018, the Committee was as Chairman of the Board and, on the chaired by Andrew Shilston.
However, recommendation of the Committee, the Board meetings during which matters pertaining agreed to appoint Helen Bunch as the to the appointment of his successor were Remuneration Committee Chairman with discussed were chaired by Laurence effect from 1 January 2019.
Mulliez, the Senior Independent Director, to avoid any conflict of interest.
A key objective for the Committee in 2019 is to Andrew Shilston and Douglas Caster appoint a new non-executive Director to fill the were not present during discussions vacancy following Andrew Shilstons retirement regarding their respective succession or from the Board.
Before commencing the potential appointment.
selection process, the Board reviewed the mix of skills and experience of Board members, taking into account the future needs of the Board to support the Groups strategy.
The Committee identified a blend of desirable skills and attributes for a new non-executive Director which includes knowledge and experience of doing business in the Asian-Pacific region.
56 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Meetings Appointments to the Board Spencer Stuart were retained to facilitate the search for an additional non-executive Director.
The Committee met formally four times during As announced on 2 July 2018, Douglas Caster Spencer Stuart have signed up to the voluntary 2018 and members attendance is set out in the succeeded Andrew Shilston as non-executive code of conduct for executive search firms, which table on page 47.
In addition, certain members Chairman of the Board with effect from includes provisions on diversity.
Spencer Stuart of the Committee met between scheduled 1 January 2019, following Andrews retirement have no other connection with the Company.
meetings to progress the recruitment of a new from the Board on 31 December 2018.
external search consultant was utilised in the The terms and conditions of appointment of search for the new Chairman and no open non-executive Directors are available for Nomination Committee terms advertising was utilised in connection with this inspection.
Non-executive Directors, including of reference appointment.
The Boards view regarding the the Chairman, are asked to confirm that they will The Committees terms of reference were appointment of Douglas Caster as nonallocate sufficient time to meet their reviewed in December 2018 and updated to executive Chairman, was that he had the commitments to the Company and that their reflect changes introduced by the 2018 UK requisite experience and skill set and could other appointments and significant time Corporate Governance Code, which applies ensure continuity of the operation of Morgans obligations are disclosed to the Board prior to from 1 January 2019.
The updated terms of strategy.
It will be recalled that the Board appointment, with an indication of the level of reference are available to view on the appointed a new CEO in 2015 and CFO in 2016 time commitment involved.
The Board is Companys website.
who subsequently completed a strategic review informed of any subsequent changes, and that was endorsed by the Board.
The additional commitments must be disclosed Main areas of work during 2018 implementation of that new strategy has now before they are accepted.
On behalf of the Board, the Committee been underway for three years.
The internal monitors and regularly reviews the balance of appointment would ensure the continuity of Board Diversity Policy skills, knowledge, experience, independence and the Groups strategy implementation without The Board recognises the benefits that diversity diversity of the Board and its Committees.
During the potential interruption that might be caused and inclusion brings at all levels of the Company.
2018, the Committees key activities included: by an external candidate.
During the selection process for new nonLeading the process and recommending for executive Directors, the Committee uses a Douglas Caster was appointed as an independent approval by the Board, the appointment of search agent who has signed up to the voluntary non-executive Director in February 2014 and Douglas Caster as non-executive Chairman.
code of conduct for executive search firms, served as Chairman of the Remuneration Recommending the appointment which ensures that diversity is considered when Committee from his appointment until of Helen Bunch as Chair of the developing a candidate pool.
31 December 2018 when he became Chairman.
Between January 2015 and December 2017, The Board monitors closely whether it is taking Overseeing a search for an additional Douglas Caster was the Senior Independent diversity in its broadest sense into account when non-executive Director with the right Director.
planning executive succession and appointing blend of skills, knowledge, diversity and new Board members, the Board performance The Committee recommended to the Board experience, with the assistance of an review process also considers diversity.
that Helen Bunch, as serving non-executive external search consultant, Spencer Stuart.
Director, be appointed as Chair of the When monitoring the development of leadership Considering whether each Director Remuneration Committee with effect from and considering the succession planning for continued to be able to allocate sufficient 1 January 2019.
Helen brings valuable perspective executive management, the Board will take into time to discharge their responsibilities as a serving executive and has been a member account diversity as well as the need for talented effectively.
of the Remuneration Committee since her leaders with the skills to both lead a global Considering the Directors annual appointment to the Board in February 2016. company with a presence in the key world re-election at the 2018 AGM.
economies and manage the associated challenges.
The search for a non-executive Director to join Considering the skills mix on the Board, the Board was progressed by the Committee In terms of progress in promoting diversity in the including geographical representation.
The process for selection of a year, and without setting any targets, three of Reviewing the Boards diversity policy non-executive Director is described below: the six Board Directors are female, equating to and monitoring its effectiveness.
The Committee formulates a candidate 50% female representation on the Board and Reviewing the structure, size and specification for the role taking into account over half of the non-executive Directors.
Of composition of the Board and its the balance of skills, knowledge, experience, these, one is the Senior Independent Director, Committees, ensuring that they diversity and geographical representation on one is the Chairman of the Remuneration remain appropriate.
the Board, and considering the desired skills Committee and one is Chairman of the Audit and experience required to complement the Committee.
These appointments demonstrate Reviewing the results of the annual existing membership and to support the the Boards commitment to greater diversity.
At performance evaluation of the Committee.
implementation of the Groups strategy.
31 December 2018, 31% 2017: 15% and 2016: Updating the Committees terms of 14% of senior managers are female.
At the The external search agent produces a reference in accordance with the July 2018 graduate recruitment level, the Group long-list of candidates for the role, taking the UK Corporate Governance Code.
successfully attracts a diverse group of good identified requirements into consideration.
In 2018, 32% 2017: 32% and 2016: Interviews with members of the 37% of the graduate intake were female and Nomination Committee take place the 2018 cohort was represented by with short-listed candidates.
Interviews with other Board members take The Committee takes diversity into account in place with the final three candidates.
broader discussions on succession planning and The Committee will make a talent development and supports management in recommendation for the appointment their wider commitment to promoting diversity.
to the Board taking into account the views of the Board members.
Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 57
